-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer: Generals Zero Hour
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/candcgeneralszerohour/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.4, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 6,994 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Dreamworks Games
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 22, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Zero Hour fundamentally improves the core game, and it should ensure that Command & Conquer: Generals 
 continues to be popular well into the next year. 

  It's only been eight months since the release of Command &amp; Conquer: Generals, the latest installment 
 in this extremely popular real-time strategy series. Though Generals was the first C&amp; C that 
 did not bear the name of Westwood Studios (the series' original developer) , it was still every 
 bit as action-packed and fast-paced as the series has ever been. It represented a great combination 
 of the over-the-top pyrotechnics the series is known for, along with some of the gameplay elements 
 perfected by Blizzard's competing RTS franchises. However, the game clearly left some room for 
 additional content, so, while it's no surprise that Generals went on to get its own expansion pack -- as 
 pretty much every Command &amp; Conquer game gets at least one -- the newly released Zero Hour was 
 put together surprisingly quickly. You wouldn't know it just from playing this fully featured expansion 
 pack, since it makes plenty of meaningful and interesting changes to the original game. Additionally, 
 it packs in a lot of great tweaks and improvements to those aspects of Generals that could have 
 used more polish. The result is a great expansion that's a must for anyone who enjoyed Generals. 
 It fundamentally improves the core game, it and should ensure that C&amp; C Generals continues to 
 be popular well into the next year.  

          Zero Hour introduces several interesting new units for each side, as well as nine new specialized 
 sub-factions.     

  Zero Hour does what any good real-time strategy expansion pack should do: it adds appreciable amounts 
 of content and depth to the original product. It introduces various new units, technologies, and 
 "generals powers" to each of the three factions from Generals -- the high-tech USA military, the 
 powerful forces of China, and the terrorist conglomerate called the GLA. It also introduces a completely 
 new single-player mode: the generals challenge. Zero Hour also features follow-up campaigns for 
 each of the factions, consisting of five good-sized missions apiece. The core game, too, has undergone 
 a number of little tweaks and enhancements that make it play a bit better overall. These tweaks 
 and enhancements address issues that players may have encountered in the original, either through 
 its interface or its multiplayer. However, perhaps the most interesting addition to Zero Hour is 
 the inclusion of nine new subfactions.  

  These subfactions are referred to by their respective commanders, lending Zero Hour a refreshing 
 bit of personality that was curiously absent from Generals. These commanders include the likes 
 of General Malcolm "Ace" Granger, a specialist with the USA's air force; General "Anvil" Shin Fai, 
 a Chinese infantry leader; and Prince Hassad, a GLA master of camouflage. Just as it could be said 
 that C&amp; C Generals was influenced by some of Blizzard Entertainment's real-time strategy games, 
 so too can it be said that Zero Hour is influenced by the real-time strategy games of Ensemble 
 Studios, like last year's Age of Mythology or Age of Empires II. That's because Zero Hour's subfactions, 
 while not completely different from the core factions they're based on, do play quite differently 
 from one another, do have a few unique units and technologies, and do give the game considerably 
 more variety than what the three core factions offer alone. So, as with the different civilizations 
 in Age of Empires II, the new subfactions in Zero Hour differ enough from one other to offer a 
 distinctive playing experience. Furthermore, since these subfactions are inspired by popular playing 
 styles, chances are, at least a couple of these are going to naturally appeal to you.  

          The generals challenge mode provides an entertaining option. You're at a real disadvantage 
 while trying to fight these chatty, often amusing, characters on their own turf.     

  Essentially, Zero Hour contains a total of 12 different playable factions, up from just three. 
 In skirmish and multiplayer modes, you may choose to play as either the "vanilla" factions from 
 C&amp; C Generals (though with their new units and upgrades) , or you may choose to play as one of 
 the specialist general's armies. Since the specialized armies have disadvantages that offset their 
 relative strengths, you intuitively have a sense of what your opponent is going to throw at you 
 in a multiplayer match. This is particularly true if, say, he chooses General Ta Hun Kwai, the 
 Chinese tank commander, rather than just picking the standard Chinese army. Fortunately, in the 
 skirmish and multiplayer modes, if the opponent chooses a random faction, you won't know which 
 of the 12 different armies you're up against until you do some early-game recon.  

  These character-driven subfactions are also the focus of the new generals challenge mode. Actually, 
 it's structured a lot like Mortal Kombat or other fighting games. You choose your character -- one 
 of the nine specialist generals featured in Zero Hour -- and then you proceed to fight against each 
 of the other generals on his or her own turf. These can be some pretty tough battles, especially 
 since the default level of difficulty in Zero Hour, thankfully, provides a much more significant 
 challenge than the cakewalk that was Generals' default difficulty. Since you take on these rival 
 generals in environments that specifically benefit their unique abilities, you have a tough time 
 overcoming their defenses. In so doing, you either learn or practice some key strategies that can 
 help make you more competitive online. One very nice touch in the generals challenge is that each 
 general has his or her own voice, and you'll hear these characters gabbing at you during the course 
 of a match. While they do repeat their lines occasionally, they have lots of contextual dialogue. 
 For example, they might chastise you for doing an inadequate job of countering their armies, or 
 they may curse when you knock out one of their key facilities. Not only is this dialogue pretty 
 amusing, but it can provide some helpful hints. The generals' propensities toward giving you fair 
 warnings before attacks tend to be their undoing.     

  The generals challenge is its own unique single-player campaign. Zero Hour's other campaigns are 
 shorter and more conventional but continue the very loose storylines established in the original. 
 Actually, Zero Hour's campaign missions are more elaborately produced than those of Generals. Like 
 all other Command &amp; Conquer real-time strategy games, other than Generals, Zero Hour sports 
 some full-motion video cutscenes; they feature embedded journalists reporting from each faction's 
 perspective, like some fake CNN newscast. These little videos play during the fairly lengthy loading 
 times between campaign missions. While the videos aren't spectacular, they're nicely done and, 
 for better or worse, confirm that Command &amp; Conquer: Generals Zero Hour is cashing in on current 
 events. See how many instances of the expression "weapons of mass destruction" you can count during 
 the cutscenes! The campaign missions' in-engine cutscenes are quite impressive as well, thanks 
 to the game's outstanding 3D graphics. Unfortunately, as nice as these are, it would have been 
 nicer if they could have been skipped -- you need to sit through them again whenever you restart 
 a mission.  

          Zero Hour makes a number of subtle but useful enhancements to the core gameplay of C&amp; C: 
 Generals.     

  The campaign missions, in a manner similar to the generals challenge ones, feature contextual dialogue 
 that informs you about some of the new units and abilities available to each side. Specifically, 
 each of the main factions gains three new units, a new type of building, a number of new upgrades, 
 and a couple of new generals powers in Zero Hour. Many of the new units are quite interesting, 
 though they mostly fill supporting roles. The USA's microwave tank can fry enemy infantry garrisoned 
 in buildings, and its beam weapon can also disable structures -- including defensive emplacements. 
 China gains the impressive Helix helicopter, a flying fortress that can drop massive bombs. Like 
 the Chinese emperor tank, it is so huge that you can build a Gatling gun, a propaganda tower, or 
 an infantry bunker on it. The GLA gets an incredibly fast-moving combat cycle, which is basically 
 a motocross bike that can be mounted by any GLA infantry unit. It then gains that unit's powers. 
 The new units generally look great and are fun to play with.  

  The new buildings include the fire base for the USA, a powerful defensive structure; the Internet 
 center for China, from which hackers can quickly gain resources to fund the Chinese war effort; 
 and fake structures to mislead its foes for the GLA. The GLA may optionally upgrade these faades 
 into the real thing if need be. The new generals powers also play to the themes of each respective 
 side. Generals players will recall that generals powers are the special abilities gained by each 
 side as it destroys enemy units and structures. Collectively, these new technologies expand the 
 options available to each side, though they do not necessarily disrupt existing strategies honed 
 by experienced players. After all, Generals is still about very quickly building up a base, marshalling 
 a powerful force, and demolishing the opponent. The heavy-hitting units and superweapons of the 
 original Generals will still be doing most of the damage in Zero Hour.  

  Those who remember Command &amp; Conquer Red Alert 2 and its expansion pack will notice that most 
 of the cool ideas from these games that didn't make it into Generals, have now made it in Zero 
 Hour (though unfortunately there is still no real naval combat to speak of) . Again, in addition 
 to the core changes made to each faction, the specialist generals' subfactions have their own unique 
 characteristics. General "Pinpoint" Townes, for example, specializes in laser weaponry. He cannot 
 build the USA's tomahawk missile, crusader tank, or paladin tank, but he has unique access to a 
 powerful laser defense turret and a similarly equipped laser tank. He can also build avengers, 
 new antiair units that also increase the rate of fire of other nearby units using a laser targeting 
 system, at a cheaper-than-normal rate. As you might expect, playing as some of the individual specialist 
 characters can start to feel limiting after a while. Yet there are so many cleverly designed and 
 interesting units and so many viable and devious strategies available in Zero Hour, overall, that 
 the game has no shortage of lasting appeal.  

  The gameplay in Zero Hour has technically improved, though some of these enhancements were introduced 
 in the v1.06 patch released for Generals this past summer. Unit balance has been fine-tuned, ensuring 
 that the core factions and all their units are as competitive as possible. There's an option to 
 use the right mouse button for issuing orders, unlike Generals, which required you to use the left 
 mouse button both for selecting units and for issuing orders. Some players found this frustrating. 
 The interface has changed cosmetically, in some ways, as well. Hot buttons are available for your 
 superweapons and generals powers, letting you better use these important abilities in a pinch. 
 There's also a toggle that causes your units to counterattack any foes, regardless of whether you 
 order them to or not.  

  Zero Hour's gameplay is still very fast paced, especially if you set it faster than the default 
 (and opt to start with more resources than the default) in a skirmish or multiplayer match. Juggling 
 unit production, sending out and repelling attack waves, and establishing a base defense can be 
 a real handful. A consequence of the Blizzard-style interface in Generals is that your unit-building 
 is not a permanent part of the interface. You must consciously and constantly select your barracks, 
 factories, and airstrips so that they can build more forces as you fight. The lack of formations 
 and some pathfinding issues with larger units still make the combat feel more chaotic than controlled. 
 As such, those who felt overwhelmed by Generals' arcadelike pacing aren't going to find a fundamental 
 change in that regard here -- not that pacing presents a problem. Still, the interface enhancements 
 may be just the ticket for players who are "on the fence" about their like or dislike of Generals. 

          Zero Hour's visuals and audio are still very impressive.     

  Generals looked and sounded superb when it was released, and the same can be said of Zero Hour. 
 The game engine has been optimized, leading to more consistent frame rates and a better look for 
 all of the impressive explosions and special effects that made Generals look so fantastic. New 
 graphics elements, such as some very impressive full-scale ships and other vehicles, add plenty 
 of eye-candy to some of the maps, as if the great-looking, fluidly animated units themselves weren't 
 enough. Vehicles that have been damaged look noticeably in bad shape, which speaks to the game's 
 remarkable visual detail. The game's music remains fantastic, with its hard-hitting bass riffs 
 and Middle Eastern and Oriental motifs, and helps intensify the action a few more notches. Eight 
 months can be a long time in the world of PC gaming, but the graphics and sound of this game just 
 haven't aged a bit and remain some of the most impressive that this style of gaming has ever seen. 

  One might easily think that Zero Hour is what Command &amp; Conquer: Generals should have been 
 in the first place, since this great expansion pack seemingly arrives on the heels of the original. 
 It makes Generals a deeper, better game overall -- and one with more challenge, more variety, and 
 more personality both in its single-player and multiplayer modes. It even sports a manual that 
 offers helpful tips on how to play competitively online and how to use the game's powerful (and 
 enhanced) world builder utility. Fans of Generals must get it, because, once they do, they will 
 never look back. Even those who gave Generals a try, but maybe didn't warm up to it because of 
 the nuts and bolts of the execution, should consider Zero Hour. Clearly, this is the result of 
 a careful analysis of what sorts of things could have made Generals an even better game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (154 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jtm468
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:58 am PT
Review:  when I saw it at first, i thought:"well, it's just another one of those rts games... i mean, i've 
 got 5 others already, it can't be anything THAT new, can it?" that's what i thought when i just 
 got it, before i opened the packaging on christmas day. as soon as i installed it on my computer, 
 i immediately started playing, and i couldn't get off it for 3-4 hours! i was blown away by the 
 amount of choice you get of generals and forces, and then when i got onto the real game, i was 
 blown away, yet again by the amount of units and the superweapons available! this game is a must-have 
 for gamers like me, who love rts games and war games. it's a perfect example of both! WOW! i'm 
 always on it virtually every day now! i can't believe this game, there's always something new with 
 C&C generals zero hour. i mean, when i got the deluxe edition for christmas (generals and zero 
 hour) , i installed them both and immediately started playing zero hour! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceops1123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  i do like the fact yo can build more than one building at a time vs red alert 2 and yuris revenge 
 but dont get me wrong those games were the stuff before this game came out and the fact of the 
 graphics something i can actually talk about the best ive seen for a rts game bsravo you guys bravo 
 oh and really wise choice on the terrorist end i could blow the crap out of the gla all day wake 
 up and do it again for another day the only bad thing i see is you cant build ships but hey who 
 the hell uses navy now days anyway exept when you really whant to get stategic oh and one more 
 thing make the moabs bigger see im an army guy that moab should completly desecrate the whole area 
 and the fuel air bomb as well but its just a game actually its not just a game its the game i think 
 they should make a new expansion pack for it to keep the people interested and add navy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nukeboy14
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Lets see: amazing graphics, outstanding gameplay, wide selection of units.
  
  to make it shorter i, ll tell this to you in one 
  
  this 
 game is the best rts ever, have you heard those soundtracks, have u seen those explosions have 
 you ever bought this game if not than what the hell are you waiting for! go to the game store now 
 silly .
  EA put a lot of work into this game it also is quite real: there 3 unique factions to choose from: 
 The american patriots, the noble chinese and the terrorist network known as the GLA. all factions 
 use different tactics to overwhelm their enemies: The usa will use their high tech units , the chinese 
 will use their numbers and the gla shall use their stealth techniques. and thats all i ve gotta 
 say that the first CNC made by EA: just amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyhawksP8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  The essential attachment to make generals complete is a great game, it adds 3 sub factions to each 
 of the three main factions. They are certainly unique but America's General Alexander is full on 
 Particle Uplink Cannon spawn with no units to build but Comanche's and the really expensive Aurora 
 Alpha bombers. General Tao (China) is nuclear specialist and is one of the better generals of game, 
 General Townes specializes in lasers (American) , General Granger rules the sky (USA) , General Fai 
 believes in infantry more than General Kwai who prefers to stick to tanks (both Chinese) , Dr. Thrax 
 loves his toxins (GLA) , General Juhziz sticks to explosives and Prince Kassad prefers the quiet 
 of stealth.
  
  The new units are highly unique though some like sentry drones can be highly useless but others 
 like the Internet Centre fix up balance issues with the factions. More GLA units can salvage parts 
 to make them having little additions to their unit or a nice new rank (Scorpion Tank) . The Super 
 Weapons aren't really different; there are a few new base defences include as well.
  
  With all these new Generals comes a General Challenge which is a bit of a hit and miss with some 
 Generals not included with their own unique maps (General Juhziz and General Fai) . There is the 
 fact that some Generals will put up a big fight (General Kwai) while others will provide pathetic 
 resistance (General Alexander) .
  The storyline starts off from where it left off with same five mission criteria and the graphics 
 are the same not worse and definitely not better.
  The best thing to do though is get a mod like Shock Wave or Cold War Crisis that make a completely 
 new game or make the game a tonne better.
  
  The bottom line is that this game is a must have for all Command and Conquer Generals owners or 
 for people considering to get Generals.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Zero Hour adds plenty more fun content to an already fun game. 
  
  Story:
  Each faction has five mission campaign that takes after the GLA campaign from generals. Still the 
 weakpoint.
  
  Gameplay:
  Same basic gameplay as Generals. Each faction has three subfactions added. GLA gets the explosives, 
 stealth, and toxins generals. China gets the nuke, infantry, and tanks generals. USA gets the Laser, 
 Airforce, and Super weapons generals. An added generals challenge mode has been added. Basically 
 you pick one of the nine generals and face each of the other 8 generals in a skirmish. The 9th 
 skirmish is aginst a general that posseses all the technology of the original 3 factions.
  
  Graphics: 
  Same as Generals
  
  Overall: 
  Plenty of new content makes this game a 
 blast but a weak story still prevents tho game from reaching a score of 9 or higher. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazzo31
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Generals is a great addition to the Command and Conquer franchise, giving excellent game play at 
 every turn this is well worth adding to your collection. Being the sole expansion pack, Zero Hour, 
 is a must if considering Generals as it greatly improves on th AI and adds some fantastic units 
 and awesome superpowers. Also features some great extras such as the defeat the general mode where 
 you choose which of the Generals with it's unique superpowers to choose from in order to compete 
 against each of the other generals. It's just a shame about the lack of real life story videos 
 which really set CnC apart from other games.
  Even if you are new to the universe, and are in love with Tiberian Wars and are looking forward 
 to Red Alert 3, take the time and some money to buy Generals and the expansion pack for at least 
 a fantastic weekend, if not many months of fast stategic action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  The expansion pack adds more variety to CnC Generals by adding a number of new units and general 
 powers. It also has a new game mode - The Generals Challenge, which, though is not much of a challenge, 
 adds more spice to the game and is quite fun to play. The campaign is also fun though it maybe 
 frustrating at times - like the fourth mission in the USA campaign, in which I almost went mad 
 disabling booby traps and trying to protect my base against the suicide bombers who came swarming 
 in prodigious numbers. Well the fire base which is a new building in CnC Generals Zerohour is the 
 ultimate defensive structure when placed with a few well positioned patriot missile launchers. 
 The game has sharp 3D garphics which is quite good even at high zoom-in levels. For an even better 
 gaming experience one should try playing it with the "Zero Hour Reborn : Rise To Power" mod, which 
 adds still more units and general powers to the game, but ruins the campaign with its own short 
 and boring one. The gameplay is really good but is not overwhleming like that of CnC Tiberium Wars. 
 Overall it is a very good and unique game and though it is old, it still commands a lot of respect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iloneforcombat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Kudos
  Generals Zero Hour brings more units that bring tactical advantages, such as the combat bikes for 
 the GLA, which promote fluid battlelines and flank attacks, ECM Tanks for china, which provides 
 protection from missiles or strategic vehicles, and Avengers for the USA, which shoots down missiles 
 and aircrafts. Some tech structures are added to create strategic points. One such structure is 
 the reinforcement pad that provides a free vehicle (w00t) every 2 minutes. Subfactions also improved 
 the gameplay by creating multiple subfactions that embodies a certain type of gameplay, such as 
 the GLA Toxin and GLA Demolitions, which emphasizes the high attack ratings in the GLA but trades 
 off stealth 
  
  Some possible improvements
  adding different types of resources, such as coal, lumber, and coastal oil (realistic)
  
  Adding 
 possibility of a civilian city AI, which reacts to the players and pursue independent diplomacy, 
 striking deals with players sometimes (hypothetical) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geetarplayer174
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  C&C Generals itself was a GREAT game, but C&C Generals: Zero Hour is an even BETTER game.
  
  It adds so much content with 9 generals and 9 missions per general (8 against the other generals 
 and 1 against "tigress") , then you have the single-player missions, tie that in with online play 
 and you have so much content it could be it's own game rather than an expansion pack.
  
  Each faction has 3 different generals each with different units and abilities.
  
  USA: Super 
 Weapon, Laser, and Air Force
  China: Infantry (really fun) , Tank, and Nuclear
  GLA: Camouflage, Demolitions, and Toxins
  
  Some special "abilities" include cheaper and pre-upgraded 
 units associated with the general, for instance tank general can build cheaper tanks and the are 
 pre-upgraded with two chevrons.
  
  Also to all the reviewers who say, "it's too hard, you get killed to quickly", it's a Real-Time 
 Strategy game. This means that you have to use STRATEGY in Real-Time, surprising isn't it, this 
 means that you have to build you're forces while still protecting yourself just like in real warfare.
 
  
  
  All in all it is a great expansion to an already great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScONeSSiE
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  Best game i have ever played hands down, online is simply the most fun you will ever have in an 
 online game with great banter and competition with some incredibly skilled players. Single player 
 is fun at times though very easy even on the hardest mode for anyone who knows the strengths of 
 each army and how they should be played. But the game really shines in multiplayer with a fantastic 
 lobby/buddy system witch makes it easy for anyone to take part in tournaments and clans and play 
 vs your friends. So if your looking for a game to play this summer and are not interested in a new 
 title i would recommend generals as you can pick it up very cheap now and have lots of fun with 
 it,10 / 10
  
  generals zh the expantion is also good but online it seems a little imbalanced with too many armies 
 that can overpower each other easily that why i stick with generals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play3r_One
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  This is the best game EA ever created !!!
  
  When Generals came out, it was a revolution for strategy games on the PC. Generals where the most 
 reallistic and the most good looking game on our computers. I'am still playing it with joy to this 
 very day. It packs the best C&C multiplayer up to date, and you really have to use your tactics 
 and your brain to defeat the enemy. There are just so many different generals with drastically 
 different gameplay strategies, that makes this game trully remarkable.
  
  Its singleplayer campaign is not very exciting, but who cares ? Looking at the other attributes 
 of this game, the campaign really doesn't matter. This game came out back in 2003, and there are 
 still so many people who are enjoying it to this very day (I'm one of those) . The only thing stopping 
 this game from getting a pure 10/10 is the lack of naval battles, just like it was in the original 
 Generals, but that is full forgivable due to other beauties of this game. This is a classic and 
 a must play for anyone who likes strategies. It is the foundry of all later strategies on PC, as 
 we can see today all new RTS games are stealing superweapons and other units from this game. One 
 of the best expamples is the new Tiberium Wars, which only good points are those taken from this 
 game. For all the rest of RTS, rule is the same ! They take stuff from Generals, but they never 
 implement as good as it was here. For me, this is just another thing that goes to support the quality 
 of this game.
  
  But that is not all, actually there are some really wonderfull things in this game, and that is 
 its ballance. One of the greatest flaws of RTS games, is actually when they are not well ballanced, 
 well this game is totaly different story. On the first run you could say Generals Zero Hour is 
 unballanced, buy after playing 100 matches, you get really amazed by how well balanced this game 
 is, and all of those subfractions too. This is something i have never seen in any other RTS, so 
 if for example you go for ''Air Force General'', there is no chance in hell enemy is going to beat 
 you unless they take ''Laser Weapons'' general or if they are playing with some other general, 
 they must go for massive anti air. As I said before this may seem unbalanced, but actually it is 
 fantastic, and makes this game the most reallistic RTS yet - that is what I liked the most in Generals 
 ZH. It is not like in other strategies, where it doesnt't matter at all what race u are going to 
 use, in Generals, it matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kane304
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  lets start with gameplay first of all 
  
  gameplay: exellent game play still loads of use of units but they hve allso adid "powers" with when 
 earnt, bought, or achived can aid you well in diffrent fields of he game there is a lot of mixing 
 going on in the game each side has diffrent advantaages and disadvantages all so the units and 
 fractions are diffrent all together giving you lots of diffrent creative and distructive yas do 
 destroy your enemy. 
  
  However the game play can be qwiet slow and dull but it brings back the spark once you get into 
 battle 
  
  grafics: overall the grafics are stuning with great 3rd effects wheather its the awsome bulky grafics 
 of the tanks the sands of the desert or even the mighty explosin of a nuclear missile this game 
 defenatly stands out for grafics. I do however have one falt with the grafics the infantry are 
 ugly and bulchy looking making it's infranrty defenatly avoidble 
  
  sound: thers qwiet a bit to say for sound first off is the musc it has changed intierly since the 
 good old funk and rock of the original c&c also it music composer and writer has changed frank 
 kleapaki is no longer doing is music for the sires cinnda changging my opinion on its music. 
 
  
  however generals does have its unequie moments in music and what also intrests me is that each 
 fraction has there own idavigual geners of music 
  forexample the usa tend to have milltary styl music we as china have eastern asia music styls and 
 instaments.
  as for sound effects explosins dont springmuch exsitment however things like the machine guns, helecopters 
 and tanks do. 
  
  over all: not the best edtion to c&C so far but in my opion a classic and well worth the money 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent expansion pack that adds even more exciting moments and brillient game play 
 to an already excellent game. 
  
  The stort continues in this awesome EP for Generals, 3 new stories for each army will and does 
 keep you busy for hours upon hours. They are not as long as the original stories but they never 
 are. 
  
  New units are also added to the 3 factions and they look excellent and play excellent really fitting 
 into the game perfectly plus they are all very well balanced.
  
  Zero Hour adds the Generals game (Thats what I call it) where you pick a General and move through 
 a set sequence of battles with other Generals. This adds another brillient aspect to the game. 
 There is but 1 issue with the Generals game that I find annoying and that is the battles get old 
 very fast. 
  Lets just say I was the USA Airforce General, you have gone through and completed the mini game 
 and want to try it all again, you will end up fighting the same Generals in the same order no matter 
 the difficulty. This unfortuntly grows old very fast and you may not even bother with them a 2nd 
 or 3rd time around.
  
  Medels in this game are a very good idea, you achieve them by completeing skirmish maps and story 
 modes, where you dont get a little annimation showing you that you have unlocked it, the medel 
 will light up in the skirmish window, they are somewhat easy to achieve and you really dont get 
 that sence of accomplishment when you do unlock them, but this shouldnt put you of from wanting 
 to unlock them
  
  After all is said and done this is again a very good expansion for an already excellent game, 9.5/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  command and conquer generals zero hour is the expansion pack to a already good generals and it 
 has alot to offer including 12 different sub factions.
  its the usual story the gla [global liberation army] are trying to use weapons of mass destruction 
 to take over the world so the usa and china are trying to destroy them. there is now 3 new campaigns 
 and a thing called generals challenge were you face each of the generals which is alot of fun because 
 each general taunts you while youre playing. but the subfactions could have had been a little bit 
 more different. the graphics are amazing and have an enourmous amount of detail and the difficulty 
 is just right. the online play is great but does however lag so you might have to turn the graphics 
 settings down to play it well. all in all this is a great game have you should get it if you have 
 already got generals or you can get it in a box set containing generals and zero hour.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Listen. I don't usually play these kinds of games. This Real Time Strategy stuff. I saw people 
 who used to play these games in the library at school. I would look at them and shake my head. 
 I felt sorry for them.... but I appreciated what they were doing because it made me feel superior. 
 I may have just gotten a wedgie and then beat up for my $2.59 lunch money... but at least I wasn't 
 one of THOSE people. 
  
  Well, all of that has changed after playing Command & Conquer: Generals: Zero Hour: The Osama Chronicles. 
 It's been a long LONG time since I played one of these so-called RTS's. I was actually opposed 
 to them for the longest time for obvious reasons (the kids in the library) . But some good friends 
 of mine (yes, I have friends) bought this game for me with a headset and so I was honor bound to 
 play it. 
  
  My eyes were opened for the first time as to how much fun these games can be. Now, maybe I'm biased, 
 or my review is skewed... all because I really don't have anything to compare this game to... but 
 I'm stating that this game is awesome. 
  
  It goes like this. For the single player campaign you can be one of three nations. The "We'll stuff 
 freedom down your throat and you'll thank us for it later" Americans of the U. S. A., The "we will 
 slowly kill the world with lead and bad pet food" Chinese of China. Or the "We kill as many people 
 as we can so we can get into heaven without realizing the irony of such a thing" Terrorists of 
 the GLA (Or Global Liberation Alliance.... I like to call them terrorist land.)
  
  Your objective is simply to kill the other army standing in your way. You do this through a variety 
 of techniques. You build up an army, a defense, an offense... then you go forth and attack the other 
 army by sending tanks at them, jets, car bombers, nukes, lazer beams... whatever you have at your 
 arsenal. You can also take over certain pieces of terroritory and make them your own.... thus increasing 
 your ouput of army buildingness. 
  
  In single player mode, you have different missions depending on what nation you are. This ranges 
 from things like building up your army and then destroying your enemy, to secret missions where 
 just a handful of guys are sent to destroy some kind of secret base... or meth lab.... or something.
 
  
  Multiplayer tends to be different. There's a couple of different ways to play. But usually it's 
 building an army to destroy the other guy. All this goes fairly quickly. It's paced nicely. And 
 it's exciting. Because as you are trying to get your crap together.... so is the other army. So 
 it's a race to see who can get their army built up the quickest.... because the dude with the bigger 
 army is usually the winner. Usually. Unless the other guy is so damn smart that he knows how take 
 out your huge army before you realize what's going on. And then he runs over and squashes you like 
 a bug while laughing at you through the headphones.... jerk.
  
  The game's not exactly perfect. It has it's flaws. Some textures look like crap, the "news casts" 
 at the beginning of singly player missions are downright hilarious, and sometimes the computer 
 likes to tell you what your mission is in that cliche' female voice.... over and over and over. 
 But all this is really kind of nitpicky and doesn't distract from the enjoyment of the game.
  
  So, like I said... I don't know if other RTS's are like this.. but this game is fun. And it's 
 worth picking up. I play it all the time now. And then I go to bed sobbing... because I have become 
 one of THOSE people.
  
  EA wins again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadhouse
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Played this game alot, it is a great game. Only down fall I would say would be the personalities. 
 They were to easy to beat for me I found it easy to just do the opposite of the general you were 
 facing and apply my earlier tactics and they were no match. Felt like alot was left on the table 
 when it came to the difficulty of the AI. Between Generals and ZH I never lost a skirmish map and 
 that included teaming the AI up and taking on all of them. About 12 Comanche helicopter's fully 
 upgraded clear the map with a little air support and from good old General Points especially the 
 Spectre Gunship, love the sound even in real life gives me chills. Overall I am a C&C nut so felt 
 like the two hit home. However thanks to all those mod makers with there help makes the games alot 
 funner. Find it alot funner when you can make the AI tougher than the game does. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthraxboy501
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is clearly a very good game to play. i love it lots and see it as a masterpiece of a 
 game, unmatched by any other C&C game exept maybe C&C 3: tiberium wars, which looks good. I would 
 hope another C&C like C&C Generals: Zero Hour would come out to improve the gaming experience. 
 I also think all of the patches and mods look, and possibly are, great. My favorite mods are the 
 ones with more units or teams. This game hs so many feats, traits and inventions that no other 
 game could manufacture, and for a 2005 game i think it is very well graphiced and very well made. 
 I have played so many games that i would know how good this one would be, and i do. Personally, 
 this is one of the best RTS games i've ever played!
  
  
  Credits
  Writer Anthraxboy501
  Producer Wiener Dog
  Rater Wiener Dog, Anthraxboy501
  Tester Anthraxboy501
 
  Clock MR. Jiggles
  Strategist MR. Jiggles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Primus9999
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  loved it, the graphics were satisfactory. the story line was good, although I got confused when 
 I played it out of order. the campaigns were very entertaining and the game is very easy to learn 
 and play. The best part of the game is commanding a bunch of tanks and rushing them into a compound 
 watch them destroy it. however the Chinese armies didn't have very good weapons and contrary to 
 what the developers say, their short comings were not offset by greater firepower. and the GLA 
 was just weak. 
  
  the developers exaggerated some aspects of the Chinese, such as the accent and ideological phrases, 
 which bugged me a lot. But over all the game was pretty good, better than the first Generals game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: recvx_freak
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  I am a completly new fan to the game, i never played any of the command and conquer games before 
 but just let me tell you one thing
  If you like strategy games than you should defenatly buy this game, you dont know what you are 
 missing.
  Generals itself was just lame but this expansion pack changes everything
  The new sub factions are really intresting and makes the game completly different. I think that 
 everyone would be able to find a general that would work with how he/she would like to play a strategy 
 game and than crush their enemey.
  For example I am a kind of player who would defend first than attack when the time is right, thats 
 why i play with USA Laser, because this team has a devestating defence and its laser tanks can 
 destroy anything in its path.
  I personaly have destroyed have destroyed dosens of overlords with my laser tanks.
  Than if you 
 like to rush or rush yourself AFTER failing someone else's rush than GLA demo and China Tank would 
 suit you best.
  So these things make it a perfect game thats why i play it everyday so i hope you buy it too. But 
 be aware that it is completly didderent from those tipical command and conquer games it has more 
 of a age of empire touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The Command and Conquer Generals series as a whole is good, fun and innovative... but it seems to 
 be lacking the magic that was in the original games and in Command and Conquer Red Alert. The graphics 
 are on par with the other RTS games of its time, but it felt like a mix of Warcraft III and Lord 
 of the Rings Battle for Middle Earth. Don't get me wrong, this is an absolutely fun game to play 
 single player and mutly. It just lacks the Jazz of the old ones. Multyplayer does allow for some 
 totally strange games as you can pick from several different generals who specialize in a specific 
 type of combat. For example there is an American air superiority general who... you got it focuses 
 on planes, a tali ban like rebels group who uses lots and lots of explosives, or the Chinese tank 
 team that just rolls over everything in its path. In the end this is a great game and well worth 
 playing, but if your expecting a C&amp; C Red Alert experience... dont get your hopes up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prasithm
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I feel the games is well balanced, at least the Units and the Generals, every general has its weak 
 and strong points. The thing I loved about the games is that the ability to manupilate the game 
 and units for the kill. On the down side Games physics were a bit boggy and the enemy A. I need 
 to be more smart &amp; the game manual can list out the abilities and diabilities of each General 
 rather than getting killed in the beging of the game.
  
  Well done to E. A, hope u come up with another smashing game in the future
  ( I dont like C &amp; 
 C 3 - Tiberium Wars ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron3i
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  I am sure EA didn't try their best for making this expension. Did you played Yuri's Revenge? Then 
 you know that was completlly different than Red Alert 2 on story, units and tactics. But unfortunatly 
 in here you will never taste that. Couple of new units &amp; some new campaigns only added. Try 
 a littlebit idea to make it different but I think they are not success. Anyway, here is a brief-
 
  
  GOOD: New mode added called CHALLENGE (that's good) . Campaigns are good than Generals. Some good 
 units added. Added some video but they are not impressive.
  
  BAD: Please don't ask me about story. It is still poor. Exactly same gameplay as Generals.
  
 
  Finally, why you play this games? Because it is still keep some good signs and you will see when 
 you play. My opinion is, play this games as a upgrade version of generals. Another thing is that 
 multiplayer and Skirmish game mode are still superb. That's why I like this games. If you already 
 played C&amp; C: Generals then you should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Much better than all the other command and conquers even command and conquer 3 as it as so much 
 strategy in this command and conquer. Really fun campaign and skimishes. Probably one of the most 
 fun games to play online as nuking each other and parachuting men into enemy bases is really fun 
 : ) The graphics are spot on although there will be no more patches for it : ( damn you EA. Anyway 
 the teams are perfectly balanced. The generals that gain advantages depending on which one it is 
 was pretty cool aswell. In conclusion get this game for real fun multiplayer and singleplayer campaign. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shahzaib_tariq
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer: Generals Zero Hour agree-ably lacks storyline but the era of Singleplay is 
 well past. Multiplay is the present and could not have been delivered better. Zero Hour offers 
 unsurpassed multiplay content with 12 uniquely customized armies, leaving no doubt that every battle 
 will be different. For those who do not like playing online, the General Challenge Campaign offers 
 hours of challenging battles against swift AI (You can't expect a 'challenge' if you knowingly 
 chose to do it under 'Easy' difficulty. Go 'Hard' for a real kick!) . Zero Hour truly stands out 
 among the other RTS games, even those that were made well after its release.
  
  The new C&amp; C formula that Zero Hour was built upon is a welcomed break away from the traditional 
 styles. Buildings are not confined to a small radius that makes super weapons oh-so-super-deadly. 
 Units that are specialized do their jobs remarkably, unlike many other RTS games where late game 
 renders lower tier units obsolete, and lack variety where higher tier units just build upon lower 
 tier units' health, damage etc.
  
  Graphics are kick-ass considering the time it was under development. Guys, development comes before 
 release, for those who can't differentiate between the two. And the sound department did an exceptional 
 job. Units respond when commanded and for those who did not check out the General Challenge, the 
 defending general AI will taunt and curse at appropriate times, adding reality to the game even 
 when you are not already engrossed about the progress and outcome of the challenge. The sound adds 
 so much reality to the General Challenge that it makes you feel that you are really up against 
 a real general. (Of course this depends on the difficulty you do the Challenge, I did on 'Hard' 
 only, just so you know where this is coming from.)
  
  Definitely a value for money product. More of a more-value-than-money product. Its worth more than 
 its price. In fact, this is one of those seriously grossly under-rated games. Sure it may not have 
 that bright, shiny facade that many other over-rated games that eventually turned successful have, 
 its substance is truly unrivaled even until today (check the date of post) . I am a real gamer and 
 have experienced, extensively, numerous other RTS games such as Warcraft I, II &amp; III, Starcraft, 
 Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth I &amp; II, Age of Empires I, II &amp; III, Company 
 of Heroes etc. (All of which are inferior to Zero Hour.) And belief me when I say I really compared 
 it with other games without prejudice (I'm a fan of all those games listed as examples) . Its multiplay 
 value surpasses that even of World of Warcraft (which I play too) in the sense that it delivers 
 excitement and substance quickly where in WoW, raids are mind-numbing slow and monotypic. Even 
 PvP is plain repetitive and hardly gives variety due to limited customization, not to mention predictable 
 responses to most actions. The vast number of strategies Zero Hour offers only adds on to its high 
 value. If you can't think of a counter strategy to a tatic, you just ain't thinking hard enough. 
 Spend some time pondering over that and you will see what I mean. A pity that other games that 
 are not even original works of its authors are given so much more credit for stealing other people's 
 work. (Hint: one of such has a four letter abbreviation which is disgustingly over-rated and negligible 
 amount of its content is original. It also runs on the engine of another program.)
  
  Replay value of Zero Hour is simply through the roof. I have been through other games and even 
 for periods addicted to them, but none has been able to keep the fire alive for so long. 4 years 
 and I still can't get enough of Zero Hour.
  
  This is truly the only game deserving a perfect 10 rating. I have touched on every aspect of the 
 rating system in comparison to the time of its development and release. My rating is justified. (Unlike 
 other reviews where a certain game is given a string of perfect 10 when the content of the review 
 says I have not played this game yet . That is just trash talk to get the ratings up.) There really 
 should be a revision rating as many high rating games are just addictive at first, then loses out 
 really bad after extensive gameplay, whereas other games are not as appealing within the short 
 amount of time given to cough up a rating as when fair amount of time is devoted to it. One example 
 would have to be the Warcraft franchise (sorry to mention this again) , which is really appealing 
 at first, even I got addicted, but is really dissatisfying after extensive gameplay. This can be 
 justified by the number of really dissatisfied customers in the WoW forums and reviews from various 
 web sites including this one. We all have different preferences and I am not asking you to switch 
 your opinion. So here's my 10 cents, my 2 cents is free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Well well, C&amp; C Generals should have been like this expansion, why? Because of the kick-ass 
 Generals' Challenge that adds to the whole purpose of the game title in the first place. Immersive 
 and deeply fun that refreshes the way an RTS is played. Even that the single-player campaign is 
 relatively short, the Generals' Challenge makes up to it a whole lot more. With the special abilities 
 each General has that is unique to one another, it greatly adds replay value. Personally I've tried 
 almost every of the 12 Generals fighting the same campaign and I haven't yet feel bored with it.
 
  
  One of the new units that interests me a lot is the Helix from China's side. Its foreboding appearance 
 and powerful arsenal adds new strategy to playing China's faction from the first game. The other 
 new units doesn't excite me much but the overall improvement and new stuff already make Zero Hour 
 worth the money. Get First Decade if you can though.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_j007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C Generals Zero: Hour
  
  Zero Hour added several new abilities to each side, and a new mode of play called Generals' Challenge. 
 In Generals' Challenge the player takes on the identity of one of nine generals (three representing 
 each faction) and does battle against most of the other generals, eventually confronting a powerful 
 boss general.
  
  Campaigns
  Zero Hour also contains three new campaigns of five missions each, one for each side, with their 
 chronological order being USA first, GLA second, and China last. Unlike the previous campaigns, 
 which were noted by Command and Conquer fans for not having full motion video cinematic sequences 
 during mission briefing, the Zero Hour campaigns return to that Command and Conquer tradition, 
 each showing a live-action video of a news reporter of the respective side giving details about 
 the situation behind the current mission. The plot behind the Zero Hour campaigns picks up where 
 it left off at the end of the previous campaigns.
  
  USA
  At the beginning of the USA campaign, the Global Liberation Army (GLA) launches a biological weapon 
 using a refitted Soyuz launch station from the captured Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan at a 
 USA military base located in Northern Europe. The United States Army retaliates quickly, destroying 
 the launch platform, before the GLA can fire another missile. As the campaign continues, the United 
 States learns that a GLA general codenamed Dr. Thrax has been developing a more lethal variety 
 of anthrax known as Anthrax Gamma . When the USA locates his base of operations, they discover 
 that he is planning on launching several missiles loaded with this toxin at major population centers 
 within the USA itself. A swift strike by the USA, with the help of rogue GLA forces, succeeds in 
 preventing this atrocity, and brings an end to Dr. Thrax .
  
  GLA
  In the GLA campaign, the GLA, though disappointed by the death of Dr. Thrax, receives a boost in 
 morale with the successful appointment of their new leader, General Mohmar Deathstrike . The GLA 
 first attempts to reunite its splintered factions under Deathstrike's command, which it succeeds 
 in doing after eliminating the defector Prince Kassad's forces in Egypt, and then begins a fervent 
 mission to drive the Americans from Europe. Despite their lack of technology, the GLA succeeds 
 in inflicting tremendous harm against the USA, by capturing an American particle uplink cannon 
 which they then use to destroy the USS Daedalus (splitting her in half from port to starboard) , 
 as shown in the game's cover) , the aircraft carrier used to support the player in the USA campaign 
 and infiltrating the US West Coast to steal toxins from a chemical storage facility. This reaches 
 its climax when the GLA implausibly defeats the USAs European central command base located in 
 Germany, partially with the use of captured Chinese weaponry. The GLA's primary objective accomplished, 
 they now begin to invade a vulnerable Europe and cause a new repressive state.
  
  China
  In the Chinese campaign, the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) sends its army into Europe 
 to relieve the USA and gain revenge against the GLA for their humiliating use of Chinese technology 
 in the capture of the German military base. In order to prevent the GLA from making use of advanced 
 USA weapons, China launches a nuclear missile at the military base, destroying it, and then sends 
 its forces into Germany, where the GLA invaders are concentrated. After a series of devastating 
 losses, the nearly defeated GLA takes control of an evacuated USA military base and uses its weaponry 
 against the Chinese army. China succeeds in recapturing this base, and eliminating the GLA for 
 good, rooting out their influence in Europe.
  
  Characters This article seems to contain unencyclopedic lists that may require cleanup.
  To meet 
 Wikipedia's style guidelines, please help improve this article by: removing items which are not 
 notable, encyclopedic, or helpful from embedded lists; incorporating appropriate items into the 
 main body of the article; and discussing this issue on the talk page. The general selection screen 
 in the Generals' Challenge. Each general has unique units and modifications to the standard arsenal. 
 The United States generals are:
  
  General Alexis Alexander A calculating 4-Star United States Marine Corps female general who specializes 
 in weapons of mass destruction and base defences, using advanced bombers, upgraded superweapons, 
 and EMP base defenses. General Malcolm Ace Granger A 4-Star US Air Force general specializing in 
 aircraft. He has upgraded F/A-22 Raptors, all aircraft have point defense laser system, but has 
 no tanks. General Pinpoint Townes A 4-Star US Army general specializing in laser weaponry. He has 
 laser Crusader Tanks and laser Defense Turrets. He gets no Artillery. The Chinese generals are:
 
  
  General Ta Hun Kwai A class AAA PLA male general specializing in tanks. He is unable to build artillery 
 and must pay more for infantry and aircraft. His name - Ta Hun Kwai - means he is very fast in 
 Chinese if pronounced correctly (Simplified Chinese:  Pinyin: 
 t&amp;#257; h&amp;#283; n ku&agrave; i) . General Tsing Shi Tao The Nuke A class AAA PLA general specializing 
 in nuclear weaponry. General Tao's name, when pronounced correctly  
 q&amp;#299; ng sh&iacute; t&oacute; u ) , means Green Stone . General Anvil Shin Fai A class AAA PLA 
 general specializing in infantry. He is unable to build main battle tanks but has a variety of 
 ground infantry and an advanced version of Black Lotus. Players do not face him in the Generals' 
 Challenge. The Global Liberation Army generals are: In the second mission of the USA campaign, 
 the player is granted an aircraft carrier that can be used to launch airstrikes against the GLA. 
 Dr. Thrax A GLA-allied scientist/general specializing in toxins. In the game's main story, he is 
 killed while battling the USA during the final mission of the USA campaign. Prince Kassad A GLA 
 general specializing in stealth tactics. All of his buildings can be covered in camo netting, making 
 them invisible to most enemy forces. In the game's main story, he is defeated by the GLA for going 
 rogue in their effort to reunite their organization; whether or not he was killed in the battle 
 is not clear. General Rodall Demo Juhziz A GLA general specializing in explosives. He does not 
 have access to stealth units, with the exception of Jarmen Kell. The following generals were originally 
 intended to be the final opponents in the Generals' Challenge campaign, however in the final version 
 of the game only General Leang is included in the campaign.
  
  General Tigress Leiong Leang A Chinese Dragon Class AAAA General in the PLA Elite Forces who uses 
 selections of units and special weapons from all three factions in the game. She is in the boss 
 level at the end of the Generals Challenge game mode of Zero Hour. General Ironside Originally, 
 there was to be a USA Boss General named General Ironside; however, General Ironside was disabled 
 in the final version of the game. If enabled by modfications, he has access to a wide range of 
 weapons from all three of the other available USA generals, as well as unique Patriot batteries. 
 General Mohmar Deathstrike The powerful leader of the Global Liberation Army, who uses the best 
 of the GLA's forces against the player. General Deathstrike was disabled in the final version of 
 the game. In the game's main story, he rises as the new leader of the GLA at the start of the GLA 
 campaign. The first sighting of Deathstrike occurred in the cutscene preceding the first mission 
 of the GLA Campaign in Zero Hour, in which he is being chased throughout the city by USA Humvees. 
 In the mission itself, he must be escorted safely to the airport for evacuation. Online play
  Command &amp; Conquer: Generals - Zero Hour includes online play through GameSpy on Windows, or 
 GameRanger on Macs. The two services are not compatible. For the former players must first create 
 a free GameSpy account in-game. Once in the main online lobby, players can choose from a number 
 of options, including Quick Match, where players can have themselves matched up with other players 
 of similar skill for 1 vs 1 games, and Custom Game, where players can create their own games with 
 the settings they want, and wait for other players to join them. The latter, though also free, 
 is more so manual, and requires players to make, match, and start games without the benefit of 
 an active central server to record stats, etc.
  
  Custom games can have up to eight players playing in one online game. Performance may decline in 
 games with large numbers of players, however, due to the computation, memory, and communication 
 demands of larger games. It is to be noted, though, that the Zero Hour expansion has a noticeably 
 more efficient engine than the original Generals, so games run more smoothly than compared to the 
 original Generals. Lag and failed connections do, however, remain a problem online, as do mismatches 
 when playing across ADSL and Cable internet. A common problem includes not being able to connect 
 to anything ever at all times of the day.
  
  Trivia/Goofs
  The F/A-22 Raptor was designed for the Armed Forces to be a stealth fighter/bomber aircraft. In 
 Generals (and Zero Hour) , it is not portrayed as being stealth. During the game opening screen, 
 there are targets on the cities of Seattle, Beirut, and Ulaanbaatar. The internet comedy series 
 Pure Pwnage is focused on a main character who, at the beginning of the series, plays exclusively 
 Zero Hour. Wrote By M_j007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer never fails in the RTS department. When I say I want an RTS game, I know which 
 one to go look for and it's C&amp; C! The armies are cool. The general armies are really unique 
 and fun to use. The units are pretty neat and are really cool to use. The vehicles and aircraft 
 are nice as well. The multiplayer is always fun to play. The single player missions are really 
 easy. The support powers that you can earn is quite an interesting tool to use when you want to 
 mess with the enemy a bit. The super weapons are all right. My favorite one is the Nuke. The Chinese 
 are my favorite and the USA. Only thing I like about multiplayer is playing with my friends otherwise 
 I hate the cheaters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madman5222
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 3, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Jest doesnt live up to its potential, game play is flawed and lacking with AI prone to crashes 
 when it is un-patched it is buggier then the tropical rain forest. Infantry move to slow and stick 
 to gether usually in a nice line easy for a tank or jeep to run over. The system of everything 
 had a counter is SO unbalanced that a single riflemen (weakest infantry) could take down a TANK 
 1 on 1.
  
  Artillery and airplanes cant hit even the slow moving infantry with missiles and artillery either 
 getting a direct hit or flopping to the ground useless. There is no unit-collision so fifty infantry 
 can bunch together looking like 1 person. Graphics are blocky and flawed, leaving much to be desired 
 from the game in general.
  
  Generally not a good game that I wouldnt recommend buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Pettson
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  The first time I actually played Generals I was astonished, and horrified at the same time. How 
 could they even think of NOT using the wonderful GDI vs. NOD conflict, or the more funny Allied 
 vs. Soviet one. I personally am very into the GDI and NOD thing, so I was a bit disappointed when 
 EA had chosen to open up a completely new venue in the C&amp; C universe.
  Despite these thoughts, it was actually quite good looking for the time, and yet it didn't require 
 so much of a monster PC as other games (especially FPS ones) really did.
  All in all this was a game for the masses who enjoyed RTS games.
  
  That was Generals, about 
 a year after it's release an expansion (not so surprising, considering EA is quite fond of them... 
 And old Westwood too for that matter) came out. I was moderately excited about this release, 'cause 
 even if I had begun to like Generals, quite a lot actually, it still was 'just an expansion', or 
 so I thought.
  
  Apart from the usual new units and campaigns (these are quite short, unfortunately, but hey, they've 
 now included real recorded videos between each mission for a newsreel covering your progress - 
 aint that sweet?! Otherwise mostly standard Generals style missions) the expansion has one Ace 
 up it's sleeve, and that's the really awesome 'Challenge mode', where you pick a general out of 
 nine available (3 for each side) , which specializes in a certain area (for example 'Laser' (one 
 of the US Generals) , 'Toxins' (a GLA one) , 'Infantry' (China) ) .
  After choosing one of these, the game pits you against several of the others (stupid enough it 
 even pits you against generals of your own country!) . This concept resembles some trading/battling 
 card games you might have seen, where you pick a unit (the General here) and fights your enemy's 
 general in detail (in the RTS map) . A proven and really nice concept, which gives many, many more 
 playing hours to the game. And there's a little surprise for you at mission 7 in the Challenge 
 'campaign'...
  
  All these new specialized generals are of course also available in skirmish and MP games, and this 
 creates quite a few new tactics to try out.
  As with many expansions, this one buffs up the original game with better quality models and textures, 
 gameplay fixes and other stuff like that.
  The game, just as Generals was (and still is!) , addictive, and high tempered. It's a great load 
 of fun too, so it's definately worth playing.
  
  Final words:
  This is a nice expansion, which, if you liked Generals, you will most likely love. Don't buy it 
 separately though, The First Decade is just 20$ more, and then you'll get EVERY single C&amp; C 
 game out there (except the new Tiberium Wars, and any game after that) . Even so there's a massive 
 12 games in that package! So if you don't own any other C&amp; C games, or actually just are missing 
 a few, buy TFD instead (Generals AND Zero Hour is included too!) .
  
  Pros:
  Challenge mode!
  New strategies
  Generals revamped
  
  Cons:
  Relatively expensive (MSRP 
 19.99$) compared to The First Decade (MSRP 39.99$) (Source: IGN. com)
  Not too much of a difference between most Generals
  Not enough new stuff
  Pretty bad AI (same 
 in Generals)
  
  Conclusion:
  A pretty good expansion, actually, with a lot of new interesting units and a whole new play mode, 
 which gives you many hours of more Generals fun,
  but you should buy TFD instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the only RTS which I played the most. Otherwise I just play the campaign and get over with 
 it. The game is much better than Generals, its faster, there are more things that you can make 
 and above all, you have so nine different generals to choose from, each a master in his or her 
 field of operations. If you dont wanna play with a specialized general, you an always play with 
 the basic army. The GLA workers finally get new shoes, an upgrade which increases their production 
 speed. The USA gets much better thanks to the Air-Force General and the Super Weapon general. The 
 GLA Demolition general is certainly terrifying, not to mention the Chinese Nuke General and his 
 powerful overlord tanks.
  
  The graphics and visual effects arent of a high standard, though they arent bad either. The bad 
 thing is the games buggy engine and you can often face strange problems which you certainly dont 
 want in a multiplayer map. I occasionally faced glitches even though my machine was more than enough 
 to handle the game and I always got the feeling of something missing from the game. On the other 
 hand, character voices and their short dialogs are really cute, especially of the GLA.
  
  What makes this game fun is that its very easy to play and the learning curve is very short. You 
 can setup a building almost anywhere on the map making it easy to rush your opponents. In multiplayer, 
 if you have the right team and the right combination of armies, your adversaries will certainly 
 have a tough time. Though the game has some glitches, still its a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liamoliver2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Generals is a Rts game from EA games, and this is C&amp; C at its best.
  But this is a add-on, and what makes this the best game around. The Gameplay is not like past games, 
 u dont have a tab to make buildings and you need to make workers to build things. the three teams 
 are great, Usa are good with aircraft and china can take out a team with tanks in a second, while 
 the GLA can use steath to destory a base and bombs to make most things junk. The gameplay has be 
 edited to make things easy, the superwepeon can a use more quicker now as its quick as just pressing 
 a tab at the side. The general game is the best way to play as the story is boring and short, its 
 just a simple one-on-one against a general, you choise a general and fight 11 other ones, there 
 will taunt you and attack using some of the skils thier have. The graphics r not the best but at 
 the time it was ok, the sound is great and sounds like a real batte, the muitplayer is the best 
 part of the game, the game has ranks and lots and lots of maps to play as well as other peoples 
 but its rare to see a users map. the game is great and should be enjoyed be all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWiseolDragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the finest modern-warefare game for the C&amp; C serious. This is just a expansion 
 from the original Generals game. There is not much to the Sp campaign, just a continued story-line 
 from the first Generals. (like Part 2) . The developers added a new features to this game like generals 
 chalenges, where you can actually pick a general anf battle other generals. When you have beaten 
 all the generals, you are able to fight a secret general and unlock the new general. (Hint: The 
 general is from China) What make this game ultimately great is the skirmish mode and online-multiplayer 
 mode. This game has more multi-player benefits then the first one. the great part about it is that 
 all the generals are unique. there also new maps also. So this is a perfect add-on the the C&amp; C 
 series. It very addicting and a must have for those C&amp; C fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worting
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer: Generals may hav only came out a few months before the original, but Zero 
 Hour proves to be great expansion-pack for the Command &amp; Conquer series. Zero Hour features 
 more units and a new single player mode. The new Challenge mode features the nine new forces added 
 to the game. In this mode, you pick a leader, then battle other leaders on their own ground. Once 
 you pick your country, you go into a mortal combat sort of thing. While you are playing, the other 
 commander will taunt you. It's a fun mode to play if you like stuff like that. Personally, I like 
 the multiplayer mode online. It's similar to the one on Red Alert 2, if you're familliar with it. 
 Also the skirmish mode gets better every time westwood makes a new c&amp; c game, which puts this 
 one at the top. C&amp; C: Zero Hour is probably the best game ever. Ok, maybe I go too far, but honestly 
 it's an amazing game. I've always been a fan of the more realistic C&amp; C games and this is definitely 
 one of them. I wasn't a fan of the ones that went more towards the Starcraft type game than what 
 I knew as C&amp; C. Anyways, this game is amazing. It is a GREAT expansion off of the game itself. 
 Adding factions was a great idea, making the game even better. The one player game is super addictive 
 and a nice time waster but personally this is another game meant for multiplayer. Nothing can beat 
 a massive 4 vs. 4 LAN matchup of a bunch of friends, that, people, is glorious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nimitz14
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Yes, "if only...", EA games made an excellent game which should have been pc-game of the year (not 
 RON) . Let me say this first;
  i LOVE this game, in NO other game infantry can be run over, in NO other game (a that time) are 
 aircraft as powerful as they should be, in NO other game damaged units will not only look wrecked 
 but slow down, in NO other game is it possible to destroy the strongest tank in the game with a 
 missile defender ( (rocket soldier (with the right tactics of course) ) ......
  But EA games just made the game, and dropped it! There are still MAJOR bugs which need to be solved, 
 online play is tough and there are a lot of cheaters (with no possibility to report them) . Thats 
 the reason why i tilted it 9/10, now to the other scores:
  
  Gameplay:
  Excellent, each faction has different strategies, when first reading a game description and seeing: 
 "USA specializes on technology, China on force and GLA on stealth and surprise tactics!" Most people 
 think (including me) : "so every faction has different units, great -.-" What people don't expect 
 is that this also makes the build orders and strategies completely different! 
  Also this game is one of the few where defences are just the right strength imo, they aren't very 
 strong and can be destroyed easily with enough force/right weapons, but they can prove useful when 
 blocking a flank at the beginning of a game etc. Here we come onto another point, this game concentrates 
 a lot on micro, if you play the game the way it's meant to be played, the beginning of a game will 
 always be the most exciting part of it, not saying that the end is boring, just that there's a 
 certain amount of tension when your trying to micro your jeep with suicide-terrorists on-board 
 to the enemy supply depot!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in general are good, but the infantry-units, my God, the INFANTRY-UNITS are terrible, 
 the only +point it that you can play it without lag. Aircraft look simply spectaular when shot 
 down (normal otherwise) , and vehicles will blow up nicely when hit (jeeps are a special treat, 
 they literally go flying up into the air!) . 
  
  Sound:
  I love hearing the terrorist voice and the explosions are great, the music fits.
  
  Value:
 
  The AI isn't too much of a challenge, and online play can be as great as it can be terrible, if 
 you have a good supply of buddies though, this shouldn't be a problem! 
  
  pls recommend/not recommend this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsianGamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer Generals: Zero Hour is the expansion of Command &amp; Conquer Generals. Zero 
 Hour adds new modes, new units and a whole bunch of more additions, and does what every expansion 
 pack should do, improve on the previous game.
  
  Zero Hour is a real-time strategy that keeps the same formula from C&amp; C you expect but this 
 time, there are new additions to Zero Hour that for the most part are good additions. For one, 
 in the skirmish mode, the biggest change is the different generals added of the game. Each faction, 
 USA, China &amp; GLA now have 3 generals that concentrate on the original factions strengths, and 
 the original factions are still selectable to play as, so giving 12 different playable factions 
 to play as really opens up new strategies, and the new playable factions may already benefit game 
 play strategies players have developed from playing previous C&amp; C games. The new generals take 
 the strengths of each original faction and now improve on them with new units, giving new strengths 
 and weaknesses to each one.
  
  The USA now has an Air Force General, Super Power General, &amp; the Laser General. The Air Force 
 general of course likes to use the aircrafts, and gives great improvements to them, you already 
 begin being able to use the Stealth Fighter, which if you played the previous game, or choose another 
 USA general, you have to spend a General Point just to be able to build that unit. The Comanche 
 Helicopter is upgraded to a much more dangerous aircraft for your opponents. But being that the 
 Air Force General prefers to use aircrafts, the tanks are the weak point of the Air Force General. 
 Instead of having all the normal tanks you would normally have, you now only have a small selection 
 of ground vehicles to build, which of course weakens any ground attack or defense you were planning 
 to try out. The Super Power General for the USA likes to use the USA more powerful weapons, such 
 as its Super Weapon. For the Super Power General, when you build the power refinery, the upgrade 
 would be usually just be able to increase the power 100%, now with the Super Power General, the 
 upgrade is 300% more power. Also like the Air Force General, you also have a small selection of 
 ground vehicles to choose from. The Laser General is well as the name, likes to use Lasers. Like 
 the Super Power General &amp; Air Force General, there is also a few selectable ground vehicles, 
 but the Laser General has the Laser Tank which The Chinese have the Infantry General, the Nuke 
 General &amp; the Tank General. As the name suggests, the Infantry General likes to use lots of 
 infantry units to win battles. The infantry are created with less cost than normal, and are created 
 as veterans, which are helpful for any unit because it allows them to heal automatically. The Hackers 
 now are able to disable vehicles and buildings. The RPG launchers now get a horde bonus when they 
 are in a group of 5 or more. The only vehicles that are built in the War Factory are the Super 
 Troop Crawler which comes with 10 Mini-Gunners is the upgrade from the normal Red Guard thus they 
 are more powerful. The Nuke General likes to use the power of nuclear warfare to defeat his enemies. 
 Similar to the USA Super Power General, the nuclear reactors for the Nuke General give more power 
 thus saving money to be able to build more units. The tanks begin with uranium shells and you already 
 begin with the Nuke Cannon who are very good in destroying building when bunched in a group. Another 
 thing is that the Nuke General begins with the Nuke Bomber. The last Chinese General is the Tank 
 General. Some of the differences are that are, the tanks are cheaper to built, when you build the 
 Battlemaster Tank, which is the basic tank of the Chinese, they are built as veterans, and with 
 1 General point, you can upgrade them to have them built as elite so they are more dangerous. The 
 regular Overlord Tank is now Emperor Overlord Tanks, and is built with a speaker post which heals 
 any unit in the radius of the tank. The GLAs 3 Generals are the Toxin, Demolition and Stealth. 
 The Toxin Generals tanks fire toxins, which will kill any infantry unit very fast if they are 
 not protected. The terrorist, when they are used, they kill themselves with a cloud of toxins instead 
 of explosives. The Rebels fire a small stream of toxic. The Toxic Tracker now can upgrade its gun 
 with the scrap left from enemies like the other tanks could. Also, the normal tunnel networks are 
 now Toxic Networks, which shoots a small stream of toxins. And all tanks are now equipped with 
 Toxic Shells. The Demolition General of course loves to blow stuff up. The Demo General terrorists 
 cause more damage when they suicide attack. You have the advanced Demo Traps which are upgraded 
 demo traps, but with more power. They are detectors in where when enemies get close enough near 
 it, it activates and explodes and damages and can destroy or severely damage any units in the blast. 
 Bomb Trucks are cheaper than normal. The GLAs special unit, Jarmen Kell is now equipped with C4. 
 The Stealth General likes to use camouflage and covert operations during warfare. Additions are 
 that the rebel is now camouflaged. All base defenses have camo-netting already installed. You can 
 use the GPS scrambler sooner and more often. With a total of 12 different factions, all with varied 
 tactics, even if youre playing by yourself or with other people, via over an LAN or online, fights 
 are chaotic, but still manageable. It would have been nice to have a formation option to make the 
 fights, especially big fights easier to manage, but it isnt like you cant keep track of what 
 you are doing, and lose important units or anything of the sort. The great thing is that if you 
 select the right faction, you can pretty much dominate over your opponent because your strength 
 can be your opponents weakness. And the same thing can happen yourself. You may feel a little 
 d&eacute; j&agrave; vu because the game play is basically the same as would expect it to be. The 
 AI of the game is for the most part good, yet there are instances where the AI is dumb. When you 
 are bull rushing the AI, they dont retreat, which for a human opponent would most likely retreat. 
 The AI can be smart as well. When you have gotten the AI to the brink of defeat, and you are destroying 
 the base, they just sell their buildings so they dont have to bear everything to become ruble. 
 The AI can be smart at times, and dumb at times but that isnt to say a bad thing. The game still 
 is very fun to play, and if you played Generals or played any RTS before, Zero Hour will still 
 keep you going for a very long time.
  
  There is more than the multiplayer aspect of the game. The single player portion of the game is 
 very fun in its own right. Each faction has their own campaign, and features some fake news reports 
 with journalists reporting from the factions point of view. They play between each mission during 
 the loading times, which can last pretty long in some cases. The videos arent really all that 
 impressive, but ripping from the headlines is where it is cashing in. Its pretty scary to see 
 how it can connect to real life events. And at the beginning of each mission, a 3D rendered cut 
 scene is played. They do look very good, and set up the mission great, but it would have been nice 
 to be able to skip all that every time you have to begin or start over a mission. But the missions 
 are fun to play, so after getting passed the load times, you will have good solid experience. Another 
 single player mode is the Generals Challenge mode. You select to play as one of the generals from 
 the multiplayer modes, and you go and fight each other general like in an arcade fighting game. 
 Its unusual to see something like this in an RTS game, but the presentation of the mode is really 
 good. After selecting the general of your choice, you face each general on their terms, and they 
 begin with a fully developed base, while you must create you base from scratch. With the deck stacked 
 against you must become victorious. Throughout the fight, the opposing general is talking trash 
 like your facing someone online, but instead they have witty and sometimes funny comments on everything 
 you do, unlike facing people online. On easy, the difficulty isnt really that difficult, but on 
 medium and higher, it seems like you are facing generals who know what they are doing. You can 
 spend hours on hours of time just playing the Generals Challenge mode alone. If you were able 
 to run Generals on your PC, you will be able to run Zero Hour just fine. Even with that said, the 
 game looks as well as any game on the market today. From the regular distance to play the game, 
 it looks great. If you zoom up close, the game looks kind of blocky, and its alright from up-close. 
 The missiles firing and landing looks good, the lighting effects are very good to look at. The 
 death animations of the infantry are actually funny to look at. The explosions, oh the dear explosions! 
 They look awesome to say the least. Zero Hour sounds great to say the least. During the news reports 
 in the campaign mode, the voice acting is very good from those actors. The 3D cut scenes also sound 
 great. During the game play, the voice acting of the units is good, from when they are finished 
 being built, being selected, to giving them a command, they are good. But what set the game apart 
 sound wise are actually when the units are fighting. The tanks firing every time sound accurate. 
 The guns of the infantry are good, and the sounds of the super weapons are amazing to hear while 
 using them. Now the question is brought up, is Zero Hour a worthy addition to the Command &amp; 
 Conquer universe? Westwood has created great games like Red Alert, Red Alert 2, and Yuris Revenge, 
 can Zero Hour be even considered to belong in the great series of Command &amp; Conquer? The simple 
 answer is yes. Everything about the game is great. From the looks of the game, to the sound of 
 the game, the game plays as well as any RTS should, the new additions make a great add-on to already 
 great game from Generals. Either playing the multiplayer part online, or LAN, its a great experience. 
 The single player modes are enough to keep you playing the game for hours on end. Command &amp; 
 Conquer Generals: Zero Hour will get anyone who is a fan of previous C&amp; C games, or a fan of 
 real-time strategy games to play for a very long time, even if you have played Generals or any 
 RTS to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjfz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  This the expansion pack for Command and Conquer Generals, it contains a lot of new material, including 
 new campaigns, units, and much more. In terms of gameplay, it's quite fun. It's easy to learn, 
 but hard to master, it's like the classical RTS, Red Alert. However, now the MCV (Mobile Construction 
 Vehicle) can build anywhere. However, the biggest flaw about this game is that there are a few 
 exploitative bugs that will totally ruin your multiplayer gaming experience. For example, the scud 
 bug allows the GLA fire an unlimited amount of scuds anywhere on the map. Also, there is a laser 
 defense bug that gives the laser turret TWICE the range, even further than the nuke cannon. The 
 graphics is very good, and is compatible with most graphic cards, even integrated ones. However, 
 the sound is terrible. Unlike Red Alert, there are few soundtracks, and they sound flat, and meaningless. 
 The sound effects doesn't help either. This game would definitely be a good game for RTS fans, 
 but it's totally unacceptable for EA to have fixed the bugs (even after the patches) , since the 
 Scud have been existing since C&amp; C Generals. Overall, the game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude30501
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  A very ruined Command and Conquer game, it is too slow paced and i even have to game speed to maximum. 
 There are those odd times where it is exciting. The gameplay has been ruined all through-out, most 
 people consider this game to be the best in the command and conquer series except that it doesn't 
 have the game speed or challenging missions like the older command and conquers. In this game they 
 worry too much about graphics rather than actual gameplay. Like building a base is too slow and 
 placing gaurd buildings is a pain especially when your Versing a GLA player and they use the Tunnel 
 network rush because it takes forever for your guys to try and defend, like Tanks move too slow 
 in this game. In all the other Command and Conquer games i have played they were more faster gameplay 
 and easier to get money. In this getting money is like getting some good mail delivered to your 
 house (takes forever) .
  
  There are some good parts about the game too like General abilities and building as many superweapons 
 as you want but with the Superweapons the count down isn't even real life seconds on the fastest 
 gameplay and infantry are pointless in every way, they can hardly even move. Infantry die really 
 fast so whats the point of every unit being really vulnerable against another unit or a bunch of 
 units. I gave this game good value because you can get it with Command and Conquer the First decade 
 and if you like this game i wont hate you.
  
  The campaign in this game is very lacking in quality and a good challenge, it is frustrating when 
 they always get a superweapon and you dont and it takes forever for you to get a superweapon. The 
 challenge mode takes about 3-4 hours just to finish one of the missions because the stupid aI makes 
 them keep rebuilding and it especially takes 3-4 hours when you are VSing General Alexander because 
 you cant even get to her base and air units are retarded. You cant even get naval units in this 
 game at all and that really blows.
  
  I really hope that any new Command and Conquers that come out are as crappy as this one because 
 this game doesn't have that Command and Conquer feeling to it like the other ones and I've played 
 every Command and Conquer since i was 5-8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allsportsgp
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  A much needed refreshing improvement to a lackluster game. Generals was a great concept but poorly 
 executed. Zero hour adds more of the same but in a good way. If you're a fan of RTS and looking 
 for a great game with low system requirements, give this a chance.
  
  If you don't limit superweapons, then the game turns to a race of who can build the most the fastest 
 and defend them before you're nuked to death. While the race can be fun occasionally, I enjoy playing 
 versus the computer on hard for the most enjoyable gameplay. The AI uses multiple approaches to 
 attacking you, hit and run, tank swarms, infantry lemming floods, air attacks, etc... so it always 
 keeps you guessing what it's going to be doing next.
  
  The only gripe about the AI I have is that when you have AI teammates they seem to be dumber than 
 the same level AI enemy. They tend to build supply depots right next to your stash (greedy bastages) 
 and when they run out of resources, they come to a grinding halt and don't actively look for more 
 resources. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenday_bjh
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer: Generals may hav only came out a few months before the original, but Zero 
 Hour proves to be great expansion-pack for the Command &amp; Conquer series. Zero Hour features 
 more units and a new single player mode. The new Challenge mode features the nine new forces added 
 to the game. In this mode, you pick a leader, then battle other leaders on their own ground. Once 
 you pick your country, you go into a mortal combat sort of thing. While you are playing, the other 
 commander will taunt you. It's a fun mode to play if you like stuff like that. Personally, I like 
 the multiplayer mode online. It's similar to the one on Red Alert 2, if you're familliar with it. 
 Also the skirmish mode gets better every time westwood makes a new c&amp; c game, which puts this 
 one at the top. Thes new sub-factions make the three countries' different strengths, like the GLA's 
 toxic sub-faction which features toxic weapons and units, or the Demolition GLA sub-faction features 
 a bomb truck and motorcycles with terrorists on them. The nine new sub factions really add to the 
 play of the overall game. The Zero Hour campaign modes make a more in-depth storyline to the game, 
 rather than the previous one's cheap unreal story. The story is about a war that could very well 
 happen in the near future. With three different sides of the story. So for some of you who didn't 
 like the first Generals, this one will come as a suprise to you. ANYONE WHO LIKED THE PREVIOUS 
 C&amp; C GAMES WILL DEFINITELY LIKE ZERO HOUR, FOR SOME WHO DIDN'T LIKE THE PREVIOUS ONES BECAUSE 
 OF UNREALISTC GAMEPLAY, ZERO HOUR JSUT MIGHT COME TO A SUPRISE TO YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juli710_710
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game is funny... i dont like the story mode.. i sucks.. but the gameplay is good.. this game 
 is just fun to play on lan; P it cool to play with other people not a machine... i like the game 
 only becuse its cool on lan..; P if you dont have try this game before try to play it one time before 
 buying it.. just remember this game suck on story mode..; P im not playing this game so much becuse 
 the game is easy to be boring; P the money system in the game i very good.. its like red alert 2 
 and 1.. generals is a good game but the graphic its not so good.. the tanks and the palne is good.. 
 buildings too.. but the graphics on the people really suck; P
  
  sry for my english; P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calcheesmo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  C&amp; C: Zero Hour is probably the best game ever. Ok, maybe I go too far, but honestly it's an 
 amazing game. I've always been a fan of the more realistic C&amp; C games and this is definitely 
 one of them. I wasn't a fan of the ones that went more towards the Starcraft type game than what 
 I knew as C&amp; C. Anyways, this game is amazing. It is a GREAT expansion off of the game itself. 
 Adding factions was a great idea, making the game even better. The one player game is super addictive 
 and a nice time waster but personally this is another game meant for multiplayer. Nothing can beat 
 a massive 4 vs. 4 LAN matchup of a bunch of friends, that, people, is glorious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  It has got all the style of the first game, and a few new tricks up its sleeve. The new sub-armies 
 are amazing, allowing you to fight a multitude of armies in your own way. As the GLA you can be 
 the stealth general, the toxic general or the demolitions general. The stealth general can creep 
 up on enemies and destroy them without them even knowing where the attack came from. The toxic 
 general can infest great areas of ground with instant death. Lots of enemy soldiers attacking you? 
 Not a problem when your basic troops can melt enemies into toxic sludge. As for the demolition 
 general, everything is combustible. Got a lot of troops, and little time to play the game? Then 
 send them all in to the enemy and watch the chain explosions! The Chinese can have fun in the form 
 of tank, infantry, and nuclear generals. The infantry general gets access to lots of specialised 
 infantry troop carriers, abilities and the like. As you may have guessed the tank general gets 
 access to specialised tanks, and the like. The nuclear general can get special abilities for your 
 power plants, and nuclear shells for your tanks. The campaign is great, setting you up against 
 loads of different enemies, and making loads of cool mini objectives to accomplish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slai47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  this is the succeser for starcraft but not many people think it is but it proves itself in every 
 way. its single player is one that is the best of the best and its multiplayer is just like ctarcraft 
 but not developed as much. its single player is made up of 5 things: usa, gla, china story modes, 
 generals challenge, and skimish. the story mode go in all different directions and then colide 
 at the end. the gen challenge is a new thing for the c and c series. it is were you are pitted 
 against another gen which has a base built and you must destroy him then you go on against other 
 until you run into a general with every kind of army (usa, china, and gla) which is the biggest challenge. 
 skimish is where you are pitted against up to 8 comps and can make teams or all- out -war. the 
 multiplayer is just like an other rts game which you have muliple clans and aods (art of destruction) 
 in which you build def. then the comp attacks. there are few golem maps like starcraft but they 
 are fun. this is one of the best games i have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  The Good : Gameplay --- This game have alot of new features that it provides for casual &amp; hardcore 
 strategy gamers . Since it takes you to the point of a wide range fields for wars to be raged on 
 , with a hole new 9 Generals added to this game , it can deffinitly make it a game to be played. 
 And the new Challange mode that this game have to offer gives you a great time when fighting to 
 against other Generals in their own territory with them having the full advantage over you as you 
 start from scratch. It also introduces new features &amp; technologys &amp; powers &amp; units 
 to each of the 3 factions GLA, China, USA. It also provides us a campaigns that continue from the 
 point were you have finished in the first game (a perfect sequal) were you also get to fight as 
 GLA, USA, &amp; China. The AI is even more better , it keep fighting you with strategies &amp; 
 techniques that you know for sure that you are good enough to stop them , yet is suprizes you to 
 the fact that the AI know when &amp; how &amp; were to use it powers (Nukes, Bombarding etc...) 
 or even long range tanks (Squd Luncher, Tomahowk Missle Luncher, etc...) were they can easily whipe 
 up your deffences or units in a way that makes future attack a very deadly attack that might even 
 cause to to loose. It appears that the Ai is addaptable to the way you get to play , if play deffensivly 
 then he will attack &amp; vise versa (the other way around) . Graphics --- the graphics are great 
 with a re-optimized graphical engine that make it look even better than the 1st generals giving 
 you more performance &amp; experiance , all the explosions, eye candies, smokes comes to look even 
 better now . It also offers a high fedality for visiuals weer the tanks, structures you weaken, 
 get to change to a pretty bad shape were it shows you the performance of these unit's is decreased. 
 Sound --- the sound is still great &amp; with the same old music with a high hitting bass as you 
 hear Middle Eastern &amp; Oriental music in the background, it gives a sence of tribalisim . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 The Bad : Even though that this game is great , &amp; provides alot of new freatures , yet it can 
 still gives the sence that the AI is some-what stuppid in the skirmishes fights that you get to 
 play as a single player , even though that you might get defeated yet you might only need to build 
 some bunker &amp; state some RPG soldiers in it &amp; then just wait &amp; see the AI using the 
 same strategy which is to keep fighting , yet it also tries to attack them with air units to be 
 more devastating , but they can override them with nukes &amp; over ranged tanks. As to the graphics 
 even though that the graphical engine is re-enhanced , yet it is not improved to provide you with 
 a new things other than the same old things (explosions, eye candies, etc...) but this only make 
 them look better , but there is nothing new graphically enhancement are featured in thei re-improved 
 engine . The sound is great but it still offers you the same old tracks from the previous part 
 nothing new. Thus the Graphics &amp; Sounds have no new features enterd to them , no new tracks 
 &amp; no new graphics, eye candies they are same from the old part !! . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 Some Notes ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 1 - The game graphical engine is re-optimized or re-enhanced , but not re-developed , which come 
 to offers a new range of graphics if it was done , but yet again they are still good &amp; playable 
 &amp; nice to be looked at .  
 - The sound is also the same from the 1st part , but this also doesn't mean it isn't great or doesn't 
 fitt in the game thus it still provides you with a good range of sound effects &amp; sound tracks 
 .  
 - make sure that before you play this game , u should download the patches so that you can have 
 a good experiance from this game . Download them . ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 At the end I would like to say that this game is great &amp; with since we are now in 2007 4 yrs 
 after it was released yet it still offers alot of good game strategies that makes this game a game 
 to be played &amp; desired bt RTS gamers since it provides a new bases &amp; features &amp; laws 
 . It is a game worth to be played no matter in what time line you are now in . This game C&amp; C 
 : Generals Zero Hour is a game that should be played to give you a view of how the games were 4 
 yrs ago . It seems like it was yesterday . Time moves fast !!! play it . It might not be found 
 now anywere , but you can buy it in the newlly released C&amp; C : The First Decade which gives 
 a collection of the best C&amp; C titles across time . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01_855403
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  A real master piece with a more specified gaming and strategy which makes your head spining . If 
 you like artillery you have thguy for it if you like chemical weapons you have him too , any one 
 who comes to your mind you have him even one specific with nuclear wars . But the bad is wait a 
 sec I find this game just perfect especially that it was in the great timing while there was a 
 war on Iraq . I have never found any disadvantage on any EA game its really an accomplished company 
 with a great history it should be tried by any stratigy game lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I decided to give this game a try in order to see what all the excitment is all about and this 
 game is great. I have played a little bit of Star Craft and Battle for Middle Earth and those games 
 are great too but I like this one the best.
  
  I don't really play a lot of the solo missions because I have much more fun playing against the 
 computer or online but solo mission is... ok. You get to choose between three military forces (USA, 
 China, or the GLA (a terrorist group) and you do a series of given mission. I personally find multiplayer 
 to be more fun but solo missions may be a good way for you to get used to the game (or just play 
 multiplayer against the computer, I'll leave that up to you) .
  
  The multiplayer in this game is where all the real fun is though. You can play online up to 4 players 
 or more per map. Online is way more challenging and competative than on your own. If you choose 
 to play against the computer (which I recommend doing first) , you get to choose what armies you 
 want to fight and set the difficulty for each one (easy, medium, or hard) .
  
  This game is definately a fun RTS game for anyone who's looking for a fun and exciting RTS. This 
 game has plenty to offer, plenty to do, and you will never get bored. This game is worth at least 
 a glance at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Generals Zero Hour is a great game on PC. It is a RTS (Real Time Strategy) game and an awesome 
 expansion pack to Generals. There are new multiplayer levels, new storylines, new vehicles, new 
 buildings and heaps more. The graphics are just the same as the first Generals but a little bit 
 better. Gameplay is much awesome on this game because there is more action. The Music is the same 
 but I think there is a few new ones I think. You can only buy this game when you have the first 
 Command &amp; Conquer Generals game because you won't be able to play Zero Hour if you don't have 
 it. I like using Aircrafts on the game like the USA army has the best aircrafts than the others. 
 If you are thinking about getting this game, make sure you have the first generals because you 
 need it. So I reckon Command &amp; Conquer: Generals Zero Hour is the best RTS in its series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  If you don't already have generals, get it, and if you do and you don't have this expansion, GET 
 IT. It adds 9 new sides within the 3 original sides. It adds so many more dimensions the original 
 game. I havent played the campaigns so i cant say anything about them (iv had the game for almost 
 2 years and i havent done the campaign) , i stick to skirmishes and the new generals challenge. 
 the generals challenge is tons of fun and can be very difficult depending on which setting u set 
 it at. it pits your general of choice against each general in a special match. they get a huge 
 fortress and send waves of constant attacks, and u get, u guessed it, a command center. i wont 
 spoil anything, but the last general is a bit, unexpected with his/her tactics. i highly recommend 
 this game to all RTS fans. the original game was great, but this expansion takes it to a whole 
 new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EurekaZerO
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  if Jeremy plays it, everyone should play it. This game is the game for pros, noobs? noobs dont 
 play this cuz they get pwned. Zero Hour is the l33t sauce stuff here. Its awesome, graphics are 
 good and like you need like uber micro to play it you know? and like its awesome and like it looks 
 good and like strategizizzes is like wat proz do ya no and like n e one whoz g00d at gamez shood 
 play this game. Uber Micro required tho so like practice hard noobz law. So like i pwn noobs online 
 ey, what can i say its like da best game evar and like i recommneddde to n e one who like gamez 
 cuz if u play gamez and dont have zero hour u r like total noob . So like pik dis game up if u 
 already habnt ya no and like.... play me.... devil_eater111 . Ill see u there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcmagen_zerohx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer: Generals Zero Hour agree-ably lacks storyline but the era of Singleplay is 
 well past. Multiplay is the present and could not have been delivered better. Zero Hour offers 
 unsurpassed multiplay content with 12 uniquely customized armies, leaving no doubt that every battle 
 will be different. For those who do not like playing online, the General Challenge Campaign offers 
 hours of challenging battles against swift AI (You can't expect a 'challenge' if you knowingly 
 chose to do it under 'Easy' difficulty. Go 'Hard' for a real kick!) . Zero Hour truly stands out 
 among the other RTS games, even those that were made well after its release.
  
  The new C&amp; C formula that Zero Hour was built upon is a welcomed break away from the traditional 
 styles. Buildings are not confined to a small radius that makes super weapons oh-so-super-deadly. 
 Units that are specialized do their jobs remarkably, unlike many other RTS games where late game 
 renders lower tier units obsolete, and lack variety where higher tier units just build upon lower 
 tier units' health, damage etc.
  
  Graphics are kick-ass considering the time it was under development. Guys, development comes before 
 release, for those who can't differentiate between the two. And the sound department did an exceptional 
 job. Units respond when commanded and for those who did not check out the General Challenge, the 
 defending general AI will taunt and curse at appropriate times, adding reality to the game even 
 when you are not already engrossed about the progress and outcome of the challenge. The sound adds 
 so much reality to the General Challenge that it makes you feel that you are really up against 
 a real general. (Of course this depends on the difficulty you do the Challenge, I did on 'Hard' 
 only, just so you know where this is coming from.)
  
  Definitely a value for money product. More of a more-value-than-money product. Its worth more than 
 its price. In fact, this is one of those seriously grossly under-rated games. Sure it may not have 
 that bright, shiny facade that many other over-rated games that eventually turned successful have, 
 its substance is truly unrivaled even until today (check the date of post) . I am a real gamer and 
 have experienced, extensively, numerous other RTS games such as Warcraft I, II &amp; III, Starcraft, 
 Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth I &amp; II, Age of Empires I, II &amp; III, Company 
 of Heroes etc. (All of which are inferior to Zero Hour.) And belief me when I say I really compared 
 it with other games without prejudice (I'm a fan of all those games listed as examples) . Its multiplay 
 value surpasses that even of World of Warcraft (which I play too) in the sense that it delivers 
 excitement and substance quickly where in WoW, raids are mind-numbing slow and monotypic. Even 
 PvP is plain repetitive and hardly gives variety due to limited customization, not to mention predictable 
 responses to most actions. The vast number of strategies Zero Hour offers only adds on to its high 
 value. If you can't think of a counter strategy to a tatic, you just ain't thinking hard enough. 
 Spend some time pondering over that and you will see what I mean. A pity that other games that 
 are not even original works of its authors are given so much more credit for stealing other people's 
 work. (Hint: one of such has a four letter abbreviation which is disgustingly over-rated and negligible 
 amount of its content is original. It also runs on the engine of another program.)
  
  Replay value of Zero Hour is simply through the roof. I have been through other games and even 
 for periods addicted to them, but none has been able to keep the fire alive for so long. 4 years 
 and I still can't get enough of Zero Hour.
  
  This is truly the only game deserving a perfect 10 rating. I have touched on every aspect of the 
 rating system in comparison to the time of its development and release. My rating is justified. (Unlike 
 other reviews where a certain game is given a string of perfect 10 when the content of the review 
 says I have not played this game yet . That is just trash talk to get the ratings up.) There really 
 should be a revision rating as many high rating games are just addictive at first, then loses out 
 really bad after extensive gameplay, whereas other games are not as appealing within the short 
 amount of time given to cough up a rating as when fair amount of time is devoted to it. One example 
 would have to be the Warcraft franchise (sorry to mention this again) , which is really appealing 
 at first, even I got addicted, but is really dissatisfying after extensive gameplay. This can be 
 justified by the number of really dissatisfied customers in the WoW forums and reviews from various 
 web sites including this one. We all have different preferences and I am not asking you to switch 
 your opinion. So here's my 10 cents, my 2 cents is free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocka
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  The game is really spectacular! The graphics are really nice especially for a game that was released 
 in 2003. The effects are awesome, the explosions are so neat!! But the gameplay is the most important 
 part in an RTS, isn't it? Soon after buying the game I started the campaign, but didn't like it 
 too much. However, I liked the Skirmish matches a lot, and I enjoyed defeating the Medium Army 
 every time :P. Soon after that I told some of my friends to buy the game, so we could play online. 
 They bought it and we played a lot. I soon realized that this is what the game was made for. I 
 loved (still do anyway) how I could think of several tactics, strategies to defeat my opponent. 
 This game is a game where you have to think if you want to win. And now I'm talking about multiplayer, 
 of course, because the A. I. is the way too stupid.
  The sounds are brilliant! The units' sayings are funny, and the explosions and those kinds of sounds 
 are cool too! The music is professionally composed. The Deluxe Edition of the game, which contains 
 both Generals and Zero Hour, is well worth its price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newlemming
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  I really liked Zero Hour for the longest time. It really is a good expansion but.. it lacks something. 
 Such as: speed. If you go into a match with 3 or more opponents it slows (treachorously slow if 
 you have a comp. like mine) . It is very good with the additions and new Generals you can play as, 
 and especially the nice little additions here and there.
  
  I'd say it was a 9 out of 10. It's not the graphics, or lack of new things to use, or even crappy 
 missions. All those things don't describe this game. It's some of the glitches, and the fact the 
 game has some minor flaws that just generally bring it back down. Then comes that lag... those 
 glitchy little pieces that EA might have missed.
  
  All I can really say about this game is that it's really good but has it's own severe lag problems. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman888
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Despite what some Generals fan may claim, this game does not fundamentally change the mechanics 
 of Generals, particularly from the perspective of someone who's not a fan. Having said that, this 
 expansion makes Generals better in substantial ways. Since the two games are typically bundled 
 nowadays, there is no reason to get Generals by itself.
  
  Improved balancing:
  I was immediately impressed by the US's new laser tank (having beat the game so quickly, I never 
 learned the name) . This substantially improved the US's ability to defend against air attacks, 
 including missiles. Most other deficiencies in all three sides have been addressed, including the 
 highly mobile and flexible Helix for the Chinese.
  
  Impressive) additions:
  Stylized generals -- A considerable improvement over the one special unit per country in old C&amp; C 
 multiplayer. The specialization is much more pronounced for interested online players.
  Neutron mines and neutron shells (Chinese) -- A quite novel concept in RTS. For the first time, massive 
 numbers of vehicle units could be made neutral and capturable at a later time. Very satisfying.
 
  
  Of course, there are fun new units to use and destroy.
  
  On the downside, EALA really made a pathetic attempt at adding motion picture to the game. The 
 news casts are generally bland, their usefulness questionable, and the acting lackluster.
  
  After two entries, I cannot help but question EA studio's ability to make games that has more 
 than just presentation and mechanics. To me games are like interactive stories, rich alternate 
 universes that awe me not by virtue of better looking buildings and vehicles but interesting ideas 
 and people and locale. Ultimately, the icons of EA games: sports, Sims, Generals, and Battlefield 
 remain great if you completely remove any background plot. Conversely, a venture into the worlds 
 encompassing these games prove to be a journey into the void. A notable exception is MoH, but you 
 have to be pretty dumb to screw up the story of a WW2 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmittyIsTheBest
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Zero Hour Is A Great RTS, no question, it comes from a long line of great RTSs so there's really 
 no surprise.
  
  The graphics are very good looking on a high end computer and the fps manages very well for the 
 most part, but the game can lag online or when there are serveral thousand unit on the map.
  
  Though the thousands of units are great, unlike a lot of other RTS games I've played this game 
 has no build in cap for the amount of units you can create, but it is more likely to cause the 
 game to crash if you have to many, but you need a seriously large amount to do that. More than 
 you'll be able to build when playing a real game. This is really good, swarming your opponent with 
 hundreds of Scorpions or Paladins is a tactic that's worked for me lots in the past.
  
  The rules of the game are really easy to pick up, learing to play the three very different armies 
 can be done very quickly and you'll soon develope a favourite, mine's is GLA personally. The 3 
 armies make great diversity and stop the game from getting too old fast.
  
  Not only are there three armies, but each of these armies have there own three generals which specialise 
 in different areas, for example you can have GLA - Stealth or GLA - Toxin.
  
  The single player is good, online play is better but the real fun is playing it on LAN (from your 
 local cyber cafe or you garage, who cares?)
  
  Also, this game will work on a medium range computer like mine for example, so if you can't keep 
 up with the top stuff then this is a must buy RTS.
  
  And there's nothing like using your Jarman Kell to snipe an Overlord Tank and steal it with a worker. 
 If that doesn't make your opponent cry I don't know what will.
  
  And all the units have great and fitting voices, not only that, but you can now give the poor workers 
 those shoes they always wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpepper244
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  I think that when EA releeased this expansion pack they hit the nail on the head, not only do you 
 have to basic generals you have the addition of 3 different types of generals for each faction, 
 this adds some great depth to the game and makes it even more entertaining.
  
  The game is still missing a water based aspect but with all of the different generals and different 
 tyeps of battles from missions to the skirmish maps and then the challenge generals section this 
 game has added even more game play time onto an already addictive game.
  
  Anyone who likes the command and conquer series or anyone who has never played one of the games 
 but likes stratergy games this is the one for you, absolutely fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fart_poo_cheese
Rating: 3.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Game Play:
  It took me forever to learn how to play this game due to it using what seemed like every key on 
 the keyboard as a hot-key. Also the troop movement was too loose they just flooded to the area 
 you click in a very disorderly manner. AS far as I'm concerned the game controls are broken and 
 need to be revised entirely.
  
  Graphics:
  As far as I'm concerned here I have no complaints. I do find the graphics to be very nice. They 
 did a good job of making stuff blow up and making it look cool. But like an action movie, I need 
 more than stuff going boom to interest me.
  
  Sound:
  The sound was kinda corny at times with cheesy voice actors but the sound effects I did enjoy. 
 Especially the sound of sirens right before a nuclear bomb drops then the deafening boom of the 
 nuke.
  
  Value:
  However good the graphics and sound are, it takes more than crisp graphics and quality sound to 
 make a game, and that's all I saw in this game. Just a light show with no gaming value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  Absolutely great game. I am new to the C&C universe, and thanks to this game I plan to continue. 
 I love Zero Hour. It has unbeleivable graphics, gameplay, content, with smooth screen movement 
 and rapid unit mobility. i love the different capabilities in strategy and Zero Hour has an awesome 
 skirmish with the generals specifications. each general has their own strengths and weaknesses.
 
  
  zero hour is a great buy which will enetertain for hours on end
  
  the best faction is the chinese nuke general who has the ability to add nuclear radiation to all 
 weapons. but i love the usa with the emp missles, the tanks have upgraded patrolling bots around 
 them that repair or scout. great game highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesspherclayde
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  All the command and conquer and red alert games are great. Can't wait for the next one to come 
 out. This game features great gameplay and a great expansion for the command and conquer generals. 
 More units and more campaign mission. more upgrades and units have more to say. a very good game. 
 a must have. your life is boring if ou don't have this. For me this is better that warcraft 3. 
 Free online play which makes it even better. Good online play too. You can choose 12 Generals in 
 total. there is china, usa, gla, china infantry, china nuke, china tank, usa laser, usa superweapon, 
 usa airforce, gla stealth, gla toxin, and gla demolition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobsfoot
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  C&C Generals is a good game and this add-on for C&C Generals makes it even better. This is a large 
 expansion pack which is amazing becuse EA only spent a while working on it. It adds three more 
 campagains, one for each side even if these campagains have less missions than the campagains in 
 the orgional game. It also adds the Generals Challange mode which is great because you sellect 
 a general with unique powers for his side and when you go up against another general it's like 
 a one on one fight as the other general taunts you constantly thoughout the battle. The graphics 
 and sound are great. I can't play online with other players because i downloaded the retarded mod 
 and then got rid of it and i cant be bothered reinstalling it. Otherwise this is a great game and 
 I would highly reccomend it to anyone who enjoyed C&C Generals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekingoffoxes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  C & C generals : ZERO HOUR is a game that hasent changed much since from red alert 2 (in a game 
 sort of way (not content) )
  
  For some reason when i build a building my base blows up and im deeated
  Apart from this its 
 a very fun game - even though i cant get past the first campain or play any skermishes
  
  The airforce general i think is the best even through when i play as the us i always win it could 
 do with more armies (like austraila) and mabey a bit more reality to it
  
  THe campains are very well thought out and as is the editor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAL69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  C&C Generals Zero Hour it's the number two in the series of generals.
  It's much better than the first one...
  With new campaign and more new things.
  More maps and 
 more weapons.
  Challenge mode that you take a general and do skirmish with another general, after you defeat him 
 you will do another skirmish with another general and it's keep going.
  The graphics are great, the gameplay is great and the sound is good.
  In overall the game is superb 
 and i love it!
  I think this game is great and i recommend it to all the people that loves the first game of generals! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Using the mouse to control your troops is great and super fast. Better than any console 
 RTS in that way. I wish tank shells could kill troops easier, but it's good as it it. Battles can 
 get really tense and exciting. As long as you keep a good money supply, you'll be able to keep 
 moving troops up to the front line, and even though it'll take a very long time, you'll eventually 
 over-run your opponent. So many awesome units and buildings to choose from, so many ways to fight, 
 the gameplay in this game is almost flawless, except for a few bugs here and there.
  
  Graphics- The visuals in this game are very impressive. Air battles are amazing to watch. The explosians 
 look very good and the units and buildings are very well polished. On high detail, the graphics 
 go through the roof.
  
  Story- Most games like this aren't really about the story, but Command and Conquer continues to 
 deliver in this area. It's nothing really special (though unique) , but it will keep you interested. 
 It's especially good if you're interested in the conflicts of the middle east, since this is very 
 similar to that.
  
  Sound and Music- For the most part, the music in this game matches the levels very well (though 
 the GLA music will get old) . IMO, they are very pleasant to listen to. The sound effects are exactly 
 what you would hope for.
  
  Replay value- With online play and exciting skirmish matches, this game will keep you coming back 
 for more. This game is in my top-5 for replay value, since it's been years since I've beaten it, 
 but I still come back to play.
  
  Online- The online is pretty good in this game, but it's not fun for more than a couple of tries. 
 It just takes way too long to beat or get beat by someone. I had a match last for 6 hours and I'm 
 sure many people have had longer. It's fun to go all-out with someone, but I'd rather play something 
 else online.
  
  Overall- This game is simply outstanding and Command and Conquer continues to be one of my favorite 
 series' of all time. It'll keep you coming back for more and defintely worth the money. Great gameplay, 
 great graphics, great music = one of the best RTS ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_1234Anderson
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is different than the other C&C games, it dosent follow a story line that spans many 
 games. it is set in 2018 (approx) . it has most modern day weapons, but it has some awesome fictional 
 as well. the gameplay is very easy to learn and is easy to use. there are a ton of good mods (project 
 raptor, blitzkreig 2) that were made for it. the graphics were nice but hard on some computers. 
 
  
  the gameplay is simple: build you base, attack enemies. no diplomatic stuff, one resource (money 
 not food wood and gold like most other games) , unit creation is easy too. your typical RTS game. 
 but it gets better. you can choose a general that has a special ability (air force, laser, demolitions, 
 tanks, etc) . these are very fun as you have generals challenges, skirmishes, multiplayer. the campagin 
 is fun too but eaisly beat (on easy :) ) . this game does not get boring either. ive played this 
 game more than any other RTS game. it is a fun game and i recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Beckham
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a big advancment from Red Alert 2! The graphices are aswome! and i absoluty love the gameplay. 
 
  This game revolutionised the command and counquer series. The main flaw of the previous games was 
 the graphics, which as been changed with a new graphics engine and the results are stunning. The 
 gameplay is classic with elements of the old classics like RA2 and Tiberan Sun. This one however 
 has included new aspects which is made possible with the help of the new graphics. I love this 
 game and could play on it indeffinatly.
  The online aspect brings the game to life, and you can use tatics picked up in the missions in 
 real life to see if they are good enough to beat the best. I like the ladder system which allows 
 you to see how you are doing in realation to everyone else!
  Super game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edot0
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  In 2004 EA games released Command and Conquer: Generals and then followed with Zero Hour. The game 
 was ok, but it lacked what a real C&C game is. In Generals/Zero Hour there was no navel ships of 
 anything that had to do with water, which was a huge let down in my eyes. The graphic are really 
 nice tho, AI is real shaky at times and the game play in this one was very slow! This was most 
 deffinetly not the greatest game by EA. But however I do look forward in the near future to give 
 us the next great C&C game in 2007, but for now this game is good but just needs a little help 
 on a few things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabbyface1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has totally surpassed anything I was expecting. I was blown away by this RTS. This game 
 has better graphics, better sound and better replay value than most other RTS games of this type. 
 This game seems to be new again every time I play. It never gets old or boring, There are so many 
 different scenarios you can enjoy. I would strongly recommend this RTS to anyone who wants a challenging 
 game with a world of options. It can be enjoyed online or single player making anyone who loves 
 RTS games either played as a group or otherwise, thoroughly impressed. Well worth its price and 
 much, much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syao4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  The game is very addictive, alot of hours to spent if your bored and doesn't have anything to play.
 
  Even if you get all medals/awards and beat all of the 3 campaigns you can still play with all 
 the generals in challenge mode, or play a game in skirimish.
  The AI is kinda stupid, but in hard its too hard, when you build 1 Power station the enemy already 
 have 3 special weapons =|
  Its fun to build and army of 60+ units and go to the enemy base and he got nothing to do, the special 
 weapons are neat, and the rank level thing is adding something to the game.
  Well, if you like modern strategy game, this is the game for you, I higly recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  C&C Generals is a good game and this add-on for C&C Generals makes it even better. This is a large 
 expansion pack which is amazing becuse EA only spent about 6 months working on it. It adds three 
 more campagains, one for each side even if these campagains have less missions than the campagains 
 in the orgional game. It also adds the Generals Challange mode which is great because you sellect 
 a general with unique powers for his/her side and when you go up against another general it's like 
 a one on one fight as the other general taunts you constantly thoughout the battle. The graphics 
 and sound are good. A few times on my PC the game has gone to a black screen and closed, also I 
 can't play online with other players for some reason. Otherwise this is a great game and I would 
 highly reccomend it to anyone who enjoyed C&C Generals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlaZe_irl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  Zero Hour is a fantastic game that expands well from Generals. More units and features have been 
 added and you can now choose to command a variety of different Generals each with their own unique 
 skills and tactics. The 3 main campaigns make a return from the original and there is also a challenge 
 mode, where u choose a general and take on the other remaining 8 generals. The campaigns can be 
 short, but the offline and online skirmish modes provide hours of fun. The sound and graphics are 
 brilliant, although u can experience slowdowns in larger battles.
  
  This is a great game which any RTS fan will enjoy for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlargh
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  I mean Generals sucked, with the retarded campain and all but this is just amazing!!! If you mod 
 it, it gets even better!! Modern warfare was never so much fun , unless you count battlefield 2. 
 The mod i recommend down loading is : well, i wont spoil it, but my point is, if you though generals 
 was fun, Zero hour will blow your brains out your rectal orophus!! The music is great, i find myself 
 humming it a random intervals in the day. Complete with gunz, tanks, explosions, big explosions 
 and nuclear explosions, this game makes Age of Empires 3 look like childs play!! So get off you 
 a** now and buy the gold edition for 30$!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralFighter
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Gameplay is intense with lots of Tanks , Fighter Planes , Soldiers at your Command! You 
 play as a General and as you increase in your Rank , you get backup or special support.
  
  Graphics-They are great. The explosions are big and look realistic! 
  
  Sound- The soundtrack 
 isn't so bad! Some fits the scene but some doesn't but overall it is great!
  
  Value- This game is worth buying because of the addtional stuff that u get of this EXpansion pack! 
 There is also an intense ONLINE play
  
  Overall I think this is the Best RTS game outthere! The gameplay is not soo confusing and its easy 
 to pick up! The system requirements aren't very big and doesn't demand powerful Computers! Hell 
 I can even play with my OLD 500MHZ Pentium 3 , 128MB RAM , and the Geforce FX5600 129MB computer! 
 Don't get me wrong now i hav a powerful computer! The differences aren't soo big! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azlyhasan
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I love this game... it is revolutionary of real time strategy pc games... i play lot of real time 
 strategy games but this game still no.1 in my heart....
  
  Possible because this game is similar to real world... possible to say a future or upcoming war...
 
  
  To me, a balancing of war in this game is a key factor... every general have they own strategy and 
 techniques for their goal... like USA depends on technologies, China for their millions soldier 
 and GLA with their sabotages style....
  
  Seriously, is EA don't make more expansion of this series... i will playing this game until unknown....
 
  
  thanks EA and C&C team... you make a wonderful game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corlorde
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  Playing only First person shooters since the 90s (I know, I know) I picked the generals series 
 up last fall and have been playing ever since. Generals was my very first rts, and what a highly 
 addictive, fun, and worthwhile adventure. Yes, I absolutely love this game! Ive since played other 
 rts games (Act of war comes to mind) but I keep generals and the expansion Zero hour permanently 
 nestled on my hard drive. Its a great game to fall back on and play when you are waiting for the 
 release of other games. You can blow through most first person shooters in a matter of hours with 
 little or know replay value. I guarantee you will not just blow through a good rts game and there 
 lies the main attraction to games like Generals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robinvd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Yes i'm a Pro and when you play vs pro's this will change in to a massive action game.
  The action that happensens sometimes in a 2on2 game is really amazing.
  Soo much things happen 
 @ the same time so you must be really accurate.
  An this makes the game really cool for the true C&C fans
  
  Graphics:
  Really good in C&C 
 Generals i was really stunned how they do it.
  It was Amazing.
  In ZH the Graphics are the same with minor improvements.
  But still really good.
  
  Sound:
 
  Really really good they did a massive job @ this so Congrats!
  
  Gameplay:
  Awesome!!! Read the top ;-)
  
  The Generals:
  ok the generals in the game are really fun 
 but when you play online you must really watch out for the specialtys of the generals cause thats 
 a really strange part
  
  This is it i think.
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanis_gr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Three years after its release, it is just the best real strategy game. Very nice graphics, scenarios, 
 battles, units, and of course gameplay. By far, it is the best game of series. Especially, the 
 challenge-mode is something amazing. I have spent more than 200 hours playing for days and days, 
 using all the armies. Believe me, USA, China or GLA is exactly equal, each army has different but 
 exactly the same advantages, so each one gives a fantastic, different experience. For gameplay 
 I would grade it with 20 out of 10. Im waiting the release of Command & Conquer 3, and I hope 
 that EA Games will put more units 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trooper_pooper
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  this game is good n n n n n nn n n n n n n n n n n n n nn n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n 
 n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n j j j j j j j 
 j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viatcheslav
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Hey, where are the C&C Fans? This is the best RTS of all the times!!!!
  I never saw a game like that, amazing, beautiful, funny, soooo addictive!
  The multiplayer is 
 amazing, in single player is amazing too!!
  There are soooo many units between, infantry, planes, chopters, armoureds and vehicles!
  This 
 is the best RTS game for me but until COMMAND & CONQUER 3: TIBERIUM WARS will come out!!
  I'm waiting every new C&C that the EA Games is creating! C'mon!
  "You thought the war was ended, 
 you were wrong"
  A RTS player can't have played at that game, I have Command & Conquer for Sega Saturn again!!!!
 
  C&C Forevere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Zero Hour is really fun! It adds loads of improvements to the gameplay of C&C Generals. The sound 
 and graphics are still awesome and shows off how great the game really is!
  
  Gameplay: Zero Hour is even more fun than the original C&C General game because of the minor but 
 helpful adjustments to the gameplay. The new challenge mode is really amusing and really is a challenge!
 
  
  Graphics: The game still looks awesome! The visuals are great! I love the destruction on-screen! 
 It looks amazing!
  
  Sound: The sound is great! The battlecries are really realistic and everything just sounds brilliant.
 
  
  Value: You'll never get bored of this game thanks to the new challenge mode! I think it's great! 
 This game is one you'd want to keep for a very long time and you'll still be playing after years! 
 I can guarantee you!
  
  Tilt: I really like this game and it is a personal favourite of mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomi_Nakamoto
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  Choose one of three nations: 1. USA; 2. China; 3. GLA
  then use it to fight other nation!
  
  What make this game is "MORE" than other RTS???
  1. Each of nations have plus n minus factor 
 just like the "REAL" one!
  exp: China; has hacker which can shutdown other nation defences system, also can hack bank account 
 to get more money!
  2. The sound is the best among RTS game
  
  Only one the minus factor of this game, which is:
  DOESN'T HAVE NAVY
  Funny isnt it??? So don't 
 expect to get sea battle in this game!
  
  Well, this game also offer u the felling of War! Yes, just by seeing the opening FMV u just feel 
 in the middle of war field................
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madman_420
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  gotta love C & C... just a classic to blow someone up.... gotta like the big bombs and little tactics.... 
 lets have fun and destroy each other... if only i had a network LAN line in my home... settle wars 
 in an instant and blow your enemy to smitherines... if u have the skill... i love a good war.. who 
 doesnt wanna kill and destroy all in front of you at the touch of a button.."push the button"... 
 well folks overall i love C & C, just cant wait for something new and fresh.. i hope the C & C 
 3 is well worth a 5 year wait.. cause i wanna game it up in a new world of explosions I gotta admit, 
 i have never been one to enjoy a FPS, but if C&C could dive into a sniper mode... i would bust a 
 nut on my keyboard.... (i bet a few people have done that before) .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mongoose689
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 26, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  While this expansion gave C&C: Generals a good boost in the overall gameplay, I have found that 
 the real gem, lies in its online multiplayer games. The online play gives you the next step up 
 with strategy because with the 9 new generals, you have units you didn't even know existed rolling 
 up and wiping you off the map. From the different general's units, play tactics, and even "powers", 
 you will never play a map with the same strategy, over and over, ever again! If you only have Command 
 & Conquer: Generals, you need to add this to your next shopping list because it is a must have 
 for any fan of the C&C franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_sunn
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  This is a must own game for those strategy lovers. It takes war and gives it an edge which will 
 keep you playing for hours, especially online! The ranking system works well and will have you 
 trying to keep a clean streak! Can't wait for the new 1: tiberium wars, it looks absolutly offit! 
 But this game should keep you going until 2007 when tiberium wars comes out! :D
  
  The weapons and vehicles are really good, you can choose from up to about 9 generals all with different 
 tactics and weaponary. My favourite is Dr Thrax because pretty much anything you build sprays anthrax 
 somehow or way.
  
  Dont forget that you do need the original Command And Conquer: Generals to play this expansion.
 
  
  Buy it and you will love it...... honest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polkjhgfdsa
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  i really enjoyed playing this game it was so fun but i think they shouldn't have the loading screen. 
 altough the graphics are good i think they shoudl make the infatnry a little faster. the air force 
 is fun to play in cause he's almost envulnerable against all attacks with his air force strike. 
 the multiplayer is good too. the campaigns are fun but they take a hell of a long time to load 
 that's 1 con and only problem about the game. i think they sould have a ranger antitank grenade 
 upgrade. Ea games if your reading this think about it before you make c and c generals 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincompost
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  For most of the command and conquer expansions, i was disappointed, but the zero hour expansion 
 improved on many aspects of the game that needed tweaking. The graphics on C&C games have always 
 been great, but generals pushed the limit making this game and its predecesor a wonderful game 
 that I sometimes play now. The allowance of new generals is a good idea, but I thought that the 
 addition of a new faction would prefect the game. Also the new units that were added put a new 
 look on the game and its strategy. The USA is still the strongest faction but the GLA and China 
 are strong contenders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperoo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This is a great addition to C&C (Comand and Conquer (sp?) ) Generals and I really wish that they 
 would make more expansions. That seems to be my major complaint with all of these games (RTS) is 
 that they make the game and then one expansion and then thats it untill the next version comes 
 out. Why not be like the sims games and make more expansions? Every game seems to do this, from 
 the original masterpiece of RTS StarCraft (my opion completely and I AM STILL WAITING FOR STARCRAFT 
 2!!!) to Empire Earth and all of the C&C games (I might be wrong and one didn't have an expansion) . 
 Anyway this is a very fun addition that adds a couple more of all of things that every RTS adds 
 to a game i. e. units, missions and a new storyline. The graphics are great (for the time that it 
 was made) and the sound is good and the gameplay is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emmanuel123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Its a nice game with nice beautiful graphics! Its Nuclear Explosion, the charged particle cannon, 
 the aircrafts take off & landing on a run way not seen on other games. Good cut scenes. Great missions 
 too bad its short but properly arranged. The Challenge mode is nice battling all the generals & 
 defeating the boss generals. It takes time to get all the medals! All the generals have their own 
 unique units & abilities that some generals don't have. Some have thier own strenghts & weaknesses. 
 Almost all the units in this game are seen in modern warfare. Just like the Stealth Bombers, Scout 
 Drone, Nuclear Missile, Anthrax Bomb, Aircraft Carrier which is my most favourite thing bad thing 
 is its not a unit & it cannot move! the Battle Ships are amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irishman0
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  This game is such an amazing stratigy game. I have never played such a game! It allows you to command 
 an army full of infantry, armored  and microwave weapons.
  There is three sides eack with there own pro's and con's. The USA and china and the global liberation 
 army (GLA) . Each side uses different equipment and weapons to master the battle field. The sides 
 come eack with a super weapon. The usa prefer orbital attacks with a particle uplink cannon china 
 prefers to combine chemicles and use them in there nuclear misseils and the gla prefer to shower 
 there enemies with scuds. The game is an expansion pack to the original so it has alot of new features 
 such as the generals.
  
  The game is not as powerful as ya think. As long as your computer is even a little bit strong you 
 can play this game as it hiolds an option that lets you change the style of the game so it suites 
 you pc. NOTE: requires original to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardog_daman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  The Command & Conquer series is as big as it gets. We had Red Alert, Tiberium Sun, and many more. 
 There was the one element of Generals unto which made it slightly different. There was the "middle 
 man", meaning you needed some form of construction unit to build stuff.
  
  Generals was losing popularity because of that, and there were a lot of things that could have 
 been implemented to give the game its ultimate respect that it deserved.
  
  But then Zero Hour came along and all that changed. Read on gentle reader!
  
  -Graphics-
 
  With everything on HIGH, it's simply stunning. The beautiful shadows, the pulsating orange of 
 nuclear radiation as it sucks life from the ground, the gorgeous colours of a nuclear explosion, 
 or even that of a SCUD missile crashing down to the ground.
  
  In a nutshell; The graphics are superb. The meshes for tanks (especially the USA side) look brilliant, 
 and really adds that war atmosphere to any game.
  
  -Gameplay-
  Being of a strategy game, it's relatively simple. Build base, build defense, wade off attacks. 
 Build army, kick some butt.
  
  But Zero Hour is something different. With all new special abilities (like calling in a Spectre 
 Gunship, or a nuclear carpet bombing) , there re many more elements and goals within a game. No 
 longer are skirmish missions just for fun.
  
  You can now earn BATTLE HONORS, various medals for various tasks (example: Build 50 tanks in one 
 battle, Defeat maximum hard opponents on every map, etc.) which really does pump a bit of life 
 back into skirmish missions.
  
  -Sounds-
  The brand spanking new soundtrack is a fantastic one, each of the three factions sporting their 
 own collection of songs. I'm particular of the Arabian-style music that backs the GLA faction, 
 but enough opinions.
  
  The sounds, for %90 of the things, are great. The other %10 are laughable. GUNSHOTS from troops 
 are very annoying. The constant brrrrrrrrr from the Comanche Helicopter or  
 from a red guard soldier will, essentially, give you the urge to smite your speakers, or just mute 
 the sound when playing.
  
  Some other noises, such as a nuclear weapon exploding, is fantastic, especially on a 5.1 speaker 
 system.
  
  -Replay-
  After two years, I, and many other people, have still been playing this game a lot. The online 
 mode, which is relatively simple to use, and fun (but a lot harder than standard AI) is what attracts 
 most people to keep playing.
  
  -AI-
  The AI ranges. EASY means pathetic. MEDIUM means "don't worry too much". HARD means "got two hours 
 to waste?"
  
  To nitpick on the HARD mode of the AI, it's very annoying to spend two hours to try and crack defense 
 lines of enemy bases, when the enemy on HARD indeed cheat.
  
  -New-
  New units, new upgrades, new structures, new abilities, new characters to play and an all new GENERAL'S 
 CHALLENGE mode, which is fairly fun. All in all, the new goodies should keep you happy for months, 
 if not years, to come.
  
  -FINAL-
  Look, Generals lacked a lot, and Zero Hour filled in those gaps. It's relatively cheap now, and 
 it's damn well worth every dollar. So go for it, try it, you'll love it as much as I do. Good-day. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedron33
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  C&C: Generals Zero Hour is an excellent sequel to C&C: Generals. EA Games has introduced a lot 
 more features into the game. For example, one new feature I like is the new Challenge mode. There 
 are a total of nine generals, three for the USA, three for the GLA, and three for CHINA. Each one 
 has their very own strategy to win, and prerfer some things more then others. For instance, Dr. 
 Thrax who is with the GLA favors toxins, which is deadly against infantry. Each general you face 
 also has their very own special maps, Dr. Thrax's map has toxin buildings near every corner releasing 
 toxins everywhere so its very difficult to get your troops to his base before they die. These new 
 challenges offer a huge variety to the game.
  
  The expansion also offers more vechicles, and some new infantry. One new vechicle I like is the 
 GLA motorcycle. They are very fast, and are either fitted with machine guns or a rocket launcher. 
 But, they get destroyed very easily. The expansion pack offers more multiplayer maps, and keeps 
 the map editor. It is also enhanced from the first game.
  
  The graphics in the game are about the same, if not a little better then before. The sound, is 
 better then before! The voice acting has gotten a big boost and the sound effects also have been 
 inproved. The gameplay of course, is way better then before. Zero Hour offers a lot more variety 
 into the game with more vechicles, infantry, and new modes/multiplayer maps. The value of the game 
 is also good, with the addition of the skirmish and multiplayer mode.
  
  Zero Hour is a awesome expansion pack/sequel to Command and Conquer Generals, if you own C&C: Generals 
 then you need to get Zero Hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  i dont know what hydro shok is smoking, but it is definitely something detrimental to his brain. 
 this game rocks, it is the best strategy game ever. every fan of srategy should own this game and 
 if they dont than they suck. the first one was good, and this expansion is really really really 
 really great. the units are better, and the gameplay is better and anything else you can think 
 of is better. i really like the idea of the generals with the different armies and stuff. the people 
 who made this game rock. buy it now or else something will come and hurt you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game adds more goodies to an already excellent RTS game. Not only do you get to play with 
 the same 3 races, now you get 9 generals each with their own different abilites to boot. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, the balance is nicely done so that one general overall does not become 
 the best choice. Everything is nicely balanced out and where you might be strong in one area like 
 infantry, you'll be weak in air or tanks. The addition of new units is very cool such as the GLA 
 motorbikes and the upgraded China troops. 
  
  The graphics and sound are about the same as Generals and the gameplay is just as addicting. It 
 really does breathe a lot more life back into the game for those that might be getting bored with 
 it. 
  
  If you own Generals, I recommend this expansion with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HydroShok
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I would rather play Red Alert 1 than this game. Its just too hard. Too many units, never enough 
 money. Its hard as hell to win, and too easy to lose.
  
  Once you get online you will be either owned by some uber elite guy that wants to beat you with 
 2 tanks in 5 minutes, or people disconnect all the time. Build one wrong thing and you have lost.
 
  
  All the things they've added over the years is just annoying. 
  
  Stealth Units- Now why would I want to play against units I can't even see. They sneak right in 
 to your base start destroying/capturing buildings and you can't find this one little "Tanya" type 
 unit. Nowadays they are invisible. Dumb idea if you ask me.
  
  Air Units- Its gotten to the point where they are invincible if micro'ed correctly. Major balance 
 issue.
  
  Low money=a game of like 5 units vs. 5 units.
  
  too many types of units=getting beat by one unit or something. Its annoying.
  
  every room 
 you can join online basically is like No Rush, No Air units, No superweapon, No US air force, No 
 this, No that. Its because this game has gone totally overboard. 
  
  Theres alot of hacking because the idiot programmers left the game wide open for trainer cheats, 
 basically 1980's crap that very few games are vulnerable to nowadays. Its so easy to defeat those 
 cheats by simply storing variables in a different memory address, but yet, some wannabe anticheat 
 group actually make anticheat........ for trainers rolfzlol.
  
  USA air needs major toning down, its so overpowered its almost impossible to beat. But as one could 
 imagine, EA doesn't care.
  
  Zero Hour is not really a Head to Head type of game, its more or a subtle game, real sneaky and 
 cheeseball. Hard to get a good game thats fun, its usually like WTF! this isn't even fun.
  
  If want to be in that 1% uber elite club go ahead and get this game. If you want to just kick 
 it and have some fun forget about it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad_kickass
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a game with very good gameplay. There's practically no LAG and there's many fun modes, 
 such as Campaign, Skirmish, Online, and the Help Section. With all the modes, you should be playing 
 this for a while. 
  
  These are very fine details. Not only are they fine, but they're great! They're in 3-D, which makes 
 them awesome. You're able to turn around in different directions, and every side you look from 
 has the same amount of detail in it. 
  
  Well, you do basically everything with the mouse, so why shouldn't this be a 10? There's no out-of-the-world 
 controls like combos you need to learn. All you do is drag, move, click and you've done what you 
 needed to. 
  
  This is the classic storyline, the enemy invades. It's up to you, the general, to stop them. I'd 
 give this a higher rating if there were more twists to it, but sadly, there aren't. 
  
  This game is FUN! You get to launch SCUDs at Command Centers, send Bunker Busters into Troop Crawlers, 
 fry a Ranger with a Laser Defense Turret, snipe out Workers with Jarmen Kell, and Nuke the GLA 
 to hell. You can play against a computer in Skirmish mode, which is basically training if you want 
 to play online. Campaign isn't that much fun, I didn't find it fun at least. Online is for those 
 who like to hone their skills against other great players. Did I mention you can save replays? 
 If you have an awesome replay you'd like to share with your friends, but they're not there, you 
 can save it and watch it later! 
  
  You can have a fair amount of replay ability with this game. I've used the replay ability to find 
 better tactics. Others beat the campaign multiple times. Some others just face the computer or 
 other humans over the internet. But after a while, you will stop playing this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalicArachnid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game pwns.. it pwns royally. This is a great RTS. If you're LTB a game and want to have the 
 pleasure of pwning n00bz and making them cry buy this game. To save some money buy the first decade 
 cause it pwns liek that. I mean it gives you the original games and Generals. The online play is 
 pretty good. A cool feature is that you can play a general that specs in something. for example 
 the USA have Air force, Laser, and Super weapons generals. China has Infantry, nuke, and tank generals. 
 The GLA (Global liberation army) have toxins, stealth, and demolitions generals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldier1013
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  tank and airplanes and when you compete against other general also you can play online and use 
 the maps from the other generals game what I did not like whas that it takes a lot of time to enter 
 to a game on internet
  new features
  
  Unleash the next generation of 30 new units and 20 new upgrades including China's ECM Tank, the 
 GLA's BattleBus, and the USA's Spectre Gunship.
  
  # Take on 15 new missions and make tomorrow's headlines. Root out a splinter cell in Cairo, steal 
 deadly toxins from a U. S. lab, and more.
  
  # Match strategies and arsenals against 9 enemy commanders with unpredictable personalities and 
 tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2o35
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Like previous Command & Conquer games, Zero hour is a thrilling experience full of unique features. 
 First of which, there is a large variety of different teams you can choose from (technically 12) 
 all with unique features of their own. 
  From these different teams, if you are a large fanatic of this game you will spend loads of time 
 figuring out new strategies with each team. 
  
  A thing that I like about all C&C games that is included here as well is the control and freedom. 
 Essentially, you can build as much as you like if you have the time and opportunity in the level, 
 as there is no limit to your population like in some games such as all of Blizzard's RTS'. Also, 
 it's very easy to organize and control all of your troops fast and effectively, which helps out 
 alot if you are a proficient gamer.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't perfect, but they are great. With enough detail to enjoy on an 
 overall scale, you will find everything looks fairly good, especially when you are in raging combat 
 and there are explosions everywhere. When zoomed in on a very detailed level however, graphical 
 flaws are easily visible, but not horrendous.
  The sound of this game is also well done, with many voice responses from each unit as well as great 
 music while you play that reflects the mood of your current status (e. g. When you are in your early 
 stages of play, not at war the background music will be peaceful but when you are at war the music 
 becomes more action based)
  
  Probably the only thing that I feel this game lacks is quantitative information; that is, each 
 unit has a bar of health but without a number that defines exactly how much they do have, or how 
 much damage they do. If this game had that feature then it would be much better: to use units strengths 
 as reference and to learn exactly what unit has what potential.
  
  In all though, once you grasp the concepts of the game you will become lost in the explosive, exciting, 
 action-packed battles and infiltrations. Definitely recommended for anybody who likes any RTS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socky7779
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Generals and Zero Hour is the best PC game and expansion pack yet. Every battle 
 is completely different no matter how you decide to control your army. Zero Hour makes the original 
 game perfect. If you own Generals, you need Zero Hour. There is so much to do: Skirmish, Campaign, 
 General Challenge, Online Mode. The generals that specify in different divisions are so cool, the 
 Air Force general rocks as he can make King Raptors instead of normal raptors. This is a must buy 
 for all war and strategy fans. It can be played forever. The bombing, shooting and burning make 
 you laugh in the face of your enemy. It gets really good when your losing because you completely 
 change your tactics and then start fighting back better. The knew Mother Of All Bombs upgrade is 
 the best thing in the game; select the optional after becoming a 5 Star General then buy the $4000 
 upgrade in the US strategy centre. The MOAB just destroys anything it hits with the instant exploding 
 missile and it has the same blast radius as the Chines Nuke! Happy Bombing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandy4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  I bought the deluxe edition in which u get bother cnc original n zero hour. I played the original 
 before i installed the expansion to see wat the over all game play and graphics were like and i 
 must say i was impressed. I installed zero hour to find tht alot had changed. Individual generals 
 were added making gameplay alot better as each general had a unique ability or strategy. This made 
 the gameplay evn better i wud recommend this game to everyone.
  
  The other facti like about it is the free build element which means yoiur base can be as large/small 
 as you like. Teh general abilties you also earn fomr killing units is a real bonus as they can 
 turn the tide of a battle in the matter of seconds.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GroundBomber
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  Everyone that played CNC games must have been known that CNC Generals+Zero Hour dosen't really 
 connected with cnc games however it's can't be ignored just like that.
  It is the best strategy game that i have seen and i have seen many games, this really makes a good 
 challenge starting from the challenge mode, New missions, New units, New Generals power and the 
 best NEW GENERALS!!!.
  Now you can choose the general that you associated with, for exmaple if you want to have a lots 
 of particle cannons with the strongest unit in the game (Firepower) and have a very good defense 
 on your base you will go for USA SUPERWEAPON GENERAL which is my must favorite generals or if you 
 want to make a lot of Nukes, Nuke Bombing run, or nuclear cannon with nuclear migs you will go 
 for CHINA NUKE GENRALS.
  The gameplay is very very good as well as graphic even today that game's graphics is really good, 
 the balance is almost perfect, the weapons are insane and you will have a good variety of them, 
 the multiplayer designed very well.
  To Sum it up if you looking for good startegy game, with excellent gameplay, lot of challenge and 
 good graphic you will go for CNC GENERALS ZERO HOUR, CAUSE THE HOUR IS NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgestar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  IN THE NEAR FUTURE A TERRORIST GROUP NAMELY G. L. A. STRIKES THE BORDER OF CHINA AND SPREADS TERROR 
 IN KAZAKSTHAN THERE HOMELAND WERE US ARE STATIONED. THIS GAME PICKS UP WHERE IT LEFT COMMAND AND 
 CONQUER GENERALS. IN THE END THE GLA HAD SUCCESFULLY TAKEN CONTROL OF ROCKET COSMODROME AND USED 
 A BIO CHEMICAL ROCKET TO BLOW A CHINESE CITY IN KAZAKSTHAN. NOW THE GAME CONTINUES AND WITH 15 NEW 
 MISSIONS EACH SIDE HAVING 5. LESS THAN MISSIONS IN C AND C BUT EXPLOSIVE PACKED AND NOT FORGETING 
 SKRIMISH AND THE GENERALS CHALLENGE WHERE ALL GENERALS 3 OF EACH SIDE GET TO FIGHT EACH OTHER. EACH 
 GETS HIS OWN SPECIAL ABAILTY TO WHIPE OUT THE OTHER GENERAL. THE GRAPHICS EFFECT ARE SAME AS IN 
 GENERALS. I NEVER EXPECTED SUCH EXCITEMENT AND COOL MUSICS WHICH COME IN GAME. USA'S MUSIC IS PRETTY 
 COOL. COMPLETELY NEW UNITS COME IN GAME LIKE MICROVAVE TANK, CARRIER USS REAGAN, BATTLESHIP. NOT IN 
 ALL MISSIONS. BUT WITH A PATCH I MADE MY GAME COMPLETELY DIFFERENT. THIS PATCH IS DESIGNED BY A GUY 
 NAMED CHRIS AND IT ALLOWS US TO BUILD SHIPS NEW BUILDINGS LIKE COMMAND AND CONTROL CENTRE OF CHINA 
 WHICH CALLS A STRIKE OF 5 ELITE MINIGUNNERS HAVING MINIMI GUNS AND EMP AND FIRE BOMBS. USA GETS 
 TO BUILD LASER RAPTORS B2 BOMBERS AND GLA GETS TOP OF FIVE UPGRADES. THE BEST IS OF CHINAS NEUCLEAR 
 TRUCK WHICH HAS A NUKE BOMMB PACKED IN IT .IT REQUIRES NEUCLEAR BUILDING AND I TAKEOUT MY ENEMIES 
 EASILY WITH THEM FOR A JOURNEY TO HELL. THEY CREATE BIGGER EXPLOSION THAN NORMAL NUKE. AND MUCH MORE 
 TILL YOU SEE. FOR THEN BYE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  It seems like only yesterday that Generals was released. With a little more than seven months gone 
 the boys at EA managed to crank out the first expansion pack, Zero Hour. With thirty new units, 
 a mini-campaign, and a new gameplay mode, Zero Hour makes up in gameplay for what it lacks in depth.
 
  
  The story of Zero Hour picks up shortly after the events of Generals unfold. The GLA is fractured 
 and the US is trying to mop up whats left of the terrorist ranks. What loose storyline there is 
 was obviously inspired by current events and while the Generals line lacks the immersive stories 
 of the previous C&C franchises, the storyline is enough to satisfy most players. The campaign itself 
 includes fifteen missions, five for each side, primarily based in Europe.
  
  The storyline is driven along by reporters representing each side. These news briefs play as each 
 mission is loading and help to give the game a more international feeling. While the news briefs 
 are meant to be serious in nature, one cant help but consider them a throwback to the campy style 
 Westwood FMV sequences from past C&C titles. As was true in Generals, Zero Hour features a Hollywood-like 
 action sequence at the beginning of each mission. They are pulled off just as well, if not better 
 than the ones in Generals featuring excellent camera action. While it is enjoyable to see them 
 the first few times, players will get tired of being forced to watch them every time they start 
 a mission; an option to skip these once you play the level once would work wonders.
  
  In addition to the missions, Zero Hour adds a lot to the already splendid gameplay of Generals. 
 Each side has been given a new compliment of units, buildings, and generals powers to wreak even 
 more havoc on the battlefield. Many of the new features play off of the already known strengths 
 of each side and help patch up the weaknesses that were evident in Generals.
  
  The US side now has access to several more upgrades for its air power such as bunker buster bombs 
 and countermeasure flares that make its Raptors and Auroras even more dangerous. The American Avengers 
 will swat enemy aircraft out of the sky with their powerful lasers. The Chinese get a two-birds 
 with one stone upgrade that resolves both the vulnerability of its secondary resource collectors 
 and its previous recon liabilities with the new Internet Center. As always, the GLA remain the 
 sneaky side with several additions such as the saboteur, which can disable buildings, and GPS scramble, 
 which cloaks units. These new features for the GLA make them even more of an unknown threat, especially 
 in multiplayer matches. These are of course a small number of the overall changes but the EA team 
 really seems to have hit the mark on improving each side and keeping them distinctly different.
 
  
  The C&C staple of tech buildings has also seen several additions as well. Repair facilities, like 
 those featured in Red Alert 2, can be captured and slowly repair all your mechanical vehicles. 
 The reinforcement pad will drop off a single unit approximately every two minutes. While not enough 
 to turn the tide of battle all at once, over time it can muster a force to be reckoned with; its 
 a great building to forget about and be surprised by later. The new artillery cannon acts as a 
 land based static defense. All of these structures help in the long run and can make great spots 
 to establish a new frontal assault base.
  
  The real meat of the game however is included in the brand new game mode, the Generals Challenge. 
 Here you can pick one of 9 specialized generals and face off against them in a series of battle 
 royals. Each side, the US, China, and the GLA, have three Generals that are offshoots of the original 
 sides that conform to some common playing styles. Chances are there are a few of the Generals out 
 of the bunch that you will feel comfortable using. Some, for balance reasons, are missing units 
 but these Generals play off each sides strengths and have specific unit enhancements and generals 
 powers.
  
  Playing the Generals Challenge mode adds a lot of replay to the game. The matches are introduced 
 to you with a large vs. screen and a taunt, the first of many, from the opposing general. The 
 missions themselves can range from incredibly easy to mind-numbingly hard, depending on which General 
 you are and what the difficulty is set at. One match saw me as the US Super Weapon general against 
 the US Air Force general. . It wasnt enough that his planes could decimate my base because my 
 defenses were useless, it was the fact that he could taunt me that got under my skin. The taunts 
 are a good addition to the game mode and seldom get repetitive. After the ninth try of that I switched 
 to the Chinese infantry general and mopped the floor with his aircraft; I sure taught him.
  
  The AI in Zero Hour has seen some significant improvements over that of Generals. Computer 
 opponents will now expand their bases to additional resource piles and will capture tech buildings. 
 I was initially caught off guard while playing the medium AI as I watched its planes fly around 
 my anti-air defenses and rain down destruction upon my base. The AI also shows improvement in its 
 land attack strategies as well, attacking from multiple sides instead of sending an army to one 
 spot time and time again. The hard AI is a serious opponent this time around and even I, a hardened 
 veteran of the C&C series, had a tough time in my first few bouts against it.
  
  There are a few noticeable faults in the AI however; most importantly the pathfinding which still 
 has not been corrected. In most cases it occurred with small groups of infantry. The lead infantryman 
 would just stop and the previous ones would run into it, forcing all of them to simply run in place. 
 The same issue could be seen when groups of rangers went to capture the same building; one ranger 
 would perform the flag animation while the others would run in place next to the structure. Tanks 
 were not free of the pathfinding problem either; in the first US mission I saw one of my tanks 
 get hopelessly stuck next to a train car, refusing to budge from its spot. Commanding large groups 
 of tanks is often frustrating as the tanks sometimes stop and do a 360 when receiving new orders; 
 a problem similar to that of the Kirov airships in the original Red Alert 2. Come on EA, youve 
 had three years to learn from your mistakes.
  
  The graphics, as expected, do not disappoint in Zero Hour. The great visuals of the tanks and structures 
 still look outstanding as they did in Generals. A few of the infantry were given new skins but 
 for the most part they are all still less detailed than the rest of the game. The Chinese nuke 
 still brings a tear to my eye whenever it goes off and the EMP bomb was given a flashy new explosion 
 on detonation. The cou-de-gras of the graphics can be seen with the new American microwave tank 
 which lets off a rather cool looking heat effect. There were no noticeable flaws in any of the 
 graphics in my playing of the game however it should be mentioned that users with Radeon cards 
 have been reporting graphical mishaps, chiefly with the microwave tank effect.
  
  Bill Brown delivers once again in Zero Hour; the tracks provide a unique sound for each side and 
 get the adrenaline pumping in the heat of battle. The unit responses are there as always and all 
 new 30 units, including the hybrids like the King Raptor have been given a few new sounds as well. 
 The quality is ace and EA reminds us in the sounds themselves not to take the game too seriously; 
 Thank you for the new shoes.
  
  The skirmish mode, as always, is available in Zero Hour. Players can choose from a myriad of official 
 maps and can download them from the thousands available on the various fansites. Options to limit 
 super weapons and also determine the amount of starting cash have been thrown into the interface 
 as well; another compromise with the fans. Players can select opponents from the three levels of 
 AI: easy, normal, and hard. The number of opponents is really only limited by the maps themselves. 
 With the upgrade in AI the skirmish mode can be used to some success to challenge players and help 
 them become quick and deadly against multiple opponents.
  
  Generals Online is back again for Zero Hour and many of the options for skirmish are the same for 
 the multiplayer component as well. The names of the lobbies give players a notice of what type 
 of matches are being offered such as 1 v 1, 3 v 3, and No Super Weapons for example. Being 
 powered by Gamespy, Generals Online still features the same login and buddy system as Gamespy Arcade. 
 You can track where your online buddies are and send them private messages as well. Nothing really 
 has changed much from Generals in terms of the multiplayer interface.
  
  In both skirmish and multiplayer, players have the option of choosing from the basic three armies 
 or selecting one of the nine offshoot Generals from the challenge mode. So depending on how you 
 want to play and how the map is, you can be Dr. Thrax, the GLA toxin general; Tsing Shi Tao, the 
 Chinese nuke general; or even the plain old US army. This gives Zero Hour an incredible amount 
 of replay by the sheer number of combinations possible in these multiplayer shootouts.
  
  All in all, Zero Hour is a welcome addition to Generals. It adds enough to vastly improve each 
 side and yet keeps them each unique. If you loved Generals then there should be no question about 
 purchasing Zero Hour. Even if you held off on Generals, this expansion pack more than improves 
 it enough to warrant the purchase of both.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  At first i was Very unsure if this game was as Great as the First (Tiberian Dawn) or Red Alert 
 and well it is and is isn't By What i mean its got all the cool looking Tanks and Style of C&c 
 gameplay yet lacking things like the installation movies and stuff. But at the same time Zero hour 
 Adds much more to Generals. Particals are slightly improved yet it still uses the same graphics 
 engine. witch no doubt is still good. Zero hour pretty much adds new tanks for all three of the 
 Fractions USA China and Gla while adding all new generals for skirmish and on online play. these 
 generals 3 for side do add different gameplay but play pretty much the same. Just with more open 
 strengh and weakness type thing. Like the Gla Toxic general will have a easy going aginst China's 
 Infantry general while the Toxic general will be pretty much weaker aginst The Tank general. This 
 does add more stratagy to the game. 
  
  in term of graphics theres really no thing New like i said before the Particals have been improved 
 giving better detail when things go boom on the screen. yet at the same time the game does feel 
 polished up. Things in general do look better But pretty much lok like the same from generals.
 
  
  The sound in the game is as Great as the first. Music for all three of the fractions sounds great. 
 and the units also too sound great on that part. 
  it would of been better too see some of that Classic C&c Techno Style Music but that might not 
 really go with the theme of this game.
  
  In terms of gameplay it has been improved the story missions are more intresting and fun to play. 
 and skirmish battle's do seem mor fun with the new units and the 9 new generals to play around 
 with. New skirmish maps great and still have the generals feel to them. But some minor stuff like 
 the game Lacking installation Movies and that from the Classic C&c games are no more. insted you 
 just get a Windows installer. and still the game doesn't have Breifing movies insted in rather 
 takes you to the action by ingame movies. although saying that Ea has done something very Close 
 to what i was just saying. on the Story just before you go in the game on the loading screen depend 
 who you are (Gla China or Usa) who get this new reporter telling what the Mission ojectives are. 
 and it beats just looking at a loading screen. Its Hard to Say really about the New Reporter Thing.
 
  
  Online is Great as ever and the Mods that are out for the game are Great. theres always plenety 
 of games going around. And theres allways new freinds to be made. all in round online is still 
 fun. 
  
  ok Now its your part to Think about getting the game or stay away from it.. i hope that review 
 Helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralGeorge
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  I never was a big fan of the C&C franchise, I never was a big fan of EA games in general until 
 two things happened. The Battle for middle earth, and Command and Conquer: Generals Zero Hour.
 
  
  EA games just got the simple things of a strategy games, the good things, and kind of left out 
 the overly-complicated crap that other strategy games have. Like Empire Earth 2 that you have (correct 
 me if i'm wrong) over half a dozen resources. Compare it too C&C: GZH, in which you have ONLY ONE. 
 Sure, 1 resource might make it too simple, I don't mind having to worry about one or two more. 
 But c'mon. I'd rather play with 1 resource than 6 or 7. It's just absurd.
  
  Another feature is the graphics. Which, I wouldn't need to worry about since the video game world 
 is a vicious market of continous self improvement. Gamers just have to sit back and relax, as graphics 
 get better and better.
  Now, the graphics in Generals Zero Hour are good. They are very, very good. Which comes to me as 
 a surprise, since it's made by EA games.
  The graphics have features which might seem insignificant, but if you think about it they're good. 
 Like the way you see units come out of the building.
  Zero Hour Also provides features like neutral buildings you can capture and use.
  
  Now, I 
 have only played it online, not single player. But about the 3 sides you can choose from. They 
 are variated, but not dramatically.
  It combines the similarities between cultures in Age of Empires, and the variation between species 
 of StarCraft for example.
  It allows you, as the player, to have a certain capability with each side, yet still be able to 
 excel at one.
  
  And on a final note, super weapons are awesome, but not that awesome in Zero Hour. A little bit 
 more damage would be ok. But it's good how they make you rely on your troops as well.
  
  EA games made a good game... wow. I'm surprised, aren't you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz_Homies
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Zero Hour not only improves the original C&C generals it also makes it a helluva lot more fun! 
 Every time I launch ZH I end up wasting hours upon hours of my life. The specific general classes 
 and abilities add a lot more to the tactical factor and increase the game's overall playability. 
 And it helps way more if your into the particular areas of each country. For example if you only 
 like using infantry units your best suited to the China infantry general or if you love seeing 
 **** blow up with weapons of mass destruction... your gonna love the Super weapon general for the 
 U. S. There's even a stealth general which is for the GLA and specializes in a different array of 
 tactics than your normally used to in a typical rts. The graphics and sound are still amazing to 
 this day and the only thing i can find to pick on is the soldier models, but othewise everything 
 else is great. In the end, if you love modern combat, rts or just seeing **** blow up..... C&C generals 
 zero hour is the rite game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitzza_1301
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This game develops and expands the cnc: generals expirience with more units and a better campaign 
 which greatly enhances the way the game is played and feels great.
  
  The game features several upgrades from the original, including more general powers including the 
 moab aka air fuel bomb times 3 and the emp bomb . It also extends on the general's features with 
 new additions like emporer overlords and king raptors. 
  
  The units have upgrades toxin tractors achieving the painful anthrax gamma and the necluer upgrades 
 for tanks. 
  
  The generals challenge really is chalanging on hard so u cant really complain its worth the money 
 to grab it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ-Sephiroth
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fun PC game. it is addictive and fun. it is an RTS. the game is a good militray 
 game. This is C and C gen zero hour. This game is yur basic amry RTS with good graphics and good 
 gameplay with good sound FXs. The game has good online play and great multiplayer. The game is 
 a fresh expirence and rarly gets old. This game is awsome and must be played by gamers and RTS 
 fans. once you try it you'll love it. this is easly one of the best PC games ever, this game is 
 right behind Unreal Tournament 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Zero Hour does what any good real-time strategy expansion pack should do: it adds appreciable amounts 
 of content and depth to the original product. It introduces various new units, technologies, and 
 "generals powers" to each of the three factions from Generals -- the high-tech USA military, the 
 powerful forces of China, and the terrorist conglomerate called the GLA. It also introduces a completely 
 new single-player mode: the generals challenge. Zero Hour also features follow-up campaigns for 
 each of the factions, consisting of five good-sized missions apiece. The core game, too, has undergone 
 a number of little tweaks and enhancements that make it play a bit better overall. These tweaks 
 and enhancements address issues that players may have encountered in the original, either through 
 its interface or its multiplayer. However, perhaps the most interesting addition to Zero Hour is 
 the inclusion of nine new subfactions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Zero Hour is the sequel to Generals and it does expand the game a lot more 
 by adding in whole new missions to the entire game and also allows for many more different elaborate 
 battle plans to be set out. Zero Hour brings in the original Generals concept that Command and 
 Conquer Generals failed to bring in by actually having specialized generals in each of the armies 
 within the sides. For example, in Zero Hour the United States has an airforce General. If a player 
 chooses to play as the airforce general his/her aerial units are much cheaper to produce and are 
 also much stronger. However this is a double edge sword because while the airforce is considerably 
 stronger, the usual land vehicles are considerably weaker and they also cost much more. This great 
 balance allows players to think up of even more strategies within how they are going to execute 
 their game plan now that all battles aren't so linear where different strategies have to be develope 
 depending on who the opposing commander is. Not to mention this game is extremely cheap, currently 
 at less than $10. I would definately recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batboy1
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  I'm shcoked after playing this that threwout creating a militry this is an aweful game! It's very 
 hard to determine what to do and your enemys do what they want at will. I dont recommend this game 
 for those who want a challenge. If you love creating soldiers and just sending them out to fight 
 and die. Then send even more out. Then get this game otherwise this was a letdown from the beginning. 
 Just maps where you must go out and find stuff to build. Or take your troops out to get destroyed. 
 Not realistic at all besides the names of the arsenal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holyred
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game as it came out was overfilled, meaning that people played it all over 
 the world, and at whatever time you got online, one could have on any map up to 16 players online. 
 If you go online now and search for maps with players on it, you will not find that many anymore. 
 The question that I asked myself was: HOW COME? 
  Answer I guess would be because of other amazing games that players play online, such as battlefield 
 2 and most wanted single player. In my opinion, this is not right. People dont really get online 
 and get to play one game, because after a view weeks of playing, however, a new game comes out, 
 leaving us no time to really play the game and get into it. At least that is how I feel, because 
 I want to play a game for a long time until I get bored of it, however my friends dont leave me 
 time... lol 
  But I believe that this game will always stay on the top rank, because so many people know it, 
 and it has so many old and new versions always beating the one before... this game rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zurielovsko
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  You may think this is another boring expansion pack... Well, you are all wrong!!!
  This is one of the best expansion packs I've ever seen for a game.
  
  New units, improved AI, 
 maps, what else do you want?
  
  The recommendation for me is that you have to run to the store and buy it!!!
  
  This are my 
 reasons for saying this:
  
  1.- It improves the Generals game by much
  2.-If you already passed the whole Generals game, you will like the new missions.
  3.- If you 
 are a Generals fan like me or if you like strategy games, you will like this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boolow407
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Point blank, this is my favorite all time PC game. This is my opinion of course, but if you are 
 a fan of any of the other classic "Command and Conquer"releases, this game wont let you down. This 
 game was released in 2003 and I STILL play it almost daily. I found the flaw in "Tiberian sun" 
 was that you had alot of options of building things. Normally this is a plus, but I found it quite 
 annoying when the enemy blows up one of your buildings and you have to figure out what they blew 
 up so you can rebuild. This game has outstanding graphics and effects. The gameplay is way better 
 than "Tiberian sun" and the expansion pack "Zero Hour" gives even more options of units and maps 
 to wreak havoc on. I hope this is not the last we will see of the "C&C" games, but in the meantime, I 
 will still enjoy this classic and recommend it to anyone that is interested in Strategy type games. This 
 game plays similar to Age of Empires, but with a modern day military feel to it. The only "harvesting"involves 
 a supply truck or helo collecting supplies that turn into cash to buy more military goods. You 
 can also have your soldiers upgraded to take enemy structures or oil derrecks to collect cash. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShootersRule
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  The original version was great, but there were only three teams available! Now there are 3 generals 
 including the original teams available. Ever since the original, things have been improved for 
 the better, like being able to build more than one building/units at a time (makes the game more 
 intense) . The campaign is ok, nothing WOW. Online gaming is ok, with a level and a special medal. 
 Some new generals are unrealistic, some are very powerful and cool, some can be offensive (but 
 cool) like the Toxin general of the GLA (Taliban, Al Quida) . There isn't much change except the 
 campaign, units, buildings, and powerups. This game is very fun, especially when you play with 
 people who know what they're doing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  this game was intentionally bought cos my bro bought it and said it was good my cousin and my bro 
 started playin this on the internet so i decided to buy it. installation took forever despite the 
 quality of my laptop and the four disk set was an annoyance havin to swap disks and enter codes 
 every 5 mins. gmaeplay was good and campaigns were fun, although the hard difficulty was eventually 
 too easy and online play was pursued. this was complete plop with the same errors as lord of the 
 rings battle for middle earth appearing eg nat, debug etc. got the rise to power mod to make it 
 more interesting and played this for a while was good but didnt feel genuine. suprised by initial 
 play and eventually got bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the expansion to the all time famous RTS game Command and Conquer Generals. There is many 
 new things, but the story line is basically the same...... One of the new cool things is to have 
 the ability to play as generals, there is 3 of each side. Each general has his/her special vehicles 
 like Gen. Townes and his lazer tanks. Each general has his/her own specialty such as lasers (Gen. 
 Townes) , toxins (Dr. Thrax) , and Nukes (uhh wats his name?) , and many more.. There is Generals 
 mode, which you play as the general you chose and play some others (they are chosen by wat general 
 you use) . You are at a disadvantage because their bases are already set up, dont worry, they dont 
 rush (except on medium and hard modes) plus some get quite annoying like Dr. Thrax, he has the 
 stupidest taunts of all generals!!! 
  
  + New vehicles and units
  + The ability to play as a general u choose
  + Generals mode, actually more enertaining than 
 story mode
  + Great graphics and sound
  
  - Some glitches remain (but not as many)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda_king23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Awesome new features, slick looking new maps, great new missions. Generals was a suprise to all 
 veteran C&C players, they have taken what we loved, and gave it a whole new look and feel, and 
 gameplay features. I was expecting the same old style and feel, with the same old teams. Once again, 
 EA has astonished us all. Leave it to EA to take one of the most popular RTS series out there, 
 and give it an overhaul, and make everyone fall in love! Simply Amazing. It reminds me of the good 
 old Starcraft days. And for ten bucks?!?! Why not pick up Command and Conquer: Zero Hour! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ownald
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  Is this game out of time? I'll give you the answer!
  
  There aren't a lot units, there aren't a lot countries to play with, but it keeps the die hard 
 strategy gamer playing! The other gamers give it up after 80 hours playing, or sometimes after 
 30 hours! The graphics of the game are good so that isn't the reason. But the gameplay... They 
 AI isn't very smart created, but the is a multiplayer option. I think that the amount of units 
 and countries make the game boring after a while. 
  
  The next C&C game will be Red Alert 3, and I hope that that game will have more units and countries. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolve3308
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  if you love command and conquer then there is no reason not to get this. it has alot of extra content 
 to it including new infantry, structures, maps, missions, and general powers. plus there are all 
 new special general armys, each with there special advantages and disadvantages. for example if 
 you are playing against the infantry general, you might wanna use the toxin general to make it 
 easier to fend off the hords of infantry. each army gets three new generals plus the original army. hours 
 and hours of extra fun for a very good price i would definately recommend it to anyone who owns 
 generals 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmaster300
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is almast perfect. but it could be a little better, but to me it is not so much about 
 the graphics but of how is the game play
  I have relly seen some 10% graphic games. But they have a lausy game play.
  Also I seen some 
 9.8% graphic game with a great story mode but some may be a little short.
  also some mission can be hard even for normal or easy mode.
  and a other thing I love about this 
 game is that it has online game play.
  but on some computers this game may be a little slow that on other. so make shore that your computer 
 is in tik top position
  minig good speed
  and in case you have some problem starting the game then you should put in the disk 1 and left 
 click and press open then opoen a folder that saids cracks in there there should be a blue icon 
 left click copy then close that open my computer and go to (C:) there look for a folder name progam 
 files
  in there you should look for a folder name EA GAMES and if it appears open it there you should 
 have the command and counquer zero hour folder also the command and connquer 1 folder the same 
 proses is done for both but the firts game has three things to copy, any ways go to CAC zero hour 
 folder and open it and left click on a free space and select pase and click on yes to all if it 
 ask.
  
  But I give this game a 10.0%
  
  it is a perfect war game for me and my friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emuleman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan on the real time strategy games, including the past titles, Red Alert, 
 Red Alert 2, and Yuris Revenge. While this game is very similar it takes it to a new level of realism. 
 You play real armies that exsist today, using modern weapons. It makes the game feel like an actual 
 real life situation.
  
  After playing several hours on-line, you still find yourself getting beaten by different players 
 with different stratgies. They are endless possibilities, either go for the fast attack, or be 
 more conservative and work on your defenses before staging an attack. It is not uncommon to spend 
 an hour or more playing a player on a big map. It is a very addicting game to play. I would highly 
 recommend this game if you like strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chihuahua1990
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  i find command and conquer generals zero hour a great game, i found generals a great game but this 
 really was a great expansion.
  i really like the generals you can pick but i do find them too nspecialized, so i dowloaded new 
 mods, and voila i had a new set of generals i was so happy that i played for hours so i recommend 
 that you dowload mods if you think you are getting bored.
  and i certainly hope that ea games will create an other great game like this, and i will certainly 
 have lots of fun with that game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kudos2000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  This is the icing on the cake whn it comes to C&C. First i though RA2 could not be beatten and 
 it was by Generals, and then they bring out a great add on for it. Unlike Yuri's Revenge Zero hour 
 is the perfect piece to add on to Generals, it adds more units and Generals without affecting the 
 gameplay or balance. Some generals at the beginning may sound ridiculous but the more you play 
 with them the more you learn with some great little features.
  
  At the end of it all what can I say, if you onw Generals get this add on and if you don't own Generals 
 then buy that and then this. The only problem is that the single player and skirmish get predicatble 
 and boring, where playing online can be fun when you find the right place, it can take time to 
 find people that you enjoy playing with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joseph889
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Im just going to come out and say it, great game, but has some crucial faults. I love all the 
 games in the Command and Conquer series, and none have let me down. The exelante gameplay was not 
 a complete overhaul from Generals. Which is not a bad thing, if you dont mind whipeing out your 
 enemies with twenty Particle Uplink Cannons. This is where I come to my first complaint. There 
 is no option to remove the Super-Weapons. You can narrow it down one if you like, but who wants 
 just one Super. There are some game play issues in a different area. Some of the Generals are 
 a little over powered. For example, the Super-Weapon General, General Alexander, can buy Supers 
 for half price. It gets to the point of over kill, which I know some people love. Also, once you 
 get used to the A. I. they are way too easy, even on their hardest skill level. But when you switch 
 over to the multi-player it becomes a completely different game. More games need to take note of 
 the addictive gameplay of C&C: Generals: Zero Hour. I have spent many an hour on Generals Online 
 trying to gain a top spot on the ranking list. If you buy Generals for the multi-player you will 
 be rewarded. Just dont expect to be impressed with the single-player. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Veteran
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:46 am PT
Review:  By far one of the best startegy game son the planet at the moment.........
  ok maybe not ( world of Warcraft)
  
  this game is not to realistic but all visual effects are 
 asstounding and the game play is also very good.
  
  I have recently downloaded the mod project raptor and i can say that the whole game has now changed 
 all i can say is get it now i dont know the web site off hand but try file front and games manager
 
  
  the estimated time on a ADSL lin is about three to four hours so good luck 
  and when you get it just remember that nuke general will always 
  
  The veteran 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolgrin45
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game revolutionised the command and counquer series. The main flaw of the previous games was 
 the graphics, which as been changed with a new graphics engine and the results are stunning. The 
 gameplay is classic with elements of the old classics like RA2 and Tiberan Sun. This one however 
 has included new aspects which is made possible with the help of the new graphics. I love this 
 game and could play on it indeffinatly.
  The online aspect brings the game to life, and you can use tatics picked up in the missions in 
 real life to see if they are good enough to beat the best. I like the ladder system which allows 
 you to see how you are doing in realation to everyone else!
  Super game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:43 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed about this game.
  
  Gameplay: You can build your own army of tanks, missles, soldiers and other stuff and then you 
 go and kick some ass. The weapons are unbelivible and the gameplay itself is very hard.
  
  Graphics: The viechles, the weapons and the areas are pretty nice but the soldiers could have looked 
 better.
  
  Sound: There is barely sound in this game except for the shooting part.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The gameplay is very hard and 
 long but there is no online feature in this game.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome strategy game for the PC and you should definitely 
 go and try this one out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_DeathKnight
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Zero Hour is a good addition to C&C Generals and a goodexpansion. It adds more units, 
 more upgrades, more campaigns and the unique General's Challenge. Although the new units gives 
 each side more wallop, they still retain their main strengths. China still has the most powerful 
 tanks and other armored vehicles by far, the USA still dominates the air, while the GLA still relies 
 heavily on guerrilla warfare. The General's Challenge adds more fun, the 9 general's armies can 
 also be used in skirmish and multiplayer which is awesom (the Nuke general owns all :p) . 
  
  The downside is that the gameplay is still pretty slow. The units (espeically the infantry 
 units) all move really slow. Maybe its just me but the map editer is still very difficult to use 
 to make maps unlike Warcraft 3 or Starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Generals is a great game with balanced sides, beautiful graphics, and awesome 
 missions. The one thing I feared, though, was an expansion. How could an expansion equal to this? 
 The coming of Zero Hour quenched this fear however. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10 
  
  Zero Hour enhances the gameplay of Generals by 3. Not only do you get new missions that include 
 China, USA, and the GLA but a new challenge mode as well. In the challenge mode you get to select 
 1 of 9 generals. Then you fight the other generals, except 2 of them which are excluded. Each general 
 has different strategy and units, forcing you to to change your strategy in every game. What's 
 even better is that you can use these new generals in skirmishes or online. 
  Gameplay is greatly improved with the new units, structures, upgrades, and general powers. The 
 USA gets Avengers, which are anti-aircraft and anti-missile and a Microwave tank, which disables 
 buildings. China gets Listening outposts, which can hold units and detect stealth units. They also 
 can build Helix 2 Helicopters which can drop bombs and build a propaganda tower, bunker, or gattling 
 gun on itself. GLA gets their speed improved by motorcycles, which can have infantry ride and fire 
 from them. Battle Buses are fast vehicles that can load 8 infantry in it. When destroyed, the bus 
 turns into a bunker. 
  
  Graphics 10/10 
  What can I say? the graphics for zero hour are even better that the original Generals. Infantry 
 units can go flying off screen when they hit a demo trap and overlord tanks flip into the air when 
 struck by nuke MiG's. Also, the gameplay is a lot smoother. 
  
  Sound 10/10 
  With new sounds, music, and voices added to Generals already outstanding collection of sounds makes 
 Zero Hour never boring or annoying to listen to. Although some of the voices for the generals can 
 be quite annoying. Some generals are cocky and arrogant while others seem just plain crazy. 
  
  Story 6/10 
  
  Story is good, but not great. Far better than the original. In the beginning 
 of every mission, you get to see a news broadcast by a reporter on the current situation. Each 
 mission moves to the next and each 3 sides continues with the storyline the last one left off. 
 
  
  Replayability 10/10 
  
  Zero Hour will provide hundreds of hours of entertainment. If the new missions and Challenge Mode 
 have bored you, you can play the computer on skirmishes or go online and challenge other human 
 opponents. You can earn medals on both skirmish and multiplayer by doing several things like building 
 50 tank or more in one game, beating several games in a row, or other things. Plus, you can move 
 up in rank when you play online. You start as a private and as you win more games, will gain experience 
 and move up rank. Getting to the highest rank is extremely tough and will take months of playing 
 to achieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yossimitsu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 4:37 am PT
Review:  General Zero Hour is one of the best war strategy games ever made so far. 
  The game just flows and the strategy changes each game according to the general, terrain and player, 
 so it is never one strategy that wins all.
  Every unit is carefully planned and each general has its own advantages and disadvantages, yet 
 all are pretty balanced.
  
  Graphics are very good and very enjoyable and even the sound and music is fitting and gives good 
 atmosphere.
  
  The multiplayer is good and continues to be a popular one throughout the world. Single player is 
 good and hard, but it is not the main purpose of the game. Playin against other players is the 
 most rewarding experience.
  Great game that I will no doubt continue playing for some time, even though I had it for few years 
 now.
  
  General is a classic strategy game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kau83
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 29, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  impreesive game with awesome 3d effect, nice graphics nice sound, very close to reality, addictive 
 gameplay, limited resourses, skirmish is very fast paced. nice air crafts and tanks.
  
  story takes you along with titans like usa, china and their war with terrorism. quiet realistic. 
 lot of good units are there like some hackers from china's side who will hack the enemy unit and 
 building and wire transfer the money :D
  
  also some defense posts are awesome. money generation is not that fast so u have to really utilise 
 it very smartly...
  
  overall its nice addictive strategy worth playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morgoth18
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:15 pm PT
Review:  i can honestly say that i have the most experience in this game than any other game out there. 
 this game was my life for a year, and now i still go back and play it from time to time. this game 
 did not ever get repetitive, up untill the last week of playing it. but even then it was the sh1t. 
 i will recommend this game to any real rts player, and if you do not like it, cut off your balls 
 and put them in your cd rom drive. because all you play are bad games that have to do with harry 
 balls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opacic_A
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  C&C Generals was a great game, it had a few flaws (such as online play problems) and certain balance 
 issues, the campaign was rather long, but got boring, so you'd probably only want to play it once 
 through as all 3 sides. You'd either rely on the rather easy to difficult computer opponents or 
 try your luck online, due to code problems, it was very hard to have a match going.
  
  Zero Hour adds new units and maps as well as bug fixes and the like, it also introduces the Generals, 
 specialised versions of certain countries (Such as USA Air Force General etc.) . These generals 
 may seem like minor variations but open up alot more strategic possibilities in the game against 
 computer opponents or human ones. The graphics are good for an RTS of it's kind, the super weapons 
 are back as usual, as devastating as ever ( I have taken a liking to the nuclear warhead, like 
 any self respecting trigger-happy RTS gamer) . 
  
  There are still problems that persist, such as the rather annoying multiplayer, whilst good, it 
 still screws up if you have a firewall or your opponent (s) have a firewall on, it might even just 
 not work because it doesn't like you, it's just a click and pray connection scheme pretty much. 
 The AI of your own troops can get annoying, they might get stuck in front of a fence (I'm talking 
 a godamn Overlord tank) and go to the very end, to run over the same kind of fence structure, but 
 into some form of enemy defence, hopefully they will fix this.
  
  All in all, it's an essential purchase for RTS and C&C Generals owners alike. If you don't have 
 any good RTS games, get Generals and Zero Hour, it's guaranteed to keep you occupied for quite 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgmLauncher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I. Introduction and background
  
  The review for this game will focus on exactly what I find to be the most important quality of 
 ANY real time strategy game, how polished its multiplayer gameplay feels. 
  
  I have played nearly 3,000 games of Zero Hour since I purchased it in October of 2003. The time 
 scale that Gamespot allows is laughably small. Try 1,000 or more hours, not 100 or more. Ive also 
 spent countless hours posting about the game, analyzing it, watching replays, developing and understanding 
 strategies, and comparing it to other RTS games since. Thus, this knowledge and experience will 
 be applied to the body of this review.
  
  II. Multiplayer gameplay
  
  As said above, my only concern with a game has to do with how fun it is to play the game online 
 in a competitive environment. Below is a break down and analysis of all the aspects that factor 
 into making Zero Hour THE most engaging and addictive RTS game I have ever played.
  
  For starters, its important to understand that a human being can only do so much multi-tasking 
 at a given moment of time. How an RTS game is designed will control what components require what 
 percentage of your attention, and thus dictate the play style of the game. For Zero Hour, these 
 are as follows:
  
  Macromanagement: 10%  Base building, producing units, getting upgrades, economy
  Strategy: 30% 
 - Thinking and planning, unit selection
  Micromanagement: 60% - controlling units
  
  The bulk of Zero Hour rests on micromanagement. If you dont have good micromanagement skills, 
 you wont be good at the game. Strategy is fairly straight forward. Put early pressure on your opponent, 
 gain map control and economic superiority, and win. The challenge is actually applying the tactics 
 you need to carry this out (the micromanagement) . Macromanagement is extremely simple, in a good 
 way. Because you dont spend time building a super complicated base or researching endless upgrades, 
 you can devote your time to making sure you control your army in the most efficient manner possible. 
 This allows for the action to be riveting and fast paced. Zero Hour is NOT an arm-chair general 
 strategy game. Consider yourself to be field officer instead of a staff officer.
  
  A.) Base building
  Base building in Zero Hour is both simple and powerful. You have the freedom 
 to build ANYWHERE on the map with every faction and army. There are no max build distances or radii, 
 you keep the builder units (i. e. they dont disappear into the structure theyre building) . This 
 gives you the option to sell your main Command Center building for an extra $1000 if youd like. 
 You are simply not restricted in any way. Top players will even use buildings to box in their gatherers 
 to keep them safe because of the building placement and rotation freedom they have. As such, this 
 allows for some very interesting base swaps to occur. Each player may successfully destroy each 
 others base (essentially ignoring each others armies) but then rebuild their own base in the 
 base they just destroyed. You dont have the freedom to do things like this in other games. Youre 
 either restricted to your starting position, or restricted to building on very specific points. 
 The simple freedom to build wherever you want is what makes Zero Hour online such a deep and diverse 
 game.
  
  B.) Producing units
  Producing units is thankfully simple in Zero Hour. There are no population limits, there is no 
 army upkeep (with the exception of Laser general whos tanks will go offline if you dont have 
 sufficient power. Since tanks draw 1 unit of power, you have to pay attention to how many you make 
 and how much power you have available) . There is only one type of resource required to produce 
 units as well. You just dont have to concentrate on needless complications such as these. Then 
 of course actually building the unit is very straight forward. You create a building that produces 
 that type of unit (War Factory produces vehicles for instance) , select that building, and click 
 on the unit to build. You may queue up to 9 units at once (though this rarely matters since a good 
 player will never have that much cash floating around not being spent anyway)
  
  C.) Upgrades
  Upgrades are extremely well handled in Zero Hour. There are two kinds of upgrades 
 in most real time strategy games. One is a simple linear-style increase of a units health, firepower, 
 speed or other feature. The other kind of upgrade is a function changing upgrade. Essentially the 
 unit gains a new weapon or ability that changes how it can be used on the battlefield. USA for 
 instance gets a TOW missile for its Humvee that turns it into an anti-air unit. Most other RTS 
 games merely feature simple upgrades that are easily negated by a different upgrade from the other 
 player. So what you would end up with are upgrade wars where one person constantly tries to give 
 his units an edge, forcing the other player to upgrade. While Zero Hour does have some upgrades 
 like this, a good portion of its upgrades are of the variety that add significant strategic diversity 
 to the game. Going back to the example of the TOW missile, this upgrade effectively negates a China 
 players ability to use Helixes. This sort of middle-of-the-game change in useful weaponry is what 
 I mean by strategic diversity. You must completely rethink how you go about playing against your 
 opponent due to the upgrades he gets. While higher-level strategy in Zero Hour is still relatively 
 shallow, upgrades add enormous amounts of it to the unit selection strategy of the game.
  
  Its also important to note that not all upgrades are obtained the same way. Some upgrades are 
 researched at the production facilities and will instantly apply themselves to all current and 
 future vehicles. Other upgrades apply themselves in a similar manner, but are researched at separate 
 buildings. The effect this has is that some upgrades will interrupt your unit production, and others 
 will not. The effect this has is subtle but important. Meanwhile other upgrades are done on a per-unit 
 basis. This allows you to customize each unit to have a slightly different function, and you upgrade 
 as needed. The nice thing is that these per-unit upgrades do not require prior research of any 
 technologies. You can upgrade on the fly in the heat of battle as needed. This might be considered 
 lack of higher level strategy and planning, but the result is that it allows for instant changes 
 to the dynamics of a battle and an increase in the overall pace of Zero Hours gameplay. 
  
  The final point Ill make about upgrades in Zero Hour is that there is a manageable amount, 
 and theyre almost all significant. Once you research a global changing upgrade, its done. There 
 arent multiple levels of the same upgrade. There is just Composite Armor for example. Not Composite 
 Armor level 1 then Composite Armor level 2 etc. Multiple levels of the same upgrade again leads 
 to boring upgrade wars as each player tries to trump his opponents upgrades, with each part of 
 the same upgrading giving only a minor, unnoticeable bonus. You dont have to worry about spending 
 months playing and testing to figure out what upgrades are worth your time and what upgrades arent, 
 as well as particular strategies that certain upgrades favor more than others. In this respect, 
 the learning curve of upgrading is very low in Zero Hour. Its knowing all the ins and outs of 
 unit control that poses the challenge of a steep learning curve
  
  D.) Economy
  Economy in Zero Hour follows a relatively traditional and tried and true model. In all honesty, 
 there is simply no need for a game to have a complex resource system. Its not a feature of an 
 RTS game that needs major innovating as many game development companies like to do. Resource gathering 
 in ZH is automated, and is done by dedicated gathering units. You dont have to manually go out 
 and collect money like you do in Dragonshard. You dont have to manage a half dozen different resources, 
 there is only one kind. Does this mean it lacks strategy? For starters, having multiple types of 
 resources does not necessarily equate to higher levels of strategy. If that were the case, then 
 a game with 1000 different resources would be more strategic than a game with 3. The actual number 
 of resources matters very little. What matters most is how these resources impact your strategy. 
 If youre going to have multiple resources, then different units should require different types 
 of resources. But as Zero Hour only has one kind, this point is not relevant. Zero Hour adds depth 
 of strategy to the economic system by giving the player options on how that resource may be obtained. 
 A faction like GLA has FIVE options to gather money. The first is the primary method, which is 
 gathering from supplies. The second is capturing oil derricks, the third is building a secondary 
 economy structure to provide an infinite but slow source of income. The other two ways have to 
 do with fighting. As GLA you can pick up scraps left by units you have destroyed and you will get 
 a small amount of cash for this. You can also select a Gen Point to give you money every time you 
 kill something. You sacrifice access to rebel ambush and other abilities to get this bonus. So 
 for GLA, how well you fight will determine how much income you get when your main supplies have 
 run out. This is quite a bit deeper than most other RTS games that feature a linear complexity 
 in their resource systems.
  
  Managing your economy should simply not be one of the things that consume your mental multi-tasking 
 ability. As noted above, the amount of mental energy and clicking energy you spend in Zero Hour 
 is put towards controlling your units. Economy is very well automated and basically only requires 
 that you move your gatherers out of harms way when raiding units come in to harass you. I personally 
 would hate to sit around focusing on trivial tasks, thankfully Zero Hour doesnt make me baby sit 
 my economy. I can baby sit more interesting things.
  
  E.) Thinking and planning
  Admittedly Zero Hour is a little sparse on the strategy side of things. The primary strategies 
 in Zero Hour are what I mentioned above. Camping and turtling are simply no strategic options. 
 Either rush and harass and gain map control, or lose. Map design plays the biggest role in how 
 much strategy the game will have. Maps with lots of diversity in the access points to a base as 
 well as several points to control will have significantly more strategy than smaller maps will. 
 Zero Hour itself is not devoid of deeper, higher level strategy, its default maps are. There are 
 lots of ways to incorporate some very challenging strategy into a map that would require more planning 
 and thinking by the players. However I wont get into this as its beyond the scope of this review.
 
  
  F.) Selecting the right units
  Unit selection strategy makes up the bulk of strategy in Zero Hour. While it might not be mentally 
 taxing or demanding or require immense amounts of critical thinking, it does require a solid working 
 knowledge of the counter system and which units work best against which. As mentioned earlier, 
 upgrades can throw curveballs into the mix, and the raw diversity of functionality of units gives 
 you some options. For the most part, the counter system in Zero Hour is not black and white. Spam 
 enough of one unit, and it will work pretty well against nearly everything, but not great. Each 
 army and faction does have units that are highly specialized at one particular task, but have secondary 
 and even tertiary functions that theyre not quite as good at. This being said, a spammer will 
 rarely ever beat someone who knows how to properly mix units, but proper unit mixing and selection 
 is not easy or straight forward. You need quite a bit of experience to see the subtle ways in which 
 all the units at your disposal may be employed. 
  
  The effects of this are that spammers do have remarkable success online and spamming can be quite 
 lame. But the upside is that you can improvise with your units. You arent going to be destroyed 
 just because you dont have THE perfect counter available at that moment. Sure you should have 
 been a little better prepared by gathering some intelligence, but often times this is just not 
 feasible or possible to do, therefore it helps you can improvise with the units you have to fight 
 off whats coming for you. It makes games interesting to say the least.
  
  G.) Controlling your units
  The most definitive aspect of Zero Hour. This is the deepest, most 
 diverse, most rewarding, and most challenging component of Zero Hours game play. In fact this 
 is what separates Zero Hour from other RTS games by miles. So much so that Zero Hour is best thought 
 of as Real Time Action or Action Strategy rather than a traditional Real Time Strategy game. This 
 is what makes Zero Hour so much fun to play and so addictive. Unit lethality is high, army size 
 is small, and units are as diverse as diverse can be. What does this mean? The game requires SMART 
 micromanagement and DIVERSE knowledge of how units behave and should be controlled. The end result 
 is that Zero Hour is fast paced and riveting.
  
  Micromanagement is one of those things that people either love or hate. If you hate it, avoid Zero 
 Hour like the plague and go back to playing chess. If you love it, youll have a hard time finding 
 another game that does it better than Zero Hour. Every unit requires a different kind of micromanagement. 
 It will never get boring or redundant. How you control a humvee is different from how you control 
 a technical is different from how you control an ECM tank is different from how you control a tunnel. 
 The list goes on and on and on. Not only does Zero Hours simple elegant design allow you great 
 freedom to micromanage as much as you can possibly handle, it requires that youre smart about 
 how you go about it, and that you do have good hand-eye coordination and working knowledge of unit 
 interaction dynamics. You have to be good at micromanagement to win. Simply having 90% of the resources 
 on the map is absolutely meaningless if you cant micromanage the armies you produce with the money 
 you have. A player who has top notch micromanagement skills but poor strategic sense will still 
 always beat a player who is a perfect strategist but cannot control his armies. Again, this makes 
 Zero Hour fast paced. The action and tide of the game is in the fighting, not the strategy. Strategy 
 for the most part might be intellectually stimulating, but its no where near as engaging or real 
 time as the action of fighting. Zero Hour delves right into the action and drags you with it. 
 If you chose to be an arm-chair general, youll lose. Thats the harsh reality of this game.
  
  III. Faction diversity
  How different one faction is from another contributes greatly to 
 the longevity of a game. Mastering one army doesnt mean youve mastered the others. If youre 
 looking for a new challenge, each army will provide something different. Considering Zero Hour 
 technically has 12 different armies, the challenge it poses from the time you can spend learning 
 long after youve beaten the single player missions is outstandingly enduring. Talk about replayability. 
 Ive been playing the game for 2 years and havent gotten bored of it in the least. The number 
 of factions goes a long way. For all intents and purposes, Generals (the predecessor to Zero Hour) 
 has identical gameplay dynamics. Its the same fast paced, fun, and challenging action that Zero 
 Hour has. But because it only has 3 armies to chose from, its not quite as fun in the long run. 
 Granted Zero Hours 12 armies stem from 3 factions, theyre still all different enough in their 
 own right to require different play styles.
  
  The three base factions are VERY different from one another in almost every respect. Its the mark 
 of a high quality, well designed game. Starcraft is a game that can back up this claim. Its the 
 most successful RTS game ever made. The fact that its factions were so wildly different is no 
 coincidence. This design of the game played a huge role in the games success and is certainly 
 why Zero Hour is so appealing. The play styles required of each faction are so different that groups 
 of players can actually align themselves in allegiance to their favorite faction, each claiming 
 that their faction is more challenging to play than their opponents. Its amazing the kind of 
 competitive spirit that faction diversity can introduce. I wont get into the details surrounding 
 the design differences between factions as that is well covered in the other reviews.
  
  IV. Notes about the game engine
  While I do not put much thought or concern into the graphics 
 of a game, I do like a game that looks and feels natural, not awkward and stiff. An important reason 
 why Zero Hours actual unit control and gameplay is so good is because the engine feels right. 
 Its responsive and has natural feeling physics. This is partly to do with the global unit damage 
 and speed scaling, but mainly to do with how units respond and behave. I have not played a single 
 RTS game outside of Zero Hour whos engine is as well designed for combat as Zero Hours is. The 
 graphics and camera perspective are also spot on. They beat the pants off other games that feature 
 an unnatural looking 2D orthographic view of the map. It makes the game LOOK more 3D than most 
 other 3D games do!
  
  Its also important to comment on the mouse configuration. It follows the C&C style convention, 
 which is by far and away the best convention for micromanaging. Left click is selection and action, 
 right click is deselect and rapid scroll. Rapid scroll is important. If youre using the arrow 
 keys on the keyboard, youre hand is too far away from the hotkeys. If youre moving your mouse 
 cursor to the edge of the screen, youre losing important responsiveness to your units during a 
 battle. Right click rapid scroll keeps your mouse cursor centered on the action while allowing 
 you move your screen around with far more precision than the arrow keys or moving to the edge of 
 the screen.
  
  IV. Zero Hours flaws
  Zero Hours gameplay falls short in two main areas. Ignoring lack of developer support, the fact 
 that it uses Gamespy as an online service, and inadequate balance, the flaws to the actual GAMEPLAY 
 are as follows.
  
  The largest problem is the way the Generals Points are handled. Generals had an adequate amount, 
 Zero Hour has too much. The destructive special attacks are too easy to obtain and too easy to 
 use, and can turn the tide of the game too easily. Whoever reaches level 3 first is pretty much 
 guaranteed to win. Whats worse, is some of the special attacks contribute to giving you additional 
 points for more special attacks!! Its a self-sustaining system which significantly detracts from 
 gameplay. The effect of too many special attacks is noticeable most in team games. If all the players 
 of one team decided to unleash their special attacks on one player on another team, he simply wont 
 stand a chance and the game will be over for him in an instant. While strategically this might 
 not be the smartest thing for that team to do, its really frustrating for the player whos on 
 the receiving end of it. What Zero Hour needs is access to more units to unlock via the Gen Points, 
 rather than the obvious choices such as carpet bombers, A-10 strikes, Specter Gunships etc. Players 
 need more strategic options and choices.
  
  The other major problem is the way maps are designed with regards to teamwork. Because all of them 
 are symmetrical, its often very difficult for a team to work together to attack or defend. Usually 
 one player will get double or tripled teamed in some way, but his ally is too far away to help 
 out in time. There need to be more maps that put players on one team closer to each other.
  
  Other than these problems, Zero Hour is a remarkable game and nothing that has come out since 
 can even compare. I strongly recommend buying it for the sake of playing online. It will be worth 
 the money ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Civlord820433
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 26, 2005 3:28 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer: Generals was an awesome real time strategy game. It's replayability was almost 
 infinite. But EA made a great game even better with the Zero Hour expansion pack. Zero Hour adds 
 many things to gameplay that improve gameplay. First of all, there is an entirely new single player 
 campaign for all three factions. The most noticeable difference is the division of each faction 
 into three different generals. This adds huge stragic possibilities. Most players can find a general 
 that fits their preferences. Along with the new generals, new units and abilities have been added. 
 These additions push replayability from almost infinite to truly infinite. To play every combination 
 of generals, maps, and difficulty would take a lifetime. This game is definitely worth making it 
 a part of your gaming collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  What do you expect from a real time strategy (RTS) game? A clever campaign mode, which makes you 
 think hard even in the easisest difficulty setting, an intelligent skirmish mode, rewards, effective 
 and diversified units and factions, etc. If these aspects can judge an RTS, C&C Generals lacked 
 many of them. However, this expansion pack, C&C Generals: Zero Hours has all the good elements 
 of an RTS. The campaign actually had a story line, and the gameplay kept the players thinking about 
 their moves, instead of just hoarding a large army and attacking the opponents. 
  
  Actually the story line is the only weak point of this game. If you compare it with any previous 
 C&C games (e. g. Red Alert 2, Tiberian Sun) , it lacks originality and suspense. EA should learn 
 from Westwood how to make a nice story.
  
  In the original Generals game, there were 3 factions. Now there are additional 9 sub-factions, 
 which makes the game even more interesting and it also enhances the replay value. The three old 
 factions have couple of new units and upgrades, which are somewhat useful and are nice additions 
 to the game. The sub-factions are mostly powerful in a particular way, e. g. the US Laser general 
 has powerful laser weaponry, which are effective against base defences and tanks, but weak against 
 infantry. So there is a balance... no particular faction is inhumanly superior to the others. To 
 make it better, almost any unit can be countered by another type of unit. So for successful assaults, 
 you'll need a balanced mix of units. 
  
  There is a new mode, the generals challenge mode. This is a nice addition to a RTS game. It plays 
 like a brawler, where you get to challenge a general, and a VS screen with yours and the opponent 
 generals pic gets displayed, just like it would in Street Fighter or Fatal Fury. During the game, 
 the opponent general will try to scare you, irritate you and warn you through their witty and sometimes 
 humorous comments. A nice addition, indeed.
  
  The sound is okay, but one really disturbing element is the lack of soundtracks. One soundtrack 
 per nation, not even faction, is really dull. EA brought good things to the C&C series, and it 
 also took out some great things like the cool techno soundtracks.
  
  The game rewards you in the form of giving generals points during matches, as well as medals for 
 finishing a campaign, winning 5 skirmish matches in a row, beating every map, etc. This is a nice 
 addition, which keeps a guy playing.
  
  Above all, I belive, the true indicator of a good RTS game is it's replay value. Zero Hours has 
 so many diversified units, there can be hundreds of different ways you can win a game. So I won't 
 be surprised even if I see someone playing this game after 3/4 years, like the way people still 
 play Age of Empires. 
  
  Nice game, indeed! I've taken out the two points for the game's dull sound and poor storyline. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuskue76
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2005 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, the first RTS I played was RA.... not just me, basically 90% of world population first 
 ever fell in love has to be RA, cause it came out b4 Blizzard even started making orcs!! It inspired 
 Blizzard so much to make games that are today... So big ups to Westwood! On to the game, ever since 
 starcraft came out, I have stop following C&C in general.... because of various reasons- balance, 
 feeling, and speed. It was not as fun as starcraft or AOE II, so I stopped for a long while....
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  At first it feels a lot like Generals, but with the implentment of the new units, it does add a 
 whole new feeling to it. It looks like they've also added some good features from other RTS games 
 such as AOE and and TW. When you get to control airplanes that drop bombs on some useless and defensiveless 
 infantry, the picture is just "Priceless" you dont get that a lot in RTS, especially in Blizzard's 
 RTS games.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  There were some issues involving graphic cards based on which ones you used, but overall it has 
 a nice solid feel to it, though it will take some time to get use to since playing different RTS 
 games can sometimes downgrade what you like and dislike about the graphics in general. But overall, 
 it's still one of the best RTS graphics games out there, the explosions and ummm more explosions 
 :) are just priceless to watch :D
  
  Sound: 
  
  My favorite thing about sound was the sound that different vehichles made very unique life like 
 sounds that it should be. It really felt like they took the time to make good quality sound, not 
 just some quick and last minute make up, it really seemed like it was repolished many times to 
 get to this kind of quality, despite coming out only 8 month after General's release. Big Ups!
 
  
  Value:
  
  Mulitiplay, replays, more multiplayer. It brings me great joy the first time I played online in 
 starcraft. Multiplayer always has been the highlight in the RTS series, and still has been, games 
 without online play these days are pretty much done, yeah done as in done like dinner. What makes 
 this game's value unique is that they dont copy other sucessful games such as Starcraft or WCIII 
 online interface, they still have their own unique look to it, which is why I like westwood in 
 the first place. It's cause they know they were the ones who set the standard since beginning, 
 now they're trying to set a new standard so that other companies such as Blizzard can learn more 
 from it just like a decade ago. Big Ups!
  
  Review's Tilt:
  
  Ahh... the good ol' Review's Tilt. Reason I give a solid 9 is because it's defitely the best in 
 series. The gameplay, sound, & value was just top top notch. Nothing like bombing your friends 
 base with blazing air crafts ^_^; But set aside from that, it also has amazing replay value from 
 mulitplayer. The biggest concern I have has to be graphics, It's really hard to perfect this part 
 since many gamers has many different taste, like I said, if you dont play C&C that much, you probably 
 wont get used to this kind of graphics. Just my little 2 cents, keeping it real.
  
  P. s- For those who love this game, I highly recommend you check out www. purepwnage. com it has some 
 funny clips of some pro game pwning n00bs. hahah! 
  Enjoy!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwdrums36
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  This is a great new add on to a great game. It adds some great new strategic elements to it and 
 it opens up new ways to defeat your enemies. Lets take a look.
  
  Graphics: Very much the same as Generals. If you haven't read my review of that go check it out, 
 but in short, there pretty good for an overheard RTS view.
  
  Sound: Onca again, not great and it's sort of irrtating but other than that...
  
  Gameplay: 
 Well, much the same as the original just some added vehicles and stuff.
  
  Value: Buy it if you got the original. Well worth the $19.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithlord
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  I have played this game almost since day one. I have gone through 3 computers, and I always have 
 it loaded. The campaigns are a blast to play. With this expansion, the additional units and generals, 
 really gave C&C: Generals a great boost in replay value. Even after 2 years, I can't stop playing. 
 That has to mean something... right?
  
  I cant comment on the multiplayer, as I only played against my friends. I am not that good, and 
 I always lose against strangers oh well
  
  
  The only downside is recently I upgraded to a eVGA GeFORCE 6800, and the maps don't display right. 
 Oh well, I can still play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Generals exists in a reality separate of all those C&Cs before it. This one 
 takes place in a reality much like our own with the big powers in the game being the US, China, 
 and the GLA (The Global Liberation Alliance) . Each of the separate powers has their own strengths 
 and weaknesses that must be identified and used the best of the advantage of the player to do well 
 in the multiplayer and even the single player late in the game.
  
  There is no real introductory missions because this is the expansion so you are pretty much on 
 your own. You will get the basic feel and as you move on you will get more advanced and powerful 
 units to battle those of the other factions. You will need the tactics that you will learn in the 
 end in order to beat each campaign in the most efficient manner that you can think of. This games 
 takes the standard real time battle that all of the predecessors used to go through the campaign.
 
  
  The game play is a pretty good part of the game. You will not end up spending much of your time 
 doing the single player campaigns on the fact that they are pretty short, somewhere around 8 or 
 so missions. A bulk of the game play will be spent on the multiplayer portion that comes with the 
 game. This game is perfect for LAN parties where you can get together with a bunch of your friends 
 and blow each other up. Of course the game comes with a skirmish mode where you can battle against 
 up to 7 computer controlled opponents. The skirmish mode will get a little boring after a while 
 because you will learn all of the little tricks that you need to beat the computer. So the multiplayer 
 against other people over a LAN or the internet is where it really shines.
  
  The graphics in the game are probably the most prominent part of the game over its predecessors. 
 The graphics with which you play are pretty good and the explosions that happen are probably the 
 most spectacular that you will probably see out of a similar game. The only problem is that depending 
 on the system that you are running, when the battles get really intense with lots of units and 
 destruction, the game has a tendency to lock up and freeze for a little bit, which can get to be 
 bad in a lot of situations. Overall the graphics is a very good thing for this game.
  
  The sound in this game is probably one of the weakest parts of the game. During battles the cannons 
 and explosions sound pretty real, but the music that comes with the game is pretty weak. You kind 
 of just want to shut it off, but you really kind of need the sound to figure out about battles 
 that are going on and if you are getting attacked so it is kind of a lose, lose situation.
  
  The value of the game is pretty good if you are a person who has liked the previous C&Cs. 
 You will have to learn some different things to succeed in this universe. It is probably somewhere 
 around the reasonable range. I suggest trying to find some sort of a good deal and getting the 
 regular original game, with it for a good price before you shell out more than 40 dollars for just 
 the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBot
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 20, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Electronic Arts proves us all wrong, again. This new expansion adds loads upon loads of new things, 
 just as promised! 
  
  This is where this game got it all. The only thing they kind of stretched on was the 30 new units. 
 You do get 30 new units, but some of them are unique to certain generals, meaning you can't always 
 use the. Speaking of generals there is the amazing addition of nine unique generals. There are 
 three for each team. Now each of the generals is unique in that they all have certain weapons/units/builds 
 only they can use, and no one else. They also each have their own strengths and weaknesses. For 
 example the American generals, General Malcolm "Ace" Granger. His specialty is air units, so as 
 you can guess ground combat is his weakness, but all the generals weaknesses they make up for, 
 an then some, in their strengths. This is a very cool addition that I think was totally extra, 
 they didn't need it, but oh boy does it add tons to the game. 
  
  Now, as for the 30 new units, those are very cool. Some of the coolest ones are the GLA Attack 
 Cycle; the name speaks for it's self. It is a motorcycle that allows you to put any infantry on 
 it, and that infantry uses its same weapon but moves a lot faster. There is also the Chinese "Helix" 
 which is a helicopter; yes the Chinese finally have a helicopter! Basically the Helix is an Overlord 
 tank with rotors. It is huge and packs a punch while being able to take one. You can even upgrade 
 it with a Bunker, Propaganda Tower, or Gatling Cannon; like the Overlord. Then we have the American 
 Microwave Tank, no, it's not something to make popcorn on the move. What it does is disables enemy 
 buildings, and it can disable enemy vehicles. The microwave field also harms enemy infantry. 
 
  
  Obviously there are way more units, but those are just the coolest new ones that are available 
 to any general on the respected teams. There are also a few new buildings for each team, which 
 include the American Fire Base, Chinese Internet Center, and the GLA "Fake Structures". Now I am 
 not going to explain those, I am just going to let you play this game and find out what they are 
 on your own! Along with the buildings there are new upgrades and generals abilities, all of which 
 are awesome, and there are too many to even list a few of them! 
  
  Most everyone recalls the horrible mission story line in the last Generals. Well that is no more. 
 Now the missions follow a very good story line, it is still the Chinese and Americans versus the 
 GLA in a sense, but at least now there is motivation behind it all. There are also cut scene movies 
 again, which are all kind of in game type scenes. In addition to the re done missions there is 
 a new "Generals Challenge" mode that lets you pick a general and take that generals thru various 
 missions against other specific generals, this is great fun if you are stuck on a mission in the 
 campaign mode. 
  
  Finally we have some additions to the skirmish mode. There are plenty of great new maps to play 
 on, along with the old favorites. There are also many new awards that will make you spend countless 
 hours trying to get them all! 
  
  The graphics on this game remain, for the most part, the same. There were some things tweaked here 
 and there. For example dust or snow, depending on where you are, now flies from behind vehicles 
 giving it even more of a battlefield atmosphere. They also added in shells from machine guns. So 
 now any vehicle that has machine guns, or some type o shell emitting gun, now has shells flying 
 all over, this looks really cool in a line of Gattling Cannons. In line with the shells you can 
 also see the bullets hit armored things, such as tanks, when you are zoomed in a sufficient amount. 
 Another thing they tweaked where the explosions, yes the explosions do look better, much to the 
 liking of me. They made them more realistic then before. Now the type of shell used to kill a unit 
 depends on the size of the explosion and how much it flies apart and what not. The tanks also got 
 changed, well some of them at least, most specifically the look of the scorpion tank when you pick 
 up an 'upgrade' from a destroyed vehicle. 
  
  The menus also got some huge upgrades, and look astonishing; they have the same relative design 
 as before, but with an interesting twist. Finally we have the background of the main menu after 
 the game starts. This is an in game thing again, and is cooler then ever. It is no longer just 
 one place on a map, but rather it rotates all around the battlefield so you can see it all! It 
 also never ever repeats. I must have watched it for a good 30 minutes, that's how amazing it is. 
 
  
  The sound has too remained much the same. There is, however, a great new sound track that has all 
 new songs. Now I ranted and raved about the cool songs in my review of the regular Generals; I 
 plan to do that here too because the music is great! Each team still has unique music and everything, 
 but it is all new. The favorite of which is the beginning game music, it is like the old with a 
 retro kind of twist that is very nice. They also tweaked some things in the in game sounds, like 
 the tank firing and engines all sound even more real and cooler then before. 
  
  This is a must buy if you own the first Generals. If you don't own the first Generals then this 
 is one of the many reasons to buy it and this one. With all the new stuff and the old stuff this 
 game has new things to enjoy and old things to enjoy! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattock5656
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2004 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer is a excellent game that the newest to the Command and Conquer series. Myself, 
 I have played all of the Command and Conquer's and by far this is the best one yet. 
  
  The regular Command and Conquer: Generals consist of three factions: Usa, Gla, and China. They have 
 good things about them and they all have bad things about them. As a good strategy games should 
 have.
  
  In the new expansion pack, "Zero Hour", they had 9 generals, three for each faction and lots of 
 new units and new structures. The expansion is very good and anyone that played the original should 
 pick this up right away.
  
  The mulitplayer is awesome and heart pounding because there are very many skilled players and it 
 quite a challenge going againest people on the multiplayer component.
  
  Overall, great and addicting game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhame
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 7, 2004 5:09 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is pretty good for a RTS game, though many other RTS games have superior flexibility 
 and customization of game control. Characters' movement AI isn't overwhelmingly intuitive either 
 but is better than most other RTS games. Camera customization is nearly none-existent which is 
 disappointing.
  
  The graphics are pleasing for its age, though I personally don't feel they warrant the resource 
 penalty required to play this game well.
  
  The sound was decent but not impressive. Not very many different sounds, effects, etc. occur simultenously.
 
  
  Overall this is a good RTS game, providing you do NOT want any semblance of depth in your RTS games! 
 With barely one upgrade per character/building it is throughly unimpressive for any of you building-types 
 out there. Only on the more difficult levels does this game provide any challenge. On normal or 
 easy difficulties it almost matters not at all which infantrymen and vehicles you decide to deploy 
 - lame. Good modern-war RTS games are few and far between... and this IS a good game, but not a 
 great RTS game generally-speaking.
  
  The overall fanbase of the C&C games are typically the simpler-minded (ouch) RTS fans so keep that 
 in mind when reading other reviews.
  
  Zero Hour provides more of Generals' mundane single-player missions and next to nothing in the 
 true overall game experience. Very dissapointing for an expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 9, 2004 6:05 pm PT
Review:  If you have never played a strategy game, then this would be a great one to get you hooked. The 
 variation of units, fast-paced gameplay, and large online presence keeps this title alive and fresh. 
 While the single player game is fun, it is no match for online gaming. Each of the three different 
 races have enough unique abilities, you can pick any one race and create your own strategy to win. 
 No set procedure will win usually, and the ability to import user made maps keeps things interesting.
 
  
  Pick this game up, especially in the battle pack that is now available, for relatively inexpensive 
 and you will not be disappointed. Best to play the single player campaign of the original and then 
 Zero Hour first before tackling online opponents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CQQLGuy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! The original was fantastic and I was hooked, I didn't think it was possible 
 for this game to get better. But once I got the expansion pack I was blown away! Having Generals 
 was so cool! The new units were awesome! I have all of the CnC games and although I do miss the 
 cut-scenes, not having them does not ruin the game. It has really nothing to do with Gameplay, 
 Graphics, Sound, or anything else that is important to games. Bottom line is that this game was 
 revolutionary and could not be much better. I definitely recommend it to anyone looking for hours 
 of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 28, 2004 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Ive been here since the dawn of the C&C game world began. I rate these games by the impact they 
 make on me. Maybe ive been playing them to long. I got bored of this game within 30 mintues of 
 playing it. Same old stuff, over and over again. 
  
  There are only a few games that make a huge impact on me like the original C&C and Red Alert did 
 back when they came out. Now its just hard to make them interesting. 
  
  I think they are reinventing themselves with Perimeter and Ground Control 2. I played both demos 
 and I actualy kept on playing till I played everything i possibly could. I dont even think i bothered 
 finishing Generals, i just got bored with it wayyyyy to quick. 
  
  There is no originality in the gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuxAvalon
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 2, 2004 7:44 am PT
Review:  It's not Command & Conquer here is why:
  
  First of all Generals is one of the worst C&C's out there to date. Why? Yes the graphics are amzing 
 for a C&C, but graphics DO NOT make a game all the time. This is suppost to take place in the "modern 
 times." Which of course we all know they are talking about probably well after Red Alert 2 in the 
 year 2200, when generals started to, for some reason, randomly have war against each other. Obviously 
 to tie in to Tiberian Dawn, the Chinese empire is going to fall and back down, and Kane gets into 
 power. Same with the Terriosts side (yes that's what they are THE TERRIOSTS.) Wow what an amazing 
 time for the game to come out after September 11. Concidence? In zero hour you can't even see the 
 resembelence at all to tie Tiberian Dawn into this, so in Tiberian Dawn the allies lose half there 
 asernal of weapons and planes?? They go wait, let's make the particle canon an Ion canon. Let's 
 also make it fire one shot without moving? This is an improvement?? The final note here is that 
 Generals has almost NOTHING to do with the other Command & Conquer's. Which is a blunder to whatever 
 Command & Conquer comes out next. Yes it's an amzing game with many tanks and infantry and weaponry 
 that can do six things each. 
  
  Second object that completely bothers me about this game is, NO STORYLINE!! Give me a break you 
 know these story lines are weak and not played out at all. Thats why I loved Red Alert, Red Alert 
 2, and the first & second Command & Conquer. They all had great in debt story lines, that actually 
 TIED in with each other. If you are the General, why is someone else telling YOU what to do. I 
 feel like that person who is telling you what to do is YOU the commander, and the General does 
 everything now. 
  
  It's just an idea that was dumb, and I miss the real action movie's, they also made the game. Hopefully 
 the next C&C that comes out will have all the elements that all the others orginally had, it's 
 just been a disappointing run for C&C since Tiberian Sun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2004 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is just simply awsome I find myself playing it over and over and over again from time 
 to time I have not uninstalled the game since I got it its just so addictive the only thing this 
 game could have used was better graphics on infantry units I just found the infantry poorly done 
 the weapons the GLA infantry held looked like a gray rougly cut with a knife piece of cardboard 
 and I just found myself at discust at the site it just bothered me that a game with such beautiful 
 interactivty and graphics such as this could have such bad graphics at the same time besides this 
 there no real flaw in the game its just simply fun and all out modern warfare! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spunky1207
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2003 2:03 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is... HOLY SHNICKEYS! This game is awesome! The only thing that is flawed is 
 (as with almost ALL RTSs) the pathfinding. Units often careen blindly past enemy defenses and into 
 det traps. Poor misguided retards... Anyways, the game does shine like a well polished bullet. 
 Which, by the way, many of those will be flying between units. The scripted events are BEAUTIFUL! 
 The units are well crafted. The overall production value is just awesome. The voice acting is actually 
 very nice and sometimes a bit comedic. It is also perfectly priced for our budgeted friends out 
 there. (cough college students cough) All the new units and structures open up new tactical possibilities, 
 some of which I havent fully explored. This game is just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machi_GS
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2003 5:01 am PT
Review:  This is an exellent expansion, first is the new campaing adding more to the previous game. The 
 new challenge mode is very enjoyable it can be quite tough. There will be quotes when destroyed 
 their stuff on the battlefield which is sometimes humorous. The new units are cool espcially the 
 king raptor it has pin piont laser which is very useful. If u use it in a group u might even be 
 able to the turn the tide of the game. 30 new units and a few more combination to the ultimate 
 force for each faction. If u are a fan for the first game, u should not wait and get down to a computer 
 game store near u and get this. For the first timers u should get this game because it is like warcraft 
 3 but using mordern weapons instead of bugs of oaks funny lokking creatures 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General_DAS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 2, 2003 5:56 pm PT
Review:  One of the BEST expansion packs I know of. My reasons why?
  
  1. Solo missions more challenging. The Generals Challenge is great. Each general has their own 
 personalities, and will attack and defend in their own way. It can be difficult (yet not impossible) 
 at times. What I didn't like about C&C Generals is it's simple single player. But Zero Hour has 
 rectified. 
  
  2. New engine. The new graphics engine really does speed up the framerate. I was able to push up 
 my graphical settings a notch.
  
  3. Tons of new multiplayer maps; over 10 at least. I never really stopped and counted. All these 
 maps are innovative and tactically challenging.
  
  4. New Units. Aside from the fact that you get over 30 new upgrades and units added to the basic 
 armies, you get tons of cool stuff from all the different Generals. Much like in Rise of Nations, 
 each general gets some unique units. General "Ace" Granger for example gets elite planes and other 
 air units. However, to balance this out, he is limited from tanks.
  
  5. Same fast paced, addicting, nerve-racking multiplayer!
  
  
  Overall, I MUST BUY for owners 
 of C&C Generals. This expansion pack just about has as much value as the original game. 30 bucks 
 cost. Get it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: detr1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2003 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I have played a number of RTS including the entire Command and Conquer series. This expansion pack 
 is my favorite (and I don't say that easily) . Not only do you get the great/challenging levels 
 from the campaign mode but you get a Generals challenge, skirmish and online action. This ensures 
 hours and hours of playing and would certainly mean you get your "monies" worth. 
  
  All units are retained from the original Generals game however there are some additions. They are 
 extensive so I won't go into each one but will touch on my favorites. I like the feature which 
 allows you to bomb with a number vs having to select each unit. For example there are ships now 
 which allow you to do onshore bombardements and instead of each one, you select the bombing option 
 which has a countdown number. It sure makes it easier. The carrier is also nice as I like to soften 
 up the enemy anti-aircraft batteries and then send in a steady stream of planes. Nice feature.
 
  
  All in all it's well worth the money and it is a game with incredible graphics, gameplay and replay 
 value.
  
  Well done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilbert80
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2003 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I might be too generous in saying, Command & Conquer is superior for its strategy and definitely 
 graphics in the seek & destroy RTS genre, but from what I have seen in the retail stores (and for 
 my low blow) , this game definitely blows the others away with their stick-man GI.
  
  I have not played the game online as of yet, but the campaigns and the Challenge option makes the 
 solo-play very intriguing. The one thing that probably makes me come back for more in the Challenge 
 option are the computer's canny and hilarious "come-backs" when my resources have been depleted, 
 when I have ran out of power, when he is about to attack me, and many others.
  
  Zero Hour also, at a stretch, attempts to teach a little history. The game is very up to date with 
 the events that are occurring in today's news. Familiar with the intro-movie that is played in 
 almost all the C&C games? Well, I just about went crazy when I heard the "shock and awe" reference, 
 among others, in the intro-movie.
  
  I have enjoyed the progression of the Command & Conquer series through out the years. If you enjoyed 
 the majority of C&C games, you will definitely enjoy this one. If it is not for the game play, 
 than buy it for the graphics, head-banging hard-rock music, and canny-jabs from the computer's 
 monologue.
  
  But there is one last thing to say, where are the submarines, carriers, and battleships? I hope 
 soon to come because I am on the edge of my chair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeXeN
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 27, 2003 2:17 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the first one your going to love Command & Conquer: Generals Zero Hour, anyone who 
 says other wise don't know what there talking about.
  One think they added that is really cool is the Challage mode, seems like I am playing this more 
 then anything. I wish they would have just add this in the first Generals sine IMHO singler rts 
 games are a bit lame. I like to always build my base and really don't care for the missons where 
 you get a few units. Anyway overall this game has the best graphics for any RTS out there, which 
 is why I gave it a soild 10, the game play is by far the best of any RTS just becuase there is 
 no Pop limit. I also like the fact that in Generals it's really hard to rush somone if they set 
 up a good D. Anyway all in this is a great X-pack and really adds to the game, if your a fan Generals 
 you have to get this game. 
  
  See you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrerFox
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 25, 2003 9:09 am PT
Review:  Zero Hour is definitely one of the best expansions in recent memory. The new units are well designed, 
 and offer many new strategic opportunities, however, ZH's new units aren't its only trick. 
  
  Rather than just bundle new soldiery, the expansion adds new modes, a delightfully different 
 gameplay structure and enough refinements to the UI, sound, bugs, and balance to make even the 
 most obstinate Generals whiner smile.
  
  Zero Hour is worth every bit of its hefty retail tag. Its value really deserves a ten. If you own 
 Generals, and enjoy it, go get ZH. You'll like what you see.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
