-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Commandos 3: Destination Berlin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandos3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 20, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.5, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,304 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Pyro Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 14, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If any game offers the chance to understand just how impossible the heroic events of war movies 
 would be to accomplish, Commandos 3 is it. 

  You'd expect larger-than-life adventures from a squad of superhuman World War II commandos, and 
 Commandos 3 delivers: Central Berlin, a bombed-out Stalingrad, a train packed with stolen art masterpieces, 
 and the beaches of Normandy are all on the menu. There's nothing pedestrian about such assignments, 
 and all 10 mission locations are as tough as they are memorable. Given that you can't adjust the 
 level of difficulty, getting through even a single mission can require as much patience and judicious 
 use of quicksaves as it does stealth and tactical forethought. Unfortunately, Commandos 3 hasn't 
 gained much ground on its predecessors, and those new to the series may have trouble getting past 
 the interface, the locked 800x600 resolution, or the many moments of frustration that every player 
 is bound to experience. Nevertheless, the game's high level of challenge can lead to some proportionally 
 satisfying victories against all odds.  

          Six commandos are back to defend Stalingrad, steal a train's loot, and storm Normandy. 
     

  In total contrast with what lies ahead, Commandos 3 starts out easy enough. The two tutorial missions 
 are -- with a single exception -- a smart introduction to the key members of the commando squad and 
 their highly specialized abilities. As in Commandos 2, the interiors of buildings are fully 3D, 
 and it's possible to smoothly rotate the camera with the mousewheel. While the 3D segment isn't 
 the best-looking part of the game, this extra control makes it fairly convenient to navigate the 
 cramped rooms. The starter scenario gently walks you through the basics of the interface, which 
 differs significantly in style from those in typical strategy or action games. Except when manually 
 set to provide cover fire, the commandos don't act without explicit commands. Moving one character 
 at a time is simple enough, though the lack of hotkeys for specific weapons or abilities becomes 
 a challenge in tight spots. The tutorial's one notable failing is that it doesn't mention that 
 the abilities menu hides choices until it's clicked on, like the one for weapons, which confused 
 more than one of us when looking for the spy's "distract" ability.  

  The prologue is a taste of how, with one mouse click, the Green Beret's speed and deadly knife 
 strike can be overwhelming in close quarters. And within the span of 15 minutes or so, you'll meet 
 the other core commando members (whose ranks have been distilled from Commandos 2 to the core group) : 
 The sniper has the longest range of any friendly unit, the sapper is an expert with bombs and heavy 
 weapons, the spy can disguise himself with the uniforms of German soldiers and officers, and the 
 thief is fast and capable of climbing up walls and other objects. The sixth member, the diver, 
 appears only once, in the third campaign. One advantage of having the number of commandos pared 
 down from the previous game is that there's no getting confused about what each one is for, and 
 if you ever get really stumped in a mission, solving the situation can be just a matter of stepping 
 back and thinking about the special abilities of the commandos assigned to a specific scenario. 

          Many of the missions are combat heavy, but the action requires deliberate planning.    

  This is a World War II game, and it's presumed that you know the odds the Allies are up against 
 and have seen the character types in war movies, so don't expect a drawn-out story. The three campaigns 
 kick off with a summary voice-over briefing, and most missions feature a little character banter 
 in in-engine shots, but otherwise, it's time for the action. Fortunately, the missions themselves 
 are quite distinct, and there are a couple of unexpected events over the course of the first two 
 campaigns. While most maps require you to complete just one set of objectives, the two very large 
 maps in the first campaign are broken up into a series of segments. One of the game's several cinematics 
 occurs after the first short sniper-hunting mission: An intense round of bombing levels several 
 buildings, then waves of paratroopers descend near your location. These flashy sequences are impressive 
 and set the stakes, but it's typical of the game's uneven pacing that all this flash precedes a 
 stretch of slow going and that some of the best parts are buried in the middle of the campaigns, 
 where impatient gamers may not see them.  

  While there's more than enough opportunity to show off your stealth skills, Commandos 3 has more 
 than a few situations where the object is simply to kill all the enemies on the map. This isn't 
 as simple or as straightforward as it might sound, though, given that the interface isn't designed 
 to let your men run and gun. Without much ado, the second mission offers some do-or-die training 
 on the combat system, sending handfuls of assault-rifle-toting Germans at you in waves. To the 
 game's credit, there's rarely just one way through a combat situation, and there's the chance to 
 get some really heavy firepower. The beefy Green Beret can pick up an emplaced machine gun and 
 walk around mowing down enemies within a medium-range cone, and it's even possible to use an artillery 
 piece. For some reason, the commandos usually only pack their specialized weapons, but looting 
 downed Germans provides the opportunity to get some decent small arms and set up ambushes.     
 

  Although nearly half the missions are combat heavy, Commandos 3's interface is better suited for 
 stealth than combat. Only with cover mode turned on will a unit fire by itself, so defensive ambushes 
 are really all that the unit AI can manage unattended. Even then it's essential to be quite careful 
 in lying prone behind cover, since the enemy generally gets a huge range advantage with the same 
 weapons, so if you're spotted, you're dead. It is possible to move a group forward with the cover 
 mode on, but changing facing is unwieldy. Sometimes the best bet is to use just one commando at 
 a time, keeping the others out of sight where they can't get killed and automatically end the mission. 
 This doesn't do anything to reinforce the sense that you're commanding an elite force. Nonetheless, 
 once you grasp the interface's strengths and limitations, there are some tremendous battles in 
 store, including one that pits the Green Beret against a whole enemy encampment -- with a 15-minute 
 clock ticking down.  

          The 10 locations are equally memorable and tough.     

  In the stealth missions, which often pair the thief or spy with a heavy hitter, it's easier to 
 appreciate how a pair of characters can work together. Stealth is the series' trademark, and these 
 missions are intricately designed to reward patience, as you watch the enemies' patrol routes, 
 check their vision cones, and crawl carefully around crowded areas. In addition to special abilities, 
 like the spy's distract, there are packs of cigarettes, noisemakers, and gas grenades to distract 
 or disable enemies that simply don't leave an opening. There's perhaps just one instance where 
 there's a single puzzle-like solution to a problem, but the overall level of challenge is extremely 
 high, and getting to the next mission in the linear campaign sequence might mean stepping back 
 and thinking about a completely different approach or trying one of the other campaigns, which 
 thankfully can be played out of sequence.  

  For as hard as Commandos 3 can be, it's not all that long, with 10 maps divided up into campaigns 
 of unequal length. Some missions may take several hours, particularly if you're still learning 
 the game or get stuck in the wrong approach. Others are much shorter, including one that's little 
 more than a 30-minute continuation of the previous mission. Barring any mishaps, most of the missions 
 after the first campaign can be finished in about an hour each. You'd think that mishaps would 
 be limited to being spotted or having a bomb go off in your face, but, in fact, just saving at 
 the wrong moment could force you to restart a mission. Quicksaving is an essential lesson that's 
 drilled into you from the first minute of the tutorial, but there's just one quicksave slot, and 
 it's not hard to hit the quicksave key without realizing you'll be spotted a few moments later. 
 Even using manual save slots can't stave off all problems, as we found out when our save games 
 were corrupted not once, but twice.  

  The scenarios are challenging enough to warrant subsequent play-throughs, but Commandos 3's new 
 competitive multiplayer mode doesn't add much lasting value. Instead of including the option to 
 play single-player missions cooperatively, as in Commandos 2, the multiplayer options are limited 
 to deathmatch and collect-the-flags modes. First, the challenge is to get things working, as the 
 game doesn't offer a built-in server browser, and connecting via GameSpy Arcade worked only when 
 we connected directly to a home broadband connection, removing an installed router. And even when 
 facing players with low pings in small games, we experienced noticeable lag. Given that a single 
 grenade can take out your entire force or that an ordinary rifleman set up for cover fire can take 
 out a commando before you can react, the outcome of multiplayer battles can seem more like a matter 
 of chance than skill. The multiplayer is clearly inspired by conventional real-time strategy games, 
 but the game's design isn't well suited to straight combat.  

          You'll need to take advantage of the enemy AI's every unrealistic failing to succeed.  
    

  Commandos 3 looks just as good as the previous game, which is saying something. The environments 
 are artistically rendered, and there are decent snow and rain effects to underscore the changing 
 seasons and theaters of war. But the engine hasn't undergone visual improvements, and it's locked 
 at a resolution of 800x600, which is low by today's standards. The exterior camera can be rotated 
 in just four directions, and this limitation can be an issue in the corners of the map, where it 
 can be tough to see where you're going. Rotating the camera can also cause a few seconds of delay, 
 something you can ill afford in combat just trying to draw a bead on an enemy. The audio is similarly 
 solid, if familiar, largely bringing over the same character voices and underscoring the events 
 with a resounding military-themed score. The real letdown is when you come to the end of a campaign. 
 After all that effort, the reward is simply the "mission completed" message and a trip back to 
 the main menu.  

  If any game offers the chance to understand just how impossible the heroic events of war movies 
 would be to accomplish, Commandos 3 is it. Achieving objectives against all odds takes planning, 
 timing, lots of luck, and saved games. For all that it can be rough going and unevenly paced, Commandos 
 3 offers some truly memorable moments, and each mission stands on its own as a unique challenge. 
 Commandos 2 fans should find plenty of satisfying material, though this isn't the game that's going 
 to get newcomers into the series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: alipmcg
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 15, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Fortunately I picked this game up for 50p in a bargain bin so I don't feel completely cheated (it 
 comes on 3 CDs, so I've now got 3 coasters for 50p - not bad) , but I do feel like I've had my time 
 summarily wasted. For some reason the developers have only made it playable at a fixed 800*600 
 resolution, and considering that there aren't many true 3d bits that would tax anything but a pre-2000 
 PC I don't understand who this is meant to be helping. 
  
  I actually only got as far as the first couple of missions before I gave up out of frustration. 
 In the first mission in Stalingrad, where the objective is to take out an enemy sniper, for some 
 reason my Russian allies sometimes decided to turn on me rather than go for the guy who keeps picking 
 them off. Why? No idea. This had me slapping the mouse down on the table in anger, almost as much 
 as when I got the sniper in my sights but the clumsy no-hot-keys interface had me trying to pick 
 the 'sniper' action to take him out, and get the cursor back to him, before he spots me and takes 
 me out with one bullet. As with the old Commandos games you can get a vision cone for both friendly 
 and enemy NPCs, and watching my allies' fields of view I discovered they were all looking at but 
 ignoring this 'sniper' sitting on a street corner in broad daylight. By the way he can fire MUCH 
 further than your sniper can - not even sure why your guy's called a sniper since he can fire a 
 weapon the sort of distance most people can throw a bread roll.
  
  In the second training mission, in which you're given a spy and a thief to break into the German 
 embassy in London, the guards will shoot you as soon as they see you on the street, even before 
 you've broken into their embassy. The MI5 guys dressed as police, as well as members of the public 
 walking along the pavement, don't blink an eye as they do this, and it just makes the AI feel incredibly 
 prescriptive and basic, and makes for a totally unconvincing game. Later in that training mission 
 I found myself struggling to use the spy's 'distract' ability, which the tutorial reassures me 
 is 'in the interface' - damned if I know where though, cos it sure ain't obvious (you have to right-click 
 on the coat hanger, but nowhere does it say this) . If you run while in disguise this breaks cover, 
 at which point you have a mad dash to pick the gun icon to shoot the officer who's spotted you 
 before he takes you down. I only played Commandos 1, not 2, but even then picking abilities seemed 
 a lot faster and keyboard-based - and you could play it at 1024*768.
  
  The maps are outdated. Since they're not in 3D except for interiors (when floors and walls are 
 constantly obscuring your vision, and rotation is done around a clunky single axis) , the developers 
 have made them rotatable, insofar as there are 4 pre-rendered views for each map. Swapping between 
 them it's never immediately clear which way you've just rotated it, and it's easy to lose track 
 of where your men are or what exactly you're looking at. There's also a half-second or so delay 
 every time you rotate (and mine's not a low-spec machine) , which I imagine would be excruciatingly 
 annoying if you were trying to do something quickly. Also the display panning facility is incredibly 
 bad, pulling the view where it wants you to look, even if that excludes where your men are.
  
  The maps feel much less visually informative than they were in the first game, by which I mean 
 I couldn't work out what obstacles enemies can and can't see you past, and it's often not clear 
 whether or not an area of map is traversable until you actually try traversing it. I honestly can't 
 see why a game that insists on playing at such low resolution couldn't have fully 3d maps, because 
 that would have made the environments make so much more sense. Because of the confusion surrounding 
 map features, a lot of the time your commandos will wander round something straight into the line 
 of fire of the bad guys - intensely annoying.
  
  I've never written a game review before but this game just shocked me so much by how bad it was 
 that I felt compelled to do so. It feels rushed, unfinished, amateurish... the list goes on. I 
 actually wonder if it's the same version that some people have given 8s and 9s out of 10, because 
 I can't see any way that I could get enjoyment out of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  The Good : The Same Gameplay that need thinking & planning before you do anything . A single error 
 can change ur plans . It contain alot of Stealth missions that need to be extra extra carefull 
 from causing the Alarm . + U get also to control Allied Soldiers in ur game & recruit them against 
 the German Army . The Gameplay is just great . The Graphics of the Game are superb , since there 
 is no difference ( almost unnoticed ) between the cinematics & the gameplay graphics . & to know 
 what i am talking about , u must play the mission of The Beach ( because here u'll see that the 
 Graphics of the Cinematics are almost the same as the graphics of the Game ) . The Sound is great 
 , & changes according to the enviroments that ur soldiers are in .  
 Bad : With such gameplay , u get to find out that the problems are alot . Because with such a bad 
 interface , the gameplay changes since the sligtest mistake can raise the Alarm , which gets u 
 frustrated & mad about what is happening ( but u get to fix this with alot of quicksaves & quickloads) 
 .+ to add that the gameplay isn't good at all when combined with 2D & 3D Graphics that are fixed 
 at 800x600 resolution , so alot of things that u must see in the map aren't seen & thus alot of 
 mistakes are done ( & espacially in the 1st mission were u need to kill the sniper , so u try & 
 try , yet u cant see him because u cant higher the resolution so that more map is seen , so u end 
 up killed by him ) . As to the sounds , well the Characters voices are changed , which is a thing 
 that I never knew why , they are actaully different in all 3 parts . ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Notes on the Game  
 - It is deffinetly a Must Get Game for those Commandos Fans .  
 - I Played the game With all Settings on & High (Graphics , Game , Sounds) . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 At the end I would like to say that I think those who are fans of Commandos players & Other Games 
 Like Commandos , should get this game & play it . As for those who are looking for a game to play 
 , then they can find a better one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iCEE_Taffer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  after you get the "hang -of- it", (or get hanged by it) you'll eventually learn to enjoy this game. 
 If this game was easier then it would be mindless. This way the game makes it fun to play and because 
 it's hard you learn and get used not to make mistakes.
  
  Sure perhaps the keyboard shortcuts are whack, but I can't remember the shortcuts from the previous 
 commando games so instead of memorising the keys I leaned to use the GUI. Only thing I did not 
 like about this game is that there is no pause option implemented, with it the game would be more 
 fun but hey, I ain't complaining ;) ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  Commandos 3 is a tactical action strategy game set against the backdrop of World War II where you 
 must take control of an elite group of Commandos as they venture deep into enemy territory.
  The game revolves around 3 massive campaigns: Stalingrad- The Commandos must defend Allied General 
 who holds some of the most top secret information regrading the war. Later you must kill him when 
 he discovered to be German spy.
  
  Central Europe- The Germans are loading train full of works of art they stole during their stay 
 in France. The Commandos must prevent the train from reaching German territory before the priceless 
 treasures are lost.
  
  Normady- The Allies are prepared to begin the liberation of Europe. Their starting point is on 
 the beaches of Normandy. The Commandos will move in advance to cripple German support in the area.
 
  Commandos 3 carries the tradition of the Commandos line. The graphics has been very much improved 
 but thought not spectacular, but now with improved visual effects and high resolution textures. 
 The sound is also nicely done. The sound in the game is much the same as it always has been. A few 
 new sounds have been added for some of the effects in the game, but pretty much the same voice 
 actors have been called back for this installment. Commandos 3: Destination Berlin has a different 
 multiplayer than its predecessor, where in Men of Courage you could play the campaign missions 
 cooperatively, Commandos 3 has a deathmatch type game and also a collect the flag style game.
 
  Overall Commandos 3: Destination Berlin is a worthy addition to the Commandos series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obefiend
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  what can i say. the people in pyro studio really mess this franchise up with the abomination. first 
 of all the shortcut keys were axed. for god sake those shortcuts makes commandos 2 perfect. a week 
 after purchasing this game i found myself reinstalling commandos2 and played it again. this game 
 is that bad. and you know what pyro did next? they released commandos strike force. i wish they 
 just revert to the old format. god i wish there are more games like this. but in these day and 
 age i will sooner see Duke Nukem forever than a decent Commandos game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostermw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  You will love it or hate it. I love it. The graphics are cartoonish, in their own style. Don't 
 try to get the hang of it in 10 minutes. It takes a little time to get grabbed by it. Each mission 
 can be played in a variety of ways. So think smart. Try different things. What I like most, is 
 that you get some time to think about you next move (s) . So it is more a tactical game, not a shooter. 
 You'll get into a lot of action, but you can sort of control it. The challenge is to pick the right 
 man for the right job. Saving often will avoid a lot of frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  The Good : The Same Gameplay that need thinking &amp; planning before you do anything . A single 
 error can change ur plans . It contain alot of Stealth missions that need to be extra extra carefull 
 from causing the Alarm . + U get also to control Allied Soldiers in ur game &amp; recruit them 
 against the German Army . The Gameplay is just great . The Graphics of the Game are superb , since 
 there is no difference ( almost unnoticed ) between the cinematics &amp; the gameplay graphics 
 . &amp; to know what i am talking about , u must play the mission of The Beach ( because here u'll 
 see that the Graphics of the Cinematics are almost the same as the graphics of the Game ) . The 
 Sound is great , &amp; changes according to the enviroments that ur soldiers are in .  
 Bad : With such gameplay , u get to find out that the problems are alot . Because with such a bad 
 interface , the gameplay changes since the sligtest mistake can raise the Alarm , which gets u 
 frustrated &amp; mad about what is happening ( but u get to fix this with alot of quicksaves &amp; 
 quickloads) .+ to add that the gameplay isn't good at all when combined with 2D &amp; 3D Graphics 
 that are fixed at 800x600 resolution , so alot of things that u must see in the map aren't seen 
 &amp; thus alot of mistakes are done ( &amp; espacially in the 1st mission were u need to kill 
 the sniper , so u try &amp; try , yet u cant see him because u cant higher the resolution so that 
 more map is seen , so u end up killed by him ) . As to the sounds , well the Characters voices 
 are changed , which is a thing that I never knew why , they are actaully different in all 3 parts 
 . ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Notes on the Game  
 - It is deffinetly a Must Get Game for those Commandos Fans .  
 - I Played the game With all Settings on &amp; High (Graphics , Game , Sounds) . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 At the end I would like to say that I think those who are fans of Commandos players &amp; Other 
 Games Like Commandos , should get this game &amp; play it . As for those who are looking for a 
 game to play , then they can find a better one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avi_700bc
Rating: 5.9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  I want the hot keys back! : ( played all three of the Commandos before. This one didn't have the 
 short keys... I am disappointed! : ( I'm not a big fan of mouse. I find it more time consuming. 
 Graphics is better. Sound quality is top of the level. I'm glad that they didn't change the characters. 
 Other than the seductress, all the characters were there. I just started playing the game. I am 
 not sure if she would be introduced in any of the future missions.
  
  I heard they are trying to make the next commandos game a first person shooter. Being a loyal fan 
 to commandos and so used to with this kinda of environment, I am not sure if I would buy that product. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonigamon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 6, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is almost perfect, ,fantastic, it is very good that you can practise different 
 tactics using the different commandos, it has great different weapons, only some scenes have hidden 
 corners where you can not place the soldiers and you have to change a lot the point of view, also 
 there are missing more multi commando missions where you can control all the team together, i found 
 wonderful the missions controlling other soldiers not commandos (on the village and on the beach) 
 Maybe it could be a good idea to have some training for each (the sniper, the spy, the bomber, 
 etc) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavediss
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 5, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The third game in the series (considering BEL and BCOD as one) is a very good game specially for 
 those commandos fans. It was expected that it could be as good as or better than Commandos 2 but 
 it lacks a little of the great gameplay of that one. I dont think it was so interesting to have 
 timed based missions and mission objectives are not so open as well. The graphics are very good 
 as well the sound. Its very worth playing but somehow it would be better to have more of the commandos 
 2. It was a shame not to keep the commands hot keys to help and make the actions quicker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_janus_ex
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  this is a good game, have many modes and very funny, try my friend....
  por que no jugarlo es bueno y tiene varios modos de juego contine aplicaciones cheveres y el modo 
 de multiplayer es entretenido yo lo recomiendo para un buen rato no obstante algunas misiones son 
 muy repetitivas y torna el juego monotono pero lo que lo varia son sus escenarios de combate que 
 lo mejoran de forma estupenda y las camaras que posee son de muy buena calidad, los entorno de 
 interior y exterior le dan un buen toque de estrategia esto junto con sus formas de robo de armas 
 y utilizacion de los camufklages lo hacen un excelente conjunto de 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr3ati0n
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Why did this game get the gamespot award?! This game is an example of terrible thinking and enginuity. 
 I played the first level it seemed cool, I played the second level and it all went down hill from 
 there from its unrealistic feel to its worthless use of weapons. The graphics are terrible. the 
 sound does little to help you recover from think they only spent about 15 minutes on the graphics. 
 It's story line was a little bit out of place, starting out in enemylines somewhere in germany then 
 leaving the building into someplace in germany all the way to russia. You think How did i go from 
 germany all the way to Moscow?! I've tried all the previous ones and those were even worse! I can't 
 even believe i spent $50 for this terrible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Commandos 2 Men of Courage gave me more excitement than any other game!! Commandos 3 carries the 
 tradition of the Commandos line. The graphics has been very much improved but thought not spectacular, 
 but now with improved visual effects and high resolution textures. The sound is also nicely done. 
 The gameplay is good but I liked the traditional commandos set up like for example you have to 
 get the pistol, instead of getting it directly the pressing Q, while pressing Q you have to cyle 
 throught all the weapons you have and then select the pistol or whatever you like. But the Missions 
 are more suspence and awesome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeshoe1121
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Commandos 3 is possibly one of the hardest games that is out. After watching all these WWII movies, 
 one thinks that the actions that these soldirs conduct are so easily orchestrated and fufilled. 
 gues what, your wrong. Commandos 3 easily shows one how hard it is to complete even a single objective 
 or even get across a small field. 
  
  The visuals are a small only a small improvement over Commandos 2, but it is enough to get the 
 image across. The environments are well designed and diverse, offering variety throughout the theatres 
 of WWII. One complain however, is that when zooming out, all of the soldiers, vehichles, and other 
 omving objects appear to levitate above the environment. However, you will not be playing the game 
 in any other view but the default as it is either too difficult to pick out specifics or get a 
 sense of the overall situation if zoomed out or in.
  
  The gameplay from the other commandos has not changed in major ways. The idea of sneaking around 
 and staying hidden, murdering silently, and sabotaging quickly is still the main focus of the game. 
 To players who are used to running out in the open and gunning down every living being, the game 
 will be a nast shock. Not only is the aiming and weapon firing system difficult to use, the enemies 
 weapon skills are much more proficient than your own, making it difficult to take enemies out from 
 a distance. Players are better off sneaking behind enemies and knifing them or ignoring them.
 
  
  The level designs are varied in objectives, but all are equally difficult. From Storming the Beaches 
 on D-Day, to taking out a German Sniper during Stalingrad, the levels will make you think in different 
 ways. However, there are far too few levels compared to that in the first Commandos.
  
  Commandos 3 is a game that will probably be thrown away by most gamers in a matter of minutes. 
 Despite this, a few gamers will fins this addicting and spend hours toiling away at single objectives. 
 If you can stick to the game, Commandos is rewarding and satisfying to those who can last it through. 
 It is a must play for previous Commandos fan, however, new comers may have problems 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Commandos 3, like I said above, tries to please the masses that are hungry for acting. People that 
 didn't play the other games in the series because they were "too hard". It takes the a good formula 
 for a stealth game and put it into straight into battle. 
  
  I'm not saying that Commandos 2 didn't have battles, but they were few and far between to become 
 annoyingly hard... and this game just makes it 70% battle and 30% the signature stealth play. Just 
 by looking at the new game in the series, Strike Force, you can see the direction Pyro is taking.
 
  
  Anyway, I won't keep at that. Commandos 3 plays it safe with the rest of the features. Only in 
 the control department has a complaint coming from me: why the heck did they remap the buttons 
 in the keyboard? Stupid idea. 
  
  Unfortunately the Driver got scrapped from the game plan and the rest of the Commandos have to 
 do the driving themselves. That character was a really funny factor and I think the developers 
 regretted taking him out. Fins, on the other hand, is treated like a stinky fish and is only used 
 in one level in the game.
  
  Now, also, all of the Commandos can use grenades, gas grenades and some other specialized items 
 that were character specific before. This makes the characters feel more generic and with less 
 personality. Talking about personality, all of the characters got re-voiced and re-designed, so 
 if you got used to Sapper's look, he's kinda different now and the Duke is a whole other person...
 
  
  Level-wise, the game has three main hubs with specific levels each. In Stalingrad you'll help the 
 Russians protect the city; in Normandy, you'll help sabotage the German defense line and be put 
 right in the middle of battle and in Europe, you'll try to save precious works of art from the 
 Nazis. 
  
  The graphics are detailed as ever and look really good. The soundtrack is beautifully done and 
 as mentioned before, the voice acting has been changed.
  
  I have to admit that Commandos 3 really made me mad, because it took the formula that I loved and 
 thought it was perfect from Commandos 2 and changed it to suit a kind of gameplay that is really 
 saturated nowadays. Don't get me wrong, the game is as difficult if not more than previous games 
 - but the series was really a pennacle of improvement and innovation in the genre, and as it progresses, 
 it falls, unfortunately, to the favors of the majority.
  
  But if you like Commandos, this is still Commandos, you'll like it. But kiss the series good-bye 
 after this, at least kiss the style and personality. It's the last you'll ever see it unless Pyro 
 comes to its senses.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V_J
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Commandos 3 has been met with a lot of mixed reviews. Some like it while others don't. This isn't 
 the greatest game ever, but it is well worth the effort if your a big Commandos fan.
  
  The game revolves around 3 massive campaigns: 
  
  Stalingrad- The Commandos must defend Allied 
 General who holds some of the most top secret information regrading the war. Later you must kill 
 him when he discovered to be German spy.
  
  Central Europe- The Germans are loading train full of works of art they stole during their stay 
 in France. The Commandos must prevent the train from reaching German territory before the priceless 
 treasures are lost.
  
  Normady- The Allies are prepared to begin the liberation of Europe. Their starting point is on 
 the beaches of Normandy. The Commandos will move in advance to cripple German support in the area. 
 
  
  Commandos 3 continues the proud tradition of the series by being very diffucult. This is not the 
 type of game you can simply run through over the weekend. Every move you make requries careful 
 planning and precise timing. 
  
  Commandos 3 is a worthy game in the series. Good hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisalid
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  The combination of shooting and puzzle, with the commando game Pyro created eight years ago will 
 not suffer radical changes in this three act.
  You will not need to coordinate in each mission your elite soldiers thru enemy lines and is no 
 need to steal secret documents anymore.
  Pyro studios says this is the best chapter of the series until now because they decided to use 
 elements from early series which combined with some suggestion from the fans represent a gold mine 
 in game development.
  You will take your troops in three campaigns (Stalingrad, Normandy and central Europe) in a total 
 of over twenty missions.
  Among all this you will have to infiltrate into the heart of the Gestapo in Berlin.
  In Destination 
 Berlin the missions are linear but with the sculpted sequences Pyro brings salt and pepper to 
 the game.
  The graphics of the game are good, rich in detail this was realized with some good effects.
  In 
 Commandos 3 are few heroes but the have more abilities. The good thing you can put four characters 
 in battle (at the same time of course) .
  Many people say that Commandos isnt a true strategy game more like a puzzle game.
  Its very 
 important to under stand exactly what or when to do certain things.
  To succeed you will need hours even days of practice and playing the game.
  In Commandos Destination 
 Berlin the game is more alive, dynamic then its predecessors giving the possibility to the player 
 to end a mission in many ways.
  This is a good game and shouldnt be missed most for the fans of the series 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vezony
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 2, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  new changes , new places ,. new persons,.. that what makes it more effective than the previous 
 versions 
  
  The game is made up of three scenarios, Stalingrad, Normandy, and Berlin and the game has some 
 beautiful render backgrounds and some really amazing rain and snow effects. The games visuals and 
 sound look exactly as C2 and for some reason only known to Pyro the games is locked at 800x600 
 resolution. 
  
  The cinematic of the game are truly awesome, like when the Nazis are bombing Stalingrad, or and 
 a real memorable one is Hitler addressing his army in one of the Berlin missions, there is more 
 of a story to the game but for example the in Stalingrad you are protecting a Russian General he 
 betrays you and then you must kill him; but the plot is nothing memorable.
  
  but after all you'll enjoy the play ,.. the action ,. but always be carefull , the enemy is watching...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sting7000
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Having played series for over 7 years this was a natural purchase. While it lacks the depth of 
 Commandos 2 (and the difficulty) fans of the series will persevere. Its a love it or loath it relationship. 
 Those with no patience should avoid.
  
  The graphics are once again beautifully rendered 2D and the music and FMVs fit perfectly with the 
 fast paced action that you would associate with War films. The game also forces the user to co-ordinate 
 actions more than the previous 2 commandos. Frequent saves will guarantee you complete it in a 
 couple of days and maybe return to the more enjoyable missions afterwards.
  
  As with previous commandos it again tailors to the user where charge and blast tactics work for 
 most situations. If you are unsure which commandos to buy - get the second - it is a mamoth challenge. 
 Fans of the series should make Commandos 3 a definate purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonaManson
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  The Previous Commando Was a hit with me. This One is still a hit with me. lets get to the good 
 points first. Its a good looking game with all the makings of an RTS game. And they mostly got 
 the facts right. Sounds are a little soft but the music really plays up the moment and gameplay 
 is simple enough. Thats where the good part ends. First off, this probably the hardest game i've 
 ever played. Its so hard that i have not even finished playing pass the first few mission. Only 
 My brother has finished it and it took him quite a while. Its a Good Game But its Juz really hard. 
 A game worth to burn your time if you have the time. I have Yet to venture into the other levels 
 but from what i see from my brother playing, it is done very nicely and they pay a lot of attention 
 to small details. The game will make you want to try harder everytime you are killed and have to 
 restart. Again Not for those who are the kind who likes fast paced games and those who have no 
 patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_fuse2k5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Commandos 3 is a tactical action strategy game set against the backdrop of World War II where you 
 must take control of an elite group of Commandos as they venture deep into enemy territory. Commandos 
 3 aims to take the stunningly detailed graphics and absorbing gameplay of the series to a whole 
 new level. The game features an improved graphics engine, more realistic AI (artificial intelligence) , 
 and a greater variety of enemies and equipment. The structure of the game has been completely revamped; 
 it is no longer mission based and instead features a strong narrative that drives the player through 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tron6691
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:00 pm PT
Review:  this game is so so so so solid its flipping hard as heck..
  It takes some skills, seriously, the main point of the hardnes.
  is the lack of guns and fighting, 
 the game might aswell be called 
  '' stealth commandos 3'' because theres hardly no fighting 
  most of the missions are about planting 
 bombs to get the nazis attention.
  Its crap some times, but the online is well cool, so you might as well just buy it for the online, 
 because thats the fun you gona get out of it.
  
  crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random 
 crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random 
 crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random 
 crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random 
 crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random 
 crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random crap; Random 
 crap; Random crap; Random 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theRunninGamer
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 3:28 am PT
Review:  Despite it's upgraded graphical engine, Commandos 3 loses a lot of what made it so fun to play 
 Commandos games in the past. Many key shortcuts have been removed from the game, and there isn't 
 any way to return them. If you thought the missions in previous commandos games were hard, you 
 obviously haven't played Commandos 3. The missions in Commandos 3 are not only harder than Commandos 
 2 and the previous games, the lack of shortcut keys is sure to exasperate anyone having played 
 a previous Commandos game, making the missions much harder to complete in a timely manner.
  
  You'll get more Commandos action if you just go back and play Commandos 2 over again, maybe 
 with a buddy, as Commandos 3 doesn't have the previous games' cooperative multiplayer mode either. 
 A new competitive multiplayer mode emerges, and that might actually be the best feature this game 
 has. That's not saying a lot, either.
  
  Commandos 3 definitely has larger levels than the previous games, but that's not necesarily a good 
 thing, because even though it means more Germans to the slaughter, it also means more Germans to 
 the... killing me! The AI is essentially the same as it has been for the last four iterations of 
 the game, so not much has changed there. It's an admirable system for a stealth-action game, but 
 Commandos 3 doesn't really leave the stealth vs. action decision up to you. Specific tasks require 
 exact and specific maneuvers, whereas Commandos 2 I found to be more free form in terms of how 
 you choose to engage the enemy (I've laid more than a few good traps and staged a great number 
 of German bloodbaths in my time with Commandos 2) .
  
  Case in point: If you're thinking about playing Commandos 3, you're actually wanting to play Commandos 
 2, so don't waste your time thinking the 3 means it's better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake142
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  The commandos are back taking out the axis's in this game. The game is a stragetgy game and involes 
 you to use your mind, Its so hard i can't complete the third level! The graphics are good with the 
 interface displaying the charcters and the enviroment. The sound isn't anythig new so i won't talk 
 about that. The gameplay is fun but makes you keeping on trying again what really does get on my 
 nerves. Put together makes a great game so it is worth buying so what are you waiting for hit the 
 game stores to pick up this excellent game it is a must have for all PC owners, mission accomplished. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The missions in Commandos 3 are every bit as hard as they were in the previous titles and this 
 raises a key question for gamers: what's the difference between challenge and difficulty? Most 
 good game developers heed the unspoken corollary of that question, namely that designers shouldn't 
 be trying to beat the players; instead they should try to present missions that give players a 
 chance to overcome meaningful obstacles through planning and improvisation. That's what Commandos 
 3 has and that's what keeps me coming back for more.
  
  One thing that really sells Commandos is the sense of drama. I've been a fan movies like The Eagle 
 Has Landed, The Guns of Navarone and The Dirty Dozen and Commandos captures the essence of these 
 films perfectly -- a small group of specialists manage to win out over impossible odds. But though 
 it captures the tactical side of those films (which is the best part anyway) , the game fails to 
 deliver in terms of story and character. The actual commandos are more caricatured personalities 
 than actual people. Even their names have a slightly cartoonish quality (the green beret is named 
 Tiny, the diver is named Fins) that keeps me from taking the game as seriously as I might.
  
  But once the missions start, you won't even care about their names anymore. You'll be too busy 
 trying to hitch a ride on Nazi trains escaping with precious art treasures, or going head-to-head 
 with an enemy sniper in a bombed out Russian town or swimming into a harbor to sabotage U-boats 
 before the D-Day landings. These are just three of the twelve total missions available to you in 
 Commandos 3. This time around they're much tighter with some missions picking up literally where 
 the last mission left off.
  
  You'll need to negotiate each level (some are huge, others not so much) avoiding or eliminating 
 guards. You can watch their patrol patterns and check their line of sight to make sure you'll have 
 an opportunity to jump out, kill some guy and hide his body before someone else wanders along. 
 The game definitely rewards players who are patient enough to try a variety of solutions to particular 
 problems. Hell, I even replayed some missions right from the start once I figured out how I wanted 
 to proceed through them. In short, it's all about rehearsal. Though it would be great to have a 
 game that would allow you to improvise your assault right from the start and still have a chance 
 of winning, it simply couldn't provide the challenge that's available with the more unforgiving 
 approach here.
  
  But though you can't play on the fly here (as least not as easily as you could in a title like 
 Rainbow Six which shares the realism and planning focus of a game like Commandos) , there's plenty 
 of room for variety. Though their routes are scripted, the enemies do different things each time 
 you load the mission and can sometimes really surprise you by doing something new the sixth or 
 seventh time around. Having a guard suddenly turn left where he's always turned right can throw 
 a heck of a wrench in your plans.
  
  
  Wonderful though they are, you'll have your hands full enough without these small surprises. Your 
 team requires a fair bit of babysitting and there are plenty of commands you'll need to use to 
 keep them at their peak effectiveness. An auto-fire command really saves my ass here, letting me 
 focus on one squad member while others guard various approaches. Setting these covered arcs requires 
 a few too many clicks, quite honestly, but once you get the hang of the interface and the importance 
 of cover commands, you won't have too much of a delay between deciding on a course of action and 
 actually implementing it.
  
  Thankfully, the puzzle elements have been kept fairly simple this time around. About the most complicated 
 thing you'll need to do is put some sleeping pills in a steak and throw it at an enemy guard dog. 
 While it's not super-intuitive, it makes enough sense from a standpoint of gameplay. But given 
 the freedom you have, there are probably plenty of puzzle elements you'll never use. I, for one, 
 still haven't found a need to use the diver's grappling hook on the ship sabotage mission but I 
 haven't felt like I needed it for anything, so it's no great loss. (A worse crime is that the diver 
 only makes his appearance in one mission.)
  
  Apart from the poisoned dog food taking the form of a glowing green bone, I think Pyro's done a 
 great job with the graphics here. The 2D isometric view is kind of an old beast but it looks absolutely 
 fantastic here thanks to some first-rate art direction. The entire game has an illustrated quality 
 to it that perfectly fits the subject matter. (When I was a kid, I'd read and reread his old war 
 comics, so I kind of have that association going in to it. Still, others who weren't subjected 
 to Kurtzman and his ilk seem to feel the same way I do.) The environments are full of detail, from 
 little soldiers standing around smoking to solid sheets of rain that cascade down the length of 
 the screen. Character animations are also handled quite well.
  
  Pyro's added full 3D interiors to the game. Though it clashes a bit with the flat exteriors, it's 
 a nice direction. Most of the problems presented by the four-way camera (of which more in a minute) , 
 are eliminated with the freely rotating camera in the interiors. Architecture sometimes conspires 
 to hide areas from you which can be frustrating. There's some huge grey bar in my way when I peek 
 through a certain train car door. I still haven't been able to account for it. I also wonder why 
 the camera won't bump scroll on the interiors. Since it works on the exterior shots, it seems stupid 
 to have to switch to a different system for interiors, particularly since bumping the cursor against 
 the edge of the map doesn't seem to have any other use.
  
  If I had to find another flaw in terms of graphics, it would be that enemies aren't always displayed 
 conveniently. There's a great feature that lets you illuminate all the enemies in red (and you 
 can even see them through certain objects in the environment) , there are a few cases where enemies 
 aren't always as apparent as they ought to be. In some cases, they're simply right on the edge 
 of the map. Since the screen doesn't scroll all the way to the edge, there are some enemies that 
 you can only spot if the camera is just right. Even then you may find that you can only see their 
 feet. Camera orientation can also be a problem on maps with tall structures. Though you can see 
 the red outline of an enemy through, say, a water tower, you can't actually target them unless 
 you rotate the camera to get a clear view of them. And when I say "get a clear view" I'm speaking 
 of the player's view, not the character's.
  
  Soundwise, the score's the best thing about the game. It fits the mood perfectly and provides a 
 great backdrop that only heightens the action on screen. Things aren't quite as good when it comes 
 to effects. Though they're satisfactory overall, some of the weapon and explosion sounds seem a 
 bit on the weak side. The small unit acknowledgements can get a bit tiresome sometimes as does 
 the constant grunting your team emits every time they touch a ladder. Unh, climb, unh, climb, unh. 
 The accents of the squad are fairly broad, perhaps intentionally so -- then again, maybe that's 
 just how the rest of the world sounds if you're Spanish. The varied German utterances are a bit 
 better and add a lot of atmosphere and excitement to the game.
  
  This third version of Commandos has finally added multiplayer options to the mix and though we 
 think it's a great addition to the series and has a fair bit of potential, there's a lot of room 
 for improvement here. First up there's an almost total lack of documentation and support for the 
 feature. With this being the first multiplayer outing for the series, we hoped that the manual 
 would outline more than just the most basic of options.
  
  But after playing around in multiplayer, it's become kind of apparent that aren't really that many 
 varieties of multiplayer game types. You can play with the basic commando units, regular allied 
 soldiers or a combination of the two. In terms of game types, you can either play simple deathmatches 
 or capture the flag. In the flag capture mode, you'll only need to travel around and pick up the 
 flags scattered about the level to win.
  
  Other issues continue to frustrate. Thus far we've only been able to get the game up and running 
 on a LAN, for one. For some strange reason, that matches also don't seem to end on their own. Once 
 Dan killed all my guys (for the hundredth time) , we had to quit the match manually before restarting. 
 Since the allied soldiers aren't hotkeyed like the commandos, it can be hard to locate them from 
 time to time. It's great that the team has included the single player maps in multiplayer and it's 
 even better that they've included an option to switch your view from room to room.
  
  
  We tend to think that taking on the single player missions with a buddy or two would be a helluva 
 lot of fun. It certainly would present some real frustrations given the coordination of effort 
 required to pass some of the sequences, but, at the very least, adding a few objectives to multiplayer 
 would go a long way towards enhancing my enjoyment and strengthening the Commandos feel. Imagine 
 how much more fun these matches would be if one team had to protect a vehicle from destruction... or 
 assassinate a general the other team was tasked with protecting. The deathmatch and even flag capture 
 modes seem largely pointless when compared with the offline missions.
  
  
  Closing Comments
  It's easy to hate Commandos 3 purely on the basis of the difficulty level. 
 But that's also why we love the game so much. While no other franchise can present you with so 
 many seemingly insurmountable challenges, no other franchise is able to offer such a feeling of 
 accomplishment once the objectives are miraculously achieved. For most gamers it will come down 
 a matter of patience; if you're willing to put up with the frustration of frequently failing, the 
 missions offer some amazing opportunities to flex and refine your tactical skills. Once you've 
 succeeded, you'll find that the satisfaction lingers long after the glory of finishing other games 
 has faded. 
  
  Multiplayer seemed like a bigger deal before we actually got our hands on it. As it is, it adds 
 a little bit to the fun factor but falls short in terms of preserving the character of the game 
 and stumbles over a few technical hurdles as well. But as that's clearly not the main thrust of 
 the game, we're willing to cut Eidos and Pyro some slack here only because they've made such a 
 great single player game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 5, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Coming out almost two years after Men of Courage, Commandos 3: Destination Berlin released on October 
 14 of 2003 bringing back a lot of the feel of the older games, plus a new style both accepted and 
 not accepted by long time fans. Once again, the special group of men, known as the Commandos Corps. 
 are called upon to enter enemy territory of the Nazis and sabotage bases and make the path for 
 the Allies a little bit easier. Unlike the previous game where you were given the control of nine 
 characters, this time around youll only have six different commandos, but one of those, the diver, 
 will only be used during one mission. Does this make the game a little harder because of the different 
 unique specialties of some of the commandos? No, because Pyros Studios has broadened the skills 
 of each commando and given them each more abilities.
  
  Youll again be called upon to complete objectives throughout the maps in each mission, but this 
 time around the maps are slightly smaller and the objectives are less numerous, but the objectives 
 that you are given can be just as hard as completing six objectives from the previous game, so 
 dont get your hopes up thinking that youll breeze through this game. There are twelve missions 
 stretched across three campaigns that can be done in any order. There are also two tutorial levels 
 in the beginning which helps new and old players learn the new button configuration. Thats right, 
 the buttons are different from Men of Courage, and this time, you cant configure them, but there 
 are ways around this. A few Chinese fans put together the button configuration of Men of Courage 
 and its now able to be put into Commandos 3 so most of the buttons will be already known to you. 
 Not all buttons are the same, but learning the couple of new ones wont be as hard as learning 
 a whole new scheme of buttons. And like the games that came before in the Commandos series, you 
 wont be given every commando for each mission, theyll be spread out where youll need them, conveniently.
 
  
  The missions will spread across three campaigns known as Stalingrad, Central Europe, and Normandy. 
 In the three missions of the Stalingrad campaign, youll be pitted up against the best Nazi sniper, 
 hold off a Nazi invasion, and then have to break out of Berlin after you kill the traitor that 
 put you there. The storyline is nice to follow, but not the most illustrated; just small in-game 
 cut scenes between the commandos themselves. A frustrating part of this game can be where the missions 
 end, where in Commandos 2 you were given a short cinematic, in Commandos 3 youre give a Mission 
 Completed screen and then put back to the main menu. This can be upsetting since some of these 
 missions can be quite difficult. The Central Europe campaign, which consists of six missions, will 
 have the commandos trying to board a train full of priceless works of art and then holding off 
 a convoy of Nazis while they try to move the artwork across Europe. Once you think youre okay 
 and finally have the artwork in your position, its only taken away and youre left again to rescue 
 the priceless pieces. This can be easy and hard, because you have to try to not blow up trucks 
 which hold the art, so planning your strategy can be hard. The three Normandy missions are pretty 
 much where your commandos sabotage Nazi bases so that they cant bring reinforcements to the frontline. 
 Youll first be crippling a base where they store their tanks and armored vehicles, and then its 
 up to the diver in his only mission, to sabotage a couple warships in a Nazi dock. And then youre 
 left with Tiny, the Green Beret, who must lead the Allies across the beaches of Normandy and take 
 out the heavy artillery bunkers. All in all, the game can be considered shorter than its predecessor 
 because of the length of some of the missions which could only take under thirty minutes, where 
 Men of Courage maps almost always took at least an hour and a half. But there are some missions 
 where you wish you had more time, because youre not always given that convenience. One particular 
 mission has Tiny having to kill over thirty Nazis single-handedly so that he can move a truck off 
 the train tracks so that the train full of art can pass through. Youll be given fifteen minutes 
 which may seem like a lot, but having to stealthy kill most soldiers, youll be learning how to 
 attack more frequently at the right times.
  
  The game has an all new 3-D engine, giving the environment the commandos are in a more atmospheric 
 setting. Pyros Studios has added pixels to the commandos making them more detailed and now youre 
 given the ability to enter any building on screen. This is nice and gives the maps much more depth 
 as you can choose on how you want to enter buildings. Maybe you want your thief to climb up the 
 wall into the second story window and see if the floor is clear; then have him drop a ladder for 
 your other commandos to climb up. Or would you rather have your green beret slip into the building 
 silently taking out each Nazi on each floor or even have your sapper throw in some grenades from 
 the outside taking out enemies within. There are just many different ways to go about your different 
 objectives. With the endless possibilities of each mission, Commandos 2: Men of Courage has a lot 
 of replay value. And like its predecessors, if you click on the enemy, youll be given his line 
 of sight so that you might plan out your strategy on how to take him out, whether to creep up on 
 his backside or toss a pack of cigarettes out in front of him to distract him while you toss your 
 knife into his back. There are nicely done cinematic and in-game movies between each mission that 
 help you figure out your objectives, but youre always able to check the interface for different 
 objectives if you forget over the course of the enormous maps. Unlike Men of Courage, the commandos 
 in Destination Berlin dont have a lot of interaction with the environment, where before you could 
 interact with almost everything, youll be hard pressed to find a lot of things to interact with 
 which can be sad because of how much was available in the previous game where you could do almost 
 anything.
  
  The sound in the game is much the same as it always has been. A few new sounds have been added 
 for some of the effects in the game, but pretty much the same voice actors have been called back 
 for this installment. The theme song is nicely done and when in between campaigns finding out why 
 youre there, the music gives the player a sense of Commando flavor thats been in every game 
 so far.
  
  Commandos 3: Destination Berlin has a different multiplayer than its predecessor, where in Men 
 of Courage you could play the campaign missions cooperatively, Commandos 3 has a deathmatch type 
 game and also a collect the flag style game. These two modes dont give much lasting power to the 
 game itself because of the way that a single grenade could take out one side. Its more of a game 
 of chance than skill and connecting on to a multiplayer can be the hardest part of playing multiplayer. 
 It would have been nice to see Pyros Studios put the cooperative play into Commandos 3, but not 
 this time around.
  
  Overall Commandos 3: Destination Berlin is a worthy addition to the Commandos series. It truly 
 brings the feel of impossible odds to the player as they try to progress through each difficult 
 mission with only the help of a couple commandos. The addition of multiplayer modes is notable, 
 but not something to pride the game on. With the ability to play the game in different styles, 
 whether its by force or stealth, the player will have some replayabilty throughout the three campaigns 
 given over the nicely storyline of the game. Fans of the series wanting a new challenge will definitely 
 find it in Commandos 3, while newcomers will probably want to start off with one of the other Commandos 
 games, preferably Commandos 2: Men of Courage. Commandos 3: Destination Berlin is a game that you 
 make you think, act, and pray in each mission as you come through impossible odds, but the reward 
 of finishing the game is all one Commandos fan needs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flishkin
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 7, 2004 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I found this game extremely difficult; in fact I found it so difficult that I could not get past 
 the second mission. I continually have to reply missions over and over and as a result, the frustration 
 of clunky controls and really difficult game play quickly settle in. The training mission covers 
 the basics of the gameplay, but in order for you to actually make progress in the missions you 
 need to make use of features and tactics that are not dealt with in the training mission. The graphics 
 look great, but its a pity that you cant smooth rotate the view while outside. I simple did 
 not enjoy playing this game and if you did not enjoy the previous Commando releases, then this 
 one is definitely one to skip.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raxzor
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 24, 2003 5:55 am PT
Review:  I am a very seasoned Commandos player and have played the series from day one. I have completed 
 Commandos 2 over 33 times and just cant get enough. So here is my review of the latest Commandos 
 game.
  
  One of the first thing you will notice while playing Commandos 3 is the User Interface is different 
 from Commandos 2, but is not better. They have removed the Commandos heads from the top of the 
 screen for quick selection and know have to press the number on the keyboard of the Commando you 
 want. Also the briefing is very brief and most of the time you are unsure of what to do.
  
  Game play is very similar to the previous games, but one huge notable difference is that there 
 are some timed missions. You have to complete a mission under a certain time, usually around 10 
  15 minutes. This makes the game tedious, as you will be replaying the missions a number of times, 
 to try to get inside the time. This to me changes the game a lot and takes away an element of the 
 sit back and think about what you are doing part of the game. 
  
  In Commandos 2 every box, cupboard, draw and all other containers where searchable. Not in Commandos 
 3. The only thing searchable in this are the wooden crates, with a few weapons in them. Weapons 
 are rare to find in this game thats because it isnt really as challenges as C2, so you dont 
 need as many.
  
  The Driver and Natasha dont make an appearance and Fins the Diver is only in one mission. The 
 other Commandos are on top form and have some new abilities they can all drive know and the Sapper 
 has taken a lot of the Drivers arsenal.
  
  The game is made up of three scenarios, Stalingrad, Normandy, and Berlin and the game has some 
 beautiful render backgrounds and some really amazing rain and snow effects. The games visuals and 
 sound look exactly as C2 and for some reason only known to Pyro the games is locked at 800x600 
 resolution. 
  
  The cinematic of the game are truly awesome, like when the Nazis are bombing Stalingrad, or and 
 a real memorable one is Hitler addressing his army in one of the Berlin missions, there is more 
 of a story to the game but for example the in Stalingrad you are protecting a Russian General he 
 betrays you and then you must kill him; but the plot is nothing memorable.
  
  The game does make an enjoyable experience is a very good game, but it is not as good, fun or challenging 
 as Commandos 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shroony
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 20, 2003 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I am a die hard fan of the first two Commando games and I must say that the third installment in 
 the series does not do the Commandos name justice. Upon installing the game you will find that 
 the screen resolution is locked in 800x600! This has to be the worst idea ever, the only video 
 options are high detail or low detail. Furthermore, the control scheme, in my opinion, is horrible 
 and was designed much better in Commandos 2. The outdoor backgrounds are still top notch but with 
 the fully 3-d indoor enviroments stuck at 800x600 you will be noticing that "Tiny" acutally has 
 a few squares for a head. The indoor enviroments looked much better in Commandos 2 when I set them 
 to a high resolotion and you will be noticing that alot of things were done better in Commandos 
 2. Be aware Commandos fans, I think you would be better off playing Commandos 2 again!
  
  --Patrick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2003 3:59 am PT
Review:  Commandos 2 Men of Courage gave me more excitement than any other game!! Commandos 3 carries the 
 tradition of the Commandos line. The graphics has been very much improved but thought not spectacular, 
 but now with improved visual effects and high resolution textures. The sound is also nicely done. 
 The gameplay is good but I liked the traditional commandos set up like for example you have to 
 get the pistol, instead of getting it directly the pressing Q, while pressing Q you have to cyle 
 throught all the weapons you have and then select the pistol or whatever you like. But the Missions 
 are more suspence and awesome!!
  
  So any commandos or strategy game lover must have this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
