-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer Red Alert 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandconquerredalert2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 8,336 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 21, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Red Alert 2 offers lots of challenges and variety for real-time strategy players of all skill levels, 
 and it'll be particularly fun for fans of previous Command & Conquer games. 

 Command &amp; Conquer Red Alert 2 is the sequel to the popular 1996 spin-off of Westwood's definitive 
 real-time strategy game. The latest game in the successful series isn't a dramatic technological 
 improvement over any of its predecessors, and its hammy alternate-World War II setting borders 
 on being tasteless. However, Red Alert 2 is a very polished game that combines tried-and-true play 
 mechanics with enough new features, improvements, and enhancements to make it both an excellent 
 sequel and a great real-time strategy game in its own right.   

  Red Alert 2 retains many of the conventional mechanics established and reused in the various Command 
 &amp; Conquer real-time strategy games. As with its predecessors, Red Alert 2 encompasses most 
 all of the elements that define the genre. You view the action from an isometric perspective typical 
 of most other 2D real-time strategy games, and you play using most of the same exact controls from 
 previous Command &amp; Conquer episodes. The formula still works just fine - you can easily select 
 and move your groups of units, which generally do a good job navigating the game's environments. 
 Red Alert 2 doesn't offer any especially advanced options for your units - for instance, you can't 
 move or array your troops in preset formations, and you can't order your troops to automatically 
 scout or return for repairs and such. But it's just as well, because the units are autonomous in 
 more important ways - they're good about automatically acquiring enemy targets, and they're generally 
 responsive to orders, if only because the game itself plays very smoothly.   

  Even so, you might initially have some trouble directing your attacks, because it can be difficult 
 to see incoming enemy units on the game's minimap, especially at higher resolutions. Also, when 
 you set units to battle groups, the number corresponding to the group appears a little too large 
 next to each unit; it can almost eclipse some of the smaller infantry. These minor problems may 
 take getting used to, while most other aspects of Red Alert 2's interface just make the game more 
 accessible and more rewarding as you get better at it. For instance, you can set waypoints for 
 several groups of units and thereby conduct these groups simultaneously, though doing so might 
 not always be viable in the heat of battle.   

  Though the right-hand vertical interface bar in Red Alert 2 will seem instantly familiar if you've 
 played a Command &amp; Conquer game before, you'll soon find that this particular interface is 
 actually much better. The lower portion of the interface, which is used for building all the various 
 units and structures available to your faction, is divided under four tabs: You click on the respective 
 production tab to see all your available base infrastructure, base defenses, infantry units, and 
 vehicle units. This division makes it easy to quickly find the right unit or structure you want 
 to build. Red Alert 2 also lets you queue up multiple units for production, set rally points, and 
 customize the keyboard hotkeys to your preference.   

  The interface also introduces what's a fairly significant change - and what's a fairly significant 
 improvement - to the way that this Command &amp; Conquer plays. You can generally build only one 
 type of thing at a time under each production tab, though there are exceptions, as you can build 
 land, sea, and air vehicles all at once from the vehicles tab. However, you can also build from 
 any and all of the tabs simultaneously. Previous Command &amp; Conquer games restricted you to 
 having to build only one type of structure at a time, which meant that as you built up your stationary 
 base defenses, including walls and gun turrets, you'd have to forego building new facilities that 
 unlock the strongest units. However, in Red Alert 2, you can build structures and defenses simultaneously. 
 This change actually goes a long way toward making the gameplay even more fast-paced, since you 
 can - and should - now oversee the production of base infrastructure as well as defenses all at 
 once. This also makes the resource management aspect of Red Alert 2 even more interesting, since 
 you need to balance your resources more carefully.   

  You need to harvest your resources from mineral patches by using special mining vehicles, as in 
 all other Command &amp; Conquer games. While the real-time strategy genre has recently seen a backlash 
 against resource management elements - tactical combat games that completely exclude resource management 
 have become quite common - the resource gathering in Red Alert 2 is actually an interesting part 
 of the game. On one level, it's very simple - as soon as you build a refinery, its miner vehicle 
 immediately and automatically sets out toward the nearest mineral patch. The miners are fast and 
 efficient as they go about their business - and for the first time in a Command &amp; Conquer game, 
 and perhaps for the first time in any real-time strategy game, your miners aren't a complete liability. 
 Actually, the mining vehicles are distinctly different between the game's Allied and Soviet factions 
 - the Allied miner instantly teleports back to its refinery as soon as it's full. If you need to 
 rescue it in a pinch, you can also make it teleport back to base at will. The Soviet miner is more 
 self-reliant; it's heavily armored, and it packs a powerful machine gun that can shred groups of 
 infantry and light vehicles. Neither of these vehicles is susceptible to early-game attacks that 
 might otherwise cripple a player's economy before he could assemble a sizable force.    

 The distinction between these two units also helps show the differences between the Allied and 
 the Soviet sides in general. Many of the units available to the two evenly matched factions are 
 not only very different, but also quite original. For instance, the Soviets have a small, spiderlike 
 robotic unit that quickly burrows into enemy armored vehicles and starts to rip them apart from 
 the inside. The Allies have a specialized infantry unit, the Chrono Legionnaire - it can teleport 
 anywhere on the map, and its weapon can literally erase other units and structures out of time. 
 Such units may sound powerful, and, in fact, they definitely are. Actually, most units in Red Alert 
 2 are very strong, which makes the combat satisfying; the arsenal of available land, sea, and air 
 units isn't exhaustive, but there's enough variety, and more than enough raw firepower, to make 
 the battles quite spectacular. The fact that the units are generally so strong also reveals another 
 element of Red Alert 2's design: The battles usually don't last long. A small platoon of Soviet 
 apocalypse tanks can easily decimate a lightly defended enemy base. And that's nothing compared 
 to the two sides' respective superweapons, the Soviet nuclear missile and the Allied weather control 
 device - these attacks can level an entire enemy installation. The impending danger of these attacks 
 - all players are notified whenever one of these weapons is being prepared - will cause you to 
 try to play Red Alert 2 very aggressively, which makes the game seem even more intense.   

  The game looks better than last year's Tiberian Sun, but similar. For the most part, the graphics 
 in Red Alert 2 are colorful and detailed. But the tiny units can sometimes be difficult to distinguish 
 from one another, especially if you play the game in the highest resolution of 1024x768. Each unit 
 audibly confirms whenever you select it or tell it to move, and though each one sounds different, 
 some of the speech is repetitive and will start to wear on you. Or you'll start to ignore it. Red 
 Alert 2's soundtrack is a departure from previous Command &amp; Conquer games, whose technoindustrial 
 music is replaced mostly with straightforward heavy-metal guitar riffs in this installment. Fortunately, 
 you can control the volume for the sound effects, speech, and music independently.   

  Red Alert 2 features a campaign for both the Allies and the Soviets, in addition to a short optional 
 tutorial. The campaigns span a dozen missions each, and they won't take too long to finish; but 
 they offer a lot of variety, and they're generally of very high quality. The densely populated 
 urban settings of many of the battles are far more interesting than the flat plains and desert 
 settings typical to most real-time strategy games - you can actually garrison your troops in various 
 buildings and lay claim to neutral structures such as hospitals and airports. Full-screen, full-motion 
 video sequences show the continuing story in between each mission. These sequences are self-consciously 
 silly; they're so tongue-in-cheek that you might just as soon dislike them if you're used to taking 
 games more seriously. Nevertheless, the video sequences are well made and generally amusing, and 
 you might recognize some of the actors and appreciate some of the performances, like the creepy 
 Udo Kier in the role of the Soviet psychic, Yuri.   

  You'll want to play through both campaigns, but Red Alert 2's real lasting value is in its great 
 multiplayer mode. The game offers several different multiplayer variations, in addition to options 
 for disabling superweapons and more. In multiplayer (and also in a skirmish match vs. the computer) , 
 you actually choose a specific nationality rather than just the Allied or the Soviet faction, and 
 this choice essentially just gives you access to a particular unit unique to that side. For instance, 
 the Russians have a tesla tank that uses a powerful electric attack, while the British have a deadly 
 sniper. It's very simple to find an opponent online - the fully integrated player-matching service 
 in Red Alert 2 can actually pit you against a random opponent if you use the quick-match option. 
 Otherwise, you can chat with other players looking to play, check to see if your friends are also 
 playing online, compete in ladder matches for a better ranking, and more. The game even has a series 
 of cooperative multiplayer missions, as well as the world domination tour mode in which players 
 engage in a persistent territorial conflict. Multiplayer Red Alert 2 plays smoothly and seems stable 
 over a fast Internet connection.   

  In spite of its premise - a world war - Red Alert 2 is lighthearted. From the humorous full-motion 
 video sequences to the heavy-metal music to the toylike unit designs, the game has much more in 
 common with G. I. Joe than with Saving Private Ryan. Regardless of whether or not you enjoy this 
 style, you're likely to find that Red Alert 2 is actually a very good game, from its interface 
 to its play mechanics to its multiplayer mode. It's not the most visually impressive real-time 
 strategy game available this year, but it's among the most enjoyable to date. Red Alert 2 offers 
 lots of challenges and variety for real-time strategy players of all skill levels, and it'll be 
 particularly fun for fans of previous Command &amp; Conquer games.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (177 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of RTS games in my life and I Have played the new EA games. I have to admit 
 that C&C 3 actually supprised me.
  It wasn't revolutionary but it was fun. I was horrified when I played Red Alert 3 however. How 
 can they take the best controls I have ever seen in any RTS and spit out this garbage. And gamespot 
 reviewed RA3 higher than RA2. I have seen a lot of bad reviews on Gamespot but this is downright 
 stupidity. Gamespot go back and play through RA2 and tell me this new trash is better. I think 
 not.
  I don't know what you people are smoking but it must be made by EA. I am starting to think you 
 are on EA's payroll.
  I wouldn't give two cents worth for Redalert 3 let alone what they are asking. It sickens me to 
 see what you have done with the Red Alert license. It is a slap in the face of what was Westwood. 
 God I miss them. Westwood was awesome. They truly were the king of the RTS genre. I look forward 
 to the day that a game better than Red Alert 2 is made. Sadly that day has not come yet and it 
 definitely is not Red Alert 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VXCOM
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:00 am PT
Review:  Its just amazing how WestWood make it and now EA... with a great unit balance... the creativity... even 
 the graphic are just 2D its mean classic but in a special way.... its are game goes back then.. its 
 just awesome...
  In a Story single player mode its that with awesome movie....3D animation plus great Actors.... the 
 story mode is awesome.. even its abit cheesy but its just how make RA2 special....
  In Skirmish is choosing your own troops and special unit to support your strategy....... so its 
 just full of great idea... and a weird super weapon (Lightning Storm) and conventional super weapon 
 (Nuke)
  People like to choose they favorite country and RA2 have it.. with every country have own true specialty 
 to outcome your enemy and i really love the Soundtrack of this game a very innovative kind of mood 
 when u play it... makes u think and how to use your strategy
  and win...
  this game its just awe you in many way... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K-lord
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The Red Alert 2 brings you to cold war situation with new features. Basically the game gives us 
 two different countries [Americans & Russians] with unique units to eaxh side. And two campaigns 
 with a fine storyline. Air crafts, Ships, Submarines, Land vehicles, Infantry,
  all kinds of combat features with unique superpowers [Iron curtain, Che-rno mashing....] make the 
 game more aned more
  exi-table. Units gain promotions along the battle, and they become more and more effective in battlefield. 
 Leading a well
  experienced army with tactics and strategies is the key to victory. And the skirmish mode allows 
 you to manege your battlefield eith Allys and enemies as you eish. No doubt you eill like it. Although 
 it is old, OLD IS GOLD. Play and see.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemonfaceghlor
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game has ruled my PC for years now. THis (i think) was the last C&C game that Westwood did 
 before EA decided to ruin the franchise. Problems playing on Vista sometimes (to fix 1 that says 
 ***fatal error*** just right click and use 'run as administrator', should fix any problems with 
 it) but still epic.
  Truly, if your an RTS fan, or just an ordinary gamer, then you MUST have heard of C&C before, then 
 you MUST play it to believe its awesomeness.
  The units are creatively designed, and have an array of abilities that aren't apparent at first 
 sight (such as the tesla trooper powering up tesla coils) , but by far the most cool (and frustrating 
 if allies are your enemy) is the Mirage Tank... it disguises itself as a tree when motionless... 
 now THATS creative!
  The Allies campaign is relatively easy (compared to the Soviet campaign) IF you know what your 
 doing. (i have never finished the final Soviet level) but even so, fans of RTS will never be dissapointed 
 by the classic C&C games (classic = before EA ruined everything) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevs2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  Hi.
  I'm Kevs2.
  I am here to tell you that "Command and Conquer Red Alert 2" Is awesome.
  It may be a little 
 hard at first for experts and new people to strategy games.
  I say that the beginning movie is awesome, but it's better now because you don't have to watch 
 it every single time you get on the game now.
  You only don't have to watch it if you have 1.0006 patch.
  I think this game has good graphics.
 
  They are good graphics for one of the older Command and Conquer games.
  I would recommend this game to anyone who likes strategy games.
  It is a little tricky to get 
 the controls at first.
  But when you play it for a longer time it gets easier.
  So when you are looking for an awesome computer game to pass time,
  Think red alert 2.
  Anyway 
 I am going to keep talking about this game in the forums and maybe
  add some cheats or something like that.
  The only thing that is bad in this game is when you 
 can't beat certain people
  because they have too strong of special units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron_zealot7531
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  8 years later and Red Alert 2 is easily still the best Command and Conquer game ever made. With 
 2 awesome campaigns, just the right amount of campy fun, and an insanely addictive multiplayer 
 Red Alert 2 is a game that deserves a permanent home in any real-time strategy fan's collection.
 
  
  Generals, Tiberium Wars, and Red Alert 3 are by no means bad games, but they have all failed to 
 capture the perfectly balanced and strucured strategy of this classic. No other RTS has come close 
 to matching the frantic yet strategically nuanced gameplay presented in Red Alert 2. It's still 
 going strong online and shows no signs of slowing down in the near future.
  
  All superlatives aside, this game absolutely must be experienced by anyone who missed it the first 
 time around who considers themselves even a minor RTS fan. 
  
  Perhaps a future Command and Conquer game will eventually dethrone RA2 as the king of the series, 
 but if the last few games have been any indication, we might have a quite some time to wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shape-shiffter
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game is not for the faint of hearts it takes a TRUE gamer to really command and conquer. The 
 story line is a bit tricky but once u understands it the game becomes highly addictive. Trust me 
 you well stay awake at night thinking over tactic and ways to take the other guy down. If you're 
 not a fast thinker and have trouble making quick decisions then this may not be the right game 
 for you but I still encourage everyone to play this game it will help sharpen your mind and increase 
 the speed at which you make decisions. Don't mind the violence it is not all that visible and therefore 
 not all that bad. But don't let this full you it is still not for the faint of hearts. I think 
 this game should be given more recognition as a hard core online or net work game. Red Alert is 
 right up there with halo, madden, star craft and other online games. This game truly ROCKS!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  If you are in for some really tough strategy then you have come to the right place. Red Alert2 
 is one of the toughest games I've ever played. A very very agile AI makes quick work of novice 
 strategy players.
  
  The gameplay is very simple. Click to select, click to attack, click to move, double-click to deploy 
 and right-click to deselect. This however gives a lot less flexibility with the mouse and hence 
 there might a minor calibration problems for gamers who have shifted over from games like Age of 
 Empires or Warcraft 3. The game houses two groups or camps (not civilizations, as many of the guys 
 ask me) - Allied and Soviet..
  
  The story states that Einstein built a time machine and traveled back to the past to prevent Hitler 
 from causing the second world war. As a result of his persuasion Hitler stepped down and History 
 changes and gave rise to a new dimension, where Russia led the 2nd War and numerous ground-breaking 
 technologies have altered the level of warfare from guns to Tesla coils and Prism Tanks.
  
  The AI is very tough to play against, even in the easy mode. I saw a novice get washed away in 
 just over 3 minutes. In the campaign full scale nuclear strikes begin within about 6 minutes.
 
  
  So all the tough knuckles who think they are the best at strategy - beat this game at hardest and 
 then come to tell the tale. I have played the game almost a thousand times and am now on the verge 
 of taking the army by surprise. In the first half of these games I played in the hardest, all I 
 tried was not to be taken by surprise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_06
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  IMMERSIVE GAMEPLAY makes it enjoyable and entertaining.
  PRETTY GOOD VISUALS add a war like environment to the game.
  A good number of factions makes 
 the game still more alluring, with each one having their own special units.
  I like the sound effects too-especially the music.
  
  Red Alert is a game where the Allies 
 fight the Soviets with odd weapons and technology. Each side has a number of factions with their 
 own unique units. Both the sides sport two superweapons. The game also features combat in all three 
 spheres - land, air and water. Naval combat is something rarely seen in the CnC universe - with 
 CnC Generals and CnC Tiberium Wars lacking naval units. Its an excellent game for inexperienced 
 RTS players and introduces you to some features of the modern CnC games. You can play the campaign 
 either with the Allies or with the Soviets, thus making the campaign a long and enjoyable one. 
 Skirmish games are also very interesting, especially when the feature a number of good maps. Overall 
 its a good experience. If you don't believe, try it out yourself.
  
  RATING
  
  Gameplay-9
  Graphics-9
  Sound-9 
  Value-9
  Tilt-9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endtype
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  This game is my favorite RTS ever. Well one reason is that it has such a nostalgic effect because 
 i used to play this with my friends via LAN. I've had so many good times with this game. Not too 
 complex and not too simple. The perfect balance. It tops Starcraft in my books because Red alert 
 2 isn't mindless. Every moment is a blast, and it lets you play at your pace, not conforming to 
 a faster or slower pace. I suggest to anyone holding a LAN party. Even though this game is kind 
 of old...
  
  The Game also comes with 2 discs... so if you DID want to play LAN, one copy of the game takes care 
 of two people playing. The discs only differ in campaign. One disc for allies, and the other is 
 for the bad guys (whose name I've forgotten... duded with Yuri basically) BTW yuri looks like stalin (or 
 lennon... i don't rememerb) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineruler
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Great game with fun campaign and great units.
  This is the best Command and Conquer game ever and even the best rts game.
  The campaign is 28 
 witch take about 6 hours to beat they also have a lot of high quality Full Motion Videos to make 
 the story better.
  The units are great, units like the terror drone and the bomb dropping kirov airship, mirage tanks, Yuri 
 a guy with mind-control abilities.
  Also superweapons make the gameplay more intense like The Weather Control Divice wich generates 
 an storm above the enemy's base, And the nucleat missile.
  The building are also cool like cloning vats, prism towers, tesla coils and al kinds of factories.
 
  The resource gathering is easy, you must gather ore or gems and bring them to the refinery and 
 you can also capture oil pumps. 
  The Skirmish is fun againts the computer but againts other humans is even more fun.
  
  Any 
 rts fan should try this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  the one of most best strategy game, with original RTS gameplay and a unique units can u play. with 
 variety map will fun for Command & Conquer fans.
  
  =gameplay=
  
  there are many fraction u can choose in skirmish, but u can only choose two fraction in story campaign. 
 u can play as a america, or soviet fraction. in story campaign u must allow the story map, and 
 u must win the game to open the next story map. gameplay of red alert 2 very familiar like CnC 
 others series, use the mouse and left click to choose army or right click to set target area. between 
 two fraction have a unique units u can built. such as america have a chronos tank who can spy himself 
 like tree. or in soviet there are yuri's who can controled enemy unit. each fraction also have 
 best technology, like soviet who have nuclear silo, or america with wheather silo. but if u like 
 strong units with stronge energy u must choose soviet, and if u like high technology with spy and 
 unique units u must choose america. depend on u style to win the game.
  
  =graphics=
  
  the units drawed detail, with contrast color, make the game enjoy to play. and the original soundtrack 
 who can raise up your spirit to play herdest. but no variety soundtrack i hear. that will boring 
 u in a few times. the game can run in windows 98, 2000, NT, even XP. no much high hardware to play 
 this game. enough in minimuum requirements u an play the game. 
  
  =all performance=
  
  it's very good to hear that the third series of red alert series released this year. i hope the 
 third series most better than the sequel after 8 years. yeah i will hope so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  When it comes to a genre that's been done back to Kingdom Come, it's hard for a game to stand out 
 on the shelves. Indeed, Command and Conquer is such a large series that it can eclipse itself, 
 and that's not to mention StarCraft, Total Annihilation, Dark Reign, and all of the other excellent 
 RTS games that came out at the time. After Tiberium Sun and its expansion pack had been released 
 roughly two years before to thunderous applause, what was EA to do?
  
  Make a sequel to Red Alert, of course, which was one of the pioneers of the RTS genre! Red Alert 
 1 was a fantastic game for the time, taking innovations already created by Command and Conquer 
 Original and even Dune II by concocting a fun, colorful game that didn't try too hard to reinvent 
 anything. Red Alert 2 fulfills that promise by keeping the gameplay polished - but not too complex 
  and not taking itself too seriously along the way.
  
  How does a game stand out? Presentation. RA2 is a great example of the presentation making the 
 game, giving the experience a very distinct  and often funny  personality. Cutscenes are everywhere, 
 even on the battlefield, and feature live-action actors. Approximately half of the two-disc set 
 that RA2 is delivered on is set aside for this video, and it shows; while it's not DVD quality, 
 the videos are very professional and well done. They're also laugh-out-loud funny and refuse to 
 fall out of character, parodying a lot of what EA had just done with Tiberium Sun. Even the installer 
 for the game is dressed up for the part with a slide show.
  
  The story is delightful 1960's fluff thrown around with a few sci-fi paradigms to make an excellent 
 excuse to select some units and blow up some Soviet commies. After the Soviets took control of 
 Europe through brute force and trickery by a mysterious psychic known as Yuri, the US finally had 
 to come to the rescue after the enemies attack the Eastern shore. From there the game doesn't really 
 bother to pace itself or give up a good story until the end and in the expansion pack, Yuri's Revenge. 
 The rest is fluff, an excuse to blow stuff up. But it's good fluff.
  
  And that sums up the entire game, as well. The gameplay is good, but not excellent, Real Time Strategy. 
 Any player familiar with RTS games will slip in comfortably, but that's not a barrier to newbies 
 in any way; the first few missions are a cakewalk and introduce a lot of what sets the Command 
 and Conquer franchise apart. Objectives are usually simple but keep the player interested and mildly 
 amused, and set the difficulty well. Once the story gets settled and the gags start flying, the 
 battle becomes more engrossing and challenging.
  
  However, the gameplay never feels as polished as Total Annihilation or StarCraft, which are toned 
 very distinctly to balance and strategy. In RA2, one type of unit can dominate if there are enough 
 of them, which is a poor flaw that halts all strategic processing. The AI, while decent, just can't 
 help the fact that the game isn't as deep as some of the other competitors. While this is a common 
 flaw with Command and Conquer games, it never detracts from the experience in RA2 for some reason. 
 While it is superficial on some level, it's still a fun game and is rather challenging at some 
 parts. The team that made RA2 knew what they were doing with the campaign.
  
  And it's still an RTS game through and through, keeping any player on their toes at many key points. 
 The missions vary depending on what circumstances the story has thrown the player in, and while 
 some may sound like a grueling task many of them turn out to be an interesting puzzle. Even flat 
 out "kill the enemy" missions are less of a drag than in previous Command and Conquer games (to 
 a certain extent) .
  
  The presentation beyond the movies is pretty well done, too. The game looks nice enough, with a 
 healthy selection of resolutions that other games (StarCraft) left out for "competitive" reasons. 
 The screen typically looks bright and distinct, offering quick and easy strategic information based 
 on the units themselves. The music is typical Command and Conquer fare, sporting a smattering of 
 quality tracks surrounded by mediocre guitar pseudo-military nonsense. And the voice-work follows 
 the cutscenes to the tee, offering entertaining voice samples to identify units by.
  
  Is this game worth owning? Absolutely. It didn't reinvent the wheel and it didn't craft an entire 
 genre behind it, but nonetheless it's a colorful and humorous battle through many inventive areas 
 and interesting circumstances. While not without it's problems, RA2 delivers very well on it's 
 promise to bring back, with presentation and uncluttered gameplay, the classic Command and Conquer 
 RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Yes Red Alert 2, I remember the days where I used to sit hours upon hours just playing this great 
 game. 
  
  Soviets invade and you need to fight them back, what more could you want to be honest.
  
  Story 
 mode is excellent and when put together with the live action moves brings the whole world of C&C 
 to life, like they always do. Basically you need to kill off the Soviets in the Allied story and 
 vise versa. Very well designed and very well played out, simply a fantastic game.
  
  Visuals now are really crap but this really shouldnt put people off from playing, like they say 
 its the gameplay that counts not the graphics, but this is like what, only 40% true?
  Anyway this game is to good to be judged by its looks, still an outstanding game that will live 
 on for more years to come.
  
  I have said this before and I will say it once more. Hell March is the best game theme song EVER 
 made. Both versions are outstanding and simply just the best.
  
  With an outstanding soundtrack and story mode this is a game that will go down in history as one 
 of the best RTS games of its generation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: privetdan00014
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  It just started when my big fat liar friend told me to install Red Alert 2, in this case I'm not 
 familiar with it back then, he showed me the tutorial, and... that's it?! That's it?! That's easy! 
 But, the skirmishes are not that easy! Just the missions. For the gameplay... It's awesome, that's 
 all! Graphics are pretty cheesy, but it looks better than the first Command and Conquer! The units 
 have their own strengths and weaknesses, such as the Prism Tank (I'm talking about a single unit) , 
 it can take down infantry in a flash, but it takes a lot of time for tanks. There are 2 factions 
 or sides, Allied and Soviet, actually, I'm with the Soviets (heheheh!) , evil as they may seem, 
 they're still pretty weak, but not "conscript weak". This is also the reason I like Russians, they 
 rule... ha! It's like I'm hit by the Psychic Beacon (thanks a lot Yuri!) . Anyway... The game also 
 has its own weaknesses, such as the repetitive voice over by the vehicular units, the hero units 
 can't take down tanks and vehicles, and the Kirov pisses me off whenever it spins for a new target. 
 For the game's strengths, the in-game movies are unique (who would have thought of women as Intel 
 Officers!) , acting is good (the Lieutenants probably spent in the studio most of the time) . The 
 gameplay rocks, every country has special units, and it works on most computers. By that, I give 
 it a 10 out of 10, perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishh
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Relaxing game from back in the day, that provided the foundation for one of the RTS brand leaders. 
 Unfortunately westwood studios got overkilled by EA. Given the opportunity who will EA not take 
 over?
  
  The missions are very basic to begin with and progressively become more challenging. The internet 
 and multi-player provides the extra life of the game after completing the campaign mode. With only 
 two factions to choose from it some times feels limited..... but multiplayer does provide the extra 
 resources independent to which country you choose.
  
  This game appeals to all ages but although graphically now seems very 2D, it is something that 
 has added to its charm and chemistry to success. But the retro look may not appeal to all.... considering 
 we are now in the age of HD and 3D. 
  
  All in all, if you played this game in the past and enjoyed it.... then you wouldnt have any problems 
 flipping the CD back in to enjoy those good old days where games were fun without having the best 
 dialogue or visuals.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkieDonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The Game-play:
  The game-play is amazing because first of all you can choose 2 armies and in each army there are 
 alot of buildings, soldiers, Tanks and everything you can wish from a real-time strategy. There 
 is a veriaty of missions in both sides americans and the soviets. The soviet have better tanks 
 and as you can see in the picture they have deadly "ballons", while on the other hand the americans 
 have superior soldeirs intel and better airplanes but weaker sea units. Overall both armies are 
 good and both are playable.
  
  Graphics:
  Of course now the graphics for us will look ugly but back then the graphics was the best of his 
 kind and even now i must say the graphics are not as good as the new games but the graphics are 
 clean and nicely done. I can see myself playing the game even now.
  
  Sounds and videoclips: 
  Like each game in the command & conquer the game has a great sound tracks 
 and those funny videoclips that you just must see, this could be the only reason to buy the game! 
 
  
  Difficulty:
  When you're playing with the americans it's easier than with the soviets in the champgian, but 
 the mission with the soviets are much more intersting and you will be very pleased from the missions. 
 When you play in skrimish mode you can choose 3 types of difficulty: easy, normal, hard in easy. 
 The easy mode is pretty cool for begginars and normal mode is just fine but when you're changing 
 the difficulty to hard it's just not normal (HAHA NORMAL DID YOU GET IT?) or should i say the games 
 AI is just cheating but you still can win.
  
  Time Spent:
  That depends on how much time you would like to spend, i think 10-20 hours are just fine for all 
 the things you want to do. However many people like this game so much that they may spend alot 
 more than you may think.
  
  Value:
  You can buy the game for a very low price in EBAY or find it in stores but the prices tag is so 
 low you won't beleive it . it's about 5 dollors$ but if you're so cheap you can download the game 
 from veriaty of places.
  
  Grpahics:8
  
  Game-play:10
  
  Time Spent: - (Depends)
  
  difficulty: 8
  
  sound:10 
  
  value:10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnson121314
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  I like to use soviet because they can build nuclear missile. That missile can do a lot of damage 
 to all the buildings, tanks and soldiers. Also can build Tesla reactor at lower price. They can use 
 iron curtain to make the tanks unbeatable. When I build 10 demolition tanks. And then use iron curtain. I 
 can beat the enemy base in no time!!!!! I also like the cloning vat. When i capture the allied barrack. I 
 build many G. I. s. Then I put them all staight to the cloning vat. I will get more money then before. This 
 cheat haven't post in red alert 2 cheats. But I still use it. The charater I like most is Yuri Prime. He 
 can control peoples and buildings. I always use Yuri Prime when I am going to destroy the enemy's 
 base. This game is good. And the quality is very good. That is the reason that I like this game very 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  command and conquer red alert 2 is a sci fi real time strategy from westwood. The story is that 
 the soviets mount a surprise attack on america using all their military and the usa must stop them. You 
 can choose which side you want to be soviets or usa and they both have a special infantry so help 
 in battle, the usa has tanya that can kill any infantry in seconds and put a c4 on a building to 
 blow it up in a second, the soviets have boris who can call in a airstrike with his laser pen, The 
 story is told by full motion video cutscenes which are acted out briliantly and tell the story 
 really well. apart from the campaign theres skirmishes were you choose a map and what country you 
 want to be then you start The loading times are a bit long but you wont mind, you start of with 
 a construction yard and some units and your objective is to build and big base and destroy the 
 other enemys on the map theres quite a variety of units including giant blimps, and dogs, and squids, and 
 tesla coils which zap people. The graphics arent that good but its funny seeing a whole base on 
 fire with people on fire rolling on the ground and the sounds good with nice voice acting. if youve 
 not got a high end pc or like classics you should really consider getting this
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 7 - Classic Russian Red Army invading America only acted out with real people as the 
 cut-scenes. 
  
  Graphics/Physics: 7 - New videos and New graphics are make the game-play much more entertaining
 
  
  Sound: 8 - Great sound during videos and decent sound during game. Classic music as usual.
  
 
  Environment/Maps: 9 - Great maps and campaigns that don't take a life time to finish nor are they 
 to quick to remember. Campaigns are just right in length and style.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 7.5 - Installation of the game takes an unusual amount of time to finish 
 even on quad core systems. No flaws or bugs during gameplay that I could find.
  
  Interface: 8.5 - Very easy to use interface and menu. Game doesn't have any unsusual controls. 
 Very fun and quick adaptable to play.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8 - Meets all expectations from the original. Not enough differences in gameplay to make 
 it as good though. Great online play and great re-playable value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9/10
  Red Alert 2 has great gameplay. Better then any C&C out there probably. Why you ask? There is a 
 massive ammount of units, 8 different teams with special units, great maps, the coolest building 
 ideas, and tons of unique maps. Some of the cool ideas in RA 2 are: The Soviet Cloning Lab, which 
 gives you a copy of the same unit you built out of the barracks, The Alliance Crono Technology, 
 there are 3 units with these abilitys, crono legioneers, crono commandos, and the alliance harvester. 
 This technology allows units to teleport places, but if you teleport to far, they have to stop 
 and rebuild. There are also spies, which aren't that new but you can put them in enemy buildings 
 and get there technology, or get super units like the Yuri Leader or the crono commandos.
  The single player mode has some really fun missions, but most of them are repetitive and stale 
 from previous C&C games. The online mode is definatly a winner. You get a group of friends to get 
 the game, and go online and play for hours. There are tons of people online, so you can always 
 play with people.
  Beyond that, RA2 is a standard RTS. But, most RTSs have the same structure, and that's a good thing 
 because you don't want to change the whole structure and destroy the game. (*Cough* C&C Renegade 
 *Cough*)
  
  Visuals - 6/10
  The visuals are nothing great. They are better then those of previous RTSs, but still not spectacular. 
 The units and terrian still look basic from the first RA. The buildings are quite creative though, 
 they all look different and have great designs and details.
  
  Audio - 6/10
  The voices in RA2 are mediocre. The alliance side and the soviet side have once voice for each 
 team on there side. There is some great RTS music and the fact that they used real actors for the 
 cut scenes is a great thing.
  
  Value - 9/10
  Like i said previously, the online will grab you and hold you for hours. The single player is fairly 
 long, and there is 2 of them. The best part about RA 2, playing online with a group of friends. 
 You can do that forever. I actually just installed RA2 again, which makes it one of my most played 
 games.
  
  Overall, RA2 is one of best Real time strategy games out there. If you are a RTS you owe it to 
 your self to give RA2 a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingtotheding08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  many people complain that RTS games take far too long to get into the action these people however 
 are those who haven't played red alert 2 games are fast paced and are usually decided in a few 
 minutes. Up to 4 players can go head to head online with the option of 4 computer opponents. these 
 factors make for a trill of a game.
  
  the game included a lot of extra tactial options normal in modern command and conquer games for 
 example garrisoning buildings and destroying bridges
  
  the single player campaign is funny at most and allows new users to enjoy the game while learning 
 the strengths and weakness of units.
  
  overall the game is great but the lack of tactical formations and the ability to research improvements 
 when the likes of age of empires allowed this is the reason this game did not score 10 out of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorro
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  A perfect mix of story, politics, present weaponry, realistic world, and wide selection of controllable 
 units. Very polished and beautifully rendered graphics, great voice acting, and very deep strategic 
 gameplay.
  
  Red Alert 2 has stayed with the same formula and did not revolutionized anything, which created 
 a masterpiece. It is the same formula that created Starcraft. No complicated methods of managing 
 the economy and controlling the army which is concentrated in the action, not like some other games 
 that has to many things to do in order to breed the army.
  
  The gameplay is easy and smooth with fast pace action that turns the game into an action game rather 
 than a strategy game. Navigating through the menus to manage your units is quick and easy even 
 in the most tight moments.
  
  The games single player's comedic storyline started after the history of the coldwar and created 
 another point where both east and west are controlling over the domination of the world. In the 
 single player campaign there are two sides to choose from in which both have different points of 
 view, different styles, different story, and different ending.
  
  The game has two unique side largely distinctive in their style and look. Both has a large variety 
 of weapons and units in which every unit has it's own; purpose, strengths and weaknesses. Both 
 have different means of gathering resource and building structures. One of the unique aspects of 
 this game is special weapons in which both sides has a single powerful specific weapon to dish 
 out.
  
  Red Alert 2 is a game that has a very uncommon style in which it is incomparable to most games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rsoub
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  I play Red Alert 2 from 2000 and i steel playing on it like a new game, i never get bored with 
 it, i am more then a fan
  
  My story with this game is, i am not a fan of strategy games but in 1998 after star craft released 
 ive like it but i wont something more real i dont want space ship or aliens and stupid things like 
 this, i wont politics real tanks and nuclear weapons suicide bombers, truck bomber, spy, dogs, 
 and crazy things like this and the only strategy game you can find this, is only Red Alert 2.
 
  
  You can choose Soviet and Allies every country they have there oun skills, you can play multiplayer 
 and onilne or compaign mode its the story and skrimish mode, you can have real real fun with only 
 these 3 mode.
  
  now i can see that there is a new red alert, its 3 and i hope it will be so great like 2, and more.
 
  i will buy on PS3 and PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrabbit99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 takes place in the "battlegrounds of alternate history." The premisice of the game 
 is that Russia invades the U. S. The story is hillariously conveyed through live action cut scenes 
 like the CnC games before it. 
  Red Alert 2 is your tipicall RTS game where you build a base, build up a massive army, and then 
 utterly destroy your enemy off the face of the earth. 
  It plays much like the original Red Alert except with new units like mutant squids and dolfins, 
 and then there's Yuri. A crazy man who takes over the brains of other people, controlling them. 
 
  Both sides, Soviets and the Allies are very ballanced. The Soviets have better low tear units while 
 the Allies have better high tear units, although its pretty even. Each country in the game has 
 it's own special, unit, structure or ability. The U. S can drop parratroopers, while Cuba has terrorists 
 who blow themselves up. 
  The game features no long technology trees or upgrading, in fact, there are no upgrades at all. 
 You gain acces to new units by building certain expensive buildings. This makes each online match 
 go relitively quikley because it's easy to rush. When you get bored of playing against peoplem 
 you can play co- op with them in a short "campain." Sadly, each campain is merely a online match 
 with you two vs the comp, no story, no special base to attack, nothing. But, you probaly won't 
 venture there.
  Overall the game is a superb, highly addictive game that will keep you playing for a long time 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lefliesoopreem2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 2, by itself, is an outstanding real-time strategy game. With a diverse mix of units, 
 players can easily enjoy themselves and experiment with the variety of strategies possible with 
 each faction, the Allies or the Soviets.
  
  These qualities, however, are not what make Red Alert 2 a great game. 
  
  Red Alert 2 is a 
 great game because in addition to the excellent unit design, it also utilizes crazy and utterly 
 ridiculous premises to both enhance the gameplay and also to keep the real-time genre feeling as 
 fresh as ever. For example, instead of following the meat-and-potatoes formula of countries locked 
 in dire, life-or-death struggles, Red Alert 2 takes on the campy, yet thoroughly enjoyable storyline 
 of a cantankerous and overly zealous Soviet Union taking over the world with the help of psychic 
 madman, the ever wonderful Yuri.
  
  What Westwood Studios manages to do so well in Red Alert 2 is that it preys upon the stereotypes 
 of the Cold War era and turns them into extremely exaggerated versions of themselves to the point 
 of comedy. The Soviet faction, for example, all sport extremely thick and very bad Russian accents. 
 The leader of the Reds, Premiere Romanov, is portrayed as a bumbling oaf ruling the Soviet Union 
 only as the puppet of his second-in-command, Yuri. Speaking of whom, Yuri proves to be an indescribable 
 breed of human, one who is intended to be a sinister, cunning old devil, but ends up looking like 
 a lame, but still totally awesome villain, which is exactly what Westwood wants you to think. The 
 fact that he is a psychic madman just adds to the already spoofy nature of Red Alert 2 and further 
 enhances the rts experience.
  
  The Allies are treated no different as well. One of the main characters, special agent Tanya, is 
 highly reminiscent of the good ole', butt-kicking, all-around tough-guy heroes such as Indiana 
 Jones. The allies also have access to their own special breed of crazy genius, professor Einstein 
 himself. Since the whole series' premise is that WWII never starts because Hitler was assassinated 
 before he could form the Nazi regime, Einstein apparently had more time to goof off in America 
 and develop an easily-excitable and borderline hyperactive persona. Nearly every mission or cutscene 
 features him excitedly demonstrating his newest gadget or weapon that he wishes to give to you. 
 As interesting as these people are, however, General Carville might be the character that you will 
 most identify with and enjoy. A roly-poly man with a distinct Texas inflection and deep sense of 
 patriotism, he will grow on you so much that you will be sad when... well, if you don't have the 
 game already, I can't tell you what happens to him next. Trust me, you will be sad that whatever 
 happens to him happens.
  
  The cheesiness doesn't stop at the characters, though, not by a long shot. Unit design benefits 
 tremendously from the atmosphere Westwood creates and offers you a surprising and very fun to use 
 collection of war machines. The Soviets, with the psychic Yuri at their side, have access to a 
 mind-controlled giant squid that can sneak up on allied ships, grab them with their tentacles, 
 and bring them down into their watery graves. Is it preposterous? Yeah, it is. Is it fun? Oh, most 
 definitely.
  
  The Allies are a slightly more conventional side, but that does not mean they don't have their 
 fair share of wacky and silly soldiers as well. Thanks to Einstein's tireless efforts, the Allied 
 commanders have access to prism tanks, which are basically gigantic lasers on wheels, the Chrono 
 legionnaire, brainchild of Albert's time-traveling obsession, and the mirage tank, which can disguise 
 itself as a tree and ambush unsuspecting Soviets. In order to provide an effective counter to the 
 Red's Giant Squid, the Allies have their equally strange, specially trained dolphins that emit 
 soundwaves that stun the squid long enough for the destroyers to finish off.
  
  Overall, Red Alert 2, if it were a run-of-the-mill RTS, would be a competent game, playable in 
 all aspects; however, with the amount of humor and the unique cast of units and characters, Westwood 
 has managed to elevate this game into something more special than a standard strategy title and 
 rightfully deserves hearty acclaim and recognition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Putzwapputzen
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This was my favorite rts game ever! it had everything a rts lover could want. First off at its 
 time, the graphics of this game were at best above average. It was reasonably realistic, having 
 shadows and other worldly aspects that made the game come to life. In the campaign there are two 
 countries that you may command: The Allied or the The Soviets. If you dont want to play the campaign 
 there is always the Skirmish one can revert to. In the Skirmish there are more countries that may 
 be selected to play as, each country having their own unique advantage usually a unique infantry 
 unit or vehicle or even a building. Red Alert 2 teaches the gamer to uniquely strategize with wutever 
 units they have to win the battle. With a various amount of units at your command, both the Allied 
 and the Soviets share similar units however different at the same time. each side has their basic 
 conscript or gi, and then their various number of infantry units. as each unit gets stronger the 
 more expensive they are when purchasing. the same aspect applies to the tanks and vehicles, the 
 more expensive the vehicle the more expensive it is to purchase. you start out as the commander 
 of the battlefield and then slowly you augment to general being able to control more troops and 
 units. Red Alert 2 from the Allied point of view is a simple defending of the homeland (America) . 
 Sounds easy right? Wrong. Try it out for yourself, its not as easy as it may seem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  Maybe I have already played Tiberian Sun (a C&C series) so when I first played Red Alert 2 in late 
 2000, I didn't feel it great. Though I don't like Red Alert 2, it is not a bad game. At least the 
 multiplayer is good. The storyline and missions are good. The music and sound effects are good. 
 Graphics is just ok because the lookings of some buildings are terrible. And the interface in game 
 is rough and unsightly. (The interface of Yuri's Revenge is much better. You can go to check what 
 difference between them.) I have scored Yuri's Revenge at 8 because I preferred Yuri's Revenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warcorer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Yet another game to the Command &amp; Conquer series and yet another masterpiece. All of the Command 
 &amp; Conquer games have thrilled me over the years and this is another revolutionary to the strategy 
 genre. The story is great even when its not true, and you have to love a game that still uses real 
 actors and people in the cinematic cut scenes. Multiplayer is also a great addition to the red 
 alert series. If you can afford it the Yuri's Revenge addition is one of the best expansions so 
 far, with the best classic multiplayer experience. This is definitely one to purchase if you have 
 the money. I have had this game for well over six years and ever since I bought it , I still play 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraveSirRobin21
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The Game Plays like every other Command and Conquer Build a base collect resources kill enemy. 
 Where this game shines is its full motion videos, interesting characters, and powerful units. Its 
 classic cold war battle but the twist is that world war 2 never happened. Creating a clean slate 
 on which to redraw the events of the last half a century. The Soviet Union after falling in the 
 first game begins a secret military build up with all manner of mind and muscle. With this grand 
 new army the soviets attack America by surprise and cripple the defense network with psychic powers. 
 America must retake its own country and to do so she has a few weapons up her sleeve. Powerful 
 infantry and vehicles with interesting and destructive technology's collide to tell an interesting 
 alternate history.
  
  Graphics: great for 01not true 3d but well animated and Full Motion Video does not hurt either
 
  
  Sound: Units are interesting music is awesome with an industrial rock/ techno sound track
  
 
  Game Play: Simple but robust units have abilities that give them greater power in certain situations 
 Multiplayer: is fun with several different modes even a coop story \
  
  You need to own this game it is fun and fast
  The only problem is that EA has not yet announced 
 a Red Alert 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcman2005
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has a brilliant simplicity that makes for great tactical and strategic value. Well, not 
 so much tactical...
  
  One great part is the unit diversity and creativity, although many are quite useless. For instance, 
 the Tesla trooper. One of my favorites, they can tear tanks to shreds, and cannot be run over. 
 Tesla Troopers also move quite slowly, and can attack over walls, making them a great tool for 
 defense, and offensives as well if used properly.
  
  Another favorite is the Desolator. Ever met a soldier who radiates people do death? Kills enemy 
 infantry in one shot :P
  
  The campaign at higher difficulties can be quite entertaining as well, and the missinos are quite 
 diverse. One one mission, you have to infiltrate a spy into an enemy battle lab to discover the 
 location of enemy Nukes. On another, you have to destroy the black guard of the Kremlin and capture 
 Alexander Romanov.
  
  Multiplayer is also great. People say its imbalanced... they are wrong. Being a heavy Soviet player, 
 my opinion does carry some weight. While the Allies have *more* available strategies, the Soviets 
 have just as much chance to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Go buy this game. Alright now, let's back that up with some facts. Red Alert 2 is one of the most 
 polished, best-conceived, and downright enjoyable real-time strategy games in recent memory. There's 
 an amazing depth to the tactics of the game, a good range of missions in the single player campaign 
 and a kind of slightly ridiculous aspect to the story that lets you now that the game is supposed 
 to be fun. Having said that I should caution you that Red Alert 2 does not offer the same kind 
 of revolution in basic game design that so many of us expected of Westwood's last sequel, Tiberian 
 Sun. This is not the 'next big thing' in strategy games and it certainly won't have the impact 
 on the genre that early Westwood titles did. But what Red Alert 2 is, is one of the finest explorations 
 of what can be done without taking the genre beyond its present limitations.
  
  The game is still about harvesting resources to build structures to buy units, but what seems tired 
 and worn-out in other games is inspired in this game. Granted, it's a formula but it's a formula 
 because it works and only Starcraft and Age of Empires have done it as well. A large part of the 
 success of Red Alert 2 comes from its smooth control system, comfortable menus and intuitive balancing. 
 While it does add a few impressive gimmicks (garrisoning units in buildings and tech structures 
 to name two) , Red Alert 2 stands out because it's completely familiar to us while still being fresh.
 
  
  One of the most rewarding and hardest to quantify factors of RA2 is unit balance. And when you've 
 got three separate theaters in which to operate, unit balance becomes that much more difficult. 
 The units in RA2 are an amazing mix of land, sea and air forces. And better than not having any 
 of the units be totally worthless, the folks at Westwood have gone out of their way to make sure 
 that each of the units has a particular role to play in your overall strategy. Let's just take 
 the sea units for example. The Allies can produce Carriers that are very slow but can launch repeated 
 attacks against distant enemy installations. Destroyers must accompany the Carriers to defend them 
 from Sub attacks. Aegis Cruisers provide a convenient air defense while the undetectable Dolphins 
 protect against Soviet Squids.
  
  The game also comes with numerous special weapons of a suitably fantastic nature. The Allies have 
 access to a Weather Control Device that rains (literally) thunderous destruction on your enemies. 
 Simply pick a target, sit back and watch the clouds roll in. The Chronosphere is a little more 
 sophisticated than the Weather Controller is. It permits you to shift units (yours or your enemies) 
 from one area of the battlefield to another instantaneously. The Soviets have a Nuclear Missile 
 that can erase large sections of your base in an instant as well as an Iron Curtain device that 
 can render vehicles and structures invulnerable for a short time. In the interests of balance, 
 all players are automatically alerted when one of these structures is built and are given a countdown 
 to let them know when the device will come online. Additionally, the shroud is removed from around 
 the superweapons so all players can have a chance to take them out. I was surprised that the superweapons 
 were so well balanced. They can certainly win a game for you, but it's also possible to rally after 
 a superweapon attack and take the fight to your enemy.
  
  And while we're on the subject, the game is miles ahead of Tiberian Sun in terms of graphics. The 
 units and structures are much better* designed this time around and are easier to pick apart at 
 a distance. The only trouble is that units tend to bunch together thereby making it difficult to 
 grab the units you need out of a group. This is especially true of the Allied vehicles, but there 
 are plenty of grouping commands to ease the burden on you. The units animations are great. The 
 way that the dead infantry units instantly decompose and leave behind a little skeleton is an amazing 
 touch. I'm only sorry that the dead units don't persist on the battlefield. Imagine how disheartening 
 it would be for your enemy to see his guys all piled up in heaps outside your walls.
  
  I guess lots of dead guys would tend to detract from the beauty of the maps. During the course 
 of the campaign, you'll travel to several familiar locations in the United States, from the Alamo 
 to the White House to Pearl Harbor. None of the maps are really very accurate in terms of layout, 
 but the chance to send infantry units into the Alamo or lift a siege around the White House is 
 just irresistible. You'll also find the need to travel to locations like Korea, Paris and Einstein's 
 Secret Laboratory in Northern Europe. There are a fair number of multiplayer maps (but not nearly 
 enough urban maps unfortunately) as well as a map generator.
  
  There are two twelve-mission campaigns for each side. I found a pretty good range of missions from 
 your basic 'build a base and kill all enemy units' to the 'take a few units and see if you can't 
 infiltrate the enemy base.' And there are lots of ways to get around particular problems in the 
 missions. We found in one mission for instance that you can gain control of a cow by rescuing it 
 from its farm. Once you've got control of the cow, you can use it to wander around the entire map 
 without fear of being discovered. After all, the enemy's not going to worry that a cow is walking 
 around his base (although now that I've spilled the secret, maybe he will) . The main point is that 
 while the campaign structure is totally linear, the missions can play out a few different ways.
 
  
  While I love the campaign, there's one major complaint I've got to make. Westwood used to give 
 you this ridiculous Efficiency and Leadership rating at the end of each mission. No one could ever 
 figure out how the hell they were calculated. You could eliminate an entire enemy army without 
 losing a single unit and still only get a 37% Leadership score. They've now replaced these seemingly 
 arbitrary scores with the equally arbitrary Par Times. Each mission has a specific time in which 
 it's meant to be completed (although you'll come in well under time for most of the missions -- 
 I finished one in fifteen minutes that was supposed to take two hours) . What I miss is the statistical 
 breakdown. How many units did I build? How many did I lose? Structures? What about the enemy? Oh 
 well.
  
  As you might expect from a Westwood game, Red Alert 2 has some amazing cutscenes tying the missions 
 together. Tanya and Premier Romanov are played much too broadly to be taken seriously (it makes 
 you wonder if they actually knew this was a joke or not) but Ray Wise (President Dugan) and Barry 
 Corbin (General Carville) put in some fantastic performances bringing a self-aware satire to the 
 game. Ultimately, these two guys steal the show, but there are plenty of commendable performances 
 all around. Even better the story holds together and fosters a sense of both urgency and loyalty 
 in the player. Without spoiling anything, I'll just say that the scene after you reclaim Gen. Carville's 
 office is one of those rare moments where you realize a game can touch you on a very sophisticated 
 and intimate level.
  
  While the campaign shouldn't take an experienced player more than twenty hours or so, the single 
 player missions are really just a training ground for going online against real human opponents. 
 There are a number of options here and, believe me, we've tried them all. Most put some sort of 
 limitation on the players (can only build infantry and tanks, can only build naval units, etc.) 
 but they're all pretty solid. Luckily the plain skirmish mode is fun enough for you and up to seven 
 other players to waste a lot of time on.
  
  For those of you who just can't win or lose graciously, Westwood has given you option to play a 
 cooperative campaign with just one other human player. The two of you will square off against two 
 AI opponents in any one of five separate five-mission scenarios. These are tons of fun and a great 
 way to ease less experienced players into the game. And if you've got no friends, don't worry; 
 you can play skirmish games against the computer. It's not as satisfying and there aren't nearly 
 enough options for some reason, but the computer player on its hardest setting will clean your 
 clock. Consider it a challenge to get better at the game.
  
  So this one release (and the possibilities of Emperor: Battle for Dune) just may reestablish Westwood 
 as the king of RTS. There's still healthy competition from Blizzard and Microsoft's AoE series, 
 but it's gratifying to see Westwood returning to the fight with such a remarkably developed game. 
 We'll still have to wait for another title to redefine what RTS games are going to become, but 
 Red Alert 2 is an excellent example of everything that RTS games currently are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer Red Alert 2 is an RTS for PC. This is follow up of Westwoods popular game 
 Red Alert. In the game the Soviet Union still exists and they launch and assault on America. Adviser 
 to the Soviet Union is, Yuri. He can use mind control to take over people's minds. Creepy. Red 
 Alert 2 also features the corny movies that has made C&amp; C games so popular. Over the course 
 of the two campaigns you will defend America from the communist invaders or use the Red Army to 
 crush the US under your boot. The battles are really where Red Alert 2 shine. Infantry are your 
 grunts in battle, who are able to garrison in buildings. Tanks are what your army is based around. 
 Heavy fire will destroy any opponent. Concentrated fire wins battles. Focus all you fire on one 
 target, then move to the next. Before you know it, your enemy's army is nothing but rubble. There 
 are also some super weapons that can destroy entire cities in the blink of an eye. The Allies control 
 the weather while the Red Army uses nukes. The sides are very even which gives some very heated 
 battles. In skirmish you get a special unit based on the country you chose. Choose Britain and 
 get snipers that will drop infantry in a single shot. Choose Russia and use Tesla tanks to a devastating 
 affect. Everything in the game seem to flow smoothly making a very enjoyable experience. Graphics 
 were what you would expect from 1999. Nothing special. Same deal with the sound. Red Alert 2 gives 
 you everything you would want in an RTS, which is why it still played today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polarpedro365
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game was really good when it was released however it could have been better. These days u cant 
 really see anybody speaking about this game or playing it. Something wrong in my opinion. It is very 
 simple to play this game and its limited to 3 basic tasks for survival wich are:
  Harvesting minerals
  Building up your defence
  Creating an army
  On skirmish mode it is very 
 good because u get different nations everyone of them with a different advantage. Such as Iraq wich 
 gets desolators that help a lot against infantry and some light vehicles.
  However playing this game can be prove to be really easy or really hard. It depens on your decision 
 and your strategies.
  For example: Sending a ton of infantry against a well defended base can and is a suicide attack 
 unless u got air support or armor support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I started of with special agent Tanya in NYC and I made her sink 4 Soviet Dreadnaughts with C4. 
 Pretty neat. Then she shot all the Soviet paratroppers dropping around the Statue of Liberty which 
 was then blown up by some V3 rocket launchers, then they were destroyed by a air strike. Talk about 
 a introduction.
  
  RedAlert2 has some of the best music I have ever heard in a RTS game. There is a large variety 
 of music including the excellent 'Hell March' song which can be heard in the opening cinematic. 
 There isn't that many ambient sounds or unit responses but some of them are quite catchy. The explosions 
 sounds alright by you'll probably end up turning the sound off. It's 3 years later and RedAlert2 
 is still installed on my pc. But I don't play it as much used to.
  
  They game play very basic. Only one resource to collect, with the traditional harvester. You construct 
 a base with defenses, creat an army bigger than than the opponents then wipe the enemy of the face 
 of the Earth. For some reason this sort of play pulled me in. I had RedAlert but never played it. 
 I had Age of Empires2 and C&amp; C TibirianSun also, these are two great game but RedAlert2 takes 
 the cake. The campaigns weren't wonderful, a interesting storyline, with plenty of missions but 
 not so much variety. There are plenty of weapons at use, and the two sides, Allies and Soviet, 
 are relatively well balanced. The Allies with fast, cheep, light but weak tanks and the Soviet 
 with slow, more expensive, heavy but strong tanks. I am a Soviet user and find their weapons better. 
 A large army of Rhino tanks are extreamly powerful but a large army of the Allied Grizzly tanks 
 are good for hit and run tactics since they are fast. The game has no population limit, and a selection 
 limit of I think 60 or something units which is way more than other games like the WarCrafts, so 
 massing units is the most popular strategy and it works. During a skirmish the AI, even on brutal 
 aren't difficult to bet. They normally attack the same place through out the match, they do a reasonable 
 job of making a army but they rush to early. Once you can bet their rush it's easy to take out 
 their base. A group of Kirovs will have anyone screaming and a group of promoted Apocalypse Tank 
 will do the same. Once you have destroyed the enemies Con Yard and War Factory they have no chance 
 to come back you can just leave them in ruins. A large set of maps to be played and 2 game types 
 to enjoy. Battle and Free For All (if you have the update) . The online battling is fun and easy 
 to find a game to play but your internet would have to be relatively fast. The gameplay is clean 
 and solid with a fast pace and lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker2245
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 28, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is very cool there is so many things you can do in it THE BEST COMMAND AND CONQUER. Worth 
 the money. awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenji_02
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  I'm going to tell you a story you will enjoy. At Windsor highschool in california, a teacher of 
 comptuer repair had a tech assistant (a former student) and a class that just did w/e and fixed 
 the campus's computers. In the down time (90% of the class) this tech assistant (me) and some of 
 the class members would play Red Alert 2, Multiplayer... IN CLASS!
  
  I spent well over 100 hours playing as the Soviets (yes, the Soviets) of the Red team most often 
 my rival (such good times) would play as the Reds also. Sometimes he'd play the Blue boys, but 
 we where Communits going at it. I'd win quite a few times, but he eventually got enough skills 
 where we never knew where the game would go.
  
  I offically loved C&amp; C: RA2 after that, It's still sitting in open view in my room to remind 
 me of how Video games can HELP give you a social life!
  
  I give RA2 a perfect 10.
  
  gameplay was godly!
  Story was expert!
  Replay value was INSANE!!!
  Sounds that you could 
 fall in love with ( Tanya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_monstr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  When it comes to the overfilled RTS genre, some games stand out. Especially C&amp; C series and 
 Red Alert 2. RA2 was one of my first games and I loved it immediatly. And what is that that enjoyable 
 about the game? Well, pretty much everything. The soundtrack rocks, the single-player campaign 
 missions are cool, and the talk is really great. Rubber shoes in motion! Commencing shock therapy... 
 The looks quite bad in 2007, but it is still good enough for the needs of this game. The only thing 
 that may disappoint is the lame story, the same as in countless movies and games (OMG Soviets are 
 attacking) . However, the fast and dynamic gameplay compensates for that. There are many little 
 details and secrets, that make the game worth playing over years. Even in 2007, Red Alert 2 still 
 remains one of the best strategy games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JcDent
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Games come and go. Some shine brightly like a falling star before fading into obscurity. That happens 
 to most games I have played: I finish them once and it's a very strong possibility that i will 
 not play them again. But this is not the case with Red Alert 2, no sir. Since the day I had bought 
 it, RA2 visits my PC and attention for some time at least once a year. Why? Because it unbelievably 
 fun and I don't know why. Though I mostly play skirmish, here's a little about the game's story.
 
  Einstein, that guy with funny hair, built a time machine and traveled back in time (duh) to the 
 past so he could introduce the technology he had to people of those days. So in the eve of would 
 be WW2 in our time line there are only Allies with U. S. A. at helm. And everywhere else. And there 
 is is the Soviet Union, with soviet (blast those schools that teach me to separate soviets and 
 russians) Russia pulling the strings. And Soviet premier Romanov, helped by Lenin-looking psychic 
 named Yuri, orders the attack of the US of A. Since they are taken by a surprise (Yuri took care 
 of spies) and cannot fight back effectively (Yuri took care of their missile silo personnel) . and 
 so pounding begins. USA, I mean, Allies have funky futuristic tech: laser towers, that boost each 
 other, laser tanks, mirage tanks (they use tree disguise) , chrono troopers, chronominers, chronospheres, 
 weather control devices and some things that look more common. The Soviets are more soviet: slow, 
 ponderous and with total disrespect fr human life. While USA's main infantry G. I.'s can entrench 
 themselves and pull a machinegun out of their butts, soviets have Conscripts, who cost only the 
 half of G. I. and have no special abilities. Also, soviets are obsessed with flak and Tesla technologies, 
 so they have many flack units and some tesla units. Other memorable things are Apocalypse tanks, 
 which kicks butt and shoots down planes, slow and heavy Kirov zeps, that demolish buildings in 
 a blink of an eye, provided they get to them, telepaths for mind control and cloning.
  And all this destructive power causes so much fun that I have to agree that this game is better 
 than even Dawn of War. Plus, the maps, the sound and actress embodying Tania, the female sex bomb 
 Lara Croft-style marine, is hot.
  
  P. S. Please, don't mind the grammar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  It's not bad actually, with a modern day setting of the Allies and Soviets, complete with some 
 cool backdrops like The Pentagon. There's quite some makeover of the units' and structures' concept, 
 well, Tanya could swim now. A lot of the units are way too sci-fi perhaps, like prism technology, 
 and giant squids?!
  
  You could say some of these developments are way over the top in comparison to the first C&amp; C 
 Red Alert. Hell, they even surpassed Tiberian Sun's technology. Anyway, this game's still great 
 fun in terms of RTS gameplay with very on-the-toes pacing (units move surprisingly fast compared 
 to previous C&amp; C installations) .
  
  I don't mind that the game's still using pixel art, but it looks sort of cartoonish, like Metal 
 Slug, even the V3 Rocket appears bubbly. Actually I enjoyed myself very much with the campaign 
 missions spoken like a true C&amp; C fan, just that it ain't the way I recognised Red Alert to be 
 of.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lonelynight
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  Pros: Dated but colourful graphics, great campaign, alot of teams to choose from, many units, great 
 gameplay
  
  cons: Can't thinks of any besides the dated graphic.
  
  I recommend this game to any RTS fan that haven't played this yet. (Who haven't?) Oh, ya I forgot 
 to mention that the cutseens are kinda funny and cheesy, but still great.
  
  emmm, what else can I say? oh ya, the skimish is also very fun there are up to 4vs4 maps, the AI 
 is also good.
  
  recommend if you agree and not recommend me if you disagree.
  
  one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dxon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Alright the sequel of Command &amp; Conquer Red Alert 1. ( Which I also own. :) )
  Alright since this is a review I'll start with the game play.
  
  Gameplay: Just fantastic! 
 Superb game play! It keeps you bizy for hours! Literally hours. I got this game like last year 
 and I'm still playing it. ;) Because it's not hard to understand but also still a challenge to 
 learn all tactics. So it just keeps you bizy. You can also destroy all trees and bushes and building 
 in every level. So thats also fun. When a tree is in the way for a building. Just destroy it! When 
 starting a level you get a movieclip played by real actors. Makes you feel like you are fighting 
 in real life against the soviets or allies. :D Worth a 10!
  
  Graphics: The game has a 2D game play. (See screens for exact info) Its not to colorful but still 
 colors in a good way. There is night and day but it doesn't change while playing a level. Explosions 
 are good and level design is good. Good enough for a 8.
  
  Sound: No bad sounds and voices are clear. Realistic explosion and other fx sounds. Real life voices 
 directly spoken in with no changes. Because its flawless a 10! ;)
  
  Value: The game itself compared to the price I payed for it is damn cheap! Price differs between 
 stores and country's but it was CHEAP compared to the fun it gives. ;) 9!
  
  Reviewers Tilt: My total score for the game is a 10. Why? It's just a great game! It has it all. 
 The action, the addiction and the gameplay. What the question is what does this game NOT have? 
 :D For me? Nothing. It's perfect and survives time. ;) A must have!
  Solid in time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Command And Conquer Red Alert, is with out a doubt the best and most fun strategy game ever made, 
 and probablly ever will be. I did not really care for the first Command and Conquer game, so it 
 was kind of a risk picking this game up, but it was a risk worth taking because this game was amazing. 
 The graphics were great and the fact that there were two campaigns was pretty dang sweet. Nine 
 years and this game still shines. There were two disks, with one campaign on each. One was the 
 good guys side (the strategic side) or the enemies side (the easier side) . It was fun because the 
 enemies side was best for beginners, and the good guys side was a little bit more complicated. 
 It was a lot of fun though being on the enemies side because you could send attack dogs and they 
 would kick the crap out of your enemies. The way that you earn and upgrade to things is pretty 
 cool. This is the best and easiest to pick up strategy game. This is the best game ever to be a 
 strategy game, and if you have a PC that can run a game this old, then pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pslance
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 12, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  This is a great game though after playing the original Red Alert it was hard to switch to a slower 
 moving RA2 But it still a great game. Has a great storyline and has great strategy and AI. There 
 has not been many things wrong with this the powers where mostly even though if you know how to 
 play the game the America or any allies do have a major advantage. The power distribution was good 
 and even for the most part though. The multi player is something that i have always liked and this 
 game will stand as a classic for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worting
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The game takes place in a more modern day society rather than fighting on different planets like 
 Tiberium Sun. You will have two lengthy campaigns to go through. You have The Allied Forces who 
 are defend themselves against the Soviet invasion. And theres the Soviets who are attacking America 
 with there technology. Both forces are very different to each other and have very differnt units, 
 The allied forces seem to have smarter units and weaponry while the soviet are just all power. 
 The allies basic unit is a G. I which is better than the basic soviet Conscript but cost double 
 the amount of a conscript. The allies infantry units seem to be a lot better than the soviets with 
 spys, who can infiltrate enemy bases disguised as an enemy unit, but can be seeked out by attack 
 dogs. They also have chrono units which can move about the map quicker than ordinary units. Soviets 
 meanwhile have tesla troops who zap foes with electrical beams which are really effective against 
 tanks and other machinery. The soviets however have the edge on machines. There tanks are stronger, 
 and have several upgrades such as apocalypse tanks which can hit ground and air units. The allied 
 tanks are weaker and less durable but are smarter such as the mirage tank, which can diguise itself 
 as a tree to prepare an ambush. They also have prism tanks which can link there beams to damge 
 many units at once. However the real star of the show is the Kirov Airships, which are big giant 
 scary faced blimps which can run rampage through an opponnents base. There are hundreds of different 
 units to use and choose from which gives the game hundreds of tactics to use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cblx1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, accepting the fact that this game was made in 2000, and this review is written in 2007, I 
 can't say the graphics are great, but they aren't bad for their time. I feel the game play is exceptional, 
 and gives the game its uniqueness; so do the movies in between, and the actual actors in them. 
 One of the most impressive features of this game is it's system requirements... for the graphics 
 and sound that I see (which aren't that good) , it's still amazing that they managed to pull this 
 off: 64MB RAM, 2MB GFX, and a mere 266MHZ processor. Fully Win95-Vista compatable! Addicting and 
 at a perfect skill level, everyone should play, despite the graphics and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earthcreater
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  this game got all the first game got and give it a lot more here is a list wich will make it easier.
 
  
  1) this games thakes the storie from the first game and makes it even better, with all the characthers 
 you will ever need, a russian woman in a tight outfit jummy (lol)
  
  2) this is not the best looking game, but in my mind it revives the good old classic look of the 
 old games.
  
  3) a lot of different units for all your needs, and it still keeps the difference and uniqe techs 
 of both teams.
  
  so buy this one and try it yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drofgameanomics
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  The C&amp; C-Red Alert series is the best series any gamer can play! It's total fun, brain teasing 
 and tactical mastermind! Red Alert 2 has awesome sounds! The music and soundtracks are one of the 
 best till today! I admit that the graphics are kinda out of date, but still, the graphics still 
 made the game even more fun! The campaign are challenging and totally well made! It's not too difficult, 
 not too easy! It's totally average! The large variety of units and building that are available 
 totally adds up the fun! The air units, sea units and the land units! Each nation is also totally 
 balanced their advantages and disadvantages. So, the game is totally not like a 1 sided game, something 
 like that! Red Alert 2 is a game that any RTS fan will never get bored with for ages! I've been 
 playing this game since it was 1st released till now. I'm totally not bored with it till now! Red 
 Alert 2 is a total action-packed and full time all action game that is really worth checked out! 
 Red Alert, Red Alert and C&amp; C series in my opinion will be the games that will be played forever 
 and ever! U can never ever get bored with this series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siphiron
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game is just so awesome. The only RTS games I like as much are Red Alert 1 and Dune 2000. 
 It's got an awesome sound track that helps get you pumped for war. The cut scenes were a bit campy, 
 but thats what made them so much fun. They game the game a sense of humor. General Carville, Tanya, 
 Eva, Dugan, and most of all, YURI! How can you not love these characters, especially Yuri? I still 
 get goosebumps sometimes when I see the opening video for RA2 and you have hell march 2 playing 
 in the background. Long Live Red Alert 2, and all CnC games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playwrite
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays with games like Supreme Commander and C&amp; C3, RTSs are finally coming back into the 
 mainstream. However, old 2D-rendered games such the Red Alert series can still be just as much 
 fun, especially for those of us with less than stellar system specs. One feature unique to the 
 RTS is that graphics really have very little to do with how much you enjoy the game (unless you 
 really are incredibly shallow, in which case dont you have some shooter or something to play?) , 
 its the strategy that counts. This is where Red Alert 2 shines.
  But Im getting ahead of myself. I am not yet born. Or actually, I suppose I am at this point. 
 The game takes place sometime between the year 2000 and now. However, this is an alternate history. 
 The story is incredibly silly, but suffice to say that after the alternate version of WWII the 
 allied forces installed a president in the USSR who has now turned against them. This game is about 
 that war. The story is told through numerous FMV cutscenes, just like the other games in the series. 
 These are sort of campy, but on the whole they are used effectively and give the game personality.
 
  The gameplay of RA2 has not changed significantly from the first game and other RTSs. You build 
 a base and continue to add to it throughout the mission, building ever more powerful units. There 
 is only one resource, the mystical ore, which becomes money which you spend on units and buildings. 
 This makes the game substantially easier to pick up but doesnt take away any depth because until 
 you have a few miners harvesting the stuff, deciding what to spend on will be tough. This is also 
 indicative of how the game manages to be open for new players while still giving vets what they 
 want.
  The sheer number of different units in red alert 2 is incredible. The basic units for both sides 
 such as engineers and infantry are similar but even they have their differences. For instance, 
 while the Allied infantry is more powerful the soviets are cheaper (and hence faster to manufacture, 
 there is a direct correlation between the 2 factors) . The reverse is true for the first tanks that 
 become available. As your technology progresses youll begin to see real differences in the strategies 
 of the 2 sides. For instance the most powerful Allied unit is the prism tank. These are quick and 
 use light to destroy any unit or (more satisfyingly) base in seconds. The soviets on the other 
 hand have a slow moving zeppelin. This unit has a huge amount of health and drops a devastating 
 bomb which will level a building in 1 or 2 hits. Its important to remember what units you opponent 
 can build because its important to build up a proper defense. When playing against an allied player 
 for instance, youll need a good air defense right away to deal with their aerial strikes. If youre 
 playing against soviets you can put this off for a while, but once you have a steady supply of 
 resources youll want to go big on the missiles or flak units to deal with Zeppelins. The mark 
 of a good strategy game, these factors still depend on who youre playing against. The interface 
 for the game is extremely streamlined, making it incredibly easy to queue up what you want to build 
 and make split decisions. The only complaint that one could have is that Westwood never saw fit 
 to take the Starcraft route and allow players to build separately in each factory. This means that 
 you will only ever need one and if you build a second base youll have to select its factory or 
 barracks as the primary one if you want to build units in it.
  Speaking of Starcraft, its really impossible to avoid comparison, since it and C&amp; C are the 
 benchmarks for RTS gameplay. I prefer Command and Conquer because it doesnt take itself as seriously 
 and focuses more on weenie wars, fights between armies rather than units. It also has, I believe, 
 a more interesting setting and more varied game mechanics. Regardless this is a matter of opinion 
 and both are great games.
  The campaign mode is fun (though occasionally frustrating) , but the skirmish mode will far outlast 
 it. The Multiplayer server isnt as easy to connect to anymore, since EA has stopped support and 
 given it to XWIS, but once you figure it out this adds immensely to the longevity of the game.
 
  Graphically RA2 might not be technically pretty but its very pleasant to look at. The game is 
 pre-rendered but thanks to the amount of detail you really wont notice much. As an example, when 
 a plane is shot down if it lands on a building that building will actually take damage. Units can 
 attack from above an opponent but not below them. On the whole, every situation has been thought 
 through and accounted for so that the game gets the graphical benefit of pre-rendering with none 
 of the limitations. From an audio standpoint the game includes good sound effects full VO including 
 lots of unit confirmations (which are campy enough to stay entertaining for a long time) . The music 
 is not bad, but I recommend just turning it off and playing your own music. 70s Punk seems to fit, 
 or Franz Ferdinand style rock if thats what youre into. The point is that you can control SFX, 
 VO and music volume separately.
  On the whole this game is just a tremendous amount of fun to play. Its campy but the urban setting 
 and creative units more than make up for that if youre not interested in it. The sheer number 
 of things that you can do is fantastic but the core strategy is never compromised. Youll also 
 be able to run the game without a hitch as well: the minimum graphical requirement is a 2mb card. 
 If you dont have thatwell why and how are you playing PC games? By a 50 dollar laptop, buy this 
 game go forth and waste many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthunder26
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the amazing strategy PC game Red Alert, Red Alert 2 comes bqack even better than 
 ever. At the end of the first Red Alert, the United States of America and her allies defeat the 
 Soviet Union and kick Stalin out of power. A new president is elected for the Russians, president 
 Alexander Michalov, and all seems well. Or is it? At the very core of his heart, the new Russian 
 president is furious at the United States for crippling his once glorious country and secretly 
 plots his revenge. Suddenly the city of New York is attacked by Soviet Blimps and the once peaceful 
 shores of California was being bombarded by missiles of oncoming Dreadnauts. America calls upon 
 her allies and gathers her forces once again to fight this new threat only to discover that someone 
 even more sinister than the new Russian president is pulling the strings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaKierad
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  The Good : Two long campaigns, With two very different sides, Great amount of units and vehicles, 
 skirmish matches are always fun, multiplayer is ace, hundreds of characters on screen without a 
 hitch in the framerate.
  The Bad : Terrible cutscenes, cheesy voiceovers, graphics are out classed by newer RTS Games, some 
 units are either two ovepowered or two weak.
  
  Coommand and conquer is the king of RTS Games. It is rare when you will ever find an RTS as compelling 
 and addictive as these games. So it should not come as a surprise that Red Alert 2 is one of the 
 finest in the series.
  Red Alert 2 takes place after the original RA and the Russian leader Vladimir Romanov has went 
 crazy and declared war with the USA and is under control by the sinister psychic Yuri.
  
  The game takes place in a more modern day society rather than fighting on different planets like 
 Tiberium Sun. You will have two lengthy campaigns to go through. You have The Allied Forces who 
 are defend themselves against the Soviet invasion. And theres the Soviets who are attacking America 
 with there technology. Both forces are very different to each other and have very differnt units, 
 The allied forces seem to have smarter units and weaponry while the soviet are just all power. 
 The allies basic unit is a G. I which is better than the basic soviet Conscript but cost double 
 the amount of a conscript. The allies infantry units seem to be a lot better than the soviets with 
 spys, who can infiltrate enemy bases disguised as an enemy unit, but can be seeked out by attack 
 dogs. They also have chrono units which can move about the map quicker than ordinary units. Soviets 
 meanwhile have tesla troops who zap foes with electrical beams which are really effective against 
 tanks and other machinery. The soviets however have the edge on machines. There tanks are stronger, 
 and have several upgrades such as apocalypse tanks which can hit ground and air units. The allied 
 tanks are weaker and less durable but are smarter such as the mirage tank, which can diguise itself 
 as a tree to prepare an ambush. They also have prism tanks which can link there beams to damge 
 many units at once. However the real star of the show is the Kirov Airships, which are big giant 
 scary faced blimps which can run rampage through an opponnents base. There are hundreds of different 
 units to use and choose from which gives the game hundreds of tactics to use.
  
  The game plays out like all C&amp; C Games. You build your base from scratch by making barracks 
 for infantry units and war factories for vehicles. You will also have to make oil refineries to 
 obtain gold and make power plants to keep your defences working and to keep your radar on the map. 
 As you progess throught the game you will get more constructions such shipyards where you can build 
 naval units, Battle labs wher you can build advanced units and weaponry such as spys, Kirov Airships 
 and even Nucleur Missiles. At the beginning of each mission you will be assigned tasks to perform 
 to complete missions, most of these being to destroy aa certain object or to completely destoy 
 their forces, you will also fail the mission if you are wiped out or you to not defend smething 
 you were supposed to.
  
  After you complete the single-player campaigns, you can move onto skirmishes, which lets you make 
 up matches from scratch. You can choose a map to play on, choose how much gold you begin or even 
 if you want to use superweapons (Nucleur missile and Weather storm machine) which usuall tend to 
 wreck skirmish matches. The biggest change though is that you get to pick a country. Picking a 
 country gives you access to a new unit that you would not have been able to use in the campaign 
 mode. These units are very useful susch as the American Paratroopers, British sniper, Cuban terrorists, 
 Iraqi Desolater, German tank destroyer, Russian tesla tanks, Korean Black Eagles, Franch grand 
 cannons, Libyan demolotion tanks and many others. These skirmishes can help improve your abilities 
 as a tactical mastermind for when you eventually take the game online.
  
  Speaking of online, the online service is a very easy to use LAN server in which you can play any 
 of your friends. Personally I did not play it online as much but I can say that it was very stable 
 and easy to use.
  
  RA2 does have some faults which do show its age. Graphically it looks like crap compared to other 
 RTS Games of today. Also the fact that it is not as advanced as newer RTS Games such as Supreme 
 Commander might dissapoint purists. It terrible cutscenes and voice acting that make the game look 
 like a cheap home video. There is also a minor hitch in the unit balancing as some units such as 
 apocalypse tanks and Kirovs airships seem far more powerful compared to other units while the chron 
 legionarre is weak and can hardly affect any damage.
  
  But if you looking for an RTS of the old-school days, that doe not requires any PC Upgrade and 
 can be found at a very cheap price then Red alert 2 is the game for you. It is extremely fun fast 
 paced action with lots of startegy and will be enjoyed by any RTS Fan or fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for maybe 6 years and it's still good, even though I don't play it anymore :D. 
 Today's graphics standars would rate this negative 20 out of 10, and probably 0/10 a even a few 
 years ago, but some parts of it have incredable graphics for the time. When a nuke hits the middle 
 of a Soviet base, all the buildings explode around it, there's a mushroom cloud, the buildings 
 that are close but not right near it are partially destroyed, and there's radiation left for a 
 while where units die in 2 seconds and tanks slowly decay as long as they stay in the radiation. 
 This has the best RTS story I've seen, allthough it really isn't that great of a story anyways. 
 It has some of those things the characters say that you and your friends will always be quoting 
 for a laugh for a while to come. Such as a certain unit called a Terrorist that has a dynamite 
 strip attached to his chest. And whenever you click on a building to attack, it says in a strong 
 russian accent, I have a bomb, do you have it? or HAHAHAHAH! HAPPRY BIRTHDAY! Ooooh good times 
 with this game. This game is worth buying for $10 or $20 at EBGames if you see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikko123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  And what I wrote above is the full truth. The game starts off slow with only infantry buildable, 
 but I finished the storyline in about 5 hours of playing.
  
  That aside, Red Alert 2 is one of the better C&amp; C's that currently exists. With it's high-speed 
 action and innovative sidebar, it is hard to not like this game.
  
  The sidebar is special in it's own little way, for it has different tabs for respectably buildings, 
 defensive buildings, infantry and vehicles. This basically allows you to be building two buildings 
 and two units at the same time, immensely increasing the speed in which a base and fighting force 
 are pulled from the ground.
  
  The story is a cheesy one, brought in a cheesy way by cheesy characters.
  After their defeat 
 a while ago, the Soviets were given a puppet premier, Alexander Romanov. Romanov, however, doesn't 
 enjoy the dictations given up by the Allies and eventually builds up a giant army that is assisted 
 by his advisor Yuri's twisted mind-controll powers. In the storyline it is in the hands of the 
 player to safe America and defeat the Soviets or to lead the Soviets to a victory against the hated 
 capitalists. Can you decide?
  
  The graphics are somewhat on the strange side. Though running on the engine we all know from C&amp; C: 
 Tiberian Sun, all the units look like they've been blown up like a balloon, being very large and 
 all. Not everyone fully appreciated this, and I'm undecided. It does contribute to the cheesiness 
 of the game overall, but we're here to wage some serious war, eh?
  The sounds are, if you ask me, just right. The enthusiastic voices of the drivers or infantry and 
 their respective sounds all contribute to the overall feeling the game gave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  So the guys at Westwood got together late one night with a keg of beer and some coke, and between 
 the giggles they came up with some ideas for their next hit real time strategy title. It should 
 be obvious which RTS game this was. Is this what really happened? I don't know, but I wouldn't 
 be surprised.
  
  Red Alert 2 is set a few years after the first game. With a new puppet leader for Soviet Russia, 
 the Allied nations are all sitting back smoking cigars and drinking champaign. Little do they realize 
 that the new Soviet leader, Romanov, is somehow secretly building a massive high tech assault force. 
 When the United States is all of a sudden attacked by psychic, tesla, and nuclear technology the 
 President decides that it's time for war. Again.
  
  My problem with the story of Red Alert 2 is not the lack of logic behind its premise, but the disturbingly 
 silly way characters act. The country is falling apart, and the President and General are sitting 
 back telling jokes, huh, okay. There's a lot of elements in Red Alert 2 that makes it fairly obvious 
 that this C&amp; C game was aimed towards a younger crowd, like mind controlled squid, and guys 
 riding dolphins to combat them. One nice feature is that RA 2 sticks to the C&amp; C tradition of 
 telling the story through live action cinematics, unfortunately the acting is terrible, and the 
 lack of a decent storyline makes watching them almost painful.
  
  Despite the rather silly story, the gameplay in Red Alert 2 stays true to the traditional C&amp; C 
 formula. You've got your construction yard, no unit cap, the need for power plants, and of course 
 tank rushes. A nice new feature introduced in Red Alert 2 is the tab function. Anyone who has played 
 the previous C&amp; C titles (especially Tiberian Sun) will admit that scrolling through the massive 
 structure and unit list to get to what you want to purchase was a pain. Red Alert 2 still only 
 has one structure tab, but now units are split up into different infantry and vehicle tabs making 
 buying units less of a chore. Other than that C&amp; C veterans will find that the only thing separating 
 RA2 from its predecessors is its unique unit, and defense building lineup. That has always been 
 the case, however, so this is not an issue.
  
  The visuals in Red Alert 2 aren't bad. Since the game uses the same engine as Tiberian Sun the 
 graphics are only slightly better, but some people may find the 2D visuals a turn off since RA 
 2 came out during the dawn of 3D RTS titles like Homeworld, though since 3d wasn't the norm at 
 that point it may not be an issue for most.
  
  The audio is great. Each unit has solid voice acting, and like all C&amp; C games you've got the 
 sounds of gunfire and explosions. The music is excellent for the most part, and unlike Tiberian 
 Sun it's far more light hearted. Though to be fair to Tiberian Sun, Red Alert 2 is more light hearted 
 in every area.
  
  Red Alert 2 is an okay game. If you can get past the mediocre campaigns, and the occasional bizarre 
 unit, there's many hours of entertainment to be had in this C&amp; C title. Would I recommend it? 
 Only if you don't exclusively play campaigns. I liked Red Alert 2, but it's not anywhere near the 
 level of its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoonasofEstonia
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  The games gameplay is simple to play for everyone. The FMV videos are great. Its good to see real 
 people is small movies. its also cool to sent a storm to the soviets or to send a nuke to allies. But 
 when you have a powerful computer its bad that the game runs pretty quick and maybe in few minutes 
 the soviets can launce a nuke at you. But this problem can be solved by lowering the speed and difficulty.
 
  
  Gameplay 10
  
  At graphical point the game is good at his time graphics. The special collapses like the Liberty 
 statue falling down it good. Not much to say about the graphical side. So the graphics are 8 points.
 
  
  The sound was somewhat funny. Like the death sound strange but funny. Other sounds were modest but 
 not bad.
  
  Sound 7
  
  At the value. The game is pretty good. The fmv videos are yes good to watch. Also the missions are 
 good. Like the mission when the eiffel tower turns to an lighting tower. Much missions and ways to 
 defeat the enemy gives a Value 8.
  
  That is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  This game is a great RTS. It raises the bar for all further ones with its initiative and great 
 control. The controls are easy to master, and the armies are great fun to play as. The different 
 armies get different troops, and units. These can either be the Prism Tanks of the Americans, the 
 Snipers of the British, or the Demolition Trucks of the Libyans. These can either help defend your 
 base, or launch a devastating attack on the enemy. The campaign is filled with fun little movies, 
 and fun little objectives for you to accomplish. The ranking system is a work of genius, allowing 
 your army to become as advanced as you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  The graphics are meek here at the beginning of 2007, but Red Alert 2 has tons of gameplay value, 
 and is infinitely replayable. A required title if you are a fan of RTS games.
  The value comes from the variety of units. There are tons of ways to win and compensate for an 
 opponents strategy. Really, it's like a rapid game of chess where you are both shifting pieces 
 at the same time. This is also one game that was better before the expansion (Yuri's Revenge) .
 
  Some highlights: using the Eiffel Tower as a weapon, sending heavily armored blimps (yeah, dirigibles) 
 in to slowly slaughter the enemy, sneaking spys into the enemy camp, dropping terrorists into the 
 enemy camp (this was pre-9/11) , creating a Chrono-Ivan 
  The sounds are great, if dated. The Soviets truly sound depressed when you click them, and the 
 Allied units are always crisp and well-trained officers.
  Conversely, if you dislike RTS games, you'll hate this to the core. Lots of resource gathering 
 management and base defense. You'll need to build up a tech tree to access the better units, and 
 need cash to then build them. The fast pace can be offset by an interminable wait to produce a 
 particular tank or building.
  But cross-breeding units is truly one of the best aspects of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackleech
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10 Units are balanced and the missions are interesting
  
  Graphics: 9/10 It looks alright... but the textures and models get repetitive.
  
  Sound: 8/10 
 Sound effects are ok although the music gets boring
  
  Value: 9/10 With the Map editor and stuff
  
  Tilt: 8/10 Fans of the C&amp; C series would've 
 expected more from this game.
  
  Good: Graphics and gameplay, more unit-control options
  
  Bad: Campaign is easy to beat and the music gets in the way at times.
  
  Who Should Play: 
 C&amp; C fans, newcomers to the RTS genre
  
  Potential: +1/10 The map editor can be useful
  
  Conclusion: A must-have classic in the C&amp; C 
 series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_reardant
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out in 2000. After playing Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert 
 I new I wouldn't be disapointed and i've played Red alert 2 ever since, it has to be one of the 
 most enjoyable RTS games I've ever played, the entire C&amp; C series is a masterpeice. There is 
 also a game editor available called 'FinalAlert 2' It's an incredibly simple interface and allows 
 for many of your own creative levels usable for single and multiplayer. I would recomend buying 
 this game to anyone, it may be dated now but this classic never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leuss
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must play whether you like RTS or not.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Gameplay: 8/10
  ------------------------------------
 
  This game is rather good, and the game play did get better with each update. The updates fixed 
 a number of issues and glitches within the game such as the famed cloning vat refund. The interface 
 is much different then the normal RTS lift click just about everything while the right mouse button 
 unselects. When you start playing this game again it takes some time getting use to.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Graphics: 9/10
  ------------------------------------
 
  The graphics are extremely great, including the movies for the time period it was in. However 
 they still hold up in the current genre. This game was pure innovation, where real time strategy 
 games today lack major innovation. Many of the current games within this genre glorify what looks 
 nice, verses what they should allot time to.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Sound: 10/10
  ------------------------------------
  The sound and music is great, the 
 movies are also relativity solid. ------------------------------------
  Overall Value: 9/10
  ------------------------------------
  When you do get tried of it, you 
 can edit the rules. ini, or look into modification or total conversions from modding communities 
 which add to the overall play time of the game.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10/10
  ------------------------------------
  One of the best games of war 
 strategy ever, everbody should take a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenoXV
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Its got everything you would possibly want in a RTS edge of your seat high pitch fulla adrenaline 
 surge destruction series of red alert of westwood studios. Only thing is there is a few problems 
 with the online play of the game. If you can have a fast connection and play with no computers 
 and play with players that dont use firewalls than you should be fine but if someone has a firewall 
 on you'll spend hours arguing with them to get them to under stand it slows down the connect of 
 the game and you'll just be playing another red alert 1 for playstation 1. (the game play gets 
 so slow its slower than playing kro kay in your back yard with a bunch of old ladies!) But if you 
 do have a fast computer and you do wanna play against the ais and you play off line vs 3-4 computers, 
 it can be fun but depending on how fast your computer is you'll either be playing a good game or 
 facing another slow motion race to win when the computer starts loading up on units and more base 
 defense or just plain out building everywhere on the map.
  
  But overall it was the best red alert game of the series. You do happen to notice all the famous 
 actors from red alert 1 in red hot action in red alert 2. its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GatoFeo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  As Russia rises to power and attacks the allies, It's up to you whether to lead World Domination 
 or save the people from destruction. This RTS game delivers over 50 units and 9 teams to choose 
 from. It actually plays just like the previous game red Alert, but much better! This game is alot 
 whole fun when you get a chance to play for the first time. It has beautiful graphics, just perfect 
 for an RTS game with old technology. This game is use for strategy to overcome the enemy and to 
 bring supreme victory. This game contains up to 8 teams to play with over battlefields such as 
 continent, Inland, and Mountianous. Also contains songs that you're hear often that last you for 
 hours! This game also delivers on-line which becomes a part of this game, but don't worry cause 
 in this game you will be playin for hours even offline. This is one game that you're be playing 
 for over the next 10 years! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIS_AMERICA
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  There is just so many RTS games to choose from for the PC, but if your looking for a game with 
 action, suspense and a great story. Red Alert 2 is your game.
  
  GamePlay: Point and click. It's actually quite simple to get the hang of playing most RTS games, 
 but Red Alert 2's interface is just amazing. It's so easy to click 1 soldier or 100 soldiers and 
 order them to attack a specific target. And along with the amazing interface and options, Red Alert 
 2 throws in good story mode and excellent multiplayer options (offline or online) .
  
  Graphics: Sure it's being quite a few years since it was released, but there is no denying the 
 art style of Red Alert 2. It may not be the best looking RTS game out there, but the sense of its 
 art direction is truly inspiring.
  
  Sound: NICE! The soundtrack in about average, but the sound FX and the voice overs and very well 
 done. Alone with the wicked cut scene videos, the voice acting from the actors really gives you 
 a sense that there is actually a war going on and that your there to either stop it or continue 
 it.
  
  Value: Let me just say that even though the game may be old, it still has followers to this day 
 logging in daily to kick some serious ass. And even if online ain't your thing, the story mode 
 is good enough for another go through.
  
  Tilt: The game is up there with the best, though not the best, very few games have surpassed the 
 true masterpiece of Red Alert 2. One game however that has beaten Red Alert 2 at its own game is 
 Red Alert 2: Yuri's Revenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vee222222
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  They put an attack dog in this game, which turns out to be a one hit kill for a spy or infantry. 
 Why not just put a radiation ray in it. OOOO wait they did and Bush was playing this when he invade 
 Iraq. Guess what I found them. Back to the plot, which is Estonian, is killed and Russia does not 
 collapse from the factor that killed them. Ronald Regan yes, no Ronald just lots of bad acting 
 and explosion. But I am not that heartless good plot and make you think, I think. This game is 
 going to talk about from awhile until the next one and this will be replaced. MAHAHAHA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddemios
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  This is one of the few extremely solid, diehard RTS games. The only downfall of this game is that 
 the newer windows versions will not support IPX, this already occurred in Windows XP 64bit. Thus 
 making it impossible to play over the network with friends within the newer version of Windows 
 XP.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Gameplay: 10/10
  ------------------------------------
  This game is rather good, and the game play did get better 
 which each update. The updates fixed a number of issues and glitches within the game such as 
 the famed cloning vat refund. The interface is much different then the normal RTS lift click 
 just about everything while the right mouse button unselects. When you start playing this game 
 again it takes some time getting use to. I found this game set a limit within the genre and is 
 easily compared to other real time strategy games. This game was pure innovation at the time, where 
 most of the current things are degenerately to completely glorify graphics. The best thing to do 
 right now, is you use a Virtual Lan program and find friend to play with you, once you complete 
 the single player games.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Graphics: 10/10
  ------------------------------------
  The graphics are extremely great, 
 including the movies for the time period it was in. However they still hold up in the current genre. 
 This game was pure innovation, where real time strategy games today lack major innovation. Many 
 of the current games within this genre glorify what looks nice, verses what they should allot time 
 to. When this was created, a great deal of time and effect was spent on this game. The graphics 
 of this game should not be that of an deterrent, when this was created they were great.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Sound: 10/10
  ------------------------------------
 
  The sound and music is great, the movies are also relativity solid. No problems what so ever.
 
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Value: 10/10
  ------------------------------------
  When you do get tried of it, you can edit the rules. ini, 
 or look into modification or total conversions from modding communities which add to the overall 
 play time of the game.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10/10
  ------------------------------------
  This game should be cherished and played, it is one of 
 the few real time strategy titans.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacko342
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  for when this came out, the graphics were superb and the campaign , as you can tell, is full of 
 loads of missions on each side and unlike red alert there is alot of difference between the allies 
 versus the soviets now that both have an entirely different battle style. infact even the way they 
 collect money differs now!
  
  if you are looking for a good cheap rts to buy, buy this one excellent in every way the sounds 
 and videos great! the gameplay and startegy... great!
  there is nothing bad i can say about this game offline.. but online is a different story the battles 
 can get extremly lagged as people make to many vehicles and either team doesnt know who to attack 
 first but still a great rts followed by another great game (red alert 2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prisim_92
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  Anything I say about this game is less...
  The game play is awesome the aerial view wont let you miss any part of the action. The games tutorial 
 is easy enough for a 12 year old and will have you playing within the hour...
  
  The games campaign has a hundred different plays to win em and the sound with the game really gets 
 you in the game...
  
  The best part doesnt come till you play it online against other players from around the world 
 and then it gets really interesting...
  
  All good things have a down side...
  Its only downside is you cant stop playing it!!!
  
  You have to be a fool not to buy this 
 game...
  Its a hard core strategy gamers dream come true!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newlemming
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Though Red Alert 2 is indeed Westwood's old-skool brand of commie warfare, it satisfies. Who doesn't 
 like electric-slinging Tesla Troopers, Chrono Tech, and Mind Control? Though it's like the other 
 Command &amp; Conquer games with it's mediocre actors and downright goofy and fake accents for 
 foreign soldiers, it's pretty fun.
  
  The one thing I really have to comment about this game is it's prolly the best music that C &amp; 
 C's made in a while. When Yuri's Revenge came out it obliterated the good soundtrack for something 
 that sounds like a dog urinating on a light pole. I'm sorry, but this version blows away the expansion 
 sound-wise.
  
  Another thing to like about this game is it isn't all based on Tiberium Wars and things like that. 
 It's based on a war that on a relative scale could have happened for real (obviously not accounting 
 the mind control, killer Tesla, and Terror Drones, lol.)
  
  One last couple of things. You have got to love the Campaigns of this game, they are verrry interesting 
 and you get a feel for the side you choose. If you like power and offense, then Soviets are for 
 you. If you like intelligence gathering and things close to that respect, then Allies are good 
 to go.
  
  This is one of my fave old-skool war games and if you play it, it might become yours too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adama1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Outstanding gameplay, the concept of which has been improved upon consistently with each title 
 in the Command &amp; Conquer series, (except Generals which doesn't surpass RA2) and I hope that 
 this will continue with C&amp; C3 which is released 2007.
  
  RA2's best aspect is its multiplayer experience, whilst the missions are ok they just don't compare 
 to the thrill of fighting with or even against your friends. In these games the action never ceases 
 to be gripping and overall a thoroughly good match. If you do get RA2 be sure to find a friend 
 who will play with you over the internet (where there is sometimes lagg if you don't both have 
 fast (adsl) connections) or even better over a LAN where you can play with up to 7 of your mates 
 at lightning speed :P
  
  Highly recommended for anyone who is into strategy or multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 is the successor to Red Alert released many years ago. The Red Alert game was a great 
 success for Westwood, more so than Dune, if I remember correctly. After a somewhat second-rate 
 Tiberian Sun, Red Alert 2 was looking to follow in the footsteps of Red Alert and going back even 
 further  the original C&C. The game opens with an introductory movie as to who your leaders are 
 and the current world affairs, only the way this information is presented varies on either side 
 of the faction you choose. The single player campaign starts with a gentle mission and you know 
 that you are at the very bottom of the learning curve without a big neon sign telling you. The 
 missions on both discs in Red Alert 2 are similar so no side loses out on terms of stealth, tactics 
 or the good old tried and tested base building. At least Westwood kept it fair in this department. 
 The control is the familiar point, drag and click system with the keyboard hotkeys, which really 
 sharpen the player and bring out the best in the fast-paced tacticians out there. As far as missions 
 go, there was certainly effort into thinking about the missions and bringing tactics when you were 
 out-numbered and out-powered was beginning to show the diversity in the minds of those guys and 
 gals at Westwood. The ways to complete the mission were limited; it felt more like badly disguised 
 forcing than gentle pushing into the right direction. The enemy AI is satisfactory, nothing amazing 
 but then again, it wasnt shoddy. You can expect the enemy to launch attacks at you and even on 
 a higher difficulty setting like brutal, expect the majority of units in the attack against your 
 base to consist of basic infantry. This is frustrating since you know the key to winning is with 
 a large army of tanks that you happen to have sitting around your war factory waiting for the opportune 
 moment to strike your enemy down. Unfortunately, this opportune moment seems to be anytime after 
 the initial 5 minutes in a skirmish and you have a few tanks. Alternatively, when playing missions 
 where you have to destroy the entire enemy, it undergoes the repetition of building about 20  
 30 tanks and ruining the map. The storyline of the game is reasonably well done. The installments 
 given to you after each mission are briefings with a storyline slipped into the midst of it somewhere. 
 Its not original but it will do, I mean, who cares about the storyline in an RTS when the main 
 focus is on more important aspects like the gameplay and atmosphere? This moves nicely onto the 
 progression of the missions within the game. It is typical progression where you face more enemies 
 (meaning more bases with more units) and more advanced units being thrown at you since the enemy 
 base (s) is probably well and truly already established. Not forgetting you have to be limited in 
 space and resources to build you base because the computer has all the good spots covered. Dont 
 forget that, it seems to be a RTS commandment. Something that links well to the mission is the 
 actual and overall gameplay  including the popular and important online play. Gameplay is fluid, 
 with the right number of units the unfriendly looking army on the other side of the map can be 
 desecrated in minutes although with the quantity over quality army coming into play (which almost 
 always happens in a skirmish against the computer on brutal) it cuts down on the longevity. However, 
 with that said Red Alert 2 will mainly be played online and the multiplayer will be discussed below. 
 The base building, tech paths and units available make the gameplay well adapted and suitable for 
 the online fanatics as well as the more casual gamer. The graphics in Red Alert 2 are improved 
 upon, if they didnt thenwell you all know. The graphics have pleasant strokes like the men being 
 set on fire, running and screaming in agony of the irradiated ground of where a majestic nuclear 
 power plant lay, now reduced to nothing. The graphics are good enough but theres definitely better. 
 The sound and score in Red Alert 2 is impressive. The comments of your units as they move and the 
 effects of destruction with the fluid gameplay and tactics required in an online dispute can be 
 immersive and really draw you into the game. The score in the background is on cue as ever with 
 a real atmosphere of war and tension. Finally comes the best part about Red Alert 2  the multiplayer 
 feature. This is one of the best RTS multiplayer/online games you can get. There is a thriving 
 community and the real life opponents offer far more of a confrontation than any brutal enemy could. 
 This is where the gameplay comes in, the online ladder is very competitive with a good random opponent 
 matching for ladder matches and if you want to show your friends who is the king at RA2 out of 
 you lot then the easy to use interface and the common chat room before a custom multiplayer match 
 of more than 1 v 1 matches will be a sure attraction. The strategists who take their gaming slightly 
 more seriously will be honing their skills with the hot keys, setting way points to circle, move 
 and fire when encountering tank fights and scattering the precious infantry when it looks like 
 they might be compressed into the ground. The multiplayer will keep you engaged for more than a 
 while and its always a relief to kick back and relax with a game of Red Alert 2 after ripping 
 things up on a frag fest game such as UT or Quake 3. Overall Red Alert 2 is a mixed package. At 
 times the gameplay is fluid and competent yet unrewarding due to an easy enemy, easy campaign and 
 the single player just isnt long enough  even on hard. This is made up for by the longevity it 
 provides with the multiplayer feature and it is online where Red Alert 2 shines and the basic RTS 
 features can be mixed with the supportive gameplay elements create a good experience and many a 
 battle where the commander, yourself, will tell the tale of last minute victories to your grand-children. 
 Compared with other RTS games Red Alert 2 is a light-hearted game which can be fun, provided you 
 have a decent internet access and time to practice those total-domination ambitions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peter_l1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Fantastic!
  
  Gameplay:
  Amazing. This game is so fun and addictive you'll lose sleep. It's incredibly fun waging war and 
 picking which side to fight on is even better. You choose between the Soviets (USSR) or the Allies 
 (USA) . They both have unique strenghts and weaknesess and special weapons. There are loads of missions 
 to get through as both sides and if you finish them all there's even online multiplayer games and 
 skirmish games against the computer.
  
  Graphics:
  Could be better. I love this type of graphics beacuse it gives us gamers with slower machines the 
 chance to play good games. I think these graphics are great.
  
  Sound:
  Good, solid sound effects and music is good too. Voice acting gets repetitive-after a while you 
 get a bit tired of your soldiers shouting "For home country". But overall satisfactory.
  
  This game is good for anyone who enjoys RTS or strategy games. A must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikey_PJ
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 is a real time strategy war game. It will most likely appeal to many players as it 
 has many cool things to do in it. In this game there are three campaigns. Tortourial American and 
 Russian. The tortourial is just like the american one except for a few things. In each campaign 
 you do a series of missions where you must build up massive armies to take out the massive enemy 
 armies. Aswell as this there are skirmish and online modes. Skirmish is a battle that you set up. 
 You just set the seetings and your off. However certain things like thunder storms really annoy 
 you when they take out like half of your base
  
  When I say massive I mean massive. You can choose from many soldiers and many vehicles and in the 
 end you'll have like hundreds or even thousands of guys. Although this is fun it is basically all 
 you do in the game. Just build kill build kill. This really starts to send out a cry for something 
 new... AFTER you finish enjoying this building and killing.
  
  Graphically this game ROCKS. You see realistic and well looking backgrounds. Well done characters 
 well done bases well done realistic smoke well done everything graphically except for the squarish 
 shapes.
  
  This game sounds really well to. The voices of there characters do get annoying after a while however. 
 The explosions sound like explosionsand the sounds from the different vehicles and weapons are 
 pretty good and original compared to eachother.
  
  This game I could reccomend to anybody easily. And im sure it will provide many Many MAny MANy 
 MANY hours of HARDCORE fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitzy69
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Cold War undertones? Check. Full Motion Video cutscenes? Check. Retro tech involving electricity 
 and nuclear energy? Check. Mind controlling madman poised to take over the planet? Check.
  
  Sounds like the cold war might've met an almost cartoony James-Bond villain fate, and to say 
 this isn't far from the truth. However, it's almost like penut butter and chocolate. From it's 
 almost overdone cutscenes to it's sometimes wierd methods of getting missions done, it has a unique 
 charm that will definitely appeal to more fast-paced RTS players.
  
  Gameplay is simple CnC fare. You build buildings. Those buildings can supply you with power, income, 
 infantry or armor units, or a number of different things. Each has either the technological finesse 
 of the Allies, or the Industrial Mass-Production flavor of the Soviets. The units -- even the basic 
 infantry -- on each side are unique, yet balanced in some way through the rest of the game. For 
 example, Allied GI's can deploy sandbags to increase their HP and rate of fire, but two Soviet 
 Conscripts can be built for the price of one GI. The allies can build some significant air units 
 early and easily, but the soviets can build more potent air defenses. Every unit has a flavor to 
 it, from the Retro Tech of Tesla Coils bug-zapping would-be intruders to the spoofed voice of Sean 
 Connery on allied Spies, things are wacky and interesting.
  
  That doesn't mean a person can't strategize, though. One particular mission starts you off with 
 three units to capture the president, whom is surrounded by any number of Navy seals (think "instant 
 infantry death") and laser defenses. The trick is, those three units are mind control units, and 
 can be used to take control of a single opposing unit as long as that mind-controller is in range. 
 This mission complements another US Allied mission (which chronologically occurs later) , where 
 you must save the president from the White House and stave off the periodic assaults of mind-controlled, 
 zombie-like citizens until he's safe. The first allied mission has you using one of the games hero 
 units, Tanya, to plant c4 beneath Soviet Navy ships to stop them from destroying the Statue of 
 liberty. This compliments the Soviet mission of bombing the Pentagon into nothingness.
  
  Graphics are decent enough, but this IS a game made from how long ago? It's what could easily be 
 called 2 and 1/2 D, as it doesn't appear to be a full 3d game but has many 3d-ish effects. Explosions, 
 craters, bouncing tires from exploded vehicles (occassionally within invaded US cities) are all 
 here, and some of them are even funny. Nuclear fallout makes infantry units turn into a green goo 
 and melt away. Some 'supervehicles' have miniature mushroom clouds for their weapon reports. Even 
 your little mouse pointer changes when doing things like a nuclear strike, from a pointer to a 
 little rotating nuke symbol. "Fission Mailed."
  
  Sound is something that is sincerely in strong standing here. Most every unit has their own speech 
 patterns, from the russian accented Conscripts (For the union!) to the Texan General Carver for 
 the allies. Even the engineer, a staple of the CnC line, has seperate voice patterns for the exact 
 same unit though they are on different sides. Music is a little upbeat and 'bouncy' for a wargame, 
 though a few interesting chunks find their way in here and there. When something explodes at random 
 (hey, get away from my base defenses moron!) or a fight starts, it's easy to find out where. A 
 couple units use the same voice overs, but this isn't a big deal as their function is pretty similar 
 only in different form (say an engineering vehicle as opposed to an engineer.)
  
  Multiplayer can be vicious, if one can get it to work. Things have been cobbled together by online 
 communities, but since this game is pretty old, don't expect to find too much going on. There is 
 plenty enough for a quick game here and there, and skirmish mode certainly adds a few minutes of 
 interest; each side in MP games has a unique unit they can build, from anti-infantry Snipers for 
 the British Allies to fallout-inducing Desolators on the soviet side.
  
  The wierdest, love it or hate it piece of this game has got to be it's personality. It uses FMV, 
 so there are no real in-game cutscenes; instead, you'll have a widescreen movie play for a mission 
 briefing in which the characters refer to you -- the player -- directly as a commander. During missions 
 you might get the occasional FMV playing above your sidebar, leaving you to watch things unfolding 
 on screen while someone (friendly or enemy) chats you up or taunts you. It's got a very wierd and 
 over the top ideas, like units that erase other units from time and move instantly via bending 
 time and space (don't think those units are overpowered -- it takes some time (heh) to actually 
 erase a person or building from history, and can be easily taken out if handled properly.
  
  All in all, the sheer oddities of the game may be enough to warrent a play-through, since those 
 oddities clearly define each side of the conflict. Digital nationalism at it's finest; Allies vs. 
 Soviets, the 'Good War' against those commie sons of... Pick a side, and start blowing stuff up. 
 It's just that simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ichimanako
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Probably the best game i've ever played! Missions are quite boring. All the same: destroy base, 
 destroy that tank, destroy that building, but i especially liked Skirmish mode. I also liked Superweapons, 
 they look great. Ok the bad thing of skirmish is that BRUTAL (computer) plays just like medium. 
 But i really enjoyed movies and that you can generate your own map on skirmish. I didn't play very 
 much single player i usually played multiplayer. Multiplayer mode is great. I recommend to you 
 all: Don't waste your time playin missions because ou will get bored, you'd better play this game 
 on Multiplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarties00
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Words cant describe this game. I love it. I must have already spent half my life playing this game. 
 Nothing can describe how good it is. It takes off from the first Red Alert game.. Only this time 
 its USA Vs Russia. I love the storyline in the C&C Universe. And I think this game is a masterpiece 
 Its incredibly addictive. Especially the skirmish... I have probably done since its launch over 
 a thousand skirmish games. The graphics definetly are an improvement over Tiberiun Sun which was 
 a dissapointment. For any Fan of any RTS game. This game is great.. It isnt to be taken to seriously 
 like the original C&C but It certainly holds the series well. Its a great game although it may 
 not be to some peoples taste I think its great ! Perfect infact! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This Command and Conquer has some of the old features of C&C Tiberian Sun and a few new ones as 
 well. I'm really glad that EA and Westwood studios brought back the cinematic cutscenes to make 
 this game more enjoyable to play. But the best thing that I awaited for was the ability to command 
 troops on land, air, and now sea. All sides are equally balanced and are given a variety units 
 and weapons at their disposal. The graphics in this game are very well done and their is a deep 
 storyline to the one player mode. The time of setting is also a thing gamers of the franchise would 
 like, which is set in an alternate world reality in the near present. I recommend this game to 
 the RTS entusiast and C&C fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comradsunite
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  If only it had the amazing multiplayer of the blizzard games, then it would be a revolutionionary 
 masterpeice. As is it has likely the most engadging plot and setting you will find in RTS; it could 
 comfortably be a movie... perhaps not a very good movie, but a movie. Even if you can win the entire 
 game with GIs, the downright coolness of all the other units make you want to win it with as many 
 combination of soldiers tanks, aircraft and seacraft as possible. The cutscenes and installation 
 graphics make it what it is. Compare it Generals which should be a great game, but instead is easily 
 forgetable beccause of its non-present plot. Despite my earlier knock, multiplayer is still pretty 
 good all things considered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  There are 3 universe of Command and Conquer that you must now know because it is very excellent 
 and popular games: 
  
  * Tiberium - Future
  * Red Alert - Past
  * Generals- Present
  
  Red Alert 2 is continue part of the famous Command and Conquer: Red Alert. The Storyline is 
 that the Soviet Union was defeat by the Allies and 
  Stalin was killed. The Allied Forces named Alexis Romanoff has the new leader of the Soviet Union. 
 He is a man of peace and it want a best future
  for Russia. But lately Romanoff is acting quite weird, all Soviet Factories are active and production 
 a large quantity of weapons. Last Intel report 
  say that a large force of Soviet is coming to the USA at all direction. Which means that the Soviet 
 want to conquer America, but that won`t happen.
  
  The game is fast pace similar to the reset of Command and Conquer games. You can play the Allied 
 and the Soviets. Each of them have up and down in their
  fire power and buildings. The graphics are clean, nice and zoom in to see the details clearly. 
 Also the battlefield is within some famous cities like
  Paris, New York City, Washington DC, Miami, Hawaii, Moscow, Berlin, and others. The gameplay is 
 simply and cool very similar to his others brothers
  in the Command and Conquer series. Also have internet connection to play lan or with others gamers 
 in the world.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Beckham
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  
  Now this is one Real Time Strategy game you will not be able to get off of. This game also has 
 one pretty solid online feature as well. You can order your troops and command armies to Conquer 
 your foes even over the internet, which is new for the Command & Conquer series!
  
  Gameplay :8
  
  The game itself is comprised of many different skirmishes in two different campaigns 
 of your choice. You can either choose the Allied side (ex. America) or the Soviet side (ex. Russia) . 
 You play the game's skirmishes by using the forces that they give you and using them to accomplish 
 many different goals like obliterating all enemies, usually on the other side of the battlefield, 
 or by establishing a base somewhere. Most missions take at least 30 min. to one hour. There are 
 not many missions, however. For some of the missions, you get to establish a base, and the other 
 times commanding a select few men around to do small-time work.
  
  There is also an internet component where you can use maps you make or by using the ones provided 
 for you and waste your opponents across the world! You can create or join a game and then choose 
 who you will fight for and with. This game although doesn't require uber-strategy for the basic 
 stuff as simply smothering your foe will overcome his awesome strategy if he isn't prepared enough. 
 Some matches last way too long as you are waiting for some structure to build and it gets boring 
 after a while. It is a very fun game, but not for long periods of time.
  
  Sound: 6
  
  Annoying after a while. The sounds are pretty realistic, but get really repetitive really fast. 
 There is not much else note-worthy else in this field... let us move on.
  
  Music: 6
  
  All of the music in this entire game is composed and produced by one amateur named Frank Klepacki. 
 There are about 5 out of the 35 tracks in the game that actually sound like it wasn't produced 
 on a synthesizer. Most tracks sound unnatural but they aren't totally crappy. It's okay.
  
  Replayability: 10
  
  An almost un-endless addiction. Wonderful for passing the time away. You 
 will be hooked the on this game forever. Now this isn't one of those crappy games that you hate 
 it so much because you are hooked on it... you will actually like this one.
  
  Difficulty: 10
  
  I have no idea who you will choose to battle via the Internet, but as far 
 as the campaigns go they are obviously easy in the beginning but later on they will require major 
 skill. For through the 11 missions on both sides of the war, they give you a steady increase of 
 pain. Very fun.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  It's hard to rate graphics for this era of gaming as I don't know the standards of back then, but 
 this game doesn't look like NES era and it doesn't look like the developers had a small budget 
 either. They look decent for a Windows 98 game and it is good enough if you are mature enough. 
 It won't sting your eyes.
  
  OVERALL: 9
  
  This is one solid game overall and will keep you busy on end. The expansion pack Yuri's Revenge 
 adds another two campaigns for you to tackle and that is enough to kill a goat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HUNTO1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  This game has nothing to do with the first Red Alert. But the game is the best out of the whole 
 C&C series. You are fighting Russia in the Allied campaign and opposite in the Soviet. Yuri is 
 a mind controller who is trying to overun and take control over the Soviets. Yuri brainwashes the 
 Soviet leader to go to war with the almighty America. 
  
  This games graphics are an upgrade to the last games. It is set as a 
  2 1/2-D if that makes. 
 In between 2-D and 3-D. The gameplay is great, better than all of them. 
  
  You have tons of new weapons and troops and Tanks,
  ALLIED- Weather Machine, G. I., Prism Tanks, 
 I. F. V.'s, and Tanya's who acts as a sniper and can detonate buildings and boats and tanks and she 
 swims.
  SOVIET- Nuclear Missile, Conscript, Crazy Ivan who detonates stuff, Tesla Tanks, and Apocalypse 
 Tanks.
  
  Overall the C&C series is at its best with Red Alert 2 and any strategy game lover will want to 
 snatch this game as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  This is another great game addition to the C&C game collection because now you have new units and 
 many other new things to battle with. The Allies are also given better units than what they had 
 in the 1st C&C Red Alert so this evens the game play up to make it better than the 1st game. The 
 video brefings/scenes are good, the graphics might not be the best compared today's graphics but 
 they still work, the sound is OK. You also have many funny/amusing bits in the game between the 
 Allies and the Soviets. However on my main PC the game wouldn't work for some reason but it would 
 work on my laptop. My advice would be to buy this game if it's on sale or if you really want it. 
 I got this game in a C&C game bundle of other older C&C games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  GAME STATS
  RELEASE DATE : October 21 2000
  COMPANY : Electronic Arts, Westwood Studios
  LEARNING CURVE : BEGINNER ~ Novice ~ Expert
  
  When I sat down to write this little 'piece 
 of excitement', I wanted to shout at the top of my voice, fill the air with foul utterances, and 
 tell you to play this goddam game no matter what. And my failure to contain my excitement leads 
 me to this: I am shouting already, my neighbors are looking out their window, and now I want you 
 to "PLAY THIS GODDAM GAME!"
  
  CnC - RA2 is one of those games that you want to sit and play for hours at a stretch, and not move 
 or even eat, or go to the bathroom, which you eventually won't if you don't eat. This RTS (real-time 
 strategy) is based, from what I gather, somewhere in or around the second World War, and this time, 
 it's the Soviets and the Allies who are at it (no surprise) ... The part of the game that completely 
 defeats this time period is the fact that you get to build teleportation devices, weather control 
 devices, Iron Curtains for invulnerability, and the infamous Nuclear Missile silo. I'll be shouting 
 some more at the end of this article on how cool all these are, but right now, let's get on with 
 it.
  
  You can play the game's campaign as an Ally or as a Soviet, both leading to the eventual defeat 
 of the Soviets, depending on which side you choose. The story unfolds differently for each side, 
 but the underlying plot remains the same: while playing as the Allies, you might have to capture 
 a base, but playing as Soviets, you need to defend it. And it's not like the roles get exactly 
 reversed. The sequence of events that ultimately lead to your goal will really make you think at 
 how different the two sides of the campaign really are. The units and buildings for the two sides 
 are entirely different, obviously, and each has it's own strengths and weaknesses, which really 
 makes you think in a way only a real RTS can. For example, the Allies have more "ranged" things, 
 like the Prism tank that can take out targets from a distance, or the Spy Satellite that explores 
 the whole map for you, removing the fog of war. Soviets work more towards power, with the Apocalypse 
 tank (one of the most powerful units in the game) and the Nuke silo. The basic Soviet units are 
 more powerful than the Allied ones, but you'll have to play to each of their strengths and weaknesses 
 to see which is better, or worse.
  
  I can't take it anymore. I REALLY must tell you about the campaign. It's the most awesome-est, 
 most breath-takingly created thing I have ever seen. The cut-scenes are just beautiful. They feature 
 actual actors rather than an animated version of people moving their lips. The performances of 
 all of them are stunning, and you'll wonder at how much more money these guys (and gals) make compared 
 to Tom Cruise. Originality at it's best. You have to see it to believe it. Trust me. Playing as 
 Allies, you get to meet President Dugan, Albert Einstein himself, a General Carville who's in charge 
 of the operation against the Soviets, to name a few. You also meet Lt. Eva (growl!) who will direct 
 you in your mission, and who also says things like "Construction complete" and "Weather Control 
 Device ready" when you're playing. There is a lot more in the cut-scenes, but since I personally 
 like the Soviets more, I think I'll talk about them now. The Soviet part of the campaign is just 
 as exciting as the Allied, and the cut-scenes more so. Again, pure genius. Apart from seeing Premiere 
 Romanov and a lot more folks, I must especially mention that you meet a guy named Yuri. The way 
 he speaks will actually make you consider the gravity of the situation you're put in. As a Soviet, 
 you will be guided by Lt. Zofia (growl growl!) . She has in-game voices, too, but I feel that "Nuclear 
 Missile launched" is better than "Lightning storm created" any day, no matter who says it!
  
  The skirmish game allows you to choose from any of the Soviet or Allied countries, and play 
 against up to 8 opponents. You can set the difficulty of the game, whether your MCV is allowed 
 to repack or not, and whether crates should appear or not, among other things. Crates are randomly 
 placed on the map, here and there, and they sometimes give you money, and sometimes give you whole 
 MCVs as well! You can even turn off the super-weapons, if you wish, but there's no fun in that. 
 For super-weapons, the Allies obviously have more advanced stuff. The Weather Control Device can 
 conjure up lightning storms for major damage, and the Chronosphere can teleport units anywhere 
 on the map. It can even send enemy units to the bottom of the ocean! I think the Soviet weapons 
 are much more functional. The Nuke can hurt plenty, and leaves it's target area filled with radiation, 
 so that unsuspecting victims who crawl over are damaged beyond repair, or killed instantly.
  
  Multiplayer is not all that much different from the skirmish, except for the human-opponent 
 factor, and the ability to have teams. Again, the maps only support up to 8 players.
  All in all, I think everybody should have this game. If you're not going to play, just sit beside 
 someone who is and watch the cut-scenes. It's just as great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponic3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  I swear when I first just saw this game I fell in love with it. For one the Allied and Soviet sides 
 are no longer completly unfair. There is some leverage so it's not impossible to play as the allies. 
 The graphics are much more amazing in game play and during movies it's easier to make out the people 
 in it. You now have much more of a variety for defense and offense. Also there is much newer technology 
 and some old favourites come back with a vengence. As well as having newer better actors take the 
 place of the old ones. RA2 is pne amazing game that takes C&C to a new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gidthekid56
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I got recently, and having been playing for a while. there are no words to describe how good this 
 game is, but if i had to choose a word i'd use... AWEsome, i got he first red alert. which i found 
 boring after a while. getting this game hoping with all my heart that it was going to be better 
 than the first, and when i poped it in my computer i was AMAZING at what they did, the cartoonish 
 graphic was really fun to play with, and the units "from the future is just AWEsome. I really enjoy 
 playing it and hope anyone that have the game agrees.
  
  written by: Chris Wong on GTK's account 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidus34
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Command and conquer red alert 2 its a great game, in my opinion is a great mix between psi-fi and 
 strategy, psi-fi is not a genre that i personally like but this game is the exception with clever 
 creations like space travelers and radiation soldiers the game exploits a great deal of creative 
 innovation, its boost a nice frame rate and its futuristic design that makes a interesting game 
 that will make anyone who plays it get "hooked" in its addictive game play... a great strategy 
 game for psi-fi fans in deed, but to anyone else its a great experience and a fun ride for gamers 
 in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  These days, the PC gaming are offering a lot of good and bad games in the strategy genre. I have 
 some few favorites and this game is one of them. Command & Conquer Red Alert 2 is way better than 
 its predecessor (or so I think) and offers a lot of challenging and exciting gameplay. My favorite 
 thing about the game is a good old Skirmish game, but we'll get to that later in this review. 
 
  
  The gameplay offers a lot of new and exciting stuff to play. There's the new Campaign and new countries 
 to play and so much more. Each country has its own "special unit". For example Korea has the famous 
 'Black Eagle Jets' and Russia has 'Tesla Tanks'. The countries are split up into two teams: Soviet 
 and Allies. America, France, Korea, Germany, Great Britain versus Russia, Cuba, Libya, Iraq. So 
 all together there's nine teams to play with. I would say that the Allies has more advantage than 
 the Soviet. The Allies has Jets and much better defence. But the Soviet has Nuclear Reactors which 
 provide you with a lot of power and electricity. 
  There's also a multiplayer for you to have fun with. My opinion is that you keep your self to the 
 singleplayer part, because the multiplayer isn't that great. But if you like then go ahead, i don't 
 care.
  
  The graphics is minor problem in the game. The units and buildings look great, but the environments 
 isn't the best. They all look the same, except some are bigger or smaller, and there is snow or 
 desert. The special effects like the Nuclear bomb or the lightning storm isn't the best either. 
 But all of this is minor problems, you don't notice it, except if you're a serious gamer.
  
  The sound a little twisted too. The music (Hell March 2) is bad and the unit voices isn't great 
 either. I suggest you keep your own music playing in the background, because that really sucks. 
 The sound effects is also crappy. Just keep tto the gaming and you won't notice it.
  
  There's a lot of replay value for you to play. Keep playing the Skirmish game, because the really 
 kicks ass! The campaign is also a must-play. Don't miss it!
  
  The GooD:
  - Awesome gameplay
  - Lots and lots replay value
  - New soldiers and countries to play with
 
  - Skirmish is always a lot of fun.
  
  The BaD:
  - The graphics sometimes
  - The sound could have been a lot better
  - Boring environments.
  
  Go buy Red Alert 2 if 
 you up for some serious gaming. Red Alert 2 should not be missed by any strategy game player and 
 can be highly recommended to everybody.
  
  Dope999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgon_9
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2 is one of the best real time strategy games out there. It has great 
 game play, lots of units and locations and it's just plain old fun. One of the reasons I'm still 
 playing this game is that it's just fun to pick up and play a quick skirmish map. While the graphics 
 may not be best, I still prefer a good 2D real time strategy game to an average 3D strategy any 
 day of the week. One thing that does stand out is the great music for this game, leading your troops 
 into battle with this rock music blasting away is awesome. If there was a game soundtrack cd that 
 I could purchase it would be Red Alert 2, unfortunately I was only able to get 2 mp3's from the 
 old westwood site when the game was first released.
  
  In Red Alert 2 there are two different campaigns one for the Americans and another for the Soviets. 
 Both have a great story, that is driven by the cutscenes with real actors. These cutscenes were 
 well done and many times I go back and watch them again because they're so funny. The campaigns 
 are made up of different maps that must be passed in order. Each with different goals which usually 
 lead up to destroying your opponent. There are many different locations such as the desert, the 
 artic, many cities in the US and in Europe. The landscape and building variety is pretty good.
 
  
  One thing that I will always love about this game are the units. From the huge Russian tanks to 
 the American planes there are so many units that make this game fun to play. With air, sea and 
 land based units theres many ways to fight in this game. Overall, if you love real time strategy 
 games like I do, play this game. Forget about the graphics or the fact that its 5 years old, its 
 still a great game and it's more than worth the bargin bin price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  I fell in love with this one really quick. it was just soo much fun to play both in the single player 
 and the multi which even though I'll admit I was hardly great at I certainly stil enjoyed many 
 a looooong match. Inmy ioinion Red Alert with its expansion pack is by far the best of the the Command 
 and Conquer series of games and I know I am not alone in that thought. though some seem to prefer 
 the clunky C&C 1 or even worse the mostly boring Tiberium Sun which is considered like the worse 
 by most critics. The only thing I can think off hand that I didn; t like about this game was the 
 suoper weapons which wjile they looked very cool I felt were overpowered so I only played in games 
 that didn; t use them which fortunately was most since everyone seemd to agree that tehy kinda ruined 
 the gameThe story goes as I think i remember it that somebody goes back in time and removes Hitler 
 so the Nazi regime can never become what it did to eventually start WWII. However this leaved the 
 Soviet Union to exapnd freely unchecked and attack an underpowered,.. becuase thye never had the 
 build up of being brought into WWII,... USA. that may not be exact,.. but it is sometthing along those 
 lines. And let us not forget that this game feature the ever lovely Tonya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first RST games I played, I waited for this game for a long time in 2000-2001, 
 I knew its going to be good. Around that time RA2 was one of the best graphic game I ever played, 
 and still its one of the best games comparing to some games that we play today.
  
  I really like about RA2 in game videos that goes in the map its like youre a tank and controlling 
 every thing and in the same time you get video messages from your president or your leader, in 
 a way thats cool. 
  
  Some people will consider this as a bad graphic game but at that time with some of the bad games 
 and comparing to RA1 this is a awesome game.
  
  And this is what Im saying what do I know right? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix61286
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 31, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  Something that many strategy games fall short in doing, is giving the player a sense of purpose. 
 They dont give you a reason to fight one, well spare the people's obssesion of wooping but upon 
 the enemy. In Red Alert 2, the United States defenses have been comprimised and has suffered a 
 massive first strike from the Soviet Union. If you play on the US side, your goal will be to force 
 the enemy out of US territory and in the end take the fight to him, while on the Soviet side, your 
 goal is conquest pure a simple. I remember seeing that openning video the first time, and rage 
 filling me as I watched the statue of liberty fall.
  The gameplay is also well throught out and along the lines of traditional stereotyping of US and 
 Soviet military strengths. For example, that US Infantry is able to fortify there position by entrenching, 
 however they cost twice as much as regular soviet infantry which do not have that same ability. 
 
  For Freedom! For Conquest! You decide in Red Alert 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommo400
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 27, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a great Rts game, where you can plays as the good guys or bad guys, the allies or the soviets. 
 The great thing is these two armies are very different. The soviets have strong weapons and heavy 
 firepower. They have spider like robots called terror drones, that destroy tanks from the inside. 
 And they have cloning vats to double your men or you can kill your men for money. You can make 
 lots of units (called conscripts) cheaply, but there not very skilled. The allies are much more 
 tactical. They might not be as strong but they have units like spies and fighter jets. They have 
 chrono legionares that can make the enemys buildings and units vanish. There GI's are more expensive 
 to make than conscripts but are much more skilled and can enter a defensive position than increases 
 there defence and firepower. In addition to both sides differences. You get a different bonus depending 
 on which country you play as. For example, if you play as Britain you can train snipers, and russia 
 can create a unique tesla tank that shoots lightening. You can play a campaign for the allies and 
 soviets. You can also play a battle for fun or play online against friends. I think this game is 
 excellent and has a simple interface. So although its not exactly brand new anymore, fans of rts 
 games should pick this up, and for a cheap price too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frontball
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 25, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  C&C: Red Alert was a welcome addition to the series and the storyline was new and interesting. 
 EA ressurects the title, ups the gameplay, and brings in a new spin; America is now the victim. 
 
  
  After the Allies crushed the Soviets in Red Alert, the world seemed at peace. Now, the Soviet Union 
 is not about to conform to the demands of the US. The Red army has touched down on American soil. 
 
  
  Tiberian Sun was the first to show us the almost 3-D Command & Conquer with hills and a defined 
 view of the battlefield. EA brings it back with minor, if not none at all, improvements. The gameplay 
 feels the same as Tiberian Sun, or, if you aren't familiar with it, is not unlike the original 
 DOS games. A command bar of formations (I can't remember if Tiberian Sun had it) has been added 
 to the game, but you can do just as well without it. 
  
  In the tradition of Command & Conquer, the briefings are made special with filmed scenes and a 
 star studded cast. Udo Kier (Blade, Evil Eyes) as the menacing Soviet psychic and Ray Wise (Jeepers 
 Creepers 2, The Rain Makers) as the US President to name a couple.
  
  The voice-overs throughout the game are well done. Though one may grow tired of their units confirming 
 each and every command with repetitive lines, the briefings and special dialogues are interesting 
 and immersive. Explosions and gunfire aren't skimped out on either.
  
  Overall, this game is a welcome addition to the series. Continuing the storyline with a more futuristic 
 twinge and supplying addictive gameplay are what RA2 set out to accomplish, and did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: quezo156
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Para comenzar las graficas estan demsiado adelantadas para la epoca, la jugabilidad es exelente, 
 y las condiciones son estupendas, la musica buenisima, para los que no estan acostumbrados al genero 
 sera un poco dificil de entender al principio inmediato, pero es facil y rapido despues de un par 
 de misiones, otro de los aspectos del que puedo hablar es la facilidad de instalacion y en cuanto 
 al consumo de los recursos del sistma son minimos, exelente trama, la combinacion es suficiente 
 en cuanto el juego y esta. Por lo que a mi respecta este es un juego de los que pocos se pueden 
 decir que es un completo bodrio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 12, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Just finished RA2 for the third time. Still as much fun as it used to be. This game has a half 
 a decade on its shoulders but RA2 still is the best of this series. The missions are varied and 
 really fun. You can use different tactics every time you play. 
  
  The graphics is really good. I like the overview and prefer this view before the newer 3D view 
 of the newer installments. 
  
  The multiplayer is good and you can also download maps and play skirmish games against the computer 
 or your friends. With RA2 you have many hours of great gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 6, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The Command and conquer lien of RTS (Other than tiberian sun) , are defaintly the best RTS style 
 games ive played to date, The story lines are excellent, In RA2 you get the option to take the 
 roll of either American allied forces or Soveit forces, both with great and different story lines, 
 The cut scenes are great.
  
  The only bad mark i can give it is the graphics arent superb, However this game was made in the 
 same era as quakeIII, hexen etc sodont expect flashy graphics, it does its job. If great graphics 
 are a must for you, i suggest C&C Generals.
  
  Ive played this game since the very start, and i havent once got bored of it, Its a game i can 
 go back and back again many times, and its still as enjoyable as the -first time i played it.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob1354
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I gotta say even as this game gets older and older. I still find myself snagging a game or two 
 every so often. Even with the introduction of new games like AOE 3 and C&C generals and the expansion 
 zero hour. There's just nothing quite like a good ole game of Red alert 2, sure graphics might 
 be a little out of date compared to the '06 standards, but the game play still remains as fun and 
 as challenging, and of course as stimulating as ever. I gotta admit its just a plain fun game, 
 there's nothing to really complain about. the different factions have really diverse tech trees 
 and units so its not like everything seems the same all the time. Plus no matter what you have 
 to make choices. do i roll over my enemies with hundreds of Russian tanks or do i bomb them into 
 the stone age with Allied Harriers. There is just no way to say this game sucks, and regardless 
 of what anyone says it does keep you coming back for more even 6 years later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MixMasterMario
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Hello. My name is MixMasterMario. For over 3 years I have enjoyed the masterpiece-of-a-game called 
 Red Alert 2. In this game, players are allowed two separate campaigns to play through: Allied or 
 Soviet. They are also allowed to choose a difficulty setting. This highly addictive PC game is 
 also Online Play compatible, making it double the fun to test your skills against a computerized 
 player and an actual gamer online. In this review, I will describe the different modes in the game 
 and describe each one.
  
  
  Single-Player
  
  In single-player mode, players who do not have a saved campaign must choose a faction to play as: 
 Allied or Soviet. Each faction requires the player to insert the disc corresponding to that faction. 
 (For example: To play as the Soviets, you must insert the Soviet disc. The same goes for the Allied 
 faction.) Before selecting a faction, however, the player must choose a difficulty setting. After 
 that is done, the player clicks on the icon representing the faction they wish to play as and the 
 campaign begins. Another mode in single-player is the Skirmish mode. While playing in this mode, 
 the player chooses his/her faction, their color, how many opponents will be playing (computerized 
 only) , the computers faction (unless set to random) , the opponents color (unless set to random) , 
 and the map you wish to play on. Also, one great thing about Skirmish mode is that it allows you 
 to design your own map. Once all decisions are made, the game may commence.
  
  Multi-Player
  
  When playing multi-player, you can choose from either a basic Internet game 
 or a LAN connection game. Internet games are fun and challenging. When a player is hosting an Internet 
 game, they can choose from many options, some of which are: Cooperative, Free-For-All, Battle, 
 Unholy Alliance, and many others. Players can also host tournaments online. Or form a clan and 
 have Clan Matches. While in a game lobby, no swearing is allowed by penalty from Admin. (Trust 
 me, I know. Ive cursed a lot on the lobbies and gotten banned a few times myself.)
  
  This is my review on Red Alert 2.
  Hope you enjoyed it.
  Message me for more details on this 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boobooda
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  Easy to learn, hard to master, fun to play!! Only wish that the developers will continue to add 
 missions to this series in addition to the Yuri's Revenge package. EA: are you listening?
  Easier that Starcraft (which is also great) but a concentration on unit building unlike Starcraft's 
 constant upgrading requirements. Thus, it makes C&C more combat intensive -- once you get that 
 unit -- its ready to go at maximum fighting potential. I have played this game over and over at 
 every level setting and for the most part, each game is a bit different. It also fun to try new 
 strategies with different units to complete a mission. Fast action and easy controls makes this 
 one of my favorite games of all time!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raoul_haa
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 is a great game, the graphics are not amazing but game-play makes this game a true 
 champion between the other top-league games.
  The creator did a very good job with the single-player campaign, you can choose to be the Americans 
 or the germens, there are ten levels that in each the difficult level grows as just as needed, 
 from a 5-minute level to a two-ours one.
  
  There are a lot of different units, tanks, jeeps, soldiers, super soldiers, trucks, war balloons 
 and much more, each with he's own typical voice.
  
  The music and mood in the game is what makes it so special, in the skirmish mode you can choose 
 against how much armies will you fight.
  
  Now, after playing the single player almost six times and something like 30 skirmishes I tell you: 
 this game is worth any dollar.
  
  Stay in contact,
  
  Raoul_haa.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimps11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  dis is a mint game but u shud play online insted of the mishions which r borring where online u 
 can have up 2 8 players 4 comp and 4 human and u can go round buildin a base n creating a gd defence 
 so dat u dont get beat easily u can allie wid ppl speek and have fun by kiling ur opponants its 
 a game to get although the grapghics rnt too gd if they made dem beta it myt make da game a bit 
 **** but uva dan dats its mint but they cud have more infantry and vearcals but there is alot as 
 there is but its gd to have a change now and agen uno wot i meen but uva dan dat its mint 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertoleyva
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Sin dudarlo, si puedes conseguir este juego, no dudes en hacerlo, es uno de los mejores juegos 
 de estrategia q salieron y lo mejor de todo es q es muy sencillo y facil de jugar, los graficos 
 son buenos y el sonido es tambien es meritorio. Adems la historia va muy bien acompaada de las 
 secuencias de video q nos muestra el juego.
  
  Despus de q lo juegues un buen tiempo no te aburrirs de l. Cosa q otros juegos de ahora, modernos!! 
 no logran de nosotros..
  
  Es as pues q Westwood nos mantena contentos, y si tienes alguan duda preguntale a Tanya, q es 
 la herona de esta serie., q ademas podria ser mi herona tambien.... jaja. a gozar con el juego.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick5800
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games for the money. I first played it at a friends house on a network 
 and learned all the controls in about ten minutes. I was latter surprised to find out that it can 
 be picked up at any bargin bin or even ebay for about $10.00! but don't let the cheep price fool 
 you, this game will keep you busy for hours. The sound is amazing to. The game requires little 
 memory so if you have a gaming computer you will have no problem building a base and terminating 
 the another team in a matter of minutes. Although the game is very realistic, the enemy might put 
 up a fight until the last guy is dead. Well worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socky7779
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 may be a good game but the RA games can never be as good as the others. There are lots 
 of units and buildings to make so getting bored will take a long time. You can create random maps 
 in skirmish mode. This is one of the best 2D games going. In skirmish you can select a country 
 and each country has it's own unit/building it can create that the other countries can't. Britain 
 is the best because it can make snipers, though France can make a very powerful cannon. There is 
 a very limited amount of air units unlike Generals but has lots of sea units unlike Generals. This 
 game doesnt cost much and is work playing. The main game isn't to long and you will want to play 
 on as each mission is very different. Each battle you play will end up completely different. The 
 online mode is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the better CnC games of old. The graphics were pretty good for it's time 
 and the gameplay was easy. Build this to be able to get more of this type of unit. Real easy. There 
 weren't too many units to worry about and everything has a counter unit. 
  
  The SP campaign wasn't all that bad but MP is where the game shines. MP battles with friends are 
 a ton of fun. All out war. Units like the dogs and plasma soldiers made it fun to rush infantry 
 into an enemy's base. The USSR blimps were also fun to take into battle. Resource scrounging was 
 probably my only complaint with this game as it seemed like you ran out of resources much too quick.
 
  
  All in all, if you're looking for an older RTS, this one fits the bill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  this game was my first strategy game, and it is still one of the best that is out there, though 
 i dont think that they make it anymore, so check ebay if u want it. for the price, the game is 
 the best. also, if u like strategy games, you might want to check out c and c generals and zero 
 hour the gameplay is some of the best on the market still today.
  /\__/\
  (*_*)
  {;;;;;;} ==== kitties rule dogs suck really bad and if you dont agree, than i dont care, and i will 
 go eat ie because it is my favorite food
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaiKhulud
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  "Porazitel'no! Lutshaya strategiya so vremen C&C!" (Awesome! Best RTS from all of C&C!)
  That how we say it in our great motherland!
  Few words about Intro. It's perfect! All this soviets 
 and "Dirizhabli Kirov"....
  Just great!
  This is C&C, that you start to understand when you see the intro. Hige scale of events on the screen, 
 brilliant music by maestro Klepacki.... Yeah! You in C&C universe! Very fun cutscenes (especially 
 for the soviets)
  Gamplay is fast, very fast! You want to harvest resources? Sorrym this is the wrong game! This 
 game about war! War without stupid resources and researches! You want that cool-lookin' tank? Build 
 a Research Lab and grab it! You want more money? Built more harvester's! All is simple and fun... 
 And fast! This is just great! Burn, crush! Game is all about it!
  
  ZA MATUSHKU ROSSIJU! (For mother Russia!)
  
  Game's fast, game is fun! Waddaya waitin' for? 
 Play it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 is pretty fun game, like most of the others C&C games. And this is one of my favourites. 
 Skirmish is somehow fun to play, but you get tired for the time, also if you play the story missions, 
 some of them can get really frustrating. The mission where you had to cut of the power to be able 
 to dodge the Tesla Coil was really frustrating, that I almost stopped there.
  Sound were OK, I didn't like the Tanya's voice and the music was good.
  Graphics weren't anything 
 special.
  The game was really fun, but I got tired playing it about 5 hours in a row, even if it one of my 
 favourites. 
  Luckily, there's an Expansion Pack and mods which boosts up the value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 is getting old but it still has the same feel as the older command and conquer games.
 
  It pits the allies and the Soviets at war in a alternate sci-fi universe, it follows the basic 
 RTS formula - base building aspect/scout/attack, it offers a fun humourous campaigns featuring 
 video cut scenes to tell the story with two campaigns one for the Soviets and the other the Allies.
 
  
  The story is a strong part of Command and conquer games and its upheld in Red Alert 2 which automatically 
 sets RA2 apart from the pack of other lesser RTS games which might have ugly 3D graphics which 
 age terribly in a few years but get raved about at the time even though they have practicaly no 
 story. 
  
  The graphics in RA2 are decent, theyre detailed and colourful, you can clearly see whats going 
 on and theyve aged well, they still look good even compared to modern RTS games , the user interface 
 has also been improved substantially and you have tabs for different sets of buildings , main buildings, 
 defensive structures and soldiers . Also since the graphics are 2d still it means you dont need 
 a good PC to run the game.
  
  The gameplay is offcourse the strongest part of any C+C game, and should be of any game, there 
 are two campaigns which are genuinely fun to play which have different objectives and are punctuated 
 with a cut scene throughout. There are quite a few units to choose from and ether faction is varied, 
 the soviets rely more on slightly more expensive and offensive units wereas the allies have slightly 
 weaker but cheaper units which are still very effective if used correctly. Each faction also has 
 a special unit/ability (although some normal units now have secondary abilities too) such as for 
 the americans you can have para troopers, if your the 'british' side of the allies in skirmish/multiplayer 
 you can build snipers, if your the russians you get a option to build telsa tanks, if your the 
 libyan side of the soviets you can build demolition trucks. Multiplayer is also a strong point 
 and is very fun also the gameincludes a skirmish mode but the AI wont be much of a challenge to 
 a seasoned C+C player!
  
  The sound in the game is great, the music has always been a strong part in the C+C franchise with 
 memorable tracks and its the same case in RA2, also the units have fun little lines and you'll 
 remember them for years to come, although i ahve to say none still rivals the commando from C+C 
 1 released way back in 1995, but Tanya does come close!
  
  Overall RA2 is one of the best games made, its a very VERY good RTS game and worthy of the C+C 
 name it bears, probably my second favourite C+C game after the original, its fun, funny and whislt 
 it might be old, still looks sharp, has memorable moments and alot of replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaya27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  ok gzel bir oyun. Mkemmel. ama oyuna almak gerek. ilk bata skc 
 olabilir. Oynadka zevk veren bir oyun. Tanya is my love. Herkese tavsiye ederim. Zaten tm 
 dnyada hayranlar Red Alert 2 ye gerekli nemi verdiklerine inanyorum. 
  
  As for the game itself? It offers a wide assortment of weopons, vehicles, buildings and other nifty 
 little gadgets. It's a great online game, and just as good offline, or at least until you get so 
 good you can take on 7 other brutal enemies. Red Alert 2 is a brilliant work of art. You can play 
 as Allied, or Soviet forces, each having strengths and weaknesses, plus different countries alligned 
 with each side (allies - U. S. Korea, Britain... etc.... Soviet - Russia, Libya, Iraq.... etc....) 
 and each have their own little bonus unit that is specific to their country. For example america 
 has Parachutist capabilities, britain has snipers, russia has Tesla Tanks, Iraq has Desolaters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sano90
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games you don't see often, a nice low impact graphic engine that will give 
 you smooth gameplay and graphics on almost any model PC. I highly recommend it mainly for that 
 fact. You can have an old PC with an NVidia Vanta graphic card and no more then 120 MB's of ram 
 and it will still function pretty well ( I know 'cause that is what I used to play it on) .
  
  As for the game itself? It offers a wide assortment of weopons, vehicles, buildings and other 
 nifty little gadgets. It's a great online game, and just as good offline, or at least until you 
 get so good you can take on 7 other brutal enemies. Red Alert 2 is a brilliant work of art. You 
 can play as Allied, or Soviet forces, each having strengths and weaknesses, plus different countries 
 alligned with each side (allies - U. S. Korea, Britain... etc.... Soviet - Russia, Libya, Iraq.... etc....) 
 and each have their own little bonus unit that is specific to their country. For example america 
 has Parachutist capabilities, britain has snipers, russia has Tesla Tanks, Iraq has Desolaters.
 
  
  Red Alert has enough stuff to keep you well occupied. It will addict you right away, then you'll 
 put it away for a little while and then get sucked back in. There are things now, even after 2 
 years of playing it, that i'm still learning. It's a great game, the main drawback is that the 
 units can be a little stubborn to control specifically, like with hotkeys and trying to get them 
 to do specific actions especially if you lost the card with all the keyboard functions on it... make 
 sure you don't lose it like i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 200006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the original Red Alert will recall its vibrant setting within the fictionalized pages of 
 an alternative history brought about by some of the most important individuals of the last century. 
 Albert Einstein, wishing to prevent Hitler's horrific reign, used a specially constructed time 
 travel device to slip back to the despot's youth, and murdered him. Einstein returned to find that 
 while he had succeeded in preventing one madman from sweeping across the continent, he had effectively 
 allowed another to run amok, completely unchecked: Josef Stalin. Though the Soviet menace had managed 
 to spread its power through the land, a concentrated effort from the Allies effectively put a stop 
 to the Red Menace's war machine. After a time, the United States appointed a "puppet" political 
 figure at its head, General Alex Romanov, who appeared to be loyal to the U. S.' democratic views. 
 Flash forward to the present: Suddenly, the country finds itself being invaded on three borders 
 by the formerly-dormant Soviets, with extensive psychic resources gradually overtaking the American 
 populace as major cities find themselves inhabited with their monuments in shambles: New York, 
 San Francisco, San Antonio, St. Louis... nothing seems to be beyond the grasp of the Red Menace. 
 As the leading general of either the Soviets or the Allies, it's up to you to ensure that the U. S. 
 truly remains the land of the free - or that it finds itself crushed beneath the heel of the brutal 
 invasion.
  
  Red Alert 2's basic tenets of gameplay will seem instantly familiar to anyone who's picked up an 
 RTS title within the last few years, as it appears on the surface to maintain the same basic format 
 that its Command & Conquer predecessors established so long ago. In other words, players must scour 
 the land for gold, use mining vehicles to collect it; and must constantly expand their base while 
 developing the technology tree as well as their army. Of course, the manner in which you accomplish 
 this will heavily depend on your given faction, as each side has its own set of advantages and 
 disadvantages. For example, the Allies are cursed with relatively slow production times, but they 
 make up for it with incredibly speedy resource collection. Conversely, the Soviets have lightning-fast 
 production speeds, though, their resource collection takes considerably longer to implement. Still, 
 while these core RTS concepts may seem familiar, one shouldn't make the mistake of assuming that 
 Red Alert 2 is the sum of its basic parts.
  
  All of this factors considerably into how you precede throughout a given mission, though, the missions 
 themselves will often rise above these patterns to present the player with a goal that requires 
 a varying set of strategies, depending on the type and style of objective. For instance, you might 
 need to deeply entrench yourself into the landscape and develop some heavy defensive tactics in 
 order to protect your top-secret laboratory from being destroyed by the Allies. While the invasion 
 of the Virgin Islands will require that you learn to balance your naval forces against the protection 
 of your base perimeter. On the other hand, some missions do away with the production routine entirely, 
 leaving you with a pre-determined set of forces to implement your goals; others give you only a 
 structure or two and ask that you manage with your restricted resources. This particular approach 
 stands as a break from the standard RTS formula, as does the modernized atmosphere which characterizes 
 Red Alert 2. It's an entirely regular sight to find yourself storming through the streets of a 
 bustling metropolis, cars maniacally careening away as your troops punch holes in the landscape. 
 All in all, the various missions are a distinct variance from the genre standard, and elevate themselves 
 above the core RTS concepts.
  
  If you want any more info about this game, or other games, then check out my Union Board or Email 
 me.
  
  Union Board: http://www. gamespot. com/pages/unions/forums/show_topics. php? union_id=Greg
  
  Email: 
 gregatkinson99@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanehunter24
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  Red Alert comes back with not a whimper, but a bang. This Red Alert is just awesome compared to 
 the original, even it was good. The Tiberian Sun engine, with a few tweaks, make this game a new 
 step towards Command and Conquer history. This game, once again, pits the Soviets against the Allied 
 Forces, with even better technologies. The Allies rely on stealth, speed, and airpower. The Soviets, 
 on the other hand, rely on power and sheer, brutal force. I love the levels in the skirmish mode, 
 especially the D. C. level. If you are looking for an awesome game, get this on the First Decade 
 pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: descender
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Ok first off, i have to say i am a major fan of the C&C series. I finally got "The First Decade" 
 so that i could enjoy the entire history up to date. By far i think Red Alert 2 is among my personal 
 favs. Right from the cool and hysterical movie scenes to the actual fighting and war, one never 
 EVER gets a chance to become bored. The AI is very impressive (especially if you stick to fighting 
 in hard mode) with a few tricks that could surprise even the most seasoned C&C player. The graphics 
 are definitely something to take note of. Like the other C&C games, the visual effects are always 
 a treat for the eyes. Especially since the graphics have come to such a high level over the years. 
 One example in this: The explosions are always big and spectacular! Especially when one one witnesses 
 the full force of a V3 rocket or, even better, the raw power of the Soviet's nuclear missle. 
 
  Now let's take a deeper look into the gameplay itself. One thing to take note of is the totally 
 cool Game Interface itself. While very similar to the first Red Alert, the new graphics set up 
 brings it to a whole new level. Add the fact that you can actually group units in the interface 
 or even set up nav points. The infantry units and the vehicles are simply.......... i just can't 
 say anything. I find them that good. Even better is that they have added the deployment feature 
 to some of the units, and thus giving them a secondary ability of sorts. There are so many types 
 of both infantry and vehicles. So much infact that some are even country specific! The structures 
 are even more well defined where even the structures that are common to both soviets and allies 
 are different in appearance.
  These are all the major flashy and cool looking stuff i have mentioned. But let's not get carried 
 away. As i mentioned earlier, the AI is very impressive. Now i also mentioned that it shows its 
 full capablilities in hard difficulty. But even in the easy difficulty mode the AI advances to 
 a totally radical level of Battle Strategy. What i say now is very important to those who play 
 the game. This is also an ongoing debate, even as i type, among my friends and myself : It is very 
 important to think out your moves carefully when playing this particular strategy games. But the 
 AI is very forceful and doesn't even give you a chance to think! (very true when you consider the 
 Soviet campaign-"Red Revolution") You think you, you die. That's it. Of course playing the game 
 in easy mode is an exception..... but even so don't get over-confident . Now I am neutral on this 
 point of view. I plan whenever I can. Yet at the same time I fight in a really fast manner which 
 is, at many times, reckless and even downright suicidal. 
  The single player scenarios are very interesting from the movie scenes to the battle. However, 
 it is the times when the battle control goes offline temporarily to show you a scene or message 
 in the radar interface window that are most interesting. So here we know about our SP mode of play. 
 I have never actually played multiplayer...... but one thing's for sure: with human opponents, the 
 game will definitely become very challenging and interesting especially since there are so many 
 out there who are major fans of C&C. 
  So this is the first review I have ever written. But I will definitely be writing more as i explore 
 the depths of different games. My next review will be on Yuri's Revenge and then Generals and Generals: Zero 
 Hour so keep a watch for 'em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic, which I love to come back to every once in a while to enjoy. I 
 don't feel like writing anything long since its been a while since i played it, but I remember 
 decent graphics and sound, but excellent replay value, and that oh so awesome Command and Conqueresque 
 story which I love. I love that there was no pop cap on your forces so you could just keep pumping 
 out GI's or conscripts to harass the enemy until you sent in the bulk of your army. And another 
 thing too, the balance was so surprisingly good; it seemed every unit, every defensive building 
 had a weakness, which makes for an interesting give and take, and diverse armies. Because I have 
 noticed over the years there tend to be a few really dominating units in RTS games, and most players 
 armies will consist of JUST those units. With Red Alert 2 I had to involve lots of infantry and 
 vehicles plus air support, cause if I just sent in tanks, a large force of infantry in buildings 
 and aircraft could anihilate it. 
  
  Overall a must buy for RTS lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuteR00
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I know that its been out for a while but I just started playing it and well.. 
 its a great game. Its really worth it. Go check it out NOW. The campaign is really fun to play 
 (I never finished it yet. But so far I havent had any disappointing parts. The skirmishes are 
 also a great experience. The AI always has something new to deliver. Its does get hard sometimes 
 but considering I just started playing. I NEED TO PLAY MORE. The best thing I like is that the 
 control that you have over the players. You can build all sorts of neat stuff like weather machines 
 and nuclear missiles. GO PLAY THIS GAME RIGHT NOW  YOU WONT BE DISSAPOINTED.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Man-utd-lege
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  I disagree to the reviews below this game is good but certainly not great. The gameplay can be 
 tedius at times. The game at the start draws you in but towards the end it feels all too samey 
 for me. missions arent as varied as they could be and the game is linear. I like the stories however 
 they're very unique and look the part too. This game also doesnt graphically excell it does not 
 excell in hte audio department not even at the time of its release, the game looks dated in 06. 
 The characters however are a nice touch provides something new to the RTS genre it gives you an 
 extra incentive to protect them. Other gamers may get more out of this game than I do im not the 
 biggest RTS fan is a point that must be made but take note of my negatives. peace out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-Bart
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game over all, but it dosen't work on any of my computers any more. It is becoming 
 out of date. I like how the did things. This game has a good plot . The only resorce is money. 
 You don't need food or anything else. It needs some work before it is called a classic. I thought 
 that the Allied Marines were great. They could pile themselves in sandbags. The expansion Yuri's 
 revenge is better. That one is realy hard on a lot of computers. If you buy this game get the expansion 
 with it. Now days you can get the whole Command & Conquer series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkrieg_1001
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Stunning graphics, great gameplay, along with pretty good sound creates a perfect game. One of 
 the best RTS games out on the market today. Like all of the other Command and Conquer games, this 
 game comes standard with a storyline of the Russians trying to conquer the world. Every second 
 makes it better and better. It has about a 0-30 minute learning curve and varying difficulty. I 
 would recommend this game to any gamer that owns a computer or likes RTS games. Overall, I gave 
 it a 9.9!!! Amazing game! Like I said before, I would recommend it to anyone. I love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJellyBirdx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game, both the online play, the play against the computer and the campaign (on both sides) 
 bring a unique, fun experience to the game. Especially in the online mode, it never really gets 
 old because people are constantly revamping it to introduce new guns.
  
  Gameplay: The reason you play it. You are the general and you and only you control your men against 
 some of the finest nations in the world. You have unlimited power but you must know how to harness 
 it to defete your opponent. In order to be good you have to be able to use you mouse and keyboard 
 to perfection (go back to base, have teams...) . The better players really show themselves by doing 
 this.
  
  Graphics: Not amazing. Tough to get good graphics in a game like this where you are looking from 
 far away but they still arent too bad as you know what is happening.
  
  Sounds: Get old. Everyone makes their own noise when you click on them but it begins to get old 
 as you here the same sounds repeat themselves. Other sounds such as machine gun fire and missles 
 dont change at all.
  
  Value: Unrivaled. The only other games that can compete with a game like this is the other Cammand 
 & Conquors.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Big Hit. Tough not to like this game.
  
  Recommendation: This game is powerfully addicting and chances are if you think you won't like this 
 game you actually will. Sense you don't need a high end PC for this game, its worth getting with 
 its lowered price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlbslugger86
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  this game is great. many times a day imagine how would i feel if i saw tanks and soviet troops rolling 
 down wall street and blowing the statue of liberty to hell, which is crazy and fits perfectly to 
 the time of this game which is the 1970's, even though it's alternate history and not real. my favorite 
 units in the game have to be the navy seals and the aircraft carriers. i only wish the seals had 
 the ablity to blow up bridges like they do in yuris revenge. i love playing skirmish mode, even though 
 they don't have seals. i pratice alot before i play online and it helps out alot. i mostly play the 
 allied side even though i like the soviets too. so in short get this game, if you can find it knowing 
 it's so old 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ykw1201
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a aa a a 
 a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a apa a a a a a a aa a a a aa a a a aa a a a a a a aa 
 a a a a a a aa a a a a a a appp a a a a a a a aa a aa a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a apppp 
 pa a a a a a a apa a a a a a a aa a aa a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a 
 a a a apa a a a a a a apa a a a a a a apa a a a a a a apa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a 
 a a app a a a a apppa a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a 
 aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a apa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a appa a a a a a a aa 
 a a a a a a apa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a appaa a a a a a a apa a a a a a a aa 
 a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a stratedgy player but man red alert 2 is a fun game. I mean this game reminds me a little 
 bit like starcraft but let's get to red alert 2. I haven't played any of the red alert games but 
 if this game got my attention, which I'm not a fan of stratedgies but I love this game, then a 
 stradegy player will definitly like it. The game is really fun, I mean how fun is it using nuclear 
 warheads or futuristic weather machines.
  
  In red alert 2, you get to pick two sides. The one side is the allies, which are the americans. 
 The other side are the soviet union which are the russians. You get to pick any of the sides. Each 
 side has different abilites. Although I'm not going to talk about each and there different abilites 
 because this review will get boring.
  
  Not to mention when this game first came out, the online play was insane. If you go online then 
 you will see nuclear warheads bombing your base every minute. But anyways, I really recommend buying 
 this game because it is a heck a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aLdo-komAng
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  im chalenging anyone whod like to play im not promising id beat you but ill make youre win taufer 
 than you usually think
  hehe ;-p 
  
  im chalenging anyone whod like to play im not promising id beat you but ill make youre win taufer 
 than you usually think
  hehe ;-p
  
  im chalenging anyone whod like to play im not promising id beat you but ill make youre win taufer 
 than you usually think
  hehe ;-p
  
  im chalenging anyone whod like to play im not promising id beat you but ill make youre win taufer 
 than you usually think
  hehe ;-p
  
  im chalenging anyone whod like to play im not promising id beat you but ill make youre win taufer 
 than you usually think
  hehe ;-p
  
  im chalenging anyone whod like to play im not promising id beat you but ill make youre win taufer 
 than you usually think
  hehe ;-p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironbam7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Pros: this is a great game it is well worth the five dollers at EB games, the graphics are good 
 and simple, if your PC is hooked to a tv it look very good evin on tube. If you are on a low income 
 but love games this is for you, this will run on a pentuim one. this game shows you dont need to 
 spend fifty busks just to have fun! 
  
  Cons: I can not get to play my brother and beat him because the multiplayer network will not work 
 but i think I set it up wrong
  
  buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy buy it ! buy it ! buy it !it 
 ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy buy it ! buy it ! 
 buy it ! it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! 
 buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy buy it ! buy it ! buy 
 it !it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy buy it ! buy 
 it ! buy it ! it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy it ! buy 
 it ! buy it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC_NC
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Very good, but does get repetitive. However, I always pick this up if i have a half-hour 
 to spare. Skirmish mode is fantastic - download Final Alert: Yuri's Revenge to make your own maps! 
 During the missions, the radar screen gets replaced with a TV screen, giving you important information 
 about the current mission - useful and relevant.
  
  Graphics - 2D, nuff said. Although they are bearable even today on a resolution of 1280x1024. The 
 cartoony graphics make this game so much fun. The cinematics are funny as well, not that brilliant 
 CGI, but still this isn't a movie we're talking about. Interesting story as well (i won't spoil 
 it) .
  
  Sound - Not brilliant, but does keep the fun factor up. All the vehicles tend to have to same voiceovers, 
 but you get used to it after a while.
  
  Value - 4.99, can't get much better!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: footballwr19
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  How can you not like a game like this, sure the graphics are a little choppy but who cares. The 
 game play couldnt be better, I was addicted from the first time I played this. Come on what game 
 gives you tanks like the apocalypse and prism tanks. And the superweapons are create, who ever 
 thought you can have a weapon that uses weather to destroy a base. Its not that hard but o boy 
 once you get the hang of it, it is amazing. For you pros out there, you can construct a moving 
 nuclear bomb. Just select Libya from the country list, build your base, build the little demolition 
 trucks, build three of them, build a crazy ivan, and build a navy so you can build a amphibous 
 transporter. Then you take crazy ivan place a bomb on the first demolition truck and quickly put 
 it in the amphibous transport. IT WILL NOT EXPLODE!!!! Repeat the process with the other two demoliton 
 trucks and you have a nuclear bomb that is three times stronger than the regular superweapon. TO 
 MAKE THE BOMB INVINSIBLE- simple turn superweapons on, build an iron curtain, build three of these 
 amphibous transporter nuclear bombs and drive them into the center of the opponents base, and then 
 while you highlight all of them, press the button to empty out the demolition trucks, this will 
 activate the explosion, and while you do this send a nuclear bomb from the nuclear silo to finish 
 of the job, A GUARANTEED WAY TO DESTROY A BASE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guntizz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I am so amazed by this game that I am looking for words to say You - reader! Storyline - is about 
 what could it be if.... game is giving the opportunity to make real our imaginations :)
  My favourite characters Tanya and Yuri :) For the way they are made so realistic we must thank 
 to actors, but still when I look and listen to them I`m not thinking that they are actors... 
 
  Multiple choice about how to destroy the enemy, this game is giving this opportunity - to think 
 ... Prism tanks... Tesla tanks... Terror drones... and the most powerful weapon in this game - 
 Apocalypse tanks - Russian power supreme indeed :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacybaron
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must 
 be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may 
 choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with 
 the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to 
 your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectre37
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9/10
  Red Alert 2 has great gameplay. Better then any C&C out there probably. Why you ask? There is a 
 massive ammount of units, 8 different teams with special units, great maps, the coolest building 
 ideas, and tons of unique maps. Some of the cool ideas in RA 2 are: The Soviet Cloning Lab, which 
 gives you a copy of the same unit you built out of the barracks, The Alliance Crono Technology, 
 there are 3 units with these abilitys, crono legioneers, crono commandos, and the alliance harvester. 
 This technology allows units to teleport places, but if you teleport to far, they have to stop 
 and rebuild. There are also spies, which aren't that new but you can put them in enemy buildings 
 and get there technology, or get super units like the Yuri Leader or the crono commandos.
  The single player mode has some really fun missions, but most of them are repetitive and stale 
 from previous C&C games. The online mode is definatly a winner. You get a group of friends to get 
 the game, and go online and play for hours. There are tons of people online, so you can always 
 play with people.
  Beyond that, RA2 is a standard RTS. But, most RTSs have the same structure, and thats a good thing 
 because you don't want to change the whole structure and destroy the game. (*Cough* C&C Renegade 
 *Cough*)
  
  Visuals - 6/10
  The visuals are nothing great. They are better then those of previous RTSs, but still not spectacular. 
 The units and terrian still look basic from the first RA. The buildings are quite creative though, 
 they all look different and have great designs and details.
  
  Audio - 6/10
  The voices in RA2 are mediocre. The alliance side and the soviet side have once voice for each 
 team on there side. There is some great RTS music and the fact that they used real actors for the 
 cut scenes is a great thing.
  
  Value - 9/10
  Like i said previously, the online will grab you and hold you for hours. The single player is fairly 
 long, and there is 2 of them. The best part about RA 2, playing online with a group of friends. 
 You can do that forever. I actually just installed RA2 again, which makes it one of my most played 
 games.
  
  Overall, RA2 is one of best Real time strategy games out there. If you are a RTS you owe it to 
 your self to give RA2 a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pipodilernia
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Very good, exelent game which have many opcions and many destruction, The story is very "realistic" 
 and the idea of "miniclips" was the best of the game another thing remarcable are the graphics 
 of the game they are very atracting.
  The side of american is very technologic and it seems to be advance than the soviets , and they 
 have powerfull weapons (is this casuality?) well the side of the soviets may see very rustyc 
 but is powerful to.
  The maps where we play are very realistic to they have many details and they afect our units .
 
  well thats all (I think) 
  see`u soon 
  pipodilernia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcemanDOBS
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay for this game is very fun. If you have played warcraft then this will be 
 familiar. The campaign is very fun but the online part is a good part as well. I spent countless 
 hours playing the campaign and skirmish matches against computers. The part i loved about the gameplay 
 is your units earn veterancy for killing so many enemies. If they reach the 3 veterancy then they 
 auto heal and do quite a bit more damage.
  
  Graphics: This game is very old so the graphics are not that advanced. It is a 3d game with 2d 
 graphics. The graphics are not very good but the gameplay more than makes up for it. Many of the 
 characters are still well detailed.
  
  Videos: The cutscenes are old and have cheap actors but hey this is an old game so i didnt mind.
 
  
  One last thing that i would like to put is that i loved to be the british army when i skirmished. 
 They have sniper units and i would make around five of them and stake them outside of the base 
 of my foe and upgrade thier veterancy. When they reached three they shoot very quickly and do a 
 one hit kill to most every unit. Well besides vehicles. They as you might guess are very weak against 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Red Alert 2 falls into another universe different from the Tiberium universe 
 (Although it can still be argued if they are connected to each other somehow through the chrono 
 sphere) This game brings back the Russians who have a new leader who wants to take over the United 
 States after the embarassment that they caused to Russia by defeating them within the first Red 
 Alert game. This game brings Kari Wuher in as Agent Tanya in all the cut scenes which gives a nice 
 taste to the overall game. The main gameplay is well done as all the characters within the game 
 is well balanced and the main structure of the game is also set in a way that is easy to navigate. 
 The Soviets are more geared towards power in order to defeat their foes while the Allies are more 
 geared to high technology (spy satilities, mirage tanks) and other gizmos in order to outsmart 
 the Russians. The multiplayer mode in Red Alert 2 is awesome as it allows players to use different 
 countries that introduce their own specific units into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This game in Some ways feels like a Red Alert game with the two sides's from the first game. Allies 
 and Solviets Rage War Witch both sides play pretty good but somethings seem out of place. Russia 
 gets some old school buildings and units like the tesla coil and the Nuke. But most of the stuff 
 are not in like the Heavy Tank. witch has been replaced by the Rhino Heavy Tank. witch use's a 
 Laser. much like the Gdi Titan. stuff like that feel totaly wrong for this time period. But saying 
 that the game feels a Lot like any command and conquer game. The Gameplay mostly. you do the standard 
 C&c things build up your base make tankas and attack. and also a lot of new stuff. 
  
  Gameplay: What really more do you want. gameplay is fun and cool. you get lots of nice ground sea 
 and Air units to play with. each with its own Good points and Bad. There's atleast 80 units and 
 structures to use. within the game. 
  
  Replay: on this game is ok the Story gets A lot more fun the Harder Settings gives more challenge 
 for any one. The online is fun and good if your board with the A. I you get skirmish too so if your 
 finished with the story you can just duke it out with Lots of Tanks and infantry.
  
  Sound: Is for the most part Great with units sounding really cool. and the Effects aren't too bad 
 ether.
  
  i Think this game is a good C&c game. although Might not be as good as the First. But still a Great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackreaper777
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  Well, first thing I want to say is that I play it long time after it was released, and I like it 
 very much. Because I think RA is type of a game which never gets too old or gets boring to play. 
 Don't know what, but RA has something special, which most other RTS doesn't.
  Firstly, it's great that you can choose from many different countries, with their special units. 
 Also I like the variety of units. Everything from water units to air units. That's something that 
 many RTS games is lacking unfortunately. Other thing is that buildings and units are build in rather 
 short time, so you can quickly establish base, build up your army, and go killing. You don't have 
 to wait for some big building to be built (e. g. castles in AoE) or worry about resources to get 
 to next age. RA's simplicity is the key I think. No ages, one resource, no worries about non-combat 
 stuff, just battle.
  So despite the fact that it's rather old game, and graphics aren't superb, it cannot ruin playing 
 fun. By the way, I really like soundtrack. It's so.. cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretteo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  C&C red alert 2 has loads of new units and structures the best ones i think are the tanks that 
 can use camoflage and be invisable from enemy sight untill they shot at an enemy unit.
  
  The graphics are great and the sound, the explosian sounds are very realistic, the missions are 
 great and the enemy isnt to hard of to difficult to beat wich is great because on the first red 
 alert they where very easy to kill and on the other difficulties to hard, this game is perfect 
 and the skirmishes are great fun, there are a number of game add-ons/ paches i believe you can 
 even get one from game spot, the add-ons are great giving more units and more missions.
  
  Irecommend this game to people that liked the other command and coquer games and war fanatics it 
 is also a great stratergy game.
  
  Thanks for reading.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: holland01
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 is the greatest Command & Conquer of the serie. The Russians send there troops to America 
 to crush them and rule the world. but there is the first little mistake. it's always about Russians 
 and the allied in this case the Americans but that's no problem if you want to destroy everything 
 in your way. 
  
  The units are as always unique. i had alot of fun with the desolator of Iraq and the Chrono troopers 
 of the allied. The Sea units are very nice to play with and the Zeppelins are nice to bomb with. 
 
  The Graphics are nice but in a time that we have 3d games is this not very interresting anymore. 
 The maps are great and with and good detailed the nice things are that you can destoy important 
 builings suchs like the White House. 
  
  The Gameplay is very good it's fun to play the game
  
  The Story is not very interesting. the 
 movies are not beautifull made but the the computer animations are really nice.
  
  The Multiplayer is very nice. thats a lot of fun and it's well balanced
  
  Conclusion: RA2 
 is a good RTS but not the best. the movies could be more detailed and teh concept of Russian and 
 Allied must be diffrent teh multiplayer makes alot good. but further more it's a nice game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frost6969
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  i first saw tis game in grade 10. I was in science class and the guy nex to me had a labtop and 
 was playing it durng class. I really liked it and went out and bought it. 
  
  It is a game basted on the Cold War between Russia and the United States. You can pick either side 
 to play. The goal of the game is to take over the world as you may of guessed. It is a good length 
 long. Fun to play. Music is well done. 
  
  The point is if you like the old WarCraft games you will like this game. I some times go back and 
 play it every so often so it does ave replay value. I highly recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moosicle
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm starting to feel old when Command and Conquer's Red Alert 2 is considered an out of date game, 
 yet I still love it. This game is really fun, almost as good as Red Alert. Red Alert had that magic 
 spark to it, an RA2 almost matches it, basically because it's almost the same game. It's fun to 
 kill soem time with a skirmish, and the Campaign is pretty sweet with some cheesy videos with semi-crappy 
 actors. The gameplay can get addictive and may take some of your time. It's a pretty descent war 
 simulation, though, even though some of it is sci-fi. Before it seemed amazing, but yes, the graphics 
 are a little dated, but still okay. I got it for 10 bucks in 2001 and I still play it, I then got 
 Yuri's Revenge for 10 bucks, I do not recomend Yuri's Revenge, it's only a sub-par Expansion. For 
 the price you can get it now, it's a magnificent value. Forget that new fancy stuff, RA2 is the 
 way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperz89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  a very good series of red alert comes red alert 2. lol im explaining it quite simply due to most 
 games i reviewed were more than 2-3 years ago and latest ;) . ok lets start off by saying its gameplay. the 
 missions of allies/soviets are great. once u done tat, u can oso go online or lan for a red alert 
 battle. the units are interesting and futuristic. example's GI's, weather storm device, soviets desolator, mirage 
 tanks and so on. wow this game never ends if u keep practising on how to manage ur base and with 
 ur own skills to survive many raids. ok lets talk about its graphic, not bad 2d and stylish enough. doesnt 
 eat too much RAM, hard disc space. once u had a 2.4ghz com or over. the game plays like wonders. coz 
 u have to be as fast as ur processor PC do. coz it'll run very fast and u'll have to act quick. tats 
 all to ra2. enjoy ~ it never gets outdated forever coz its a masterpiece! newcomers/veterans can 
 play along together of coz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero_of_Time82
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  I eagerly awaited any shred of news when I heard that this game was in development. When I got 
 it, I was very pleased to find it was everything that I had wanted it to be. 
  
  It is, however, very different from the original Red Alert. Granted, it employs all of the same 
 basic play mechanics, but it has a completely different feel than the dire mood of the original. 
 The mood of the game is far less dire, and it is much easier to survive in this sequel. I found 
 myself just trying to build the most awesome base that I could rather than completing the mission 
 in many cases.
  
  On one hand, the designers have given the gamer the tools to make themselves an awesome army and 
 base. The variety of units and structures is amazing, and the urban environments add the ridiculously 
 frightening aspect of garrisoning civilian buildings.
  
  All in all, this game is very fun. I've spent countless hours playing both the single player missions 
 and skirmishes as well as the internet and LAN multiplayer co-op and skirmishes. This is definitely 
 a worthy sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dack-
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  The Command and conquer lien of RTS (Other than tiberian sun) , are defaintly the best RTS style 
 games ive played to date, The story lines are excellent, In RA2 you get the option to take the 
 roll of either American allied forces or Soveit forces, both with great and different story lines, 
 The cut scenes are great.
  
  The only bad mark i can give it is the graphics arent superb, However this game was made in the 
 same era as quakeIII, hexen etc sodont expect flashy graphics, it does its job. If great graphics 
 are a must for you, i suggest C&C Generals.
  
  Ive played this game since the very start, and i havent once got bored of it, Its a game i can 
 go back and back again many times, and its still as enjoyable as the -first time i played it.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 is an upgrade to the original Red alert,
  But this game offers so much more, with alot more on your team, and the lightnling clouds are more 
 effective as this can blow up alot of your enemys team, the rocket also does twice the amount of 
 damage.
  
  The original just did a little damage on a power station.
  
  The RED ALERT 2 can wipe out an entire base if postioned in the correct place.
  
  Most of your 
 units will also have secondry attack modes and have different techniques, so the strategic possibilites 
 are endless.
  
  You can get your campaign over lands and sea, air, and cover 80 units and stucture to deliver your 
 fury.
  
  Cause havok with your friend in a one on one battle, or gather more friend to have a massive red 
 alert blast.
  The fun neverstops.
  
  Send in Parr-troops, and drop them next to your enemys and engulf a war, or join forces and attack 
 the computer first and then go on a one to one battle with your mates.
  
  Will you lead an american victory parade in the streets of new york city or host a Soviet victory 
 and celebrate in the White house?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunsnArmor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  This game is the best pc game I have ever played. The music is great, the graphics are good, the 
 little movies have real people, and there are 24 levels. 24 LEVELS. Strategy games usually don't 
 have that many. The sound is perfect, the sound is perfect, the sound is perfect, *whacks head* 
 it is just the best game I have ever played on computer. I love it so much! I feel like playing 
 it right now! You should buy this game. It's wonderful! It's so good that my fourteen year old 
 brother even gives up instant messaging with girls so that he can play it. Believe me; that is 
 big! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShootersRule
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  The story is the same as Red Alert, but this is more "up-to-date". This game can pack plenty of 
 action, along with a unique story. There's things that came from the original Red Alert, along 
 with better things. Like a NUKE silo from Russia!  =)
  When I saw the first screenshots for this game, I was disappointed to see there were no Mammoth 
 Tanks from the original Red Alert = (. But Westwood replaced the mammoth tanks with another beloved 
 heavy-combat tank, the Apocolypse Tank! There are things that are better in this game than the 
 original Red Alert, like aircraft and submarines, toxin troopers, mind-control, and killing those 
 annoying civilians that get in your way!!!!! =)
  And the intro movie and music is cool also, that's a real invasion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amagill116
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Kinda dated now, but not a bad game. I remember playing the first C&C and loving it, this is just 
 about the same thing. Games have gotten a lot more complex since then and had no difficulty playing 
 this until the last 2 misions when it gets fairly hard. 
  
  Not really innovative but If you've looking for a cheap game or a little bit of nostalgia for the 
 series, it can keep you busy for 10 hours. But if you looking for a 2D RTS, then i prefer Rise 
 of Nations. This one is officially going into my games I will never play again bag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  i used to play the old command and conquers on playstation with my dad. so we bought this when 
 we finally bought a computer. it was awsome. tho ive moved on to bigger and better games, i still 
 think this game was pretty awsome. diffinately for the "dad" type tho. it will easily eat a good 
 hour out of your time tho, depending on how agressive you are. that makes the saving feature very 
 useful, considering there was none in the playstation version.
  the newer version, generals, has much different controls, and i prefer the Red Alert controls weapons, 
 and pretty much everything to the newer versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4-SaGohan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Well hello again my good people (not really) . This is the new version of the original Red Alert.
 
  
  This game is more 3-D than the previous Red Alert games. This game is all about strategy. If you 
 have strategy's in mind then u will not like this game. This game has more levels than the previous 
 RA games. More excitements in each level, and harder each time you pass a level. This game is not 
 really that hard as you think it is. This game is easier than the previous RA games and it's not 
 as good as the previous one's but it's still a pretty good game.
  
  If you played the previous RA games, then you shall love this game. This game would be a lot easier 
 if you played the previous once. If your looking forward to this game and you just can't wait to 
 buy this game, then just buy this game now.
  
  If u have never heard of any C&C games, then u will love this game a lot more than those people 
 who played the previos or this game. Well that is all I could say about this game. Oh ya and one 
 more thing, the graphics looks 3D but the gameplay is 2D.
  
  Ciao 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blibs_ug
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:00 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 has a big burden to carry after its great predeceses and in most respects it lives 
 up to its calling. With a big enough array of mission to keep most happy to play for hours this 
 game offers even more fun on the skirmish mode with thousands of ways to destroy. Teams are devided 
 into Soviets and Allies, consiting of Allies: Americans, Germany, France, South Korea and Great 
 Britain who battle it out on countless maps againts, Iraq, Russia, Cuba and Libya. Each nation 
 has speacial units frm the British sniper to the French Grand Cannon to the Russian Tesla Tanks 
 etc. But really a game like this can only grant someone so much fun on their own, and this is were 
 the internet steps in with better, player customised maps, mini coopertive missions and many more. 
 RA2 lets you battle your mates or tackle a few enemys together or even other players worldwide. 
 This games greatness is shown by the outstounding fact that people still play it in numbers today. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiseMakaveli
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game is a good game. It will attract vets, aswell as newbies. This game has alot of things 
 to do in it. Multiplayer is great, the two stories are great and lengthy. Graphics are just fine 
 for a strategy game. Alot of units, economy is well maintained. Hours and hours of fun. It's alot 
 more fast paced than other games like Age of Empires, or Age of Mythology, but it really works 
 towards the game's benefit. Either pick the Allied, or the Soviets. And if you're lucky enough, 
 you can find the C&C that comes with Yuri's revenge. It's a whole cd adding Yuris story to it. 
 Very good game in my opinion, worth your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzraeLskI
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:25 am PT
Review:  Finally someone has remembered to make a game with soviets and yanks.
  That cold war "what if" period is totally forgotten. But the good man from the Westwood remembered 
 it and have supplied us with another great game. So lets get started.
  
  Story-I guess you already know it the soviets have invaded America and you get to chose which side 
 will you help triumph
  
  Factions-In the single player campaign you get to chose the allies of the soviets. These two sides 
 are very different. Allies mostly relie on air support and their navy while the soviets prefer 
 more direct approach (a river of tanks crushing everything before them) . On the side of the allies 
 are: USA, Great Britain, France, Germany (?) and South Korea while Russians (USSR) , Iraq, Lybia 
 and Iran stand with the Soviets. But you only get to chose this states in skirmish or multi player 
 and they al have their special units.
  
  Graphics-It`s still all 2-D but that isn`t spoiling the game.
  
  Sound-I think the commentaries 
 of units are OK but for the music, the could have put in some patriotic songs
  
  Thats all from me I hope you agree with my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  The storyline didn't ensnare me (although Tanya did) , but I played it for what it was worth. Like 
 other C&C games (if not most RTS games) , it's all about building up the largest army you can and 
 beating the enemy into submission, with a few sprinkles of actual strategy here and there. Without 
 having to collect various resources like AoE or Blizzard's line of RTS, it makes "rushing" easier. 
 The graphics are mediocre but multiplayer is better. Depending on which country you play as, you 
 get a special unit or building that's exclusive to that nation. It's stuff you'd come to expect 
 from Westwood, and if you're a fan of other C&C products then you should get this if you haven't 
 already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grenadier53
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  As much as I love C&C games i thought that Red Alert 2 was probably the one of the best RTS (real 
 time strategy) in the series. The single player campagins give an interesting gamepaly for both 
 the allied and soviet side each trying to prevale and yet defeat Yuri from his reign of using his 
 physic ability to mindcontrol anyone. The game brings forth units from old war games and new technology 
 from the future. Using air, sea and ground units (infintry, vehicles) . Surprisingly unlike other 
 games such as Warcraft 3 where you can only click on up to 12 units (per team) but in this game 
 you can hold up to pretty much what you can buy from 1 unit to whatever the max units you have. 
 In one assalt by having one box clicking all and a huge seige will happen no matter if thats 100 
 soldiers or 100 tanks it will be an incredible fight especially online. The computers (AI) have 
 three difficulties. Easy, Medium and Brutal. Each have their own characteristics, timing and units 
 in which they attack with. Experienced players will find that brutal computers are not that hard 
 to defeat... just because they are predictible... yeah predictible. The game itself is really good 
 but after 2 or 3 games vs computers... it actually starts to get boring, then thats where online 
 comes in and facing a whole bunch of people all over the world. Its fun and they arent predictible 
 as the computers so.... its a lot more addictive. The music is very versitile and is very well made 
 music to play with almost like Splinter Cell. For the people who are new to this are going to have 
 a tiny bit of difficulties but in about 30 minutes you will get the hang of it. Also making maps 
 is pretty fun too, customizing it to the way you want and playing in it, is all the more reasons 
 to have this game. Everthing kicks in from music to graphics to gameplay everything is wrapped 
 up and balanced, making it an enjoyable satisfying, addictive interesting game to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 really is a good game and a sequel worth playing. The graphics are good with nice design 
 of the buildings and map. Storyline in this game is interesting and fun because the soviets suddenly 
 wants to invade America. You can choose which side you are on and the technology in this game is 
 far more advanced tha our world, except the surroundings. Sound in this game really well made but 
 the sound of the characters are kinda repetitive. Although the gameplay is nice but really gets 
 boring because what you literally do in this game is build up your base and invade other countries. Controls 
 in this game is just right. The only bad thing of this game is that it lags if there is a lot of 
 activities going on in the screen. (e. g.:30 aircraft carriers attacking a base, you can have major 
 lagging if you do that) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekmazter
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  Better gameplay, more items, more technology, more dynamics in rival countries. It has it all except 
 for real aliens swooping down to wage their own war! 
  
  If you liked the original C&C, C&C RA, you will love C&C RA2. 
  
  Same style of gameplay but 
 with added dynamics. Building underground networks that just pop up and overwhelm bases and outposts 
 is just a terrific addition it in itself that it demands a new style of thinking. 
  
  The engine for RA2 is solid and runs w/o a hitch. Online play is always busy and you'll always 
 find time to run a campaign alone if you want. While it doesn't do anything overly new in the RTS 
 genre, that's not a problem. There are enough new elements to this one to make you happy in the 
 long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobsfoot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:11 am PT
Review:  One of the best strategy games ever for game play and value. Some levels are extremely hard but 
 some very easy. The map maker that you download off some sites is rubbish, it slow and jumpy. If 
 you haven't got c&c red alert 2 buy it. Aperantly more than 100 words. screw flanders screw flanders 
 screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw 
 flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders 
 screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw 
 flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders 
 screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolve3308
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:51 pm PT
Review:  an amazing game in an amazing series. jus when i thought i had seen the end of command and conquer 
 they release red alert 2. it is a great sequel, maybe not as good as the original but still a very 
 enjoyable game. if u have even a remote interest in stratedgy games this is the game i would recommend. 
 excellent layout with easy controls, and for a stratedgy game the graphics are in top shape. it 
 also has a decent storyline which is hard to fit in with stratedgy games. you can spend hours and 
 hours cause u will never play the same battle twice and if u have online capabilities it gets even 
 more fun and challenging. there is also an expansion pack out for it, yuris revenge, it provides 
 extra content but i would not recommend it unless u are a true fan of stratedgy games or the command 
 and conquer series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathflesh12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  Graphics 9/10
  
  The graphics are not THAT bad for an old game.
  if you destry building you will see the explosions and fire,
  there is not much special to say 
 about the graphics
  
  Sound: 5/10
  
  Belive me: the sound is WORSE!!!
  (viva la 1996 sound) The attack sounds are Groose! the tank sounds are GROOSE... what are you saying 
 to me???? Oh yeah there is no music either!! whats next???
  
  A. I 6/10
  
  another bad thing about westwoods red alert 2 is the A. I of the enemy.
  if you play skirmish 
 they will ALWAYS do the same:
  Air strike, Air strike, Air strike and sometime an normal attack.
  it gets a little boring afther 
 a while.
  
  Multiplayer: 8/10
  one thing: ''GREAT''
  
  Value: 7/10
  
  its a long time since i buy this game... but its only worthed if you play online.
  The single 
 player (see above) sucks, so does the skirmish mode to!
  but couse the Great Multiplayer makes everything alright! so dont worry
  
  Overall: 8.3
  
 yep 8.3 thats not That bad.
  if the multiplayer wasnt there it should get a 6.6 im sure about that!
  Westwood done its best 
 to make it bether than part 1.. but no sorry it wasnt!
  part one just feels bether and they would use airstrikes all the time!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:14 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer: Red Alert 2 (RA2) is the best in the series of command a conquer games. C&C 
 has been out since circa 1991 and Westwood Studios has followed that up with Red Alert. Tiberian 
 Sun was the next C&C game after RA. Too bad Tiberian Sun was unbalanced and not too fun to play. 
 Well, Westwood has gotten rid of that because RA2 is most certainly balanced. 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 
  
  RA2's gameplay is very enjoyable, especially if you've never played a C&C 
 game before. The formula is very exciting and makes you feel the rush that you may have in other 
 RTS games. The single player campaigns are fun on both sides. ( Allied and Soviet.) The Skirmish 
 games or against the computer require much strategy and should not be ignored. Also if you have 
 DSL, you will get a most enjoyable experience from the online community of RA2, this does not mean 
 to not try it if you have a dial up modem. 
  Both of the sides in RA2 are very balanced and have very unique units. That balance is very rare 
 in most RTS games, so appreciate it. The simpleness of the map, and controlling your units leads 
 to a small amount of micromanagement and a lot more macro management. This aspect can be good and 
 bad. If you used to play Starcraft often, then the macro should be good for you. Warcraft 3, then 
 you are a micro master and might consider staying with that. 
  The simplicity of the game, however, also has it's disadvantages. The one resource means you will 
 do almost no micro whatsoever. You minas well just keep building tanks because that seems to be 
 what wins battles the most. There are only a few things you can do in RA2 and the tank rush just 
 seems the most effective. When you can build thirty tanks in less than ten minutes, why would you 
 do anything else? 
  I prefer the large battles and tactics of Starcraft more then I do in Red Alert 2. You don't need 
 to know your units very well in RA2, or have to think much during the battle as you do in other 
 RTS's. 
  
  Story: 7/10 
  
  The story of RA2 is fairly generic but entertaining, nonetheless. You get to follow both the Soviet 
 and Allied stories that take you everywhere in the world including Russia, Hawaii, France, and 
 even Alaska. There are two types of missions in general. Base building ones where you build a base 
 and then attack the enemy and the stealth ones where you get a certain amount of units at the beginning 
 and then destroy the enemies with those. The story has some twists as you go along but stays fairly 
 linear throughout the whole game. 
  
  Graphics/Sounds: 9/10 
  
  The graphics in RA2 are impressive at first, but you will soon see they are imitation 3D. That 
 is it is a 2D engine with partially 3D graphics. Even though they are not truly 3D, they are quite 
 impressive and a step above any RTS out there except for Warcraft 3 and Age of Mythology. 
  The sound is very good and gets your adrenaline going with some nice rock/techno tunes. Turn up 
 the music and crank up the sound effects, which are also nice to listen to. Every unit responds 
 with a different voice and they are sometimes slightly funny. Good job on the sounds and graphics 
 Westwood. 
  
  Playtime/Replayability: 9/10 
  
  The playtime in RA 2 is about 25 hours to beat both campaigns. 25 hours is a god amount of time 
 nowadays. Not too long or too short. The replayability will shock you. I have been playing this 
 game for about two years now and probably still will every once in a while. It is fun to just go 
 back and play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 255Loner
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  
  Now this is one Real Time Strategy game you will not be able to get off of. This game also has 
 one pretty solid online feature as well. You can order your troops and command armies to Conquer 
 your foes even over the internet, which is new for the Command & Conquer series!
  
  Gameplay :8
  
  The game itself is comprised of many different skirmishes in two different campaigns 
 of your choice. You can either choose the Allied side (ex. America) or the Soviet side (ex. Russia) . 
 You play the game's skirmishes by using the forces that they give you and using them to accomplish 
 many different goals like obliterating all enemies, usually on the other side of the battlefield, 
 or by establishing a base somewhere. Most missions take at least 30 min. to one hour. There are 
 not many missions, however. For some of the missions, you get to establish a base, and the other 
 times commanding a select few men around to do small-time work.
  
  There is also an internet component where you can use maps you make or by using the ones provided 
 for you and waste your opponents across the world! You can create or join a game and then choose 
 who you will fight for and with. This game although doesn't require uber-strategy for the basic 
 stuff as simply smothering your foe will overcome his awesome strategy if he isn't prepared enough. 
 Some matches last way too long as you are waiting for some structure to build and it gets boring 
 after a while. It is a very fun game, but not for long periods of time.
  
  Sound: 6
  
  Annoying after a while. The sounds are pretty realistic, but get really repetitive really fast. 
 There is not much else note-worthy else in this field... let us move on.
  
  Music: 6
  
  All of the music in this entire game is composed and produced by one amateur named Frank Klepacki. 
 There are about 5 out of the 35 tracks in the game that actually sound like it wasn't produced 
 on a synthesizer. Most tracks sound unnatural but they aren't totally crappy. It's okay.
  
  Replayability: 10
  
  An almost un-endless addiction. Wonderful for passing the time away. You 
 will be hooked the on this game forever. Now this isn't one of those crappy games that you hate 
 it so much because you are hooked on it... you will actually like this one.
  
  Difficulty: 10
  
  I have no idea who you will choose to battle via the Internet, but as far 
 as the campaigns go they are obviously easy in the beginning but later on they will require major 
 skill. For through the 11 missions on both sides of the war, they give you a steady increase of 
 pain. Very fun.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  It's hard to rate graphics for this era of gaming as I don't know the standards of back then, but 
 this game doesn't look like NES era and it doesn't look like the developers had a small budget 
 either. They look decent for a Windows 98 game and it is good enough if you are mature enough. 
 It won't sting your eyes.
  
  OVERALL: 9
  
  This is one solid game overall and will keep you busy on end. The expansion pack Yuri's Revenge 
 adds another two campaigns for you to tackle and that is enough to kill a goat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloneCommando01
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 5:41 am PT
Review:  This game was sadky just a basic body of any otehr war role play games. You make a base, attack 
 enmy bases and defend your base. But this was was good in its own little way.
  
  Gameplay... Pretty self exlainatory. You could basically learn how to play on you own with on a 
 about 5 to 10 minutes. The interface had a good set up also. Another thign was there was an upgrade 
 made called "Overkilll" which I installed and it made teh game alot better.
  
  Graphics.... Ehh could have been better. They were ethcy at times but good t alot of places. They 
 had origonality and detail. Form guns on soldiers belt, helmetn, and much much more...
  
  Sound.... There was enough sound tu make the game real. The sounds was never really bad. It was 
 ok but not perfect. Gun fire sounded ok, the speeech was good also.
  
  Value... There have been sequels to this game but I havent played tyhem yet but I hope there good.
 
  
  Tilt... This game was good.... it was a solid 8.5 or higher... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mop1480
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:38 am PT
Review:  to build anywhere in the map press CTRL and C and clicking on the building then build as u build 
 usually on the map iam sure it will work.
  to upgrade ur tanks and soldiers put a spy in any barracks or warfactory.
  to get chrono sam 
 put spy and engineer in ur battle lap.
  to get prism pyramid put spy in any battle lab (not yours) .
  to steal money from other player 
 put spy in his orerefinry (only dogs can discover them) .
  b b b b b bm mb m, ,m nmn dkjbn jksd bj ,df bnkjsdnvbkjs fdkjb n bjnb fj n dfnkn nmkdnmf nkjfvnkdn 
 f nk mn mn m nm nm nm nm n mn mn mn mn m nmn mn mn mn mn 
  this to make the text at least 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kau83
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I think tiberian sun was much better, this game has good features but lacks in graphics. also some 
 units are almost invincible like baloon ship from terrorist side, not a gr8 skirmish play.... still 
 its addictive eats lot of your time.
  some units are innovative.
  earing money is headeche also hard mode is very tough to handle.
  US infratry is really cool 
 and paratroopers can make hell lot of diffenece.
  some defense units are powerfull.
  all of the command and conquer fans, ya this one is worth playing.
  but not that much good.
 
  
  Reagrds
  Kau 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmace
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:33 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best writtin games of the C&C franchise. It has great equality for both sides 
 and many strategic values, which means this game has great replay value. The ability to use land, 
 sea, and air is something u dont see still in many games. The plot is just as good as watching 
 a movie unfold at times not knowing what is going to happen next. Not to mention it has Kari wuhur 
 in it "guys you know what im talking about". All in all I give this game an A+. 
  
  P. S. I strongly recommed getting all the games in the series. Not one of the is a let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenton
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Red alert 2 is good game. Yet flawed as it may be. Red alert 2 can be described as medicore by 
 some. I think it is above but not great. Unlike a game like starcraft, there is no balance, great 
 online community, or good map editor. The gameplay is ok because it is a simple rts. you play as 
 either a capitalist country or a communist one. The story mode can offer a great deal of fun and 
 hours of play. The skirmish mode is also fun. You can play up to 8 comps, representing any of the 
 factions. The multiplayer is truely where this game comes down. Like i said balance really makes 
 playing against other players fun, but this game lacks deep balance. Lack of a map editor drys 
 things up to as all maps are made by westwood. This games graphics and sounds are decent considering 
 the year. Unit voices are annoying which simply put is most of sound you will hear. The radition 
 effects are pretty though.
  This game is cheap, and singleplayer is fun, and this game gets a 7.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snosavan24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Red alert 2 was and still is one of my favorite games. I could spend hours playing againsts the 
 computer in numerous maps. One reason makes this game the best in the command and conquer series 
 is the multiplayer. It moves fast and is highly addicting. Playing online adds tons of strategy 
 to your gaming. I admit that Tiberian Sun had better and longer missions and that Generals has 
 better graphics, but the online multiplayer is what this game is all about. Everyone who plays 
 strategy games will love this. The skill level it takes to beat the game is little, but yet it 
 can be one of the hardest games you've ever played when playing with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEMOGAMER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2005 2:21 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the greatest (if not the greatest) games of all time. The gameplay is 
 amazing. From American GI's that deploy with sandbags, to Blimp Bombers, to experience and ranks, 
 this game has it all. Writing this review 5 years after the game was released, it's still one of 
 the best games out there. Unlike AOE and its followers, both sides have a unique set of weapons 
 and advantages/disadvantages. The American's have developed killer light technology, and their 
 advanced base defenses are able to pick off infantry instantaneously. The Soviets rely of firepower 
 and vehicles that can take all sorts of punishment and still keep going. This wide mix of units 
 provides for amazing strategy opportunities. 
  Although the 2D graphics pale in comparison with graphics oriented games like DOOM 3, you have 
 to consider when this game was made. Regardless of this, the graphics are fun and colourful, which 
 makes killing your enemies all the simpler. Theres also no lag on older machines. Real actors 
 perform the in-game cutscenes, and I think its a great addition. Theres a storyline, and its 
 pretty interesting. And, real video cutscenes have always appealed to me.
  The sound is quite well done, with explosions and fun little stereotypical outcries by the game 
 units. There are firefights, and nuclear missiles, the sounds of which get you into the game, as 
 well as providing distinct warning sounds.
  Overall, this game is priceless. I still play it, and I will enjoy it for many years to come.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  The visuals are pretty good. It has some flaws, but it's good enough. 
  
  The sound is perfect. With great military tunes that runs in the background while smashing tanks 
 and solidiers. 
  
  The gameplay is the best in the game. There's a large campaign, and you can control both allies 
 and soviets. There are also many countries to contole which each has their own special feature 
 such as Amerika who has paratroopers. 
  
  + 
  Good graphics. Many new features such as capturing buildings. Large champaigns for both the allies 
 and soviets. Great tunes that really sets you in the military mood. 
  
  - 
  Only 2 sides: allied and sovjet. Has a little bit to little variation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 30, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 is a very fun game with a great multiplayer and single-player campaign and skirmish 
 modes. The new units and buildings are interesting but the story is somewhat ridiculous at times. 
 The story however is just an excuse to play some very fun and varied missions in real-world locations. 
 I prefer Tiberian Sun but this also is a must-buy for fans of the series and is actually good unlike 
 Red Alert 1. It must be said though that this marks a dramatic lessening in the previously high 
 difficulty in the series which is good for those who like to beat a game in less than a year but 
 bad in that you really are never challenged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinoff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2005 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Building off of the excellent Command & Conquer: Red Alert from 1997, Red Alert 2 brings plenty 
 more of the same excellent RTS action to your PC. Continuing the storyline from Red Alert, the 
 game takes place in the same alternate universe where Hitler never rose to power and the USSR & 
 Allied nations are faced off against each other with the fate of the world at stake. The Soviets 
 were defeated in Red Alert 1, and now under control of a powerful psychic, Yuri, they plan to wage 
 war on the world once again: this time through a full-blown invasion of a completely unaware United 
 States.
  This game is Command & Conquer in every respect. The interface, familiar top-down view, and relatively 
 2d presentation will certainly bring a smile of joy from RTS veterans all-around. The game however 
 cannot stack up to 3d RTS games of the same age like Dark Reign 2 in the overall presentation department, 
 but for most people this should not be an issue. The gameplay is as addictive as ever, and in true 
 C&C style the game comes complete with the classic campy FMV cutscenes between missions and pounding 
 rock soundtrack fans have all come to know and love.
  Concerning RA2's units and structures, there's something for just about anyone. Just about every 
 unit from Red Alert returns, placed alongside new weapons of destruction like Tesla Troopers, Rocketeers, 
 Zeppelins, and even Giant Squids. In addition new items like the Weather Control Device and Cloning 
 Vats make for some unique and enjoyable gameplay variations.
  As a RTS this game almost needs a solid multiplayer aspect to suceed, and it does not dissapoint. 
 While it cannot match up to online powerhouse StarCraft, RA2 is still set up for some enjoyable 
 times if you can find some folks online.
  If it ain't broke, don't fix it is the mantra dominating Red Alert 2, and this works almost perfectly. 
 The addictive gameplay and engaging storyline should make it easy for most people to look past 
 its shortcomings, and C&C purists will do nothing less than love every moment of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XTREMEGAMER5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 10, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 is an action/strategy game where you can build your base and build your army. Tell them 
 to attack the enemy or to defend this building while you suss out an evil plan to suprise the enemy.
 
  
  Campaign.
  The campaign mode is cleverly split-up into two games, the Allied version and the Soviet version. 
 In each game you must complete various missions against the opposite forces, from securing a soviet 
 base to bombing the empire state bulilding. Each game has their own types or infantry and tanks, 
 each with their own unique weapon. There are plenty of levels which each have a different difficulty 
 setting on them, some missions took me almost an hour to fully complete.
  
  Online multiplayer.
  The online multiplayer of this game is absolutely superb. Apart from the 
 occasionally slow connection, it has alot to say for itself. This is where the game can get a little 
 more interesting, the players you are playing with, or against ,are real people so will not have 
 the same tactics as the computer. You will be suddenly suprised at how you have a swarm of rocketeers 
 firing down on your newly created base, and watch it go up in flames before you have time to build 
 the gun power to defend it. But that is all part of the fun. Customise which colour your army will 
 be and what type of guns you have.
  
  I gave this game a very high 8.7/10 purely because of the hours of my childhood that have gone 
 into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 26, 2005 12:19 am PT
Review:  This has to be the real first stratergy game which made lots of companys follow on from it. You 
 could see the command and conqueror series had potential and this game just made the highlight. 
 The only bad thing about it is the multiplayer system. It is slow and unrealiable and is hard to 
 get into a game. Not many people play it anymore so you will only find about 60 people a night. 
 It can run slow in single player if you have lots of computers in a game aswell. This game was 
 still the first real stratergy game so it gets my full support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 3, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 dosn't leave the thrill its predecessor left red alert fans. The game had the formula 
 of the previous game but the way they put it together didn't seem to leave a mark on fans of the 
 up rising story of WW2. The campaign is about the soviets trying to take over america by destroying 
 the "famous lady" of New York that we all know and love. Of course this gets you boiled to go on 
 through the game, so you can take the soviets out, you find out that they got a surprise for you 
 by using telepaths, and crazy technology that you awwwwed for. The game seems very unbalanced, 
 it has a tendency to favor the americans, you don't really notice it in campaign, you notice it 
 in mostly when you play lan and or internet play. In a nutshell this game would be nice to borrow 
 from a friend and just give it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrkSnpr14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 30, 2004 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Before Red Alert 2, I'd never even touched a real time strategy game. I was watching a friend of 
 mine play it, and was captivated by the other guys base being decimated by the soviet nukes :P 
 This game takes place in the cold war era, and is rather loosely based in reality. You can play 
 either as the allied forces (U. S. A., France, Germany, Korea, Great Britain) or the Soviet army 
 (Russia, Iraq, Cuba, Libya) . The main story is that Russian leader, Premier Romonov, has commenced 
 the first strike against the U. S. by force landing and taking over the country. Through story mode, 
 you can play as either the allied, which requires you to drive out the Soviet invasion through 
 a series of gradually harder missions, or as the Soviets in their conquest to spread Communism 
 around the world. Both armies have unique units and buildings at their disposal, such as mind controlling 
 infantry (Yuri) and infantry with a chrono gun that erases people, units, objects, ect. from time. 
 And what would a command and conquer be without devastating super weapons. Allied forces are equipped 
 with a weather control device that can create thunderstorms, while the Soviets use the more conventional 
 Nuclear missiles. Of course there is the classic skirmish mode where you can take on a number of 
 computer controlled opponents. Plus with online play, and map making programs, it never gets old. 
 A must have for everyone, even if you don't like RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2004 12:12 pm PT
Review:  A very fun plot, fun characters, fun all around. This game has some of the best units in the series 
 with a good blend of fantasy and reality. The Allied and Soviet sides are both fun to play and 
 the skirmish mode is just as entertaining as in the previous games. The plot involves the Soviet 
 Union invading America and doing their "take over the world" thing. This game is the most addictive 
 in the series and is easy to learn / hard to master. Especially now that it has been out for a 
 while, it is very much worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dremun
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 27, 2004 6:01 am PT
Review:  I must admit when I first got this game, i thought that it would be a boring game, and to much 
 my surprise it was a lot of fun, I really enjoyed playing this game, the graphics for this kind 
 of game are not to shabby, but they could use some imporovment. The sound was ok and the learning 
 curve was pretty short for me, and pretty straight forward, some of the different types of Vehicals 
 were a little tuff to handle as they would get a mind of thier own at times but all in all i had 
 a lot of fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2004 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RTS in my humble opinion! Lets get the graphics, sound and crontrol outa the way. 
 This game looks great, sounds great, and the movies are pretty cool. Best thing about this game 
 is not the colorful graphics, but the awesome gameplay! Story goes something like this... The Soviets 
 have invaded America, and you either play as the Russians or the Americans. With that being said 
 and done, this game just has soo much more variety than the previous titles! This is very much 
 like the first Red Alert, but this one is a bit more realistic due to the nature of Russian's invading 
 the America! This is the kind of story people have been waiting for! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
