-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Commandos: Beyond the Call of Duty
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandosbeyondthecod/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 29, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.9, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 672 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Pyro Studios
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Mar 31, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beyond the Call of Duty ends up feeling like a shadow of its former self, being both shorter and 
 more frustrating than the original. 

 Just about every good game gets an expansion pack or a sequel, not just because it's profitable, 
 but because it's easy. The good idea's already there, and the existing technology can be recycled 
 to make a game that feels comfortably familiar but with new and exciting content. Recent expansion 
 packs like Starcraft: Brood War, as well as sequels like Myth II and Fallout 2, all bettered their 
 predecessors. But Commandos: Beyond the Call of Duty, a standalone expansion to Behind Enemy Lines, 
 ends up feeling like a shadow of its former self, being both shorter and more frustrating than 
 the original.  

 The original Commandos was a surprise hit. It cleverly combined strategy, puzzle, and action elements 
 with great graphics and an all-too-apt subject matter, and while there was some debate over just 
 what kind of game it was trying to be, most found its demand for planning and precision to be both 
 unusual and exciting.  

 At a glance, Commandos: Beyond the Call of Duty is more of the same, with a few new bells and whistles. 
 But the fact is, you can have too much of a good thing. The original Commandos was a great game 
 because each member of the squad was highly specialized. A couple of them, the Green Beret and 
 the spy, ended up doing most of the work, but that was OK, because the others like the marine and 
 the sapper got their moments in the spotlight. In Beyond the Call of Duty, though, each character 
 gains the ability to throw a stone or toss a pack of cigarettes as a means of distracting the unassuming 
 enemy. Likewise, every commando can now force a captured nazi to do his bidding, so long as the 
 hostage remains within the range of the commando's sidearm. The hostage can be used to distract 
 his comrades, so that one of your squad can sneak past or sneak in for the kill. These new abilities 
 are fairly interesting, but the fact that every commando has them clouds the sense that your soldiers 
 are working as unique and complementary components of some perfectly tuned machine. The commandos' 
 roles become less clear, and with that, some of the game's appeal slips away.  

 It also doesn't help that the game is even more difficult than the first. It's tempting to justify 
 the excessive difficulty by the fact that the game contains only eight missions (the original had 
 more than twice as many) , but that would be a solution to the wrong problem. Besides, nobody complained 
 that the original Commandos was too easy - all of its missions were difficult, though some were 
 far more difficult than others. Nevertheless, all its missions could eventually be completed so 
 long as you were patient, and the game didn't get too frustrating because each mission could be 
 reduced to a series of smaller situations, and you'd rarely get stuck at any one point for too 
 long. On the other hand, Beyond the Call of Duty starts out frustrating and just stays there. These 
 missions don't just seem difficult, but downright unfair. In the first mission, if you don't save 
 a sniper rifle round until the very last point, you probably won't be able to clear the minefield 
 and escape; and there's no real way to anticipate this eventuality, so if somebody didn't warn 
 you, you'd end up having to restart.  

 At other times, there are so many enemy troops patrolling an area that it doesn't seem like there's 
 an appropriate way of resolving the situation. You'll wonder what would happen if maybe you threw 
 the cigarettes, the stone, and used the decoy all at the same time, while a hostage distracted 
 everybody.... But unfortunately, much like the first game, Beyond the Call of Duty's interface 
 doesn't easily lend itself to multitasking, since the commandos are slow to respond and need to 
 be micromanaged. You absolutely must coordinate your troops in this game, but it isn't any easier 
 than before, no thanks to the fact that all the keyboard hotkeys were shifted around. (While the 
 new layout is a little more logical than the original's, it's inexplicable why the designers didn't 
 just let you customize the keyboard layout.) So the control feels more cumbersome than before, 
 since you need especially impeccable timing and coordination, but the interface won't allow it. 
 And even when you finally get through a mission, you won't feel very good about it since you won't 
 be able to shake the feeling that you've figured out something the designers didn't expect you 
 to. The original Commandos was satisfying because its puzzle-like situations had specific solutions. 
 These missions feel clumsier by comparison, requiring at least as much luck as finesse, although 
 the maps themselves all look distinctly beautiful.  

 On the other hand, maybe the problem is the awful new voice-acting. The original Commandos had a 
 problem with repetitive speech, and that problem lingers in Beyond the Call of Duty. Only now, 
 not only does every one of your troops say the same thing over and over, but every last one of 
 them sounds ridiculous. At least there's good musical accompaniment during each mission, of the 
 appropriate symphonic military variety. Meanwhile, the game's packaging gives top billing to a 
 new female commando "seductress," whose inclusion raises numerous concerns, not the least of which 
 is the fact that she is touted as a key feature yet doesn't even play a significant role in the 
 game.  

 In spite of everything, it's inaccurate to say that Beyond the Call of Duty is far worse than the 
 original. If anything, the two games are difficult to distinguish, so fans of the original will 
 enjoy Beyond the Call of Duty because of its inherent similarity to its predecessor. And to be 
 fair, there are certain subtle new twists to this game that add strategic depth, such as the spy's 
 ability to wear several types of uniforms. But at the same time, most of the subtle changes have 
 adverse effects and make Beyond the Call of Duty feel like more of the same in the worst kind of 
 way.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cranberry2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  
  
  I was reading today about Company of Heroes and if I should get it or not, and ended up remebering 
 of this game, but i have forgoten its name, thought I know it was/have Call of Duty but not really 
 the Call of Duty game. Then to discover the name I just googled about germans and throw cigarrets 
 and rocks (one of my most fresh reminding of the game) and found it. I also found that there is 
 others Commandos games that I didnt know of, 3 more I think.
  
  I dont really recall how Ive got this game, but I remember that it stood for a long period on 
 my computer before I really star playing; I was younger and not very experienced into PC gaming, 
 so you cant imagine how I suffered, true. This game was incredibly hard even in the first moves 
 of the first mission. You beggin in a boat (I think it didint have tutorials) with your crew and 
 if you dont select the marine guy you cant even move, and thats the first thing you have to do. 
 I took a while to discover it, i never had much mood for this game since I didnt find the first 
 time, but i keeped opening it sometimes to found out when i had nothing to do. When I found out, 
 hot to get do a dock and out of the boat was when I really started playing this game. But before 
 getting to the dock there was a dificult path till there where I had to use the Snipe, and also 
 discovered that I coulndt weast much shoots, in fact I coulnt weast any shot at all, it would ruin 
 the mission and fustrait you in key parts where you would need it more. 
  
  
  Im kind of happy now, that I see that I wasnt that stupid and the game trully is a bit difficult, 
 becouse I didint get easy times (though it insent a impossible game, hard but not very hard) and 
 Its funny how I can so remember of this game but not much of others, it sure was becouse of the 
 difficult level for me at that time plus the natural difficult level of the game (very) . It will 
 get worse later. When in the dock I learned about the rocks and cigarrets and i liked that, it 
 was just silly and funny. After that getting very into the game I played non stop. The impressive 
 of this game (goods) its the dificulty itself, the amazing elaboreted scenarios, and the freedom. 
 Freedom becouse you can finish off a scenario in much ways, you can alert all the guys and shoot 
 them all or play sneak, and weapons (the mainlly ones) dont need ammunition, giving even more freedom. 
 I recall that you have do always been saving you game, ALWAYS, there are tons of guys but the game 
 is hard, and every guy you took out with sneak you should save, or after ever buch of people killed. 
 I say bunch becouse of another aspect of the game that was when you could stay besid something, 
 shoot at the ground and take advantage of the bird view and begin killing the lines of germans 
 that will come to you, even tought you had to save in the meanwhile killing the bunch becouse they 
 act diferent and you are dead with few shoots, so when the bunch comes, in the intervals in the 
 line of they coming (If you lucky go some) you save. Thats the only way to easy this game. By this 
 method, that I used very often, the game still was very difficult , I havent finished it, I got 
 till the last mission (I have something with not finishing things) and I got bored at the end. 
 
  
  The game was very remarkable for me. Was in a time I didint read other peoples comments, believe 
 me, it in most times isent a good thing; so I just played it accpeting what it was offering, and 
 the difficult is was ofering, thinking all of that has normal, since I didnt got the knowledge. 
 Was a very good and remarkable game, I never regret of playing it, was such an experince. I also 
 remember the Zoo Park mission, with some animal killed and other for you to kill becouse they atack 
 you (Other than that i wasnt going to kill them) , I loved that mission, and in this mission there 
 is one thing that I recall most in the game just like rocks and cigarrets that was when I discovered 
 that I could get inside an dead Elephant to avoid the guards and that for me was very intriguing 
 and nostalgic , since all the mission before getting there I was amused by the dead elephant, I 
 still know exacly how that mission was and where was the elephant. 
  
  The most difficult mission I finished (since I havent played the last) was that one before the 
 last (english not my main, dont know how to say) and there was a guy who get away with a car I 
 think, we should stop the car, there was very fustraiting thing arround that mission. To finish 
 it is a great game becouse of its difficult and becouse I didnt by the time I played that could 
 be a foult, in fact it isent a foult really, but if I had read these reviews I sure wasnt going 
 to play the game. Is a stilysh graphic game with beautifull scenarios, and difficult enough to 
 make it remarkable for you if you get to play it long. Its even good to play it with a friend if 
 you have, becouse it is ideas and patience that get you througth the game, and I think maybe sadly 
 by reading reviews you cant enjoy some games, and this might be one of them, becouse you see it 
 has a foult and keep dont wanting to go on. The foult I could notice by that time was maybe, that 
 the game used to have too many (really is a lot) of enemies, and the game stood to much into using 
 this , the arent more specialized AI ennimies, I cant remember that, just same guys, where the 
 amount of them keept you doing sometimes the same thing over, killing one and saving etc. but yes 
 it is a good game for the ones who like challenge and freedom to solve it, is like Desperados another 
 good game, that wasnt really reasy (im going to read about it now^^) and also gived you freedom, 
 and oh, horses^^. Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatguyslim
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  It was 7 years back that I realised that how people actually fought during World War II and this 
 was the first game that made me realise even more. It is quite amazing how few dead lives start 
 effecting your life...... This game has taught me loads of things and I'll surely give this game 
 10 out of 10, without doubt. I m not saying that this is the best game in the world but rather 
 I m telling all the gamers out there that you should learn something from any game that you play. 
 But the sequel to this game just killed everything else as it was just too briliant. I have all 
 the games of commandos with me today but this game was the first one which I played, I know Behind 
 The Enemy Lines came first but still I played this game first. AND the best part of this game is 
 its starting music and trust me there is no game out there which has its title music as good as 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theguardian524
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I simply did not enjoy this one, but hey that's just me. They added eight more missions that were 
 exceedingly more difficult then the original, Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines. But not too much else 
 was given except more object and more terran usage of the map when you need to hide, and get out 
 of sight.
  
  If you've played the first one, Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines, then you have no real reason to 
 buy this one. Just a true waste of time, this one is more difficult then the first and all the 
 people who have playe dteh original woudl probably agree with me that the first was hard enough.
 
  
  (Not worth buying)
  
  -Andrew, The Guardian
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  Using skill and firepower, you must destroy the nazis plans for domination.
  With several men (plus one woman) from a spy to a green beret, you must infiltrate and take over 
 various outposts around the world.
  The music is a great start, bringing you right into the game. It has that feel and atmosphere to 
 it, the sort that makes you think... wow!
  The graphics, although fuzzy when zoomed right in, are excellent, and surpass a lot of games. They 
 are detailed, accurate, and, above all, reak of WWII. 
  The gameplay is magnificent. You really have that feel of looking down on everything and saying, 
 well you do this and you do that, and what do you know, they do it! Several things in the game 
 lead to success or failure, and its through your actions that people live or die.
  This game is definately worth it, it has great looks, a great feel and it has that war soaked feel 
 to it.
  Buy it if you love war or action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: margevich
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  I think the gamespot's reviewer was just disappointed with the game's difficulty level. I can't 
 see other reason why to give a mediocre score to a brilliant game.
  Every aspect of this add-on is perfect - gameplay, atmosphere, graphics, level design etc.
  I 
 agree that the difficulty level is rather high, but why do you think we have these grey organs 
 in our heads? The gamespot's reviewer says in the first mission you must save a sniper shot to 
 blow up the mines, but THIS IS NOT TRUTH! You don't need to save any shots, just use the diver 
 - get close to the mines with the boat, then dive in the water and pull the boat to the mines by 
 diving the diver to the boat repeatedly. Then pull the boat to the shore and take it, furher you 
 now what to do.
  This game is must have for all gamers, who not refuse to use their brain. To me, Commandos 1& this 
 add-on are one of the top 20 games ever made. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
