-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandosbehindenemylines/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 10, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.1, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,278 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Pyro Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jul 31, 1998
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A genuinely original game of tactics, planning, and precision. 

 The premise of Commandos is a model for the game itself: Just as the heroes of this game prevail 
 in dangerous military operations through unorthodox yet undeniably effective means, so too is Commandos 
 a successful real-time strategy game because of its refusal to adhere to the genre's conventions. 
 Pyro Studios has produced a genuinely original game of tactics, planning, and precision, one with 
 impressive visuals and slick production values and one that will surely please fans of strategic 
 combat, puzzle-solving, and World War II-era warfare alike.  

 Its isometric perspective recalls any number of real-time strategy games that came before it, but 
 a closer inspection reveals Commandos' striking attention to detail. The prerendered 2D maps all 
 look different, beautiful, and realistic, and accurately depict Nazi-occupied regions in Norway, 
 North Africa, and Eastern Europe. You'll never find a scenario that looks boring; enemy barracks, 
 tanks, electric fences, river dams, and much more all serve to make every mission dynamic and different. 
 You even get some nice eye candy for good measure - enemy vehicles and structures go out in glorious 
 pyrotechnics at the hands of your demolitions expert. And not only can you set the screen resolution 
 to your liking, but you can zoom the screen in and out, set up split-screen cameras to keep tabs 
 on isolated commandos, or set tracking cameras to follow enemy patrols.  

 Your six Commandos are all unique in appearance and attitude. They move smoothly whether they're 
 walking, crawling, running, or plying any of their deadly skills, and you can learn all about them 
 through a fast and friendly in-game tutorial that focuses on each of their individual skills. They're 
 a charismatic bunch and will quickly grow on you, although their German enemies look rather boring 
 by comparison. There isn't much music to speak of in Commandos, and the sound, though authentic, 
 is sparse. And though the commandos sound great and become immediately distinguishable through 
 their speech, they have disappointingly few speaking lines. The Germans don't have a lot to say 
 either.  

 An unobtrusive and clever interface borders the screen, showing the various tools in the selected 
 commando's knapsack, any of which can be selected with the click of a mouse. However, this interface 
 is mostly for show; it's quicker just to hit the appropriate keyboard hotkey to select your green 
 beret's combat knife for example - and in Commandos, every moment counts. Moving your men is as 
 simple as clicking the desired destination or double-clicking to make the commando run. You need 
 to micromanage everybody, and no one will move an inch without your express orders. This isn't 
 a problem; just keep your idle men hidden at all times and you'll be OK.  

 To be sure, Commandos is a good strategy game not so much because of its fine look and interface, 
 but because it makes you think. You needn't worry about real-time strategy protocol like fog of 
 war and resources or having to restart from scratch every time you mess up (you can save whenever 
 you like) . Instead, you get a select group of specialists at your disposal, along with a concise 
 yet informative mission briefing that clearly defines your task. You have nearly limitless reconnaissance 
 data at your disposal; you can scroll all around the map, identify all enemy patrols, and even 
 see each enemy's field of vision represented onscreen through a sweeping colored cone.  

 And so, you'll always have your work cut out for you - what you need to do is figure out exactly 
 how to get the job done. Thus you need to develop a long-term plan, not unlike the skilled chess 
 player facing an equally competent opponent. Essentially, you must figure out how to eliminate 
 every enemy who stands in your way without any of the other enemies noticing. This will never prove 
 an easy task, as the odds are always awful. But then again, the elements of stealth and surprise 
 are always on your side. Guards cannot hear your men moving, nor can they hear their fellows die 
 by your silent weapons. But if they see any of your men, or witness anything suspicious, they'll 
 get riled up and you'll be in serious trouble.  

 To succeed, you must coordinate your troops. For instance, the marine is an adept killer, able to 
 emerge from underwater instantly, armed and ready with knife and harpoon gun - but he needs the 
 green beret's brawn to dispose of the bodies. And if the spy can find an enemy uniform and distract 
 the enemy, then the driver will be able to sneak past and steal a parked tank. The combinations 
 aren't always binary; solving certain situations in Commandos can be very complex and challenging 
 but always logical and predictable. You cannot slow the game down or speed it up, and so you'll 
 occasionally need to employ a little dexterity and good timing. But these action elements only 
 amplify the game's visceral appeal and do not detract from its strategic core. You'll also run 
 into the occasional pathing problem trying to operate a large vehicle, but aside from that, Commandos 
 controls just fine.  

 Commandos contains a single linear campaign composed of 20 big missions. The linearity isn't problematic; 
 while there exists a best way to win each scenario, you always get plenty of room to be especially 
 creative or just a little reckless. And because they're well designed and open-ended, you'll want 
 to play most of them more than once. Any of these missions can be attempted cooperatively with 
 up to five other players, each responsible for at least a single troop. However, the true pleasure 
 in this game is coordinating the entire squad single-handedly, anticipating how a situation will 
 transpire and watching it go according to plan or successfully improvising when things don't go 
 your way. And what a pleasure - after you navigate your team through or past some 50-odd nonchalant 
 German guards, destroy a vital enemy installation, and hijack a means of escape, you may well find 
 Commandos sneaking its way to the top of your list.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Danteinho
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines is the first addition to a long series of real time strategy games. 
 The game as the title suggests is about five men, five commandos, five of the best soldiers in 
 there field, each with there own story and there own different skills. The leader of the group 
 is called Tiny, an ironically large irish soldier. You will be sent into 4 different locations 
 around the world accross 20 missions to do a varity of different tasks. Doing this is no easy challenge. 
 You will have a number of different methods to take out german soldiers and different options you 
 can choose to complete a map.
  
  The game which was a first of its kind, has 5 characters you can use with different abilitys, they 
 are as follows: Tiny (he can climb, hide in ice, use a decoy and a knife) The Driving (who can 
 drivem use a machine gun and heal people) The Sapper (who can handle explosives, grenades and a 
 bear trap) The Marine (he can swim, use boats and has a harpoon) The Sniper (sniper rifle and healing 
 pack) and lastly The Spy (he can dress as a German officer and posion guards) . Each can use a handgun 
 and you'll need all there different abilitys to get through the levels. Level objectives range 
 from blowing up damns to rescuing prisoners to assissinating leaders. There are four different 
 locations the 20 missions are spread accross, Norway, Middle East, Germany and Burma. These locations 
 look brilliant each map filled with detail and different and new things to take intrest in.
  
  You have a number of tools around the interface of your main game window to use, such as being 
 able to see guards view points, looking over a paper map and seleting which your men stand or crawl. 
 You will selet the equiptment you want to use be clicking on a backpack in the lower right corner 
 of the screen. Its a nice way to make easy access but at some points in the game you'll need to 
 be super fast clicking the item and sometimes your first click won't do it.
  
  The one thing this game has become famous for is its difficulty. You'll need to know what your 
 next 3 moves are before attempting anything, in this game, timing is everything, everything!
  Challenging is what makes the replay value quite good and theres never a number of ways you have 
 to do a mission. Some levels even seemingly impossible, but if you stick at it long enough, there 
 are ways. The element of stealth is on your side and guards are alitte stupid, they cannot hear 
 your men moving and are often blind to whats right in front of them.
  
  There is only the 20 mission to do in Commandos but due to the size of each mission and the replay 
 value, its more than enough as well being able to pick the game up from Ebay for around 3 these 
 days. Not only that but if you're really stuck Gamespot offer a great walkthrough which even I 
 admit I had to have alook at now and again. Other things that may catch your eye in orignality 
 when it comes to this game is the way you can sniper guards. The lense becomes the mouse pointer 
 and enlarges the area you scan over, which is rather cool. Also vechiles are fun and effective 
 to drive but unforgiven if you're caught in them, they make alot of mess. The game will have you 
 hooked, saving is cruical and you will die alot. Commandos will be a big hit if you're into this 
 type of game and a great debut to a great series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Commandos was the game that started my PC gaming addiction. Back in 1998 when it came out, I played 
 it so much that I knew how to beat each mission my eyes closed (not literally of course, but you 
 know what I mean) . 
  
  Other reviewers here stated that the programmers designed this in a linear 
  fashion; hence one 
 way to beat each mission, in a specific order. While 
  this is true, I challenged myself to try and bet each mission against the 
  grain, meaning in 
 a totally different sequence. Most missions allowed this 
  flexibility, though it reduced your rating at the end (took longer to do) , which I didn't care about 
 in the first place anyhow.
  
  Graphics were good for the time, being 2D. Sound was Ok. My sister still mentions one of the Green 
 Beret's lines ... "I'm coming...". Since I used him a lot in missions, we was "coming" a lot! LOL 
 ...
  
  I don't recall having played more hours on a single game than on this one. 
  
  I haven't played this game for over 8 years but remember it like it was yesterday. Pproblem with 
 this game is that the speed of the game is related to the CPU speed. It was designed for old Pentium 
 systems and thus on Pentium 3 and up systems, it runs at a pace making it pratically unplayable. 
 No fix ever came out for this. Checking forums, it seems using a utility to slow down the CPU seems 
 to make game playable. Perhaps it time to take the dust of the disc and reload this classic on 
 my P4.
  
  I also own each of the following games in the series, equally good (Except Strike force)
  
 
  It remains the oldest PC game in my collection and I refuse to let it go.
  
  Graphics : 9
  Gameplay : 10
  Sound : 8
  Replay value : 10
  Tilt : 10
  
  Rating : 9.5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Hitler has captured most of Europe, and has turned his attention towards Britain. As a last resort 
 to foil the Nazi efforts, the Prime Minister authorized the deployment of a squad of elite soldiers, 
 the Commandos.
  
  Commandos is a unique strategy game, the first of its kind to gain recognition. Unlike most strategy 
 games, the concept of gathering resources does not exist here, the resources given are very limited, 
 and just enough to complete the mission, the focus is entirely on tactical gameplay.
  
  The game involves controlling your Commandos in enemy territory to achieve the required goal. All 
 missions require the use of stealth to a degree  some more than the others.
  
  Perhaps the most deterring aspect is how unforgiving the game is at times. Caution is extremely 
 important, and the progress is slow, often involving a number of attempts to complete the objective. 
 Usually mistakes would mean the end of the game; reloading is the only option. This is definitely 
 not a game for casual gamers.
  
  Yet, the game is very rewarding. It is very satisfying to watch the mission progress according 
 to the plan, and frequently there will be some fireworks at the end of the assignment  by destroying 
 a dam, or blowing up a mansion and so on. Not all missions involve destruction; there are a few 
 rescue missions to break the routine.
  
  You have a total of 6 Commandos.
  
  'Tiny' (The Green Beret)  The strongest of all the commandos; excellent at melee combat.
  
 
  'Duke' (The Sniper) expert shooter, and uses the sniper rifle, with limited ammo of course.
 
  
  'Fins' (The Marine)  can dive underwater in aquatic missions and carries an inflatable boat.
 
  
  'Inferno' (The Sapper)  demolitions expert, can rig up explosives to cause widespread destruction.
 
  
  'Tread' (The Driver)  expert at handling vehicles and provides transport for escape of other commandos.
 
  
  'Spooky' (The Spy)  can infiltrate enemy camps using soldiers' uniforms and has the ability to 
 distract other soldiers allowing the other commandos to carry their work unsighted.
  
  Succeeding in a mission involves collectively using the abilities of the commandos assigned for 
 a particular mission. Some missions are straightforward and others are quite difficult involving 
 a lot of planning and patience.
  
  The game will run on basic computer hardware. It uses 2D graphics to render the visuals. The background 
 contains some detailed textures and the sprite animation is quite good. The audio is quite well 
 done. Sound effects in the environment, vehicle noise and the voice acting are top quality.
  
  In spite of the difficulty, the game is very innovative, and the focus is more on the gameplay 
 than the visuals.
  
  A must play for all strategy fans.
  
  + Excellent level design
  
  + Very rewarding experience
  
  + Low hardware requirements
  
  - Difficult for beginners 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stjimmy222
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Commados is one of those games that can be really really frustrating, but you'll not want to stop 
 once you've started. The men you control are as much a part of you as the air you breathe. You 
 must position them exactly, time your movements to the letter, and make good use of all your surroundings.
 
  
  The mulii camera function that is available here, as in most RTS games is not essential here but 
 the quicker you make use of it the better. As your men will no doubt be scattered all over the 
 map, it is best to keep track of them as best as possible at all times, or maybe you wanna keep 
 an eye on a certain enemy so you can find your moment to strike.
  
  The visuals are amazing too... moving your men will cast shadows up against the various surroundings. 
 The ingenious way of leaving footprints in the snow, which may either lead you enemy into a trap 
 or ruin your mission is wuite something too.
  
  The gameplay is innovative in the way to distract you enemy so that they may fall into your traps, 
 such as using your spy, or your bear trap.
  
  It's amazingly addictive stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJJkkkilll
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  If this game is quite good now I don't imagine how it would be in his/her time, I think most of 
 the people didn't know this game because almost nobody had computer or internet, if it went now 
 would have been bought by most of the players. Beside of having exelentes graphics it's easy to 
 learn and of playing with him, already for not speaking of we could play online so easily. The 
 levels can be passed in different ways that leaves the people most comfortable to test and change 
 their own strategies.
  This is a game classic but also sofisticaded, it has everything a god game needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willxcool
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Commandos B. E. L - is a game that moves away from big scale , mass units RTS- to 6 man elite commados. 
 You take control of a Sniper, Spy a Green Barret and 3 more.
  Game-play is not that complicated just click or double click to a spot where you want to go- but 
 be carefull not to get spotted by the Germans or your toast. Sneaking in, taking out guards, spying, 
 taking over enemy trucks is stuff that you can do with your units.
  The Good thing about the game s that you can place an eye on a specific or more guard to watch 
 his movement, in order for you to perform your kills or your stealth move tactics, and using your 
 units carefully puts more suspense in the game to crucial clicking can leave you in total destruction.
 
  A mission will take about and hour or more to complete, so its kinda pretty hard not to be able 
 to save mid-way or even have a check point to continue when you get busted and which will force 
 you to reply the mission again- as for me playing for about an hour and just to get hell loose 
 out on me in the last minute will be disappointing
  Its a Great game in deed fun and Strategic combat, puzzle solving, and World War II Warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Commandos: Behind The Enemy Lines was the first RTS I had played and it was the one that got me 
 so hooked up with the RTS genre in the first place....
  
  It can only be said that this is one game that requires an intense amount of patience, stealth 
 and strategy to finish every mission. The death of a single member means that you lose, even if 
 you complete the mission. It is a bit difficult game but in the levels that come later, the game 
 develops rapidly and we are deeply immersed into the game. The game has many missions that take 
 quite sometime to finish and every moment you spend in each mission is fulfilling. The game has 
 good graphics and despite the game becoming a bit repititive during the end, it is in control of 
 a completely amazing storyline thats bound catch your eyes. The storyline is depicted through the 
 medium of videos of the War thats gets you more interested into the game and makes it feel all 
 the more real as the videos also brief you about the mission.
  
  This game is a classic to be remembered in every way because of it's awesome gameplay and is truly 
 a memorable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the only commandos game in which I was able to progress quite a lot. The game is setup 
 in the World War II period and definitely the most difficult game I have ever played. Went up till 
 mission 16, where I was stuck so badly that I decided to stop playing the game. The basic idea 
 of the game is really crazy. You send in a few men into a base full of German soldiers, if one 
 of them dies, the mission becomes a failure, sacrifice for the COZ is not an option at all. Your 
 enemies have better weapons, and probably their firing range is three times more than your commandos, 
 save for the sniper (who only has a limited supply of bullets) . Hence the purpose of the game isnt 
 win a war but to test your capabilities in a real time tough situation, the only reason, so challenging 
 that it makes you play it and keep on trying no matter how many times you have to play the game 
 again and again.
  I highly recommend this game to those who are really good at real time strategy games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprigain
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  In Commandos Behind Enemy Lines you control an elite group known as the commandos: The Green Beret, a 
 brutal soldier that can kill any Nazi silently, The Sniper, a calm soldier that has excellent sniping 
 skills, The Driver, an American Soldier that knows how to drive a panzer, kubelwagen and much more! He 
 can also man a machine gun or cannon, he can even take a Nazi submachine gun! The Diver, an Australian 
 marine with excellent divng skills, armed with a knife and a harpoon, this commando can kill an entire 
 U-Boat crew without being noticed! The Sapper, an expert in all sorts of bombs, including: grenades, timed 
 bombs, controlled bombs and he even carries a human trap! (looks like a bear trap) And the Spy, this 
 former French spy can disguise himself like a Nazi General, and can distract any nazi soldier or 
 officer, even an entire group of soldiers! He carries a a chemical with him that he can use to silently 
 kill any Nazi from behind!
  
  This game requires excellent strategy skills ,the graphics are pretty good for such an old game, the 
 sound in the game is great and the terrains are set up to be like real WWII terrains.
  
  i recommend this game to anyone who loves strategy games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 6, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  This is one challenging game... there's nothing wrong with that on the surface, but after playing 
 Commandos for a while an ugly truth becomes evident: this is nothing more than a puzzle game where 
 you are at the mercy of a devious group of game designers. Your first clue that there is something 
 fishy going on here is that all of your troops are specialists - not just in terms of military 
 specialties like demolitions, sniping and espionage... everything requires a specialist . Driving 
 a car requires a specialist. Operating a machine gun requires a specialist... and so on. It's as 
 if these guys had no basic training at all and are totally dependant on each other for everything. 
 These are the most retarded commandos in the history of combat. Considering the sheer uselessness 
 of the commandos at your disposal the missions they are deployed to carry out are needlessly difficult 
 and become frustrating very rapidly. Commandos gives you the impression that it's some kind of 
 tactical combat game, when in reality the missions are carefully structured and scripted so that 
 there is usually only one way to accomplish whatever task you are given, especially later in the 
 game. Missions devolve into mere puzzles that rely on you guessing just what the game designers 
 want you to do and then coordinating your actions with an almost inhuman degree of timing with 
 failure resulting in starting over and doing everything over and over until you get it right. If 
 you enjoy tactical games that allow you some latitude to accomplish missions based on your ability 
 to use combined arms and coordinate your forces to overcome a better equipped, more entrenched 
 foe than look elsewhere. If you enjoy solving puzzles that require perfect timing and the willingness 
 to figure out what some programmer wants you to do than knock yourself out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruls28
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  In Commandos Behind Enemy Lines you control an elite group known as the commandos: The Green Beret, a 
 brutal soldier that can kill any Nazi silently, The Sniper, a calm soldier that has excellent sniping 
 skills, The Driver, an American Soldier that knows how to drive a panzer, kubelwagen and much more! He 
 can also man a machine gun or cannon, he can even take a Nazi submachine gun! The Diver, an Australian 
 marine with excellent divng skills, armed with a knife and a harpoon, this commando can kill an entire 
 U-Boat crew without being noticed! The Sapper, an expert in all sorts of bombs, including: grenades, timed 
 bombs, controlled bombs and he even carries a human trap! (looks like a bear trap) And the Spy, this 
 former French spy can disguise himself like a Nazi General, and can distract any nazi soldier or 
 officer, even an entire group of soldiers! He carries a a chemical with him that he can use to silently 
 kill any Nazi from behind!
  
  This game requires excellent strategy skills to complete, the graphics is great, the sounds in the 
 game are great and the terrains look like real WWII terrains.
  
  I recommend that you must first borrow it from someone or download the demo.
  
  If you completed 
 the game on the end you just want to play more missions (this mostly happens if youre a strategist!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatsofrango
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  This is one of the jewels on my collection. Despite the age of this game, its graphics are very 
 good, and some of the elements on this RTS are used until now.
  The isometric view helps the player to achieve his objectives, and the camera can be set to follow 
 the character on the screen. It has a great variety of missions, sometimes you must blow something, 
 or rescue elements of the french resistance from prision.
  Sometimes it's a little bit frustrating, since some missions spends lots of time and savegames 
 to be completed. This is true, mainly if you want to play like a stealth game, using just the knife 
 of the marine, or the poison of the spy. Also, all the characters are useful, but i really don't 
 like the scuba diver.
  It's hard, but it's addictive. I have to confess that during one or two missions I had to use some 
 cheat codes.
  
  The music isnt that special, but isnt annoying like others. The sound effects are OK, and the 
 explosions effects are almost perfect.
  
  Due to it's linear gaming (ok, you can change the order you do stuff, but it's all the same) , it's 
 replay is a little low, so it deserves the score given. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V_J
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Commandos is easily one of the best strategy games to date. It may look like just another RTS game, 
 but the game's inner working goes much deeper. 
  
  You are in charge of six highly trained commandos whose job is to cause chaos and mayhem in enemy 
 territory. Every man must get out alive or you will lose. This requires that you plan each move 
 before you act and your actions must be excuted with precise timing. This makes Commandos both 
 fun and frustrating at the same time. The prefect balance of sweet and sour. 
  
  If you are wondering what is so special about these soliders, here's the scoop:
  
  The Green 
 Beret- This man can kill silently and can lure enemies into traps using his decoy. He can also 
 move dead bodies which can keep you hidden from everyone else.
  
  The Sniper- If there is a enemy that no one else can get to, the Sniper will take care of him easily 
 with his rifle. 
  
  The Marine- He can dive underwater to avoid detection and can use boats and launchees to bring 
 his teammates to places only accessible by water.
  
  The Sapper- Armed with all sorts explosives, he is a master at leveling enemy structures. Use him 
 properly, and he'll be more destructive than a squad of airplane bombers.
  
  The Driver- He can drive any land vehicle, from cars to jeeps to tanks. If you find an empty tank, 
 just have this man take control of it and you will be virtually invincible. 
  
  The Spy- He is a true master of disguise. While wearing an emeny uniform, he wil be able to walk 
 around any enemy camp, and no one will be the wiser. He can also move dead bodies to keep your 
 tracks hidden.
  
  Commandos is defintely everything a strategy game should be: really challenging and very exciting. 
 Good hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iain-Kinloch
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  I first saw this game when my brother played it a few years back and when I was old enough to apreciate 
 I fell in love with it.
  I have not to this date seen a more engaging RTS than Commandos behind enemy lines.
  The gameplay 
 is what really makes this game. It may seem like a basic click and go game but it is so much more. 
 It's the most challenging game I have ever seen. It really makes you feel ........ involved.
  As for the graphics. There awesome. Every little bit of scenery has been done individualy and it 
 all looks great, even the characters have an immense amount of detail about them.
  Like with most RTS's there isn't a great amont of sound but what is there is very good. Such as 
 machine guns and bombs going of. Also the characters have there own catch phrases which they say 
 when ever you tell them to do something.
  And lastly the value/tilt. This is a truly great game, one to come back to over and over again. 
 With 26 missions for you to do and the fact it's one of the most challenging games around mean 
 you'll be at it for some time.
  And overall if you like good RTS's or world war 2 you really need to play this game, it's that 
 good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nim_rod7
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  Maybe i was 2 young when i 1st played it , cuz it kept me right there ... mission after mission 
 , one of my favortie games.
  its an new type of game , Real - Time - Tactics .. that's just sublime.
  that pack of men u are 
 given to solve all those missions , grows on u ...
  and zi germans ^_^ with their *aine feltzta... ALARM ALAAARM* haha 
  i loved it.. 
  still dont 
 understand why ppl didn't start makin clones of it ... (besides desperados, and robin hood) like 
 they did with rpg's (diablo) and other revolutionary games. *sigh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theguardian524
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This is an overall brilliant game of its time! Rather then going in and blowing up and pumping 
 you enemy full of more lead before they can pump enough in you to kill you, this game gives you 
 more strategic gameplay. But its not like your usual real time strategy which is usually based 
 on a rock (Artillery) , paper (Tank) , scissor (Infantry) . strategy this requires you to time and 
 think every move you play out. But unlike real life there is a reset button!
  
  Get dropped behind enemy lines with a group of five soldiers all specializing in different techniques; 
 explosives, linguist, sabotage, heavy gun-man, etc. Then get ready to take on the nazi army one 
 by one as your drop them like flies! Either quietly or going all out Rambo! But remember, you're 
 only 5 guys... against 50.
  
  Good luck soldier!
  
  (Worth buying, and playing)
  
  -Andrew, The Guardian
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  Another best, When this was released those days there were not many strategy plus world war games. 
 This was a good combination that they came up with. I use to play this for hours after school. 
 The various things that you have to do and each characters unique abilities were also superb. I 
 use to love spy man he makes it a perfect game. It felt like you lived in it and it had a movie 
 effect as well. The second release was also good but except for several minor changes most of the 
 things were still the same. 
  
  I played this a lot but when they release the 3rd version of this serious I got fed up of it. That 
 changed the whole game play and I didn't like it. Hopefully the next release should be a better 
 one. It should have the same gameplay of the Brothers in Arms. 
  
  Talking about the gameplay it was a quite a development those days. The effects and the rest was 
 nicely presented. Recommend this to anyone who is willing to spend sometime playing a good strategic 
 war game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invisiblekid904
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  i think this is one of my favorite games because it have all the things that you exepected from 
 a game , the first time i play this i say: this sucks but then i realize that it was a exelent 
 game the gameplay is really good but i prefer the gameplay of commandos 2 (of playstation 2) 
 
  the missions are really amazing the characters of the game (my favorite is the green beret (well 
 who cares?) ) are really creative 
  he bad thing of the game is the music that really sucks very hard the graphics are quite good the 
 case is that game for me is exelent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtdewtag
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is a real time strategy game that tests your skills to solve problems without resorting 
 to guns. However do not be turned off by that because you will also get to go "Rambostlye" and 
 a few missions allow you the use of a sniper.
  
  Gameplay was mouse and keyboard driven. You would be given a certain Commando or Commandos. Each 
 one had their strengths and weaknesses. For example one Commando was a scuba-diver type that was 
 perfect for stealth entrances using rivers and other bodies of water. You also had a Commando named 
 Tiny who was the brawn of the group. Your spy came with a hypodermic needle and was able to camouflage 
 himself with German uniforms. This allowed the spy to sneak into certain places undetected.
  
  There was also a sniper whose sniping was easy to handle. You would call this Commando up and 
 activate his sniper scope. Then just put the cross-hairs on the target you want to drop press the 
 fire button.
  
  There was also an explosives expert Commando and a truck driver Commando used to operate the vehicles 
 found in the game.
  
  Graphics were extremely decent with this game. The game was played from a third person birds eye 
 view. This allowed you to see the whole map or any section you wanted zoom in to. Detecting the 
 German soldiers was easy and the scenery in some missions was spectacular.
  
  Sound each character had his own voice which was nice. Gun fire and explosions were okay. As were 
 the sounds of the vehicles. You could always tell when a tank or some other armored vehicle was 
 headed your way to take you out.
  
  Value for an RTS game this is a nice addition to your collection. Many more games were spawned 
 from this series and even ported over to some of the game consoles. 
  
  Tilt: For a game built around World War II this is a decent game. The sniper missions are interesting 
 and the missions using the bomber are up there too. Learning how to use the characters and using 
 their strengths to solve certain problems gives this game some life. Most missions are about stealth 
 and not being seen. While a few allow you to go full auto and just blast your way through. I never 
 did play this game on-line but it did have a co-op on-line mode that allowed you and 5 of your 
 friends to play at the same time. This might be why this game never really took off. The lack of 
 decent on-line play and the fact not too many mission editors came out for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jur2
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:27 am PT
Review:  Commandos: Behind enemy lines is a classic game. And for a reason. Basically, you try all kinds 
 of tricks on the enemy. Some of my favourites are the Diver's harpoon gun (lethal, silent and on 
 a short range) , the Green Beret's Knife (Lethal, quick and silent) and ofcourse, the Sniper's sniper 
 rifle (hey, who doesn't love sniping?) . Anyway, one of the great advantages of the game is that 
 the levels are certainly not linear. In other words: there are so many ways to complete one. That 
 kind of takes away the disadvantage of the game having only 10 missions, if it wasn't less. If 
 your tactic doesn't work, try again a couple of times. If it still doesn't work, make another one. 
 It's that simple. I rated this game "Very hard", because - even on the Easy mode - you get caught 
 pretty fast. When the alarm goes, i don't even try to get away, but quickload instantly, because 
 there's no way you're gonna get away. The graphics, for these times, looking at Half-Life 2 and 
 Unreal Tournament 2007 coming out soon, are terrible. But that's not the point. The bottom line 
 is: A tactical game, where spreading bullets around is nout your primary concern. Being quiet and 
 going unnoticed is. Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khan_198024
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game takes you in the Heart of WW2 action. This game is suitable for all types of ppl, even 
 those who don't like War. The game is easy, simple action no over loading of complicated stuff! 
 The enemy is fun, for they are stupid! In Commandos: Behind The Enemy Lines, you don't have to 
 worry about precious time, it can be either paused or the quick save or simple savegame allows 
 you to start right back from where you stared, unlike other games, you don't have to restart from 
 all over again! The game also provides craking INFO on different WW2 situations, so does the Scenario.
 
  The Game only needs patients as on the tuff levels you may need to save alot before tryimg out 
 a plan. The game is execelent for those who want to become serious gammers as it isa good starter! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 28, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  In Commandos, you take control of an Elite group of commandos and attempt to complete missions 
 by sneaking around and using unique abilities. Each member of your group has unique abilities such 
 as Sniping, Driving, Hiding, Swimming, etc... It makes each unit important so you won't be able 
 to depend on one unit. 
  
  Generally, you won't be jumping into battle as with other Action/Strategy games, and will more 
 often be trying to sneak past a gaurd, or take him out silently. Playing this game is generally 
 trial and error, so if you absolutely hate that type of thing, you'll probably want to skip this 
 game. 
  
  Graphics are all around nice, though dated. You're given a top down view (2D) which makes sneaking 
 around ALOT easier since you see everything around you. 
  
  If you like games that require more sneaking than brute force, you just might enjoy Commandos. 
 It's a game that will probably challenge you, but in the end will be pretty entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2004 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Back in July of 1998, a new company named Pyro Studios, released their first game called Commandos: 
 Behind Enemy Lines which featured a game of strategy and puzzles mixed together to combine into 
 a very challenging game. A game which lets you use 6 different commandos, specialists in their 
 own sense, play through 20 missons of pure puzzlement that will leave you screaming out at the 
 Nazi soldiers from Norway, North Africa, and Eastern Europe.
  
  The story is that you're an elite group of commandos who are to go behind enemy lines and screw 
 up the Nazis' plans enough so that the Allied Nations can pull through and eventually win the war. 
 Although, most missions, you won't be able to control all 6 commandos, this does provide a more 
 challenging gameplay to add to the fact that it's already extremely hard. While playing through 
 each mission, it just seems that the guys at Pyro thought of one, and only one way to get through 
 each misson and they proceed to make you guess that exact way.
  
  While it may be challenging or frustrating at times, the sense of your being becomes known when 
 you've made it through an encampment of 20 Nazis and you've only used 1 commando to take all those 
 20 soldiers out. Right before you complete a mission, glancing over the rest of the 2D rendered 
 map, you gain a small sense of pride knowing that you completed something many, many people haven't.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics, being from 1998, are definitely not the best, but they still provide a 
 good backdrop for the many places around the eastern hemisphere that you'll locate. Even though 
 they're old, it still is wonderful to be able to take your sniper and drop a soldier 100-200 yards 
 off just for fun. But, the question is, will you get away with that kill without other guards being 
 alerted?
  
  The Sound: The sound is not too noticeable in this game, but maybe that's because you're repeating 
 reloading to try and kill that Nazi soldier for the hundreth time, except this time, picking up 
 his body and dumping it behind a wall BEFORE another soldier sees you. The commandos follow their 
 orders with a few different phrases, but even these can geta little annoying when moving them about 
 the large maps.
  
  Some people may be turned off from the extreme challenge of this game, but others will stay at 
 their computers for hours reloading over and over again to get that last soldier disposed of. It 
 all depends on how much patience you have. From experience, to survive all 20 missions within this 
 game, you MUST have a lot of patience. And if you're thinking that this is gonna be a short easy 
 game, 20 missions, bahh. Let me tell you, you'll be sitting at your computer till 3 in the morning 
 not even acknowledging the fact that you have a meeting in 5 hours. This game WILL take you a very 
 LONG time. Trust me. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
