-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/redalert3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The story and cutscenes are wonderfully corny.
 Fully cooperative campaign gives standard missions new life.
 Each faction is fun to play thanks to cool, balanced units.
 Vibrant visual design and smooth performance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Problematic pathfinding and other glitches.
 Clunky co-op invite system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 2,897 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 28, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Red Alert 3 is a raucously fun strategy game that overcomes its issues with both style and substance. 
 

  Where else but in the Red Alert universe could you pit transforming mechs against bears, or decide 
 the fate of your mission by attacking floating fortresses with intelligent dolphins outfitted with 
 sonic disruptors? Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert 3 doesn't take itself seriously, but that's 
 what makes it so much fun to play. This is the most rambunctiously over-the-top strategy game to 
 reach store shelves in years, filled to the brim with laugh-out-loud cheesiness and a cheerful 
 disregard for political correctness. Underneath that kookiness is a fairly standard RTS with some 
 noticeable flaws, but it's a great one nevertheless, thanks to entertaining units, a strong multiplayer 
 component, and support for an online, fully cooperative campaign -- a first for the genre.  

           Doing the time warp again.      

  So here's the setup, told in a hysterically overacted 
 cutscene that could have been ripped directly from a bad sci-fi flick: Russian leaders, including 
 the premier (played by a heavily accented, wonderfully hammy Tim Curry) travel back in time to 
 kill Albert Einstein. The theory is that doing so will change the course of history, causing the 
 Soviet Union to dominate as a world power. Instead, this bit of time tampering gives rise to a 
 new threat, the Empire of the Rising Sun -- and, of course, more broadly played histrionics. The 
 whole thing is a live-action riot: JK Simmons as US President Ackerman is all anticommie swagger, 
 and George Takei scrunches his face into superserious knots as the Emperor. Then there is Jenny 
 McCarthy as Tanya, stroking an enormous toy gun in one scene, holding a sexy pose but still prepared 
 to slit a man's throat in another. Skimpy, ill-fitting costumes, blatant computer-generated graphics, 
 and bad accents -- it's all quite wonderful, with tongue firmly planted in cheek.  

  All three factions -- Soviets, Allies, and Empire -- are fun to play, and though not dramatically different 
 from each other, theyre distinct enough to make each of them feel fresh. For instance, Allied 
 structures can be placed only after fully completed within the build queue (a standard C&amp; C 
 mechanic) , whereas Soviet refineries can be placed immediately and assembled afterward. The new 
 faction for the franchise, Empire of the Rising Sun, is even more flexible in this regard, but 
 it also requires a bit of micromanagement. In this case, you queue up movable vehicular pods called 
 cores that then unfurl into the appropriate structure. Additionally, most Empire structures (with 
 the exception of defensive turrets) can be placed anywhere without the fetters of a nearby base, 
 which makes them the easy choice for players who like to establish an early presence across the 
 entire map. Of course, these differences extend to ore refineries, but in all cases, resource collection 
 is more measured than in prior C&amp; C games. Gem fields are gone, which makes ore mines your only 
 source of income. The method of implementation is a departure for the Red Alert franchise, given 
 that it generally means a one-to-one ratio of ore collectors to refineries and a resulting slower 
 pace.  

  Nevertheless, a slower economy doesn't make for less explosive gameplay, and each faction boasts 
 a number of awesome units to throw into the fray. Some of them, such as attack dogs and flak troopers, 
 are carryovers from previous games. But no matter whether you're using familiar units or new ones, 
 clashes are fiery and tense, especially when you've grasped the nuances of each unit's secondary 
 mode. This is particularly true when playing as the Empire, considering that most of its units 
 are more than meets the eye; they transform between two distinct states with differing strengths. 
 For example, the mecha tengu can attack infantry from the ground or do antiair duty in the skies. 
 This flexibility translates to most Empire units, making them fun to use as long as your finger 
 is hovering near the F key on your keyboard, which toggles between unit abilities.  

  This isn't to say that Soviet and Allied units aren't equally entertaining to use. All factions 
 use ground, air, and sea units, with many of them doing double duty in water and on land. For example, 
 the ever-helpful Soviet bullfrog can transport troops across land and water (and can amusingly 
 spew infantry a good distance with its man-cannon) . Late-game skirmishes bring the best and most 
 fun-to-use units, such as the Allied aircraft carrier, which sends a squadron of drones into the 
 fray and is one of Red Alert 3's most autonomous naval units. The campaign introduces these units 
 with style, and the size to which some of its maps expand will often keep you busy across the entire 
 map, particularly during the frantic final missions.  

           Some units are helpful on land -- and at sea.      

  The gameplay twist within the campaign 
 is the addition of a co-commander. If you play on your own, this position will be granted to an 
 AI player of a fair level of competence, and you'll be able to issue basic one-click commands, 
 such as "hold this spot" or "attack this structure." There are also some contextual commands when 
 mission objectives get more intricate and require very specific actions, such as destroying a reactor 
 or capturing a building. This addition makes the largest campaign missions feel wonderfully dramatic, 
 with engagements scattered across the map involving not just your own units but friendly ones as 
 well. It also adds a bit more oomph to the light puzzle-solving missions so common to the genre 
 ("take these three units and follow these specific instructions") , because it requires the assistance 
 of your compatriot. On the other hand, it makes the campaign easier than you would expect, seeing 
 as how your AI comrade will usually buy you enough time to rebuild if you make a costly mistake. 

  But as with most games, it's better to add a real friend than deal with the occasional questionable 
 decisions of an artificial teammate, and Red Alert 3's greatest asset is its cooperative campaign, 
 a first for the genre. Should you go this route, your online partner (co-op play is unavailable 
 on a local network) will take the role that the AI otherwise would, making the specific objectives 
 mentioned above even more satisfying. It's a treat to play this way, and as you can imagine, completing 
 a mission with a real-life counterpart is more compelling; it's a wonder that strategy games haven't 
 attempted this sort of venture before. Unfortunately, getting another player into the match is 
 a bit cumbersome. You must choose the mission and then enter the online lobby to issue the invitation, 
 and when you invite the player, the game offers no feedback to let you know that the invite has 
 been sent. The invited player does receive a notification pop-up and an invite notice, though there 
 are times when the invitee won't receive an issued invitation, for no discernible reason.    

  Although the single-player/co-op campaign is great, multiplayer should give Red Alert 3 the same 
 longevity that Tiberium Wars and Kane's Wrath have enjoyed. This is where the strengths and weaknesses 
 of each unit become clear, and where distinct faction differences are even more palpable. For example, 
 should you play Empire, you'll find that the lack of early-game antiair units makes you extremely 
 vulnerable to Allied air attacks. As a result, immediate base harassment is all but necessary, 
 unless you want your ore collectors and refineries to face early retirement while you spend funds 
 on tech that will unlock the necessary units. Compared to previous Command &amp; Conquer games, 
 Red Alert 3 matches are more measured, thanks to the slower economy. This means fewer early rushes 
 and greater emphasis on scouting, as well as a better chance to get the most interesting units 
 into the mix. The big game-changer here are special powers, which can be terribly devastating and 
 can dramatically turn the tide of the match.  

           You can issue simple commands to an AI comrade, though it's better to add a friend.   
    

  There are 28 maps on which to play, an impressive number indeed. The best of these, such as Secret 
 Shrine and the cleverly named Reef Madness, pleasantly mix land, sea, and air combat thanks to 
 varied terrain that encourages entertaining mixes of units. All in all, Red Alert 3 is, with a 
 few exceptions, relatively well balanced and thus an obvious choice for competitive strategists 
 who wish to showcase their battle prowess online. Ladder and clan matches are available and function 
 much the same way as they did in Command &amp; Conquer 3, and as before, the in-game BattleCast 
 option lets you broadcast your game to others, even allowing for someone to provide on-the-fly 
 commentary. Like C&amp; C3, it even comes with telestrator tools that let you draw directly over 
 the match in progress like a sports commentator giving a play-by-play. If you need offline practice, 
 you can skirmish against the AI, though the short live-action video intros that obscure the minimap 
 when you encounter an opponent were a bad idea here. These portraits are a fun feature of the campaign 
 but are annoying during stand-alone skirmishes when the need for a functioning minimap far supersedes 
 any amusement that these scenes provide.  

  The overall Red Alert 3 experience is a raucous one, but it lacks the technical tightness featured 
 in the last few Command &amp; Conquer games. Pathfinding is probably the most noticeable and annoying 
 issue, particularly when amphibious units are involved. Units get stuck jogging in place against 
 a wall or stopping at the edge of a plateau, and the addition of water to the terrain seems to 
 confuse them even more. We also ran into a number of glitches: Units clipped into bridges and got 
 stuck, performed incorrect animations (for example, units would swim across land) , and in several 
 skirmish games, we could pull the camera out indefinitely until the screen went black.  

  Red Alert 3's visuals pop right off of the screen. The colors are bright and vivacious, and therefore 
 perfectly suited to the game's in-your-face mirth. Tropical maps are drenched in golden light, 
 and multicolored beach umbrellas dot the shores, both contributing to and contrasting with the 
 visual splendor of exploding hammer tanks. They also feature possibly the finest water effects 
 yet seen in an RTS game, and the sunlight dances pleasantly on the turquoise waves. Electrical 
 effects such as those emitted by Tesla coils also deserve particular mention for the flashiness 
 of their violent zaps. Units are detailed and the most unusual ones look really cool, so though 
 Red Alert 3 doesn't push a lot of polygons, its lovely design brings a modern look to an older 
 franchise while running smoothly on a variety of systems. One interesting graphical feature is 
 the yellow outline that surrounds selected units, which is a neat choice but a double-edged sword. 
 On one hand, it lets you easily identify your own selection on the screen and can be a welcome 
 visual cue. On the other, the outline is a bit too thick, which makes it difficult to identify 
 which type of units you've selected. It also makes it easy to get confused if a competitor chooses 
 yellow as his or her unit color in a multiplayer match.  

           The colorful visuals go well with the story's joyful cheesiness.      

  Along with 
 buoyant visuals comes an upbeat soundtrack featuring a fun mix of ambient music and rocking battle 
 cues, not to mention an array of boisterous explosions. Although much of it is unremarkable, there 
 are some real standouts used during the campaign, such as a flowing new-age track used in Soviet 
 missions, and some jolly Asian-inspired themes that set the mood during the Empire campaign. And 
 what would a Command &amp; Conquer game be without fun unit responses? When special unit Natasha 
 asks if you like her scope in that thick, fake Russian accent, it's hard not to let out a guffaw. 

  A few problems aside, Red Alert 3's cooperative campaign and cool new faction offer plenty of enjoyment 
 for players who don't mind a little cheese with their meat. This isn't exactly the genre's next 
 step forward, but it's a slick and entertaining evolution of a classic franchise that's hard to 
 dislike. Rest assured, that quirky exterior masks a strong campaign and an equally substantial 
 multiplayer component that will keep you and your dolphins busy well into 2009.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (183 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TheDefragmentor
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 1:57 pm PT
Review:  When you buy a game and are still playing weeks later, that means that it has at least captured 
 your attention. Some great games go on for years like this. I have been playing RA3 since release 
 date and I still will keep going for a long time. This conclusion is not only of my opinion. My 
 conclusion has been formed by simple, fundamental facts about Red Alert 3.
  The first thing I look at in an RTS are the races. RA3 offers 3 drastically different races. You 
 get much more of a feel of a game when you can easily identify each race and their capabilities. 
 This will aid you in adapting your tactics for RA3. Different races to the extent that the core 
 mechanics change, in my experience have been present in some of the most popular RTS. In this instance, 
 The Allies base building is the most common of the C&C games. You build your structure and place 
 it once it is finished. To tech up, they research a new tier seperate for every command post that 
 they own. This research will unlock higher tier units. As for their military, they are well suited 
 for players who use alternate means to win a game. There are many different ways of winning as 
 the allies but they seem best suited to aircraft. In contrast, the Soviets find it difficult to 
 win any other way than mass force steamrolling. This is not a bad thing as it will fit each individual 
 gamers tactics and style. When the Soviets build buildings, they place them on the map and wait 
 for them to build. While they might be vulnerable in the build phase, some players may find it 
 easier to manage rather than timing your building queue checks. The Empire is based on a principle 
 of versatility. Most of their units can transform, usually into aircraft. This alone will give 
 you a tactical advantage over everyone else; it is just a matter of how to employ their units. 
 As for their base building, they are able to rush the landscape faster than anyone else because 
 they produce expensive nanocores that move around the map and deploy anywhere, hence the Empire 
 is not hampered by a build radius. 3 unique races are the first step to a good game.
  The game looks fantastic as well. You have your standard corny cutscenes with an extra corny story 
 for good measure. This reminds you that it is a game and gives RA3 a playful air. Tiberium Wars, 
 while still corny was a lot darker in comparison. Most of the game is genuinely funny as well. 
 Not only the cutscenes, but many other little touches. Each unit and their own quirks like the 
 Allies ore collector for example who in a cheery voice apon selection will often say, "collecting 
 ore is all right". The tutorial will have the highest concentration of humour though. The animation 
 in the game itself looks great and cartoon-y despite minor animation faults.
  The speed of RA3 is what makes it really good. This coupled with the intense need to micro your 
 units and base. Only once before have i played an RTS so intense that my hands shook in-game. Red 
 Alert 3 offers many moments like that. One false step in-game can have dire reprocussions, so focussing 
 on the game makes you feel like you are micro-ing well. It is good when a game feels rewarding 
 to play because it is a huge factor contributing to continuous play. And i believe C&C RA3 has 
 plenty of play to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrysisFPS
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Okay, the graphics are not the best for an RTS, but they are still beautiful to look at. I enjoyed 
 the original red alerts and this one is not too bad itself, but why do I rate so low?
  
  First, to start off, I know that the strongest point in the red alert series is the humour rather 
 than constructed gameplay elements, but no game is a great one if the gameplay is not well polished. 
 It just seemed like any other old RTS with the same gameplay elements like dragging units to another 
 place and ordering them to fight. Does the humour entertain me? It does, but it is not enough.
 
  
  I vote this low because it feels too much like any other RTS. If humour and graphics are all that 
 appeal to you, I would recomend this game. If they don't and you focus on gameplay, get something 
 like Dawn Of War 2 or Empire Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  With quality of production and style, Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3 arrives at the market as a 
 game sufficiently varied, dynamic, with great value of replay, good new features and also some 
 recyclings. It fulfills to its paper for its solidity and balance well placing themselves it the 
 side of other excellent games of sort. It is truth that very does not go far from what already 
 it was made in the series, being inside of that principle that says: "in teams who if is earning 
 not it moves". This on the other hand is good, but for another one, it can dislike who waited revolutionary 
 and deeply innovations. We recommend without contraindications for the fans of the series. E also 
 to the novices, Red Alert 3 if shows an excellent beginning to enter the universe of the surmounting. 
 
  Its a great game but i think i like Tiberium Wars more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oxhan
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  Story sucks, missons suck, cinematics suck, units suck, power-ups suck. I mean everything is so 
 cheesy. Where is the great char. s like Kane or Yuri? Even Tanya was ruined! The units are so weird, 
 you feel like playing a alien RTS. Dreadnoughts throwing misslies like catapults, migs stay mid-air.
 
  
  Story sucks, missons suck, cinematics suck, units suck, power-ups suck. I mean everything is so 
 cheesy. Where is the great char. s like Kane or Yuri? Even Tanya was ruined! The units are so weird, 
 you feel like playing a alien RTS. Dreadnoughts throwing misslies like catapults, migs stay mid-air.
 
  
  Story sucks, missons suck, cinematics suck, units suck, power-ups suck. I mean everything is so 
 cheesy. Where is the great char. s like Kane or Yuri? Even Tanya was ruined! The units are so weird, 
 you feel like playing a alien RTS. Dreadnoughts throwing misslies like catapults, migs stay mid-air. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say. I had been waiting for a long long time for this to come and when it did i 
 must say i was not disappointed. Gameplay has undergone a lot of changing. Addition of new units 
 and a total new faction which is the Imperial (Japanese) is excellent addition among previous two 
 allies and soviets. Story is awesome showing that a new threat in shape of imperial army has appeared 
 and now soviets and allies must encounter it. Red Alert has kept the tradition of including new 
 Real actors and this time you should check em out yourself. Hint - Jenny McCarthy. Land, Air, Sea 
 all battles are there. Story line is awesome and game is satisfyingly long. All red alert fans 
 and the new guys are encouraged to check it out because you will definitely love it. Played the 
 game from start to finish and it's a big blast on LAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k80sg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 12:11 am PT
Review:  Over the years, the C&C series has evolved tremendously in its in-game technology from humans to 
 cyborgs and futuristic gundam look-alike infantries. On one look, RA3 may no longer be your old 
 beloved C&C as it drifts itself further and further away from realism but if you were to give it 
 a closer look; your opinion might just change. Aside from graphical changes in style complimented 
 with better shadings, texture and effects which yet many complaint about because of its cartoony 
 feel and the realism factor which can be easily embraced even if you are the serious true-to-life 
 type of players because you never know what you see in this game, might just become a reality one 
 day given today's fast growing technology, all these factors will be of little importance and be 
 cast aside once the battle commences because the gameplay is where essence lies in. If there's 
 one thing a player should sulk over this game is the lame drama and cheesy acting but then again, 
 these are trademarks of cc isn't it? Nonetheless, not to worry because they have employed quite 
 a number of babes to trance you off the storyline.
  
  RA3 introduces several new features and enhancement including a sweet and fresh new addition of 
 secondary abilities for each individual unit. This new inclusion brings the game to a whole new 
 level of challenge especially against skilled players. Gone were the days where you can either 
 repel or attack the opposition force with ease just by just picking the right type and amount of 
 units or simply spam a specific type unit for a sure victory. With the introduction of secondary 
 ability, not only do players need to be well versed with their own unit's strength and weakness 
 but also react decisively upon engaging a battle. The right use of ability to counter your opposition 
 is as crucial as everything else you need to do to take down your opponents. Aside from the new 
 features, the game's mechanism still very much retains its feel like all other cc series.
  
  There are 3 factions in this series; you have the motherland Russia which without exception 
 symbolizes strength, Allies is somewhat in between Japan and Russia and largely depends on crippling 
 tactics rather then straight head-on confrontations and if you are into Anime and manga, you are 
 in for a treat with RA3's Japanese imperial forces which resembles gundam-like characters, even 
 their theme music sounds so similar to 'Ghost in the shell'. All 3 factions have their own fair 
 share of strengths and weaknesses which is pretty well balanced. Nevertheless, leading your forces 
 to victory still largely counts on your tactics, decisiveness, calmness and units handling proficiency 
 and not so much on the supremacy of the units. One will not be able to overwhelm another if his/her 
 opponent tactics are right and necessary units are well in place.
  
  Overall I love RA3 as much as the previous series and would definitely recommend it for those who 
 want some intense and quality RTS gaming experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThomasMaster
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  I like the games hard, because if they're not, I finish them very fast and i don't like that. I 
 played this game in Hardest difficulty and was surprised to see how hard it actually was. One of 
 the games I don't regret, and even encourage people to buy. Beyond that, the game has very good 
 single and multi player game-play. In the single play we have 27 i guess where we get to choose 
 which faction we will play for, either Russian, Allies or the USA. I also loved the combat units 
 the game has, specially those Kirov Airship droping bombs all over and very resistant. I also liked 
 those Dreadnoughts, and their suicide capability like the Kirovs. I basicaly love heavy units like 
 the BIG Russian Tanks. I spent a month playing this game and i'm upset i ended it already i'm just 
 going to wait until RA 4 comes out. It's just money well spent people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixClown94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:44 am PT
Review:  The game was fun in all but the creators could of done a better job on the skirmish levels and 
 the multiplayer levels, there wasn't a very big variety. There were very few skirmish levels that 
 didn't involve be surrounded by your opponents constantly making it very difficult to set up base 
 when you play the levels on harder difficulties. Most of the levels were set up so your opponent 
 and your ally were at an even distance from you so there was a lot less collaboration with your 
 ally. You couldn't really support him and he could barely support you. There were some good things 
 about this game though. The game really expanded itself to more naval battles which really made 
 the game a lot more challenging. You could find a way to get your opponent other than having just 
 a small naval fleet to distract your opponent (barely) and attack with ground and air. The idea 
 of haveing an ally during the game play was just genius, you could witness action and assist at 
 the same time. Then adding to that to be able to do co-op missions with someone else was great. 
 You could have your friend build op a defense and you could be the one to attack. Your ally could 
 build defenses on your base while you go to the offensive. You can be doing the offensive and the 
 defensive at the same time. The rising sun had very creative characters but the creators forgot 
 a type of unit that could carry vehicles across the water for the rising sun and the soviet. Even 
 though they had the ones that could transform like the mecha tengu and the soviets had their twin-blade 
 chopper but they had no way of transporting the bigger vehicles like the king oni or the apacolypse 
 tank. The rising sun's anti-infantry soldiers could'nt hit air units. The only unit they had that 
 could strike the air were the rocket angels and yuriko, but they could'nt be made til you could 
 upgrade your barracks fully. The rising sun's commando was made too strong, she could attack infantry, 
 vehicle, navy, and air with the other ones could only hit land and water only. When yuriko would 
 attack a unit that unit had no chance of retaliation like defense. Once she started hitting it, 
 it was done for. All in all, the game was very creative 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainingMetal
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Introduction:
  Since I was young, I used to play Red Alert and Red Alert 2 as a child, and I grew up playing this 
 franchise and idolizing it. In 2008, the world was stunned as Red Alert 3 was announced, then released. 
 The game went gold, and I was one of the lucky ones who managed to get their Premier Edition of 
 Red Alert 3. Starcraft II be damned, Red Alert is back, and it's going to rock the world!
  
  Story 7/10:
  Red Alert 3's story is quite solid, as it has three separate Campaigns with 
 each of its own separate story. All three of them use the same introduction at the beginning of 
 the game. After being defeated twice by the Allies, the Soviets go back in time to erase the man 
 they think is responsible for the Allies' many victories: Albert Einstein. Though this action gives 
 the Soviets the advantage, it deprives the USSR of their many nukes, and the Allies still retain 
 their Chrono and Prism (now called Spectrum) weapons (perhaps Stephen Hawking took over Einstein's 
 role) . Worse still, the lack of American Technological superiority allowed a new superpower, the 
 Empire of the Rising Sun (Imperial Japan) to rise against the other two parties. Many actors in 
 the cutscenes have also appeared in various Television shows or Movies (such as JK Simmons as the 
 American President) . The acting in the cutscenes is quite corny and melodramatic, but that's what 
 makes Red Alert 3 a Command and Conquer game. The stories themselves are functional, although poor 
 President Ackerman suffers an unfortunate fate in each Campaign. All three factions have a variety 
 of different characters (such as the aforementioned Anti-Communist President Ackerman for the Allies, 
 Premier Cherdenko for the Soviets, and the Imperial Emperor Yoshiro) , including an intelligence 
 officer for each team.
  
  Controls 8/10:
  Red Alert 3 uses a typical RTS (Real Time Strategy) format for control; select Units and make them 
 do stuff. For Command and Conquer veterans, it's highly recommended that they use the "Classic 
 C&C" mouse setup, as the default controls have Units do actions with the Right-Click (C&C players 
 use the Left-Click, like me!) . Many of the Special abilities for each Unit all use "F" as its hotkey, 
 allowing players to use Special Abilities without having to search for the according key on their 
 keyboards. There are also other hotkeys for production and actions. Overall, the controls are simple, 
 yet versatile, and many advanced options are also available.
  
  Graphics: 9/10:
  Though there's not much to say about the Graphics, the models are sharp and detailed sufficiently, 
 and the Units move fluently and smoothly. The game has nice light, heat, and terrain effects. The 
 most notable shine on this game regarding graphics is the water. When Naval Units sink, their remains 
 sink to the bottom of the ocean, and their remains can be seen for a while. Other sunken objects 
 are also visible. On the surface, the graphics are quite clear, although it's not like the flashy 
 game Company of Heroes. The various soldiers do different fidgety actions when idle, and in combat, 
 they fire and go prone when suppressed.
  
  Sound: 10/10:
  As with other Command and Conquer games, Red Alert 3's soundtrack is one of my favorite soundtracks 
 ever. Many Command and Conquer veterans may remember the composer Frank Klepacki. He was behind 
 the music making arts within Command and Conquer games up until Command and Conquer: Generals. 
 He returns in Red Alert 3 to make his unforgettable soundtracks for Red Alert 3, as this game won't 
 be Red Alert 3 without Hell March 3! Other composers, such as James Hannigan, Timothy Michael Wrynn, 
 and the band "From First to Last" made the rest of the soundtrack. Most of their works are almost 
 as unforgettable as Frank Klepacki's compositions. There are different battle, defeat, and victory 
 themes for each of the three Factions, and there are also different environmental soundtracks for 
 each map and mission (such as European soundtracks for the cities of Geneva and Amsterdam, or the 
 cold music within the mountains) . Overall, Red Alert 3 has the best soundtrack of all the other 
 Command and Conquer games, hands down.
  
  As for the sounds, all Units have some well-rounded quotes (such as "Just like training video!" 
 for the enthusiastic Conscript) . All gunshots, explosions, and death sounds all sound like they 
 should be.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10:
  Now onto the most important part of a video game: Gameplay! The gameplay is balanced and solid. 
 The Classic Command and Conquer-based gameplay returns, as the MCV (Mobile Construction Vehicle) 
 is used to establish bases, and other Structures are produced from there. The Tiberium/Ore fields 
 are replaced with Ore Nodes. Refineries are placed next to these Nodes to collect income, so players 
 don't have to focus too much on resource gathering anymore. Producing Units and Structures use 
 the queue system from Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars. More production Structures can be produced 
 in order to produce more Infantry, Armor, etc. at once. Red Alert 3 expands the principle of naval 
 gameplay as its primary milestone, as Structures can be erected on both land and water. Additionally, 
 some Units are amphibious, giving them a huge advantage on maps with lots of land and water. Each 
 faction also has its own Unit to expand on far away areas away from their main base.
  
  There are four different classes of Units: Infantry, Armor, Aircraft, and Navals. While the Infantry 
 and Armor primarily travel on the ground, Navals steer through the waters and Aircraft dominate 
 the skies. Infantry Units are able to Garrison Structures for extra protection, although this insurance 
 can be defeated by a Unit from each Faction (The main grunt for each Faction either goes into the 
 Structure and clears out the occupants, or throws a Molotov to flush the enemy out) . All Units 
 excel at fighting a certain class of enemies, but are either unable to or are poor against other 
 certain Units. This creates a Rock-Paper-Scissors kind of strategy, so a diverse bundle of Units 
 is key to winning in battles, along with using Special Abilities wisely. Although the Units will 
 sometimes have difficulty pathfinding, they often know what to do in most situations. The AI (Artificial 
 Intelligence) is sufficient and quirky. All Units also have some sort of special ability. During 
 the Campaign, two armies can play in all the missions against the enemy. The second army can be 
 controlled by another player or by one of the AI generals in the game. The game also comes with 
 its own wacky tutorial (featuring the Guardian, Hammer, and Tsunami Tanks!) , which is very clear, 
 thorough, and funny. 
  
  Replayability: 8/10:
  Much like all other RTSes, Red Alert 3 features online gameplay. Co-Op gameplay is available along 
 with the Solo campaign, and two players can duke it out side-by-side during the Campaign. Online 
 is fairly organized, competitive or cooperative, and the replayability is nearly endless. The Co-Op 
 mode is unavailable on LAN. To date, EA (Electronic Arts) has released five different patches since 
 its release, so it looks like they'll maintain this game for a while.
  
  Overall: 9/10:
  Red Alert 3 is one of the finest games available, and it's good for both new players and Command 
 and Conquer veterans. It features insane Co-Op gameplay, and as of today, the game's Worldbuilder 
 is also available for those who wish to craft their own maps. So what are you waiting for?! Buy 
 this game already!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wysl
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 3 is a well designed and very creatively crafted game. Although the series has spanned 
 many chapters and subplots, what I have gotten from RA3 still feels fresh, new and tremendously 
 entertaining. All 27 missions of the 3 Factions are well sewn together and fleshed out the continuing 
 and very engaging RA epic. Mission goals are well defined, and it is up to players to explore various 
 ways and tactics to achieve these goals and attain mission completion. Even after a single play-through, 
 RA3 feels like it still has more to reveal and never quite outgrown its 'wow' factor yet. The various 
 new and wonderfully balanced units offer many, many interesting possibilities and tactics to each 
 Faction. In this aspect, RA3 draws you in and leads you to explore the numerous 'what ifs' during 
 multiple play-throughs. With the expansion pack just over the horizon, RA3 is set to remain in 
 our disc drives for many long nights to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  The game is set in a parallel universe in which World War II never happened and instead the Soviet 
 Union rose to power, battling the Allies in the 1950s. In this game, the Empire of the Rising Sun 
 rises to power as a threat as well. All three factions are playable, with the main gameplay involving 
 constructing a base, gathering resources, and training armies composed of land, sea, and airborne 
 units to defeat other players. Each faction has a fully co-operative campaign, playable with an 
 Artificial Intelligence or with another human player online. These campaigns follow a storyline, 
 with specific mission objectives and unit restrictions applied. Unrestricted skirmish play against 
 the computer and multiplayer via LAN or online is also available.
  
  Red Alert 3 retains the core RTS mechanics of the Command & Conquer series. Warring factions harvest 
 resources using vulnerable collectors and then use those resources to construct military bases 
 and forces on-site. Structures form a shallow but wide tech tree with a variety of units and elusive 
 superweapons. Weapon types are specialized to the point where a rifleman can withstand direct hits 
 from an anti-tank cannon. Red Alert 3's major refinements are the addition of the Empire of the 
 Rising Sun to the factions of the sub-series, similar to what Tiberium Wars did with the Scrin 
 faction, a co-operative campaign, and expanded naval warfare.
  
  The "single-player" campaign is now fully co-operative. Each mission is played alongside an ally. 
 When played online, this is another human player. If played offline one of several computer-controlled 
 characters acts as the player's ally. Teams share income and generally start with the same forces. 
 Computerized characters can be given extremely simple commands, such as an order to take a specific 
 position or to strike a specific target. The campaign has nine missions for each side. Each side's 
 plotlines are mutually exclusive, unlike Tiberium Wars and its preceding and following expansion 
 packs, but like the rest of the Red Alert series.
  
  Naval warfare is emphasized as another front. Executive producer Chris Corry has stated that many 
 units are now amphibious, trading effectiveness for increased flexibility. Buildings and entire 
 bases can be constructed on water, save for such things as ground unit production facilities, and 
 players who "ignore the ocean are likely forfeiting a significant part of their potential economy 
 to their opponents." Further stressing this is the fact that, despite some campaign maps being 
 entirely land based, all multiplayer maps have significant bodies of water in them.
  
  The use of naval units and various unit abilities also helped stop players from sticking to one 
 unit and constructing large amounts of (or spamming) them early game. This was a standard strategy 
 for Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars/Kane's Wrath, where players would try to build more of one 
 unit faster than their opponent
  
  Manually controlled secondary abilities are common to each and every unit in the game. How each 
 ability is employed varies: some are toggled on or off, others are targeted, and still others are 
 triggered the instant one presses the button. An Imperial constructor might be able to deploy once 
 at a specified location, a Soviet conscript can switch weapons at will, or an Allied artillery 
 piece can engage its shields with a button press but with a cooldown that requires a period of 
 time to pass before the ability can be activated again are such examples of secondary abilities. 
 All abilities are bound to the same key. The game also features experience points that are used 
 to unlock upgrades to unit types as well as "commander abilities" used to call in air strikes, 
 recon sweeps, magnetic satellite beams, etc.. Commander abilities have no resource costs but have 
 significant cooldown periods.
  
  Ore fields as resource sites have been removed. These originated in the first Red Alert as a functionally 
 identical equivalent to tiberium, in C&C similar to a strip mine. Gameplay mechanics haven't changed 
 a great deal since fields have been replaced with stationary ore mines - although this does impact 
 on strategic ore-refinery placement and covert refining to an extent.
  
  Red Alert 3 needs many as 3 game patchs to be perfect which could be download from the internet 
 via game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:42 am PT
Review:  ok so i played red alert 2 and thought it might be fun to play red alert 3. and boy was i right! 
 this game is great! complete with all the campy acting and funny dialogue. this game will keep 
 you coming back for more. i got the pc version rather than the 360 version because i like my samsung 
 hd monitor and mouse and keyboard controls. so those are pretty good reasons to get the pc version. 
 the gameplay is what you would expect from an rts. you can build facilitties to create more units. 
 like guardian tanks, mini-gunners, etc.. and a barracks to train your soldiers. once you have created 
 your army, you can select them with the mouse and move them around. i recommend defending your 
 base diligently. because they will come to attack you. mini-gunners move fast and are good for 
 moving into enemy territory. your commando tonya can plant explosives on enemy buildings. she will 
 serve you will. be careful not to lose her. i have had alot of fun with this game and recommend 
 it if you like rts games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorwang
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:32 am PT
Review:  *******Warning******* Spoilers ahead!
  
  Finally did I got this game, the one which I hyped for a long time. I was amused by its amazing 
 story. The story, or , just the game, is nothing I've tasted. It shocks you. I never knew that 
 Generals Krovkov would be a traitor to the Soviet Union. I had never known that the Allieds would 
 attack each other. And the President was killed. I had never knew that this game would be so amazing. 
 The mutiplayer is more than exciting. Japan and other factions are very well balanced. Though many 
 players had complained about the balance. It's because these casual players haven't mastered this 
 game yet. There's nothin g wrong with EA. EA is doing well on this franchise. It's still very interesting 
 to play.
  
  About the DRM contrevosy. 
  
  Yes. This is a big problem. But there's light at the end of the tunnel. People say that Securom 
 occupies some space of your harddrive. It's only a few KBs. It won't eat up your computer! In patch 
 1.05, a de-authorization tool was added to de-authorize the digital rights from your machine. 
 
  
  About the EA criticism 
  
  EA hasn't ruined the game. You know, EA not only didn't ruin this game. but also revuved the Command 
 and Conquer franchise.
  
  Thanks for reading! Hope you enjoy this game! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_2404
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 8:06 am PT
Review:  A review of RA3 - which has got a mixed review from many gamers. Few accepted the new RA3 but many 
 of them were disappointed too. 
  
  In my personal opinion - this game is not as good as RA2. Period. But this isn't a flop either. 
 Many changes has been made in the Red Alert series and few hit the bulls eye and few didn't. Overall 
 I would say it's a good entertainment package which can't be missed but definitely EA-LA should 
 think about more changes in upcoming expansion.
  
  The campaigns were all well written and the units were very interesting. Bears launching from cannons, 
 dogs parachuting from planes and dolphins armed for battle - though feel like cartoon but where 
 you would get that much of fun? The campaign is rewarding and enjoyable to play. If you overlook 
 the cheesy girls, then RA3 really isn't that bad. Dynamic objective changes were good and I liked 
 it a lot because in real war your objective can change any time, right?
  
  Economy has been lot more simplified now and it's for good. Each of the factions are different. 
 Secondary abilities of the units are simply superb and its a welcome addition for me. The game 
 is rather fast-paced. You've to be quick or be dead. You've to use all form of your army - Air, 
 Navy, Land. Otherwise enemy will get upper hand of you. You must have to build defenses as well 
 to remain alive.
  
  Soundtrack is so-so and nothing special. FMV were good but you have to put up with cheesy school 
 girls. :P Co-Op mode is a very good concept though it made the game bit easy. I would like to conclude 
 by saying that - don't compare RA3 with other modern games. Because RA3 is old-style base-building 
 type RTS.
  
  Last word: You must install all the released patches because vanilla version has lots of bugs.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linux_Donut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:31 pm PT
Review:  There are several things that i really like about this game. First, the price drop to $29.99 makes 
 me a happy boy indeed. Second is the visual style of the game, which cannot be done justice with 
 a screen shot. The animation and beautiful effects make the game a truly fun experience. The added 
 in cooperative campaign was also a surprising plus. This game may not be a supplement for RA2, 
 but I, for one, am glad that EA LA is not afraid to try something new and unorthodox. The game 
 seems well designed, and largely without bugs or glitches, and has never frozen on me or had any 
 errors whatsoever. Unfortunately, there are a few low points. For one, I WANT MORE UNITS!!! There 
 is not a whole lot of unit diversity, with about 20 units per playable faction. Also, the addition 
 of sub-factions as was in RA2 would be a welcome addition. There is a bright spot for these two 
 flaws: the new expansion that will launch in March will hopefully correct the lack of units, if 
 not both of these issues. I would strongly urge one to purchase this game, or at least try a demo 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negator59
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit I have never played a C&C game ever, this is my first. So after playing through the 
 demo a half dozen times I was hooked on Red Alert 3 and bought 2 copies, one for myself and one 
 for my best friend. I understand the history of the series but I just never chose to play any of 
 the games. Truthfully I am more of an FPS or action game person.
  
  I have only played a handful of RTS games (Homeworld, Starcraft & Dawn of War to name a few) . What 
 I love about this one is it turns the seriousness of RTS on its head but manages to deliver all 
 the strategy, variety and action any RTS fan enjoys. 
  
  You won't find anything particularly new or innovative when it comes to game play in RA3. As far 
 as RTS games go it is pretty standard fair; you have scouts, infantry, vehicles, super weapons 
 and of course base building and defenses. You need to acquire resources to build stuff, tech up 
 and wipe out your enemies. However the kinds of armies you build are where it gets unique.
  
  The story puts you into an alternate time line where technology has taken a different path. 
 Soviets seem to be more of an armed circus force with weapons like man cannons (shoot infantry 
 across distances) attack bears, laser guided space junk and zeppelin bombers. The allies are a 
 little less unusual with very well rounded forces on land, air and water including attack dolphins. 
 And the Empire of the Rising Sun (Japan) are the hi-tech army with ninjas, mechs, transformers, 
 giant robots and psychic school girls.
  
  The campaign is a lot of fun and does a good job of introducing you to the weapons and strategies 
 of each army. The story is presented with live action cut scenes performed by well known Hollywood 
 actors and celebrities including a handful of some very sexy ladies. The acting is as over the 
 top as the story and it all works together extremely well. In many RTS games the story and voice 
 acting take a back seat but not in RA3, it delivers with a wonderful *wink wink, nudge nudge* and 
 I love it. 
  
  The graphics look really good but if you are looking for realism like CoH or WIC you won't find 
 it here. EA chose to go with a more cartoony presentation. It works considering the "out of this 
 world" nature of the storyline but I would have loved to see more realistic looking weapons. I 
 mean who doesn't want real looking giant robots and zeppelin bombers in their RTS?
  
  The music and sound is all very well done too. RA fans will welcome the return of Frank Klepacki. 
 His heavy guitars and rock score really suit the game and offer a nice change of pace from other 
 RTS soundtracks.
  
  The best part of RA3 to me is the online co-op. You can play through the whole campaign with a 
 friend. I have never played co-op RTS before and I can't get enough. Friends and I have a blast 
 coordinating our attacks and helping each other out when needed. This is a feature that needs to 
 built into every RTS. For people like me that are not necessarily very competitive with their gaming 
 but enjoy playing with friends, online co-op is a godsend, thank you EA!!!!
  
  As a C&C n00b I have to say RA3 is fantastic. The zany story, sexy girls and crazy weapons really 
 help more casual RTS fans get into it. This is the popcorn and bubblegum of RTS gaming, without 
 a doubt. That being said it still offers a decent challenge and competitive game play. And if that 
 doesn't do it for you the online co-op with a friend will. I am definitely looking forward to the 
 RA3 Uprising expansion coming out soon. And maybe I'll even pick up another C&C game as this has 
 been a great introduction to the series for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 11:35 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 3 is the third installment in command and conquer's red alert series. Basically, the 
 Soviets have been defeated by the Allies but at the end, they travel back in time to alter the 
 space-time continuem by killing off Einstein (well they shake hands with him) , therefore meaning 
 the Allies are a lot less powerful but still around. Back in normal time, the Soviets are at full 
 strength but there is no nuclear weaponry. Their time meddling though has created a new superpower, 
 Japan, which is a breath of fresh air for the series.
  
  RA3 is your generic CnC game with the usual tactics of build your base, defend it a bit and send 
 out an army to destroy your opponent. Engineers play an important role and as you would expect, 
 there are loads of wacky units such as transforming heli's, amphibious battle ships and vacuum 
 bombs to name but a few. This stays true to the RA3 formula and makes the gameplay exciting as 
 some very odd things can happen. You have your commando units aswell. 
  
  Gameplay is not about rushing though as every unit is valuable, having a secondary attack. This 
 involves a lot a micro-managment but this really adds diversity to your force which means you have 
 to use clever strats to alter and confront a new situation. Gameplay is also added to by the serious 
 focus on improving naval strats. It doesn't mean you have lost if you dont go to the water but 
 it is handy if you do as there extra resources and some very powerful water units. So all those 
 people who say CnC is basic and about rushing with no real strategy are wrong as there are many 
 options to choose from.
  
  The main love hate area is the graphics. They are a little cartoony which I don't mind but this 
 can really get on some people's nerves. Water detail is very nice but his has high requirments 
 to play on full graphics. With RA3 though, you can really tone it down meaning lower-end machines 
 can still run it.
  
  Single player is strong with good campaigns and as usual, very nice cutscenes that immerse you 
 into the univverse. The women are very fit which gives geeks some cheap porn and multiplayer is 
 very solid. Maps are quite good with a good range but I thik almost every map has a signifivant 
 body of water which might annoy some people.
  
  The only part i dislike is the uber-tongue in cheek humour. I know that is what RA is about but 
 they have really pumped it into RA3 which kills the atmosphere slightly. I just try and ignore 
 it and get on with the slaughtering of soviets and japs.
  
  Overall, RA3 is a very solis RTS game that is definitley worth a look at for strategy fans and 
 a must have for fans of the CnC series. People say EA have ruined the series. I think not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:52 am PT
Review:  I felt it boring half way through the game and I decided to stop. gameplay is okay, but it didn't 
 offer anything new that might have prevented me from uninstalling the game after a few hours of 
 playing it. Yes we still have the sexy ladies acting on a computer generated background, but if 
 staring at them is more exciting than actually playing the game then there's obviously something 
 wrong with it.
  I see no reason to play this over old starcraft, generals or dune 2000 to mention a few games that 
 outclassed this game a long time ago. The game gets more boring by the minute and the graphics should 
 be more realistic. graphics are to shiny and to colorful and the gameplay is no different from 
 all other EA strategy games such as Generals. 
  the menu is good, the movies also; the actors play their parts well. So many big names and familiar 
 faces..... but the most important part is the worst ever-the game. The developers just made a game 
 for themselves to fill their pockets, because the game had a great reputation, but now they will 
 really have to make something better in the 4th part or else this title will disappear. 
  I have Company of Heroes and World in Conflict as the latest good RTS in my book, and Red Alert 
 3 is waaaaay way way behind them. for everyone else who really think its good, i guess they just 
 dont game enough, or just simply easily satisfied. 
  I can't understand how a big company could spend time developing this piece of crap. if another 
 company is doing this exact game, with a different title, I'm sure the rating will be lucky if 
 it even pass 6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbose22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying that Red Alert 3 is by no means a bad game.
  
  While the story line is a little melodramatic, it at least makes sense... in all its absurdity. 
 The cut scenes do in fact look good, and the cheesy acting may give you a laugh or two, and it 
 does help the story to progress along.
  
  Personally, I liked the soundtrack that they brought to the game. While nothing incredibly innovative, 
 it did fit the game's style very well, and added to the fast paced gameplay.
  
  The multiplayer client is very good. Unlike Tiberium Wars, the new client hooks up much faster, 
 runs faster, and even looks much better, and is well integrated into the game. The new schema makes 
 it far easier to pop into a multiplayer game and find yourself an opponent or co-commander.
  
  The co-commander idea itself was, in my opinion, a brilliant notion. While it does need a lot 
 of work, as having a commander by your side didn't really "bring" anything amazing into the campaign, 
 there's something satisfying in the experience of playing a strategy game campaign alongside your 
 friend, and it will be exciting to see where this is taken in the future. Strategy-wise... the 
 game leaves a lot to be desired. Dumping the well-crafted resources schema of Red Alert 2.... the 
 game leaves you saying "huh?" a lot of the time, especially if you were a fan of the predecessor. 
 Furthermore, the factions hardly feel balanced at all. On certain maps, some factions will clearly 
 dominate due to their specialties, thus this game needs a lot of tweaking before it can be called 
 a proper online competitive experience.
  
  On top of this, the tremendously hyped "secondary-abilities" of each and every unit failed to deliver. 
 While it did contribute well to the amount of micro-management needed to rise victorious online, 
 the fact that EVERY unit had a special ability was slightly annoying, and was more so of a frustration 
 than a genuine innovation.
  
  The game also has pretty ridiculous PC requirements. For a strategy game, it takes a chunk out 
 of your computer, so you'll need a pretty decent rig to play this game on its highest, due to the 
 excessive attention to water effects and explosions. In addition, many of you out there will find 
 the colorful design scheme out of your taste, although personally it didn't bother me too much. 
 Ultimately, while C&C Red Alert 3 is a pretty fun game and will probably worth your while to check 
 out if you're a strategy junkie, there are just so many far superior titles out there (Kane's Wrath 
 being a perfect example multiplayer wise for a title of the same "franchise") , that Red Alert 3 
 will hardly suck you in for very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slig0
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 3 is actually not a sequel of the previous games. It follows it's own story. The Soviet 
 Union is collapsing. The enemies are at their doorstep. The only thing the desperate premier can 
 do is to try the incredibly powerful, but not yet completed time machine. Together with his right 
 hand general, he goes back to time for one reason: to kill Albert Einstein. When he returns, he 
 finds the Soviet Union stronger then ever, the Allies beaten and everything in order. But the Russians 
 have yet to find their new, technologically superior foe, The Empire of the Rising Sun.
  So, there are three factions in RA3, Soviets, Allies and The Empire. Each faction has it's own 
 campaign, all of them with cut scenes starred by real actors. Aside from the campaign, RA3 has 
 the good old Skirmish and Multiplayer. The whole new feature of this game, totally new to strategies 
 is the Co-op. Yes, the game features a cooperative mod. With this feature you can invite an online 
 friend to play the entire campaign together with him.
  But what about graphics? Firstly, RA3 tries everything to be at least similar to the previous games. 
 This is, of course, not achieved, because of the game's high similarity to C&C3 that ruins the 
 overall experience. The ultra high hardware demandings are just not acceptable to a game which 
 doesn't look better than C&C3. Graphics are nice, but are too cartoonish, and you definitely 
 
  won't like them if you still don't like to play with plastic toys. On the other hand, explosions 
 and lighting are excellent and nice to watch. 
  Gameplay is very fun and fast paced, but the lack of small features is not acceptable. If we get 
 back to the good old RA2, you will see that almost anything is destructible, that you could even 
 mind control civies, and other endless options. Here, nothing of that is present and there are 
 very few maps in large cities or on populated beaches. And even when there are, you won't see any 
 traffic, and the city will be just empty. The powers you can use and that were also placed in Generals 
 are just horrible. First, there is not enough variety. Some are useless, and some can win you the 
 game without any trying or fun. For example, The Soviet magnetic satellite power is absurd. It 
 totally ruins the whole effort of building a non-building defense. Imagine this: you have just 
 made some anti air vehicles, because you thought that because of their mobility they might be the 
 better choice. For an hour you don't get attacks. Suddenly, the big satellite sucks all of your 
 hard earned units, and then throws them on your buildings that you cannot defend against that type 
 of attack. And the Japanese so called "Ambush" is stupid. Five very weak soldiers come poppin' 
 out of the ground with the speed of a snail, only to be crushed by tanks.
  Each race has a unique build system. Soviets are building their structures the way the old Generals 
 built. Allies have a classic build system. The Empire builds special nano-cores that unpack into 
 a structure (like the middle east in Empire Earth III) .
  So, is Red Alert worth it? If you are a skilled strategist, and it is not a problem for you to 
 adopt to a new challenge, then this is the game for you. On the other hand, if you liked the previous 
 series with ultra detailed world, then you might not find what you were looking for in this game. 
 Anyway, it is a good experience, so I recommend you try it :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: space_loner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 3 is definitely on the other end of the spectrum in ludicrousness compared to the other 
 RTS games out there (Company of Heroes, World in Conflict, heck even EA's own Command and Conquer 
 3.
  If you thought the cutscenes in Kane's Wrath were cheesy you should see what RA3 has to offer. 
 This time around EA games has dropped all pretense of seriousness for its most rambunctious and 
 politically incorrect release to date.
  In short, the Soviet high command, on the verge of losing the war against the allies, travel back 
 in time to kill Einstein before the invention of nuclear physics. Hilarity then ensues...
  What would you have envisioned modern warfare to look like without nuclear energy? Would you have 
 thought of Japanese imperial troopers in Gundams? Well that's just one of many things EA has come 
 up with. The combination of wacky units designs, off-beat unit responses, and over-the-top, live-action 
 cutscenes filled to the brim with melodrama , those of you who enjoy that kind of slightly childish 
 humor would find RA3 highly entertaining.
  Unfortunately, the emphasis on humor also draws the player away from the game. There is something 
 surreal about leading an assault with dozens of missile-mounting dolphins. In the end it is not 
 a game you are likely to get into.
  When it comes down it, RA3 is a great game to relax with after work for a few hours... but you 
 won't be staying up past your bedtime playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 4:14 am PT
Review:  The war is coming to an end as the Allied forces roll forward to make the final blows on the mighty 
 Soviet juggernaut. A previously untested secret weapon only known as the Soviet Time Machine is 
 taken into use by General Krukov and Colonel Cherdenko to save the desperate situation. The Time 
 Machine literally takes them back in time  and thus they rewrite history. In this new time and 
 age, the tables have turned in the war. The Allied forces are on the brink of defeat and now the 
 Empire of the Rising Sun has grown into a superpower and threatens to eliminate both the Soviet 
 and Allied forces. Who will stand victorious in this new world war?
  
  Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3 is, as the title implies the third Command & Conquer game in the 
 Red Alert series. The game continues the real-time-strategy lineage set by its predecessors  it 
 is thus yet another war game where you must build a military base and an army. In order to produce 
 the units you want must build the right buildings and gather resources. You then fight by controlling 
 your various units such as infantry, tanks, air planes and boats and they come in different shapes 
 and sizes. Your goal is ultimately to defeat the opposing commanders, usually by destroying all 
 their buildings.
  In the single player campaign the game focuses on story telling, but otherwise the game is heavy 
 on fast paced strategy action that is somewhat streamlined compared to other similar games.
  
  The game has three playable factions  Allies, Soviets and Empire of the Rising Sun. Each faction 
 is has a complete set of units, buildings and special weapons that are unique to their faction. 
 The campaign mode is thus divided into three corresponding chapters and it gives you a long running 
 story where you get to see three different views of the same war across 27 missions. The opposing 
 factions have their strengths and weaknesses, and there are about 20 units in each faction, which 
 is quite impressing. All of these units have special abilities and attributes that make them excel 
 in specific situations and this allows for some added depth to the already complex rock-paper-scissors 
 game.
  
  The Campaign mode can be played either in solo or in co-op mode over the Internet and in three 
 different difficulty levels. The Campaign mode has no LAN support, so all games must be played 
 through Game Spy's servers. These servers also keep track of your scores and stats of the matches 
 that you play against other people on a special Track Record screen. The other game mode is the 
 Versus mode where you play standard games with or without computer controlled opponents with up 
 to six players, in teams or in a free for all set up. The Versus mode comes in three flavors - 
 single player (Skirmish) , LAN with friends or online with random people.
  Besides the Campaign and Skirmish mode there is a Tutorial mode where you can learn the basic and 
 advanced facets of the game.
  The Versus mode allows a fourth, even harder AI setting in which it gets a handicap in resources 
 and plays very fast.
  
  The Campaign mode is very eager to tell you the story and the events of the ongoing war. Between 
 each mission you are treated with a video clip with real actors who talk into the camera as if 
 you were on a video comlink with them. The acting on there isn't entirely believable and how can 
 it be as the game portrays a very unbelievable story in a fictional parallel universe. The story 
 feels jerky because it seems to skip and jump here and there to keep things rolling which can be 
 hard to follow. But even so the events and the intrigue gets told on a very personal level between 
 you and the other commanders that are in charge and engaged in the war.
  Before each mission you're also taken through a fairly detailed mission briefing that tells you 
 what you need to do on your next assignment. It is a fairly good help but works mostly as an enhancement 
 to the war theme of the game and helps setting the mood.
  
  In order to build structures and units you need to gather resources. This is made very simple in 
 Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3. When you find an ore mine, you just need to build a refinery next 
 to it  the gathering of the ore is more or less happening automatically, and there's basically 
 nothing more to it. This is a great relief because many similar games have unnecessarily complex 
 ways around this. The building aspect is also pretty simple and easy to grasp  the focus in this 
 game lies around the battles rather than building orders and resource gathering, which is a good 
 thing in this case.
  
  On many maps the war takes place on ground, water and air at the same time. This means that there 
 is a lot to take into consideration when moving around your units on the map and when choosing 
 your time to strike and what target. This is a mindset that you will get into fairly quickly when 
 playing the game, but do not expect it happen automatically and in less than a few hours. You will 
 need to learn every unit in the game by their looks, even if you just focus on playing as one faction. 
 "Know your enemy" is a lesson to be learned here.
  For example; if you don't pay attention to the Anti-Air weapons and lead your planes in their direction, 
 you probably will lose some units  and it happens fast. This also means that a squad of three 
 infantry soldiers can take out five or six (or more!) Flak Troopers, because Flak Troopers aren't 
 effective against infantry units. This doesn't make much sense logically and will probably bewilder 
 many new players, but for the sake of game balance it is needed. It is however very much overdone 
 in this game.
  Each faction also has powerful hero units with special abilities that add some extra illogical 
 flavor and fun factor to the game. Further more, as you progress through ranks in the mission you 
 will be able to unlock special and secret weapons and tactics. These include weapons of mass destruction 
 and other controversial weapons. They are cool but tend to rob off some of the tactics needed in 
 the game as they are very powerful.
  
  Many times you need to retreat from a battle for various reasons and because of the poor path finding 
 functions of the units, you always risk many unnecessary casualties. Your units can become very 
 confused around cliffs and other impassable bits of terrain, so it is a real kill joy to be forced 
 to baby sit these lost soldiers all the time.
  When playing the single player campaign, you'll have a co-commander fighting by your side who is 
 controlled by the AI of the game. Some issues does arise with this AI as well  sometimes they 
 fail to attack a target and instead lines up their units around it. You can give your co-commander 
 orders from a special menu, but the whole experience is not as responsive as one would have wished.
 
  Because of the path finding issues, and the fact that ground based units move very slowly, the 
 game pretty much conditions you into preferring air based units. This probably isn't intended by 
 the developers, and the enemy AI isn't very clever about building defenses against massive air 
 based attacks. This means that many games against the AI will be total push overs, especially in 
 the Versus mode.
  Some units can utilize special moves like jumping and even transform into flying air craft. While 
 all these are useful, it is a real mess to try to control them because they can be all over the 
 screen and clicking on them will simply fail many times  especially if there are other units on 
 the screen at the same time.
  
  The theme and tone of the game is jumbled up. The menus, art and the videos present a serious, 
 albeit overdone tone, mixed up with modern heavy metal music. The game itself has some outright 
 silly elements, such as the Soviet war bears, dolphins, Japanese school girls with superior psionic 
 powers and units asking you if you think that they need a bath when you send them on boats. Attempting 
 to mix humor (bad one at that) with a bloody world war just ends up being disturbing.
  
  The graphics in the game has some impressing level of detail. All the levels and maps are very 
 well done and just looking at the battles is a cascade of colors and details. The destructible 
 environments (houses, trees etc) look cool and makes the battle grounds somewhat dynamic. The units 
 and structures do have that colorful "LEGO plastic" look on them, and it deducts from the otherwise 
 realistic look, just the same as the overdone bloom-shaders do. Everything in this game is shiny 
 and bright with a blinding sheen, and it doesn't work very well with what's going on in the game. 
 The artwork shown in between missions do have a comic-book style to them, and the animations in 
 the game are also over-the-top. All in all, the visuals represent a chaotic mix of real life actors, 
 comic-book style art, Disney-style animations and realistic terrain. In one word : incoherent.
 
  
  The sound effects in the game are well done  the sound of war is a great mix of booming explosions, 
 commands yelled, cries, screams and gunfire blasting. The voice acting of the units are mostly 
 appropriate and nudges the game towards the more serious tone (except for those silly comments 
 mentioned above) . The theme song is very rocky and has tons of attitude. It captures the war theme 
 nicely with gloomy rock tones mixed up with a cinematic action score. It really sets the tone right. 
 Many of the other songs are also brilliant and suits the concept and theme just perfectly  one 
 moment it has that kick-ass sound that will fire anyone up and the other it sounds like the music 
 taken from an exciting action movie.
  
  The fact that building structures and gathering resources have been made easier is perhaps the 
 best feature of Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3. It immediately takes away focus from those pesky 
 tasks and instead lets you produce units and send them to into the fray which is fun. The game 
 offers some nice new features like combat zones expanding as you progress through your mission 
 to allow for the action to continue on the same map. This could have been used more and even been 
 included in the Versus games. They could also have added more options to allow players customize 
 the game settings further, and there could have been more variation to the environmental effects 
 and settings.
  With all its issues Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3 still manages to deliver some neat real-time-strategy 
 experiences. It is, however not even close the being the solid RTS game we all wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:17 am PT
Review:  Return to the Red Alert continuity of the esteemed Command & Conquer RTS franchise in this full-fledged 
 series sequel. Red Alert 3 breaks new ground in the RTS genre, featuring a fully co-operative campaign 
 while bringing back the series' light-hearted style and classic, action-oriented gameplay. 
  
  In Red Alert 3, the desperate leadership of a doomed Soviet Union travels back in time to change 
 history and restore the glory of Mother Russia. The time travel mission goes awry, creating an 
 alternate timeline where technology has followed an entirely different evolution, a new superpower 
 has been thrust on to the world stage, and World War III is raging. The Empire of the Rising Sun 
 has risen in the East, making World War III a three-way struggle between the Soviets, the Allies, 
 and the Empire with armies fielding wacky and wonderful weapons and technologies like Tesla coils, 
 heavily armed War Blimps, teleportation, armored bears, intelligent dolphins, floating island fortresses, 
 and transforming tanks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:34 am PT
Review:  Ever since knowing that this game is going to include War Bears and militarized human cannons, 
 I knew that this game is not going to take itself seriously. It certainly did not disappoint.
 
  
  The game recycles the premise that made the first game catchy, only this time Albert Einstein is 
 the one who gets zapped out of reality instead of Hitler (whose fate is unknown, though the Einstein 
 slain could be the same one who offed the would-be Fuhrer) .
  
  The game stars some well-known actors, along with some B-grade ones and a bunch of otherwise-beautiful 
 airheads (or at least the women are forced to star as airheads) . All of them were prodded to produce 
 the campiest, cheesiest acting ever seen in the Command & Conquer series, and possibly in PC gaming 
 too. Even so, to borrow a popular oxymoron, it's so bad that it's good. That is all I dare write 
 about the real-life acting portion of this game.
  
  All three factions have their own unique traits. The Allies retain their odd non-conventional technologies, 
 the most noteworthy being the Cryocopter and its very useful Shrink, and the Chronosphere remains 
 the most utilitarian superweapon. The Soviets still have their "hit-hard" policies when it comes 
 to fielding war machines, with the most noteworthy being none other than their signature Apocalypse 
 tanks, which now get grinders and magnetic beams to introduce a tactical flavor to them.
  
  The new faction, the typically named Empire of the Rising Sun, is obviously inspired by popular 
 Japanese pop cultures, the most notable being mecha conventions. Having some of the units switch 
 combat roles upon transformation is a nice touch, though not new to the Command & Conquer series.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the most interesting new stuff also nearly ended up killing the game for me. Micro-management 
 becomes more important than ever, considering that the right ability used at the right moment can 
 pretty much turn the tide of battle, and the computer seems to be more proficient at using them 
 (though not as efficient as I was) . All these conspires to turn the single-player campaigns into 
 some of the most difficult that I have every played so far.
  
  Playing on-line, it seems that other players shared just about the same sentiment. Cryocopters 
 hardly see any use and nobody bothered to use the interestingly kleptomaniacal Hammer tanks when 
 there are the tougher Apocalypse ones. Plain vanilla and functionally inferior Empire units were 
 very much overlooked in favor of seemingly stronger units like the King Oni. It just so happens 
 that I played the same way in single-player and I am sure other players were like me too.
  
  Unit voice-overs, one of the most important aspects of an RTS, are mostly top-notch, though 
 most of the Empire units' got on my nerves, what with their stereotypical accents (more so than 
 the Soviets') . But again, some of their lines serve to reinforce the notion that this game does 
 not take itself seriously.
  
  To summarize my review, Red Alert is one of the most hideous, yet most entertaining games that 
 I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost2138
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Pros: colorful graphics; easy-to-learn interface; Tim Curry; Autumn Reeser
  Cons: Lack of any coherence or self-consistency; unit abilities are more of a liability than an 
 asset; bone-headed unit pathfinding and AI; borderline offensive in its unoriginality.
  
  If there is one thing the marketeers at Electronic Arts have gotten down pat over the last decade 
 and a half, it's how to bleed a franchise until it's bone-dry, and then bleed it some more. Joining 
 the proud ranks of the soulless zombies that are the "Medal of Honor," "Need for Speed," and "Madden" 
 series is now "Command & Conquer: Red Alert," its latest installment complete with state-of-the-art 
 sound and fury, and, as usual, signifying absolutely nothing.
  
  What really hurts "Red Alert 3" isn't so much that it's a bad game. Compliant with the Electronic 
 Arts board of standards, the game is all about polish: visual, aural, interface, you name it, they've 
 got it. The problems "Red Alert 3" exhibits rather stem from an utter lack of any spark of creativity, 
 imagination, or inspiration. While some companies wholeheartedly adhere to the "if it ain't broke, 
 don't fix it" maxim, EA nails said maxim to the wall with foot-long railroad spikes with a vengeance, 
 leaving it oozing blood and ichor for all to see what will happen if creativity ever accidentally 
 stumbles into their game development process. 
  
  The nicest thing one can say about the plot of "Red Alert 3" is that it is, at least, mostly self-consistent. 
 For the uninitiated, "Red Alert" games take place in an offshoot of the Command & Conquer universe, 
 where Hitler never ascended to the position of Chancellor of German Reich, thus resulting in World 
 War II never happening  at least, not in a traditional sense. Instead of the Nazi war machine, 
 the resultant Soviet behemoth now threatens the Europe and America. That EA managed to not only 
 slaughter this fascinating alternate-history premise, but do so over the course of two games and 
 their respective add-ons should be encased in a museum as a work of art. Now, eight years later 
 after "Red Alert 2," the "Red Alert" chronology is resuscitated and, like a zombie, let loose upon 
 the unsuspecting gamer population (just as an aside, one should wonder whom "Red Alert 3" is aimed 
 at, considering the gamers who grew up with the title have moved on to better and bigger things, 
 and the newcomers to the franchise would more than likely not remember the first and second installments 
 on account of being too young at the times of their release.)
  
  Make no mistake: "Red Alert 3" looks and sounds top-notch. The outlandish story, which involves 
 time travel, tesla coils, Soviet sniper babes, and panzerbjorn (strike that, "armored bears") , 
 is suitably accented by the colorful palette and the outstanding sound design. The most unfortunate 
 aspect of the presentation, however, is the FMV which the "Command & Conquer" series became so 
 known for. This time around, J. K. Simmons, Jonathan Pryce, Autumn Reeser (who is -- make no mistake! 
 -- a major-league hottie) and Gemma Atkinson round out the Allied faction as President Ackerman, 
 Field Marshall Bingham, Commander Lisette Handley, and Adjutant Eva McKenna, respectively. That 
 Simmons' acting chops are downright awful is as unfortunate as it is irrelevant, as he gets virtually 
 no significant screen time in the game. Pryce is the saddest contestant of the bunch, as his illustrious 
 theatrical career is effectively boiled down to a series of quips and britishisms along the lines 
 of "Smashing!", "Jolly good," and "Pip pip tally ho!" by the horrid script. The Empire of the Rising 
 Sun, embodied by Emperor Yoshiro (portrayed by George Takei, trying to do his absolute gosh-darndest 
 to make the gamers believe he's still a real dramatic actor after all!) doesn't fare much better. 
 This leaves the Soviet faction as the sole bright spot, with Tim Curry's devilish sneers and snarls 
 as Prime Minister Cherdenko. Curry, apparently in an attempt to out-act even his own over-the-top 
 style, breaks free from the screen, almost spittling "Moose and skvirrel!" at the gamer in every 
 possible line he is given. The former Yugoslavian model Ivana Milicevic rounds out this parade 
 of ludicrousness as Dasha with her minimal acting abilities and her very lovely appearance (as 
 another side note, Gina Carano, the supposed mascot of "Red Alert 3," has precisely 3.5 seconds 
 of on-screen time and no deliverable speaking lines  colossal waste of money, anyone?)
  
  While "Red Alert 3" appears to stand its ground (albeit shakily) from an aesthetic standpoint, 
 the gameplay is where the proper disappointment takes place. Again, polish is not an issue here: 
 the interface is intuitive, unbroken, and, in most instances, fairly helpful. The visuals, while 
 not jaw-dropping, are done in an extremely competent manner, and the frame rates are acceptable 
 on the lower-end machines with most of the effects turned on and the resolution cranked up. One 
 of the main problems is, once again, aesthetics; the game attempts to reconcile war and genocide 
 on a massive scale with cartoony graphics and over-the-top voice and live-action performances. 
 To make matters worse, the in-game problems, such as pathetic pathfinding and low-grade A. I., are 
 all the more glaring in spite of the near-perfect superficial veneer of presentation. For the most 
 part, units will competently perform their duties of moving or attacking, unless there's an obstacle 
 in the way more complex than a bush. In these instances units tend to bunch up, get in each other's 
 way, and generally present more of a hassle to control than it is worth. This begs the question: 
 why all the special abilities? If every engagement simply devolves into a brawl that's decided 
 by numbers, why not just crank out twenty of every unit and go to town? Sadly, this happens to 
 be the preferred strategy du jour, and I've yet to encounter a player, online or off, who takes 
 full advantage of the versatility one is afforded by these secondary abilities. 
  
  One might ultimately argue that the core appeal of "Red Alert 3" is in its multiplayer, but let's 
 be fair: when there are so many more engaging (not to mention rewarding) real-time strategy games 
 out on the market, both recent and old-school, why would anyone bother with this clunker? After 
 all, there is a plethora of reasons why the "WarCraft III" Battle. net servers went down because 
 of overflow on the launch date, and why "StarCraft" is still, to date, Korea's number one spectator 
 sport. The very essence of "Red Alert 3"'s mediocrity is recapped in its multiplayer aspect, in 
 that it does precisely what it should, and not an iota more. 
  
  Realistically, it is wholly possible that I am being far too hard on this game. Maybe it is because 
 I've become so jaded by superior RTS titles such as "Dawn of War: Dark Crusade" and its spiritual 
 follow-up, "Company of Heroes." Maybe, in expecting something that wasn't there, I inadvertently 
 lowered my expectations of "Red Alert 3." Ultimately, it is wholly possible that I was just looking 
 for things that weren't there, and missed the whole point of the "Red Alert 3" experience, panzerbjorn 
 and all. Having said that, however, there is still no excuse for the utterly blas and uninspired 
 approach taken by EA day in, day out, to promote its desiccated franchises and collect its $40 
 a pop from the gamer demographic  and at that price, one can buy quite a few copies of "StarCraft." 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf0x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:11 pm PT
Review:  A fun game which a lot of people could enjoy but a warning here the game can be very corny at some 
 parts but still fun especially if some friends own the game as you can do co-op play on all mission's. 
 The co-op it's self works very well and is very easy to get a friend to play along with you. The 
 graphics are very well done they are nice and attractive and the water effects are also very good 
 all of that makes up for the corny style but corny goes well with this game unlike others where 
 it a constant annoyance. In Red Alert's universe trained dolphins and bears seem to fit perfectly. 
 The actual story of red alert 3 is interesting and makes sense all of the campaign are fun but 
 in my opinion the Rising Suns is the one that I most enjoyed but if it's your favourite or not 
 is up to you but I encourage any one who likes strategy games but likes a bit of fun to get this 
 game. But to people how have completed it a excellent multiplayer should keep you going for a bit 
 until another great game comes out or until Red Alert 3: Uprising comes out which I hope will be 
 as good a this one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenomenman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:26 am PT
Review:  Probably the most ambitious rts since Star Craft, it has a fluent and quite solid rts system and 
 has many features you may have seen from previous rts games ( particularily c+c ) .
  
  Firstly, it's single player is very engaging with video introductions, story line and taunts from 
 enemy players. It seems a little cheesy, except for the fact that the story line is quite diverse 
 and somewhat believable, but really does a nice job in engaging players to act the part within 
 the game. The co-op selection, where you log in online and then play with a fellow red alert owner 
 on your current mission ( or theirs ) is a fantastic feature and creates another level to the game 
 even once the single player is finished, getting together with a mate trying to complete some absurdely 
 hard missions is quite thrilling.
  
  The multi player is also engaging, with a new system that allows people to chat in large area's 
 then invite and add friends to their friends list, somewhat familiare for wow players ( /w to whisper 
 and what not ) . You can then access multi player games in different styles, simply by checking 
 what games are being playing the channell you are on, by a auto game finder or by finding people 
 to play with or against and starting a private match. In any time of the day you will find it easy 
 to join many different games and game types.
  
  The single player game will last for many hours for each setting and then can be revisited later 
 with friends or on harder settings.
  
  The multi player is very addictive and will keep you involved until star craft 2 or another rts 
 that can bring something new to the plate, or after.
  
  In all aspects this game will continue on for years to come, and im looking forward to seeing you 
 in the tournaments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemfest
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this style of RTS game since Dune II came out and have played almost all of them. 
 C&C RA3 isn't anything new, but it was still an entertaining game. I waited until this one was 
 $29.99 before purchasing and I'm happy I did, primarily because it's far from a revolutionary game 
 and I knew so by the title and screenshots.
  
  The game itself runs very smooth with highest graphics settings in 1680x1050. I run lots of programs 
 in the background and ALT-TAB works just perfectly without crashes. In fact, I never encountered 
 any crash with this game - it's highly stable. Storyline is entertaining, and the choice of actors 
 was great, especially good choice of hot militant chicks is never a negative thing. ;) I played 
 on normal difficulty and found it to be just right.
  
  It took a bit of work managing the computer 'teammate' which would basically setup base on the 
 other side of the map and battle it out along with you. I prefer solo, when I click that 'solo' 
 button before starting the mission. This led me to believe the game is geared more towards multi-player. 
 It also lacked the 'info' button on buildings. There were a couple of buildings I had questions 
 about how they worked and what they did exactly and it just took some time to figure out on my 
 own. Units had this option so maybe they can work on this for buildings in future releases.
  
  So far I have played the Soviet and American campaigns all the way through and finished a couple 
 Rising Sun missions. I like the diversity in storyline and units. Each campaign offers a great 
 play through which will keep you going for hours. 
  
  Overall the game is worth the money I spent and I'm satisfied. I'm glad I waited a couple months 
 to get the lower price. Since there are so many other more unique games out recently, I was able 
 to hold off on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:15 am PT
Review:  Back in the days, when Red Alert 2 was released, I remember finding the game a bit awkward. It 
 was wavering between being a grim and serious game like Tiberium Sun and at the same time introducing 
 some pretty absurd elements like its story and many of the units to command.
  
  Now the sequel is here and it abandons all claims of seriousness. The latest adventure in the Red 
 Alert universe is more colourful than ever, units speak funny and have goofy looks and the whole 
 overacting in the B-movie FMVs is cheesier than ever. You will realize that you play a different 
 Command and Conquer game from the moment you start the tutorial and see three basic tanks, each 
 from one of the factions in the game, that start speaking one over the other, trying to explain 
 the mechanics to you and shoot each other in order to take the word.
  
  And yes, that was right - three factions! Apart from the well known Soviets and their tesla coils 
 and the warping Allies, here comes The Empire of the Rising Sun (Japan) . The introduction of a 
 third race is one of the numerous tweaks that EA have introduced to the franchise in its latest 
 installment. Unlike the half-breed Scrin and their excuse for a campaign in Tiberium Wars, Japan 
 now feels like a full member of the company and has a full-length campaign. Japan has many transforming 
 units and takes its pride in its navy. This is good for them because this time around naval battles 
 are just as widely covered as land ones. In fact most structures in the game can be built on water 
 and many units are amphibious. Even infantry!
  
  Speaking of units, Red Alert 3 features truly the most ludicrous units that can be found in an 
 RTS! Here you will command attack boats with mounted tesla coils that spread legs and start walking 
 when they reach land. There is an air-to-land flying saucer that can dive and become an anti-air 
 submarine, a walking mech that transforms into a jet fighter and by the Gods, armoured bears! It 
 sounds insane, but in fact this diversity is more than entertaining to play with and never too 
 confusing. Most units have just one secondary mode that is activated with the touch of a universal 
 button that is the same shortcut for all special abilities in the game - much preferred than a 
 dozen of abilities on a basic unit, all activated by a different key like in the overrated Warcraft 
 3.
  
  All units and their abilities are perfectly balanced. There is no useless unit. Everything is good 
 against something and weak against another thing. Ten Apocalypse Tanks have never been more useless 
 on themselves. For example, they can dispose of a whole squad of Japan anti-air support (the VX) 
 in 5 seconds but you hit the "F" key and then the VXs are safely away in the air, pounding on the 
 tanks so hard that most of them will be destroyed before they even get a chance to turn back.
 
  
  Apart from fast and brutal battles, supplemented by the game's great visuals, Red Alert 3 introduces 
 a new way to play strategy story mode that is so simple, it is plain genius! It's a wonder how 
 no other developer has thought of that before. Simply put, you always play a mission with a fellow 
 commander. "If you don't have real friends", as the game suggests, it will provide one for you 
 in the face of a computer AI. However, the fun begins when you log on with a friend and play through 
 the campaign together. Even Rambo-style missions where you control just one unit all the time could 
 be played with a friend. In one such mission that sticks out, one player gets to control a Conscript 
 and the other one gets to control a War Bear.
  
  Between missions, you will be treated to the same B-movie FMVs that are so emblematic for the Command 
 and Conquer series. It is notable that EA has reached deeper into their pockets now for some not-so-world-unfamous 
 actors. You will see Tim Curry as Premier Cherdenko, Jenny McCarthy as Agent Tanya, George Takei 
 as Emperor Yushiro and my all-favourite Jonathan Pryce as Field Marshal Bingham. There are other 
 familiar faces as well.
  
  Another thing that EA got their money well spent on is the soundtrack of this game and the whole 
 sound setting. I have been impressed by game music many times before, but by far, this is the best 
 game soundtrack I have ever heard and the only one I have ever had on repeat in my car's audio 
 system. Hell's March, combined with the sight of the approaching Japanese fleet in the intro made 
 my skin crawl, remembering long-gone nights in front of the computer and my fingers itched for 
 more Red Alert. Great first impression!
  
  Red Alert 3 is not without problems though, the most notable one being pathfinding. In terms of 
 that, it is a step backwards in RTS history and reintroduces some problems we thought programmers 
 solved long ago.
  
  Friendly AI also seem a lot dumber that the enemy. Fortunately you can issue basic commands to 
 the supporting commander which solves the problem to a degree.
  
  Still, all of the game's shortcomings cannot compare to the game's charm. Red Alert 3 is just sweet! 
 Play it! You won't get to sink an aircraft carrier with a dolphin anywhere else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnny0612
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:45 am PT
Review:  The game it self doesn't have any perfect stuff like perfect campaign or perfect multiplayer but 
 as an overall package it's great.
  
  It has solid 27 campaign missions that are a lot of fun!
  Cartoon looking gameplay is very cool 
 and comparing to older games it is faster and more fun to play. Deference is that hire you cant 
 win by spamming tanks and aircraft but you have to build armies that counter tanks, infantry and 
 aircraft.
  Those who talk about to fast gameplay and other bad stuff are just bored of the self's. Get your 
 self a supreme commander or world in conflict and play it. I like fast RTS because it doesn't e
 
  involve any boring research or anything.
  Just build few units and micro them well and you are on the horse!!!
  Well that's my review. 
 Thanks for reading.
  
  Johnny  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Having played the first C&C game and many of its sequels since and liking C&C3 (apart from the 
 Alien race, which sucked) ... I was hopeful that Red Alert 3 would bring awesome destructive Russian 
 tanks, realistic war machines and an atmosphere of war.
  
  Well that wasn't the case. The game is like a cartoon, graphics are lame and give the game a comic 
 feel that doesn't do anything for me. They tried to give the units special features ala world in 
 conflict but failed as they are just a distraction.
  
  For the love of god why can't they just make a war game with proper tanks, planes, mechanical war 
 stuff. Gritty, hardcore and genuine tactical war play.
  
  Instead it is gimick after gimick, terrible resource gathering system, terrible units, awful single 
 player missions. I hate all this "objectives" crap that started with C&C 3.... like destroy this 
 tower... then destroy this array then attack blah blah... i just want a situation where i can build 
 a base and attack in the skirmish style, give me a plotline and let me approach it, just concentrate 
 on creating interesting maps which give many possiblities for tactics and make the AI intelligent 
 so that we can have a real tactical battle.
  
  Please please no more gimicks, cartoon nonsense, give me real tanks and give me some freedom, stop 
 this go there do that bs. 
  
  Terrible game, go play one of the old ones instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  EA decided to once again employ its "one game a year" strategy, this time on the C&C series with 
 Red Alert 3 arriving about a year after Tiberium Wars.
  
  Red Alert 3's prologue is set after Red Alert 2: Yuri's Revenge, during the collapse of the Soviet 
 Union. Premier Romanov has fled, so two of his lackeys have taken matters into their own hands. 
 So these two idiots decide to go back in time and assassinate Einstein in 1927, before the first 
 Red Alert even takes place thus creating an all new timeline where Red Alert 2 doesn't happen to 
 add in with the three timelines already in the C&C Universe. Headache. Anyway, the game is split 
 into three parallel campaign... one for each of the three factions: the Allies, the Soviet Union, 
 and the Empire of the Rising Sun. None of them are particularly good as the story telling is sloppy, 
 and there's not really much of a plot to follow in the first place.
  
  I don't know why, but EA felt like dragging in some "star power" into Red Alert 3's live action 
 cinematics, namely Tim Curry who plays the new Soviet Premier Cherdenko. Also that guy who played 
 Selu on that original Star Trek series takes on the role of Emperor Yoshiro. Neither of these villains 
 are particularly intimidating, even Yuri was more interesting. Personally, I'd rather see Kane 
 come out of hiding since he's the true villain of the C&C universe.
  
  As is C&C tradition, the gameplay essentially consists of using a construction yard to build up 
 your base, while using the resources you gather as an income for purchasing new units. There are 
 some pretty big changes, though. The biggest one being the "co-op campaign" function. Essentially 
 the campaigns are structured so two players can work together. If you prefer playing single player 
 like me, the game automatically assigns you an AI Co-Commander who also have their own in-game 
 live action cinematics. Personally, I would have preferred an option that let me go at the campaigns 
 by myself, but the AI Co-Commanders were so useless that I ended up doing most of the work, anyway.
 
  
  Red Alert 3's unit lineup is even more ridiculous than Red Alert 2's. Soviet controlled bears, 
 "man cannons", Japanese Schoolgirls with psychic powers, Anime inspired Mechs, etc. I will give 
 Red Alert 2 some credit, it did (not counting Yuri's Revenge) manage to keep some level of believability, 
 but Red Alert 3 throws that away in favor of cheap giggles and novelty that quickly wears off. 
 The entire Empire of the Rising Sun faction felt like one cheap joke that was tacked on just so 
 Red Alert 3 would have three factions instead of the traditional two. To make matters worse the 
 economic aspect has been simplified with the new "ore resource node" system. Gone are the fields 
 of resources, replaced by a small structure that harvesters enter and depart with a load of ore. 
 Another pointless new feature is the ability to build bases over the water. It sounds cool at first, 
 sure, but when you realize that only one unit per faction can travel on both sea and land you quickly 
 find yourself asking "what is the point?"
  
  The SAGE Engine is showing its age, with graphic intensive titles like Company of Heroes and the 
 upcoming Dawn of War II (though I'd hesitate to call those "strategy" games) its hard not to be 
 unimpressed by Red Alert 3's visuals. It doesn't help that the colors are so bright they burn your 
 retinas after a few minutes of play time. The audio is a vast improvement over Tiberium Wars, however; 
 with the help of Frank Klepacki EA managed to get the Red Alert 3 musical score more in line with 
 the older C&C games.
  
  Red Alert 3 is a serious disappointment after EA did a fairly good job with Tiberium Wars. EA needs 
 to get the dollar signs out of their eyes and cease with developing Red Alert titles, Westwood 
 never intended there to be more than one, and Red Alert 3 proves that there isn't any more decent 
 story telling to be had by screwing around with the timeline for the umpteenth time. If you're 
 one of those weird people who prefers the Red Alert series over the Tiberian series, you're better 
 off sticking with the first two games as they at least had a certain level of quality. Red Alert 
 3 would be best thrown into the pile of games that should be forgotten.
  
  + Traditional Command & Conquer Gameplay
  + Fairly innovative Co-op Campaign feature
  + Music
 
  + Tim Curry
  
  - Draconic EA DRM
  - Abysmal Campaign Storytelling
  - Co-op gameplay is forced on the player
  - Simplified resource gathering
  - The ability to 
 build bases on the water is pointless
  - Ridiculous unit designs
  - Empire of the Rising Sun is clearly tacked on simply to provide a third faction
  - SAGE Engine 
 is showing its age 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemonfaceghlor
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so long story short, EA has killed C&C... then again, it was dead when C&C Generals came along, 
 so I guess the EA 'defibrillator' isnt quite good enough to revive this series.
  
  Yes thats right! The same that happened to FIFA and Need For Speed has happened here, a game thats 
 dumbed down and pointless. It's ok if your'e a hardcore C&C fan, but for any type of casual gamer, 
 reach for that old copy of C&C red alert 2 and experiance greatness.
  For almost anyone, Tiberian Sun ans Red Alert 2 were the epitome of the C&C series.
  EA somehow 
 removed the iconic 'ore fields' from RA3, and replaced them with the same type system as in C&C 
 General, which was a catastrophic failure.
  
  A few good ideas, but everything has been dumbed down to appeal to those with the intelligence 
 of a sheep.
  Too much water? Not enough room to build a base? WORRY NO MORE! Now, for a blatently pathetic reason, 
 now there are only 2, yes thats right, !2! buildings that cannot be placed on water!
  
  Please, anyone reading this, stick to RA2 and Tiberian Sun, they are better, and best of all the 
 'cursed hand' of EA never managed to get them! Believe it or not, they also have better graphics 
 really, RA3 is only good if you have a high-end PC, whereas the quality of RA2 and TS is much higher, 
 and better yet is that they run on almost any PC!
  
  
  
  Don't waste your'e money... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Csaba
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Soundtrack kicks ass, great cutscenes with really great actors, kind of a funny story, but no excitement 
 in gameplay whatsoever. I wouldn't even played the game if it wouldn't be for the menu design. 
 I'm not a russian and i am not a fan of metal music, but I've used ra3 as winamp a lot of times.
 
  Now the core gameplay is a bit complicated at first sight but after two hours of constant playing 
 you'll get to know it better and it seams easy (well if you play with the little yellow people, 
 they are the most superior in technology) .
  The funny part is that this game emphasises on soviets and not on alies. 
  Graphics are a disapointment, 
 so you have a menu that is dark themed and really nasty, and when you enter a battle you feel like 
 you're on a playground or kindergarden.
  
  To summarise: this game might be worth your time if you would be the biggest fan of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ionutelu
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  To be, or not to be disappointed..?
  
  After a "not very long" instal i'v entered the game.. very nice intro movie .. not very nice menu (this 
 is not very important) , despite the bad reviews, and bad rumors i'v heard about this game, i was 
 really amazed about what it was in front of my eyes..
  
  .. i go to see the campaign, there are three scenarios you can choose: soviets, allies and the empire 
 of the rising sun (ow realy?) .. still i was amazed (thinking how great was "red alert 2".. and this 
 looks even greater)
  
  .. then i get to the part where i realy want to play this amazing game..
  
  .. i click on the 
 start (whatever) button.. and another set of very nice introduction with nice videos and not very 
 bad acting (c'mon) ..
  
  .. the here it is the moment i'v expected, the loading screen is gone and.. and..
  
  THE HORROR 
 BEGINS!!! .. now i was really getting scared (this is a '08 game?)
  
  .. ugly graphics.. i don't know if i would play this thing in 2004 (for example) .. i think NOT (the 
 red alert 2 was way way better then this one.. at least at graphics) 
  
  .. and then i'v realized that it wasn't an horror game (it was supposed to be rts)
  
  .. wow .. just 
 ugly 
  
  .. i hurry to exit the game.. hopefully alive 
  
  .. control panel.. add remove .. uninstal ... finally HAPPY
  
  And this is the story of the 
 "red alert 3" .. well.. at least it was a happy ending (or not) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnumneon
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This EA company made an entirely mistake on what RA really means... Its Red Alert. And its war, 
 but the game was made for children. The new units promise a good assault but never gets real. The 
 game should be really real this time but its not. Someone says its the same like the other game 
 before they just changed the theme and the graphics was changed and poof selling it to everyone. 
 I agree to the people who say this is an old rts game.
  
  I'm so excited too in this game. But when I was playing the campaign I was enjoying by using trainers 
 and kicking off the enemies lol, it does not make my game play bored but the game doesn't fit to 
 my like anymore and its for children and I joke it. Anyway its the same, building building building 
 sigh never gets old. Okay that's the game, why dont they make that like World In Conflict instead 
 or ummm Sins of a solar Empire . I thought it would be even better. Starcraft 2 is upon release 
 and Blizzard is stuck up on what to do on a scale which so very old school. I hope they'll do nothing 
 bad about Starcraft 2.
  
  Anyway for RA3. Red Alert is one of the most famous RTS game ever and umm unfortunately I want 
 to give the greatest score to Westwood for its one of a kind RA2. Red Alert's name was destroyed 
 and who's gonna wait for another RA4?
  
  I am so pitied at the actors they are very great. The Allied superior who starred at the Pirates 
 of The Carribean (I know his face but never to know his name) is great actor and with him the name 
 of RA3 falls. The japanese are good actors too they really fit the character. 
  
  I want something even tastier this time... the graphics are good but I thought it would be different. 
 Its still the same and I don't feel the real RA. 
  
  Overall I dont want to elaborate the goods and the bad... download the demo and find out yourself... the 
 only thing I can say its still the same. They should stop making the most praised game name ever 
 RA is still the best based on complexity but this one ruined it...
  
  The game should be compelling this time but I will not wait anymore to see another RA that is upon 
 release it should be new right now. Make it for real not with jokish units and RA is not for comedy. 
 Dont make joke... its getting corny all the time... T_T
  
  But's still it hold its right for its graphic and for the intro music. I love the story though. 
 Japanese finally enters war with its childish toys... The Russians bring the circus by throwing 
 soldiers of the cannons without splitting into smithereens. I want this game futuristic but realistic 
 enough to be compelling.
  
  The infantries are still bigger than the tankers aw men! I wonder how the pilots dwarfs to enter 
 such beast lol.
  
  It just a fantasy wars happen around next year with missiles filling the air and there was nothing 
 changed about it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zweh5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Holy shick what am i played? Command & Conquer or Need for Speed? there are too many hot chicks 
 in this game, i fell like play it for the chicks not for the faction.
  
  well, here is the real story before red alert 3 "happens"... hiro from Heroes bring his father to 
 the past and went back to future to save his damn world. his father also bring his Asimo (J. K. 
 Simmons from Spiderman) and become the US president also as a spy. Peter Stormare (Prison Break) 
 in fact is a clone of Einstein. he created a time machine because he want to get away from fed. 
 (he is not get away by plane as in prison break actually) . guest what, the governor from Pirates 
 of the Caribbean (Jonathan Pryce) is the Field Marshall and then become the US president in G. I. 
 Joe: Rise of Cobra? hey, how the Baywatch guy (David Hasselhoff) become the vice-president? LOL
 
  
  back to the game, as i aspected this one is the beginning of the end of C&C. RA3 is like C&C generals 
 additional with special ability for each unit. honestly, most of time i didnt use the unit's special 
 ability because the game is chaos and i just thinking about defending my base from be rape by the 
 enemy. the co-commander is so dumb (wasting resources) , why i have to share the resources with 
 them? cant buy anything due to insufficient funds. in the end, i am the defender (their base too) 
 and they are base raper (sometimes been raped too) .
  
  the skirmish is not like C&C generals where we can choose which general and his/her strength we 
 want to fight. it is very simple, choose map and faction then play. it is not like supreme commander's 
 skirmish
  
  im a slow player starting with defending my base, build a large army (not as Lord of The Rings 
 movie) , then rape their base. it is more fun than just storm their base with engineers.
  
  everybody knows all RA series have a good songs and chicks. i like the soviet songs and the chicks 
 in RA 3 especially Gemma Atkinson and Gina Carano :8D hehehe.... Gemma Atkinson, im coming for 
 you as you promised me to meet me in you place grrrr.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellhelix
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game was disappointing i cant believe i waited for this. and i was excited when this game 
 was released. even in the game shop i heard kids yelling this game is out and they were as excited 
 as me. but when i played it i was disappointed with it.
  i would say CnC Generals is way better then this game.
  they are trying to add the Features of 
 Generals into RA3.
  i felt it boring half way through the game and i decided to stop. but i continued later on and 
 finished the game.
  and i heard some RA fans were furious with the idea of putting a pornstar into RA. i think RA2 
 is the best so far RA3 was a total letdown. they shouldn't try to combine Generals with RA3. my 
 brother even said it was a stupid idea to do so. and he dint finish the game he just played 4 levels 
 and was bored with it.
  
  even 3 of my friends dislike this game and one of them was a RA fan. he said this game was really 
 disappointing we waited to play a game that was this boring. the acting is okay though its not 
 overacted that much. and the new units and stuff are quite cool. but
  i think its just too complicated. i was addicted to RA2 but RA3 isn't
  so entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pk86
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  For 7 years we expected for a new game in the red alert series. Despite of the tiberium wars, most 
 of the gamers considered the Tiberium series a little letdown and it didn't have many fans as the 
 red alert did.
  Red alert 3 immerses you into a semi futuristic era where a war is upon three world powered nations: 
 The Allies, the Soviet Union and the Empire of Rising Sun.
  Tough the gameplay isn't the same as the old series, red alert 3 brings a system that has a lot 
 of new stuff and it isn't far away different from the classic. You'll find out that it's a very 
 balanced game between all the countries (SKIRMISH) . Also you'll find that most of the units are 
 still remain in their respective teams. 
  The graphics are just right, not too flashing but not disappointing at all. The good part is that 
 if you have a PC that is not quite high, you can run it as long as you don't high up the graphics.
 
  One thing to consider is that the match's don't last too long. In the tiberium wars everything 
 was too slow and to finish you have to play at least 1 hour. Red alert 3 brings a very dynamic 
 playing system.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenmon666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  A wonderful new graphics engine, everything is vibrant and colorful, and even though it is cartoony, 
 the detail, especially the textures are fantastic.
  
  Great variety, all 3 factions, USA, Soviets and Empire (Japanese) all feature different play styles 
 and VERY unique units.
  
  Balanced, each faction has its own "strong point", whether it be Superior Bombers and Fighter Jets 
 (Allies) , Tough Powerful tanks and missile vehicles (soviets) or Unmatched Warships and multipurpose 
 units (Empire) , no faction has a large advantage over the other.
  
  Innovative Abilites. Every unit has a second ability (even some buildings) , which can be used to 
 aid it in a combat situation, from "shrinking" and enemy unit down, weapon jammers, emp missiles, 
 paradropping soldiers, changing weapons, transforming or cluster missiles; each unit has a purposeful 
 and useful ability.
  
  A fairly good story, supported by real-life actors in live-action Cutscenes make each interval 
 between campaign missions a joy to watch.
  
  Great optimization. The games framerate never drops even when the screen is cluttered with units 
 and explosions are sounding off everywhere.
  
  Humourous. The entire game has a sense of humour about it, whether it be from the unit dialouge, 
 campaign events, outrageous units, or scantily clad female intel officers, you will find this game 
 very amusing.
  
  Multiplayer plays great with friends, and the A. I although with a few bugs, holds up really well.
 
  
  Cons:
  Singleplayer CAN get repetitive
  Some random A. I issues 
  No co-op over lan connection
  Only one multiplayer mode (no capture and hold or anything)
  
 Long load times in between menus (occasional black screen)
  
  Verdict:
  A great and purposeful package for any RTS fan, it will keep you entertained for quite ahwhile
 
  
  Side Note: Please read other reviews with caution, there seems to be alot of negativity surging 
 throught the reviews about this game. So please don't base your opinion on this game on them, as 
 you will be missing out on a fantastic game. Ive tried to give you an informative review, and I 
 hope you agree with me if you decide to purchase the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  In short and to the point.
  
  GOOD
  - More tactical from the previous C&C games
  - Some new things for the genre
  - Cutscenes with real actors
  
  BAD
  - Cartoony graphics.
 
  - Bad humor (for my taste at least) .
  - Factions need more balance.
  - The Japanese faction has the most ridiculus units in the game.
  - Gameplay feels kind of meh...
 
  - Very bad acting in the cutscenes and the untalented female models makes the experience worse... It's 
 like watching a cheap show made from MTV.
  - Main story is boring.
  - Requires Activation.
  - Short life value.
  
  CONCLUSION
  This Red Alert sequel from EA 
 is like a bad movie with cheap humor... Where can i start, from the childish kind of graphics to 
 some of it's ridiculus gameplay elements. It is missing a lot of the addiction from the previous 
 Westwood games.
  
  The game feels like a mess and a cheap rippoff from the previous RA games.
  Overall i didn't 
 like it.
  
  Graphics = 7 / 10
  Sound = 8 /10
  Gameplay = 7 / 10
  Value = 6 /10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ml360
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 15, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  The story-line is a nice twist to bring RA out yet again. The actors play their parts well. So 
 many big names and familiar faces... Plenty of eye-candy in the cut scenes. My problem is with 
 compatibility with older, yet still seemingly capable, video cards. The graphics on Generals through 
 Kane's Wrath were better than RA3 but my GeForce 440 MX worked great with Generals. My ATI Radeon 
 9250 even worked alright on Tiberium Wars and Kane's Wrath even though it specifically says it 
 wasn't supported on the package. The graphics seem fake and comic-book-like on this game. Cell 
 art is the correct term i believe. I'm a long-time fan of the series and this is a good addition 
 to the story line but they need to work on the realism of the graphics while allowing much lower 
 setting for older cards. I know they were thinking, "Oh, let's limit compatibility so everyone 
 will have to go drop $50 to $300 on a new card. I bet they even got kick-backs for it from Nvidia 
 for the limits. All-in-all, great game, great storyline, crappy and cheap visuals. And finally 
 they woke up, quit living in the past and added co-op missions!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Thanks EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  When I was younger and I owned a Pentium II 350 Mhz PC, Red Alert 2 was the game that kept me entertained 
 for hours. I remember sticking to the PC playing the campaigns and muttering to myself "wow". Red 
 Alert 2 was not the first C&C game for me, but it was the first Red Alert game. I loved everything 
 about the game, and since finishing Yuri's Revenge, I have been eagerly waiting for a sequel.
 
  
  However, times have changed, and the studio that used to make Red Alert games is no more. Still, 
 we get a sequel to one of the most famous real time strategy games of all time. Is it good? Yes, 
 definitely. Is it groundbreaking? Well, no. But it sticks true to the Red Alert universe, and if 
 you have played any RA game, you should be able to find a lot of common stuff that will make you 
 nostalgic.
  
  The game opens up with the series' trademark theme-some intruding nation taking over the US of 
 A. This time around, it's the Japanese; i. e. smartly titled "Empire of The Rising Sun" instead 
 of the Russians. Russians are also there. So is agent Tanya, dreadnoughts, attack dogs, harvesters, 
 spies, engineers, conscripts, kirov airships and the deadly shadow casting Apocalypse tanks. In 
 addition to that, you get a whole new faction full of new units, and the existing factions also 
 get many new units. 
  
  There are three campaigns; all of them revolve around a similar story line. The campaigns will 
 take some time to complete, and the missions are mostly enjoyable. They are not as much fun as 
 RA2, but still it's a memorable experience. There are few "push over" tasks and painful missions, 
 but as a whole, you won't probably be able to resist playing through all three campaigns. The campaigns 
 mainly familiarize you with the strengths and weaknesses of the three factions. This time around, 
 most units get a secondary ability, which can be triggered by pressing a short key. As an example, 
 instead of firing at buildings or vehicles, your apocalypse tank can actually pull a tank towards 
 itself by using a magnetic harpoon. This makes it easier to destroy; other tanks can fire at the 
 harpooned tank. Also, the Japanese engineer gets a sprint ability, which can make him escape from 
 enemy ambushes pretty fast. 
  
  For each faction, there are land, naval and aerial units. Allied force has superior air power, 
 Russian tanks are the strongest, and Empire of the rising sun has a little bit of everything. Each 
 faction plays very differently, which means you can enjoy skirmish games for hours, both online 
 and offline. The AI is very competitive, even at medium difficulty, and deploys mixed strategies 
 to counter the human player. There are 3 commanders for each faction with whom you can wage war. 
 These commanders have their specific roles in the campaign, so if you play it first, you will have 
 a good idea as to which commander will play in what style. 
  
  Empire of the rising sun is a very specialized faction, and one needs to do a lot of micro managing 
 to get the best out of this faction. If you are not too good at micromanaging, you should probably 
 stick with the Russians or the Americans; but once you've mastered all the abilities of EOTRS, 
 it's a very rewarding experience. Who wouldn't want to have units that can both go ground to air 
 and air to ground, or both air to air and air to ground? Most Japanese units have surprisingly 
 helpful secondary abilities, which is not the case for many allied and Russian units. 
  
  If you have played RA2, you will know that during the campaigns, you will get a secretary sort 
 of character, who will brief you about new mission objectives. Real life actors have been chosen 
 to represent these characters, and they did a great job. Although I've missed Kari Wuhrer as Tanya 
 and the premier Romanov, the new guys did an entertaining job of giving the game a realistic feel. 
 
  
  The game has a bit cartoonish graphics. If you played C&C 3, you will find that RA3, although built 
 on the same engine, doesn't look as neat as C&C3. The graphics is a bit washed out, which looks 
 a lot like an anime. To further reinforce that point, the EOTRS units are mostly taken from Japanese 
 anime; i. e. you get huge robots, flying mecha tengus, and such. But the water looks really cool, 
 and also the animations are picture perfect. RA2 has 2D graphics when most RTS games have already 
 moved to 3D; thus emphasizing gameplay over looks. I wish the same was true for RA3, too. But I 
 can't really say it's the best RTS game around. It's a good game-a really good one, but it's not 
 perfect. 
  
  The packaged version of the game was slow and buggy. I had to apply all four patches to get the 
 game running properly. I can play the game with full details in my PC smoothly; which has a Core 
 II Duo 2.0Ghz processor , Windows XP SP2, 2 GB Ram, 280 GB hard disk, MSI 8600 GT 256 MB graphics 
 card and Sound Blaster Xtreme X-Fi Music Edition sound card. However, people with dual core processor 
 or slower configuration might face more difficulties. There is a new feature in this game that 
 forces it to "aggressively search for new patches" whenever I start the game. The end result of 
 this behavior is, even if I didn't want to download a new patch (which didn't have any improvement 
 apart from multiplayer optimization) , my game would look for the patch and take 5 minutes to show 
 the game menu. This was a very annoying problem, which I tackled by starting the game and going 
 for a toilet break or coffee break. It got fixed in the 1.04 patch, but still, it shows the lack 
 of proper testing before releasing a game. 
  
  I never had to bother about patches when I played RA2, and I still have the game running properly 
 in windows XP. But it is clear that this game was not properly optimized before its release. 
 
  
  The audio is good, but not as great as RA2. It has a few tracks composed by Frank Klepcka, which 
 clearly stands out, but the rest are mostly generic, uninteresting techno beats. However, the unit 
 sounds are quite authentic, and sounds nice. 
  
  Gameplay wise it doesn't break any new grounds for RTS, apart from having the first totally co-op 
 supported campaign. Yes, now you and your friend can defeat the enemies together. In any case, 
 all campaign missions will give you a co-op commander to whom you can give some basic commands 
 like attack/defend/etc. In the campaign, this is pretty much a useless addition if you are co-opped 
 with AI, but I guess a human partner would bring a totally new, strategic aspect in to the game. 
 Unfortunately, I could not test this feature as I have a slow internet connection and no access 
 to a LAN. 
  
  Overall, I thought about giving the game a 7, but that seemed too harsh after the 1.04 patch is 
 released. I hear there's a 1.05 patch, too, but I haven't tried it yet. The unpatched game definitely 
 deserves 7 or even less, but with this patch installed, you can say it's an 8/10 game. 
  
  If you can overlook a few minor glitches, you will have lots of fun with Red Alert 3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bernardofd
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  * Cheesy cut-scenes and dialogues make the game funny
  * The art-style is well-made, making this game beautiful.
  * Efficient engine spits good FPS 
 even in the most crowded scenarios
  * Three factions with plenty of unique units and secondary abilities.
  * Even the tutorial is 
 funny and add to the overall experience
  
  Cons:
  * Hard to get used to
  * Complex
  * As every faction have an roster of unique units, each one with secondary abilities, specific 
 strengths and weakness, it can be extremely overwhelming
  * This game could be simpler
  
  Note: I don't know if it's because I'm a little rusted for RTSs or because I'm too used to Starcraft, 
 when, although all three races have unique units, there's no secondary abilities (with few exceptions) , 
 so the gameplay is simpler. I found this game a LOT more complex, as EVERY unit have a secondary 
 skill/attack mode/weapon that drastically change that unit behaviour. I've found myself several 
 time lost in the middle of a battle with so many options of attack that I couldn't pick one to 
 strike a enemy base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your the commander of one of the 3 armys you can play as. Kill stuff.
  
  Missions: Mianly destory a base or defend something. Controls: Standard RTS Controls
  
  Features: 
 : Alright Graphics and Audio, Great cutscenes.
  
  AI: Enemy AI seems ok and will use tacics against you.
  
  Graphics:. The enviroments look nice 
 and are very detailed for a RTS. Citys look great. water looks very pretty
  
  Audio: The sound in this game is great from the voice acting to the sound of the tanks destrorying 
 various objects.
  
  Requirements: Mouse and Keyboard
  
  The Good: Good Graphics, Audio and cutscens
  
  The Bad: Bugs, unintresting story, EA made this 
 and has ruined another C&C game. not the best multiplayer
  
  The Ugly: The huge amount f bugs in this game.
  
  Replay Ability: Medium.
  
  The Bottom 
 Line: A over hyped, EA made pile of crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newbie911
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  We all know the Red alert universe to C&C. SOOOO lets cut to the chase with some goods and bads.
 
  GOOD: Interesting cutscenes and old units come back with different apperences. Transforming units 
 giant robots, tanks, and ninjas.
  You don't need to rely on making a huge army (which is fun to make a big clash: Thats my opinion) 
 Isnt this what should be the real RTS. Online play is easier to do and dont forget co-op campaighn. 
 First game Ive seen to focus on naval warfare.
  BAD: Alot of glitches (I dont know if its just my computer)
  Path finding is a problem. Just doesnt 
 feel like nothings really new.
  If you havnt noticed with aireal combat it just stands and fires. (you call that a dog fight) That 
 is something for a step foward for RTS. STAR WARS DID A GOOD JOB WITH THAT ON SPACE WARS
  I really cant think of anything else.
  It is fun to play but a little disappointing.
  Anyways 
 im going to play it now. (I have the premier edition, nothing special)
  PS for give my spelling mistakes =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoSXDemon
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  Red Alert has always been one of the greatest real time strategy games ever. However ever since 
 Westwood is taken over by EA, its fame and reputation has gone down significantly. Aside from history, 
 let us take a look at Red Alert 3.
  
  Store: 7/10
  
  Interesting story line but lack logic to it. The main idea is that the Soviets, using a time machine, 
 traveled back in time and killed Einstein. The reason is that Einstein is suppose to be the main 
 scientific master mind behind all Allied technologies. Killing him means creating an alternative 
 reality where all those technologies do not exist. One of the technologies was the nuke and with 
 Einstein gone, Japan some how raised to power (they called themselves The Empire of the Raising 
 Sun) . As with all C&C story lines, the strongest will ALWAYS try to take over the world and there 
 we have it, Japan taking over the world. At this point, we are expecting something new; mainly 
 at Allied's technology. However, here is where the logic breaks down: They STILL have CHRONOSPHERE! 
 I mean originally in Red Alert 2, Einstein himself created Chronosphere; now with him dead, HOW 
 CAN THERE BE CHRONOSPHERE?!? btw, the developers did NOT response to this and apparently just left 
 it there to let use wonder why on earth is there Chronosphere -.-
  
  Music: 9/10
  
  The musics are absolutely blasting! I loved the Soviets' musics. They are so catchy and so "Soviet" 
 - like, or Communism like. At the other hand, the music for Japan are most mysterious and super-natural. 
 I suppose that fits the story line since the "Empire of the Raising Sun" are always so full of 
 "Honor" and "Pride". Graphics: 7/10
  
  Nice water effects and catchy cell-shading-like (but not cell shading) lighting and surfaces. The 
 graphics are pretty bright through out the game and it fits the theme well. However there are rooms 
 for improvements such as better texture for buildings and units.
  
  Game Play: 5/10
  
  This is where the disappointments begin. With great curiosity of what the Allies have in technologies, 
 we'd expect something different. Indeed it is different - all units (including soviets and japan) 
 have a single special attack. For the Allied, most of them are "cheap" attacks like "S. H. R. I. N. K. 
 beam" (literally shrinks the target) , "Freeze Ray", "Absorb Attack Ray", "Unable to attack Ray" 
 and ect. Obviously this means you have to micro your units right? WRONG! why? Because Red Alert 
 3 made all the units have as little HP as possible that BEFORE you can actually move any around, 
 they all died; and that's not it! Red Alert 3 has minimal micro support and actually bugged group 
 control system. For instance, grouping 5 units of "SHRINK beam" jets and have them fire on different 
 targets is very difficult given the small amount of time you have before they die off. In Warcraft 
 3 you can simply tab through you units and simply press a hot key and fire, and it will only let 
 1 unit fire its special attack. But noooooooooo, in RA3, when you select all of them, you cannot 
 tab through them, and when you press the special attack, ALL OF THEM FIRE! -.- STUPID design if 
 you ask me when OBVIOUSLY you want us to micro the units. BIG NO NO HERE. This also applies to 
 The Soviets and The Empire of The Raising Sun.
  
  Control: 5/10
  
  Controls are horribly glitched. I can, for example, have 5 units with their special attack cooling 
 down, grouped with another 5 units with their special ready to fire, and when I press the special 
 attack... ALL 10 OF THEM FIRE! How can this bug be allowed!?!? You can get this so easily!!!! Other 
 than this, the hot keys and building and unit controls are simply hard to use and get use to compared 
 to other RTS.
  
  Cut-Scenes: 9/10
  
  I know, I know, I know! SEX SELLS! It truly does! The acting are alright and if not, one of the 
 best ever compared to all other previous Red Alerts. The girls? OMG HOT! All models and HUGE T 
 1 T T 1 3S (b ooooooooooooooooooo bs)   
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainWesser
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  There are 3 factions Allies, Soviets and Empire of The Rising Sun.
  There are 3 Champagne's all 9 missions there are little bit easy i played them on hard and i played 
 them a little good true it
  The Special attack modes of units are rely great all unites have a unique attack moves
  The high 
 proptory weapons are very good in multiplayer are they different the non the skirmish games 
  Now lets talk about the factions
  
  First the Soviets 
  
  
  The soviets the intertie 
 are some goods like's the tesla trooper's they can kill unites with one shot and they can freeze 
 nearby cloze vichels and Natasha can call a bomber tat's destroys the target at one time 
  The vicheles The terror drone have a great special move to get in a unit and destroy it inside 
 but if they have a building tat's can repair then it is it noting good for the sputnik is a fast 
 unit to expand your base but its very founder boll
  The Aircrafts the twin blade is a good unite because I never need to get to you base to reload 
 the unit and they are very strong
  The Kirov airship is a big hull they can do allot damage if you use it good you can destroy the 
 hole base
  The Marine the bullfrog is a great anti air vichel and he can go on land and water so the air is 
 good defend the akula sub with the submarine can you be covered they attack is very strong but 
 can fast die the dreadnought is a very strong ship they can attack from a long distance and do 
 allot damage
  The building the super reactor is a good building but i fits destroyed then you have allot damage 
 on your base the vacuum implode when you use it all nearby enemy will be 
  The cursing crane is a good thing they repair all vichels nearby and you can build more building 
 wit it destroyed its a strong weapon The 9 missions are little bit easy but it was a good story 
 you most fight against the 2 other factions 
  
  
  Now The Allies
  
  
  The intertie of the allies are not really good only Tanya with here time switch move and C4 attack 
 move its explodes building ate one's the spy is a good unit they can switch to other units so they 
 can go throw it but if they have a bear ore dog they will be founded they can go into buildings 
 then they are disabled for a short time
  The vichels are some good the ethane cannon can fire from a long distance from a beam of a satellite 
 and they can use a shield then around the vichel cannot be attacked the mirage tank is a great 
 unit they have a strong attack the special move is to makes another units invisible the prospector 
 is to expand your base but you cannot make's more buildings with it 
  Aircrafts the Century Bomber is a great unit they have 4 missiles they do allot damage and they 
 reload very fast and they can repair on a airbase and other buildings likes armor facility
  The Vindicator is a great bomber they do allot damage and have a big hull they can chary some units 
 with them to drop them on the field
  The Marine they aircraft carrier is a good ship they can attack a building with aircrafts from 
 a distance 
  Buildings the armor facility and airbase and seaport can repair units you can buy a airbase in 
 start of the game it's a good thing the proton collider is the strongest super weapon they throw 
 a servile missiles and destroy the enemy base The champagne they missions are a little bit harder 
 then the soviet champagne some missions you have just build some vindicator bombers and you can 
 destroy the enemy likes it noting the last mission is the hard one I played it likes 5 times and 
 then I have played out and the ending movie is damn hot I would choose all 2 girls
  
  
  Now The last one The Empire Of The Rising Sun
  
  
  the empire of the rising sun is a very 
 good empire wit they good marine units they don't even need airfields just make a Mache bay and 
 you can have air units on the infantry the shin obi is good for kill units fast just set them in 
 buildings wit some tank buster and you kill them very fast the rocket angel is a good unit for 
 base defend if you go on the attack with them they wil be fast killed 
  the vichels the mecha tengu is good for killing infantry he can chance in a aircraft and then is 
 he good for destroying aircrafts but he is not so strong the sudden transport is one of the best 
 transport's in the game they can cover like a unit of the enemy and so you can sneak in the base 
 and destroy it with the empire of rising sun you most buy noncore to make buildings its very good 
 cause you can build everywhere you want 
  Marine the sea-wing is a good unit against aircraft you can use them good for defend your marine 
 attack force if there coming aircraft to you the naginata cruiser is a cruiser tats a strong unit 
 the special abilities destroy almost everything watt's close at him the shogun battleship is the 
 best battleship of the game he can fire from a fare distance and is to very strong
  
  Now the score
  Game play : 8
  Graphics : 9
  Sound : 8
  Building & Units : 8.5
  Multiplayer 
 : 3
  
  Overall Score : 7
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockJonny
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  So yeah, I just finished the Allied Campaign, and I get the feeling I'm only going to be playing 
 the Imperial Campaign just to see what kind of whacky units I can build - the ones I've been fighting 
 for the last 18 missions.
  
  I had fun playing as the Soviets, and Tim Curry never got too annoying for me, but then, once I 
 started to play Allies, it all became a bit repetitious. It said somewhere - maybe in the tutorial 
 (which was exceptionally painful) that you shouldn't use the same strategy over and over again 
 otherwise the computer will catch on - I didn't find this at all. I found that you could use the 
 same units over and over again, no problem. The game is a little too easy. I played it on Medium, 
 but it kinda seemed like easy. And I'm not that good at RTS as a rule.
  The other thing I didn't like was the co-commander. In some situations, the co-commander was fantastic 
 - helpful, resourceful, etc. In others, annoying. I'm a slow player. I like to build up a large 
 army, take the time to make my base well defended, etc... I think the problem I had was that I 
 would be building up a force, while my co-commander was just flying around blowing **** up. And 
 so by the time I was ready to attack, there wouldn't be much left. And yeah, you could tell me 
 that I should just play faster, but I don't want to play faster. I like to take my time. But there 
 didn't seem to be an option to like, make your co-commander just sit there and mine ore for you 
 while you spend it on tanks.
  
  Other than that, I've had fun with this game so far. The plot was a bit predictable, but good, 
 the acting in the cut scenes was solid (especially from the aforementioned Autumn Reeser) . Tim 
 Curry and what's-his-name from Tomorrow Never Dies as well. So yeah, there are lots of fun things 
 with RA3 - but I don't see it as a game I'm going to be playing over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iloneforcombat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 3 completely revolutionized the red alert series. No longer would the red alert series 
 be one plagued with massing and few tactics, yet Red Alert 3 stays true to its image, which is 
 rather cartoony and cheerful.
  
  Pros
  
  The naval front-line: This induces the player to scout the enemy, not only for potential resource 
 and weak spot but to also analyze the enemy's key front. This also poses the question, "Would the 
 enemy take the seas or stick to land?" It also allure the commanders because there are resources 
 on the sea, thus making it a viable front to capture. This also prevents the simplicity of massing 
 plaguing the previous Command and Conquer series under EA and/or EA/Westwood.
  
  A mixture of units for each faction: Each faction holds a theme for their array of units that they 
 can deploy to the battlefield. Allies sport mobility, which is symbolized by IFVs, Riptides, and 
 Vindicators, yet with some armor to make up for the overall lack of meat, such as Guardians and 
 Assault Destroyers. Soviets are all about brute force and firepower, like the previous games and 
 China from C&C Generals. It is satisfying to build a seemingly unconquerable battalion of Apocalypse 
 and send it to the enemy's doorsteps. The same can be said of Kirovs. The mix of cheap and expensive 
 brute force makes the soviets a pleasant experience. The japanese forces hold to the theme of flexibility, 
 signified by Tengus, VXs, and Sea/Sky Wings. Japanese forces do not lack power, where the power 
 part is portrayed by Oni, Wave-Force Artillery, and Shogun Battleships. Relatively balanced with 
 thematic design for each factions, RA3 is a worthy game.
  
  Simplified building system compared to the previous games with SAGE engine: SAGE engine has the 
 notoriety of having the most cumbersome building system. Its rotation is crude and hard to control, 
 but in RA3, the grid system simplified it and made it easy to organize a base.
  
  Co-Commanders: It is both a blessing and a curse to RA3. It is a blessing because it is one of 
 the few RTS that allows the human commander to directly order the computers (although there are 
 some computer controlling method in custom maps of Blizzard, but never one in standard maps of 
 Blizzard games such as SC and WCIII.) It is also a curse, because the co-commander commanding feature 
 is lacking, thus making it difficult for the human to effectively control them and fit their strategy 
 to theirs. However, It is satisfying to get a favorite co-commander and see them use their tactics 
 to remove the enemy (For example, Lissette using cryocopters to shrink enemy vehicles into puny 
 things that the player's vehicle or her vehicle can crush)
  
  Music: The BGM is very good and it fits the RA theme. Klepacki returned to compose HM3 and remixes 
 of HM1 and HM2 (I prefer the remix of HM1) , and the theme soundtrack "Soviet March" is amazing 
 even for many of those that who do not like the Soviets in game. Battle theme musics tend to be 
 exciting and is a definite stimulus for an adrenaline rush especially in the heat of the battle.
 
  
  Bye, Bye, massing and speed producing!: The base defenses cost relatively cheap, but the build 
 time is long (with the exception of Japanese forces) . Also, the lack of fun caused by promoting 
 massing as in RA2 and C&C3 is out of question when this game creates a difficulty predicting the 
 enemy tactics/strategy.
  
  Encouraging light battles and probing of defenses: The security points for secret protocol is gained 
 faster when the forces are in battle. However, it does not help in conserving forces like in real 
 world strategy. 
  
  Many routes to victory: this again refers back to the new naval frontline, where massing will no 
 longer ensure victory as surgical strikes are far more common and more effective than the C&C games 
 plagued by a proliferation of massing and brute/simplified blitzkrieg grinding. 
  
  Cons
  
  BUGS: EA games are notorious for being filled with bugs, and RA3 is no exception. In the foreign 
 versions, the game crashes after the player beats Empire Mission 3 or Allied Mission 3, which is 
 a sad reality. The world builder doesn't work for foreign versions either, although EA_Mastermind 
 has given an unofficial solution in the EA forums.
  
  Poor Pathfinding: Another plague that RA3 has is the pathfinding. It is very annoying when the 
 units, especially cores and MCVs do not follow orders when they are ordered to move from land to 
 water. This is most serious in maps like the Burnout Paradise.
  
  Gender Appeal: Compared to the other RA games, where there were some women in the game, RA3 is 
 loaded with girls. Sure, it is fun playing with some of the female co-commanders, but a good deal 
 of promotion uses the girls (such as the poster that comes with a expensive edition) . It does not 
 help, but rather hurts because it gives EA a image of being as low as using sexual appeal to get 
 the consumers. 
  
  Reversion to the old one man infantry system: I liked the squad system in C&C3, and it is rather 
 nice that infantry in C&C3 gets a bigger role in terms of firepower and tactics than other games. 
 Unfortunately, the squad system in BFME2 and C&C3 does not come into this game, thus making it 
 difficult to create a apparently overwhelming force using infantry number. (Works best against 
 beginners as it is rather humorous to see them react to a vast wave of weak infantry when they 
 could be countered easily) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takafujimura
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  If you are a hardcore fan of the older Red Alert 1 and 2, you may not like this one. 
  
  I tried to like it and it was never got addicting. It just did not feel the same as the older ones. 
 
  
  Single player is okay... average. Not much to say. You command your stuff and you go fight. 
  
 
  Well, the new Japanese units are cool and awesome. When I started playing this game, I always played 
 the Japanese faction because it felt like I got to play with new toys. If you like transformers, 
 you will like the Japanese side. Most of them are versatile and they can get really powerful really 
 quick. 
  
  Russian and Allies have familiar units as before with the exception of new units here and there. 
 
  
  Its hard to get addicted because there were so many holes in every faction. The game pretty much 
 gave you no chance to build a powerful base with powerful defense. If you did not have back up 
 units, you were screwed. The other team can just run over you. 
  
  
  It just did not feel like a Red Alert game. 
  
  It was fun but they changed too much of it. 
 A bit disappointed. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: parrot_of_adun
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Coming hot off the heels of Kane's Wrath, I expected very little from RA3. It looked to be yet 
 another bastardization of Westwood's former intellectual property. Fortunately, I was wrong.
  At it's best, the game can be a blast. And at it's worst, an unstable, DRM infested heap.
  
 
  Breakdown:
  
  -Graphics:
  While it certainly won't win any awards, it's visuals can hold their own among today's RTSs.
 
  They seem to have gone for more of a cartoon-ish look, in keeping with their humorous approach.
 
  There are definitely no graphical bugs or other visual issues that I am aware of.
  
  -Sound:
  Nothing special.
  
  -Substance (story etc...) :
  Just like in RA2, EALA went for 
 a more humorous plot, involving yet another time travel related blunder. But this time, the soviets 
 are to blame.
  The result of all this is the rise of a new threat (and common enemy among the soviets and allies) , 
 the "Empire of the Rising Sun", aka Japan.
  Just like in it's predecessors, RA3's technological state is the result of a drastically altered 
 timeline, which produces some strange and cheesy (but pretty damn cool) weapons, like Tesla Tanks, 
 War Bears, Cryocopters and Attack Dolphins. The Empire's arsenal is no less absurd, filled with 
 units like transforming tanks and giant mechs.
  And just like before, each campaign leads to a different ending, almost like a "what if the _______ 
 won?" situation.
  Unfortunately, it feels as though this game was made largely for profit (unlike it's predecessors) , 
 what fun comes from this game feels almost like pure luck.
  
  -Technical:
  The biggest problem with this game is the absurd DRM employed by EA. Among things like a limited 
 number of installs, they even go so far as to intentionally leave out key files, forcing you to 
 update the game at least once (foiling piracy) .
  The game also has a host of technical problems that always lead to some sort of crash or freeze.
 
  
  
  TL; DR:
  -GOOD= Old school RA fun (albeit somewhat watered down) , amusing plot, big cast of well known actors.
 
  
  -BAD= EA's obsession with your money (less quality than polish, insane DRM) , frequent crashing/technical 
 problems, not as much replay value as you'd likely hope.
  
  Which leaves it at an 8.0, if only for the fact that Westwood previously nailed the perfect equation 
 for fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebrown07
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  Yes I stopped playing this game so I could tell you why you should buy it.
  
  1.) Price - Not an expensive game, fairly normally pricing for a something just out. I suggest waiting 
 for the Jan sales as I bet you will be able to get this game soooooo cheap!
  2.) Gameplay - I thought the gameplay was great. It really took me back to the older Red Alert games 
 with the different crazy units and cheesy story line. I felt the best campaigns were Soviets then 
 Allies... I have to admit I didn't really enjoy the Empire of the Rising Sun missions as they were 
 just boring tbh. I loved the full co-op for the missions as I did pretty much all of them with 
 a mate (the A. I. co-commander wasn't great, same thing each mission all they would do is 'tank' 
 the attacks for me while I build up a big enough force to wipe the enemy) . 
  3.) Game Mechs - The game controls are near enough identicle to the previous C&C games, which is 
 a good thing as they feel spot on, allowing you to micro your troops accordingly. There have been 
 SOOOO many bugs and glitches since launch it's rediculous! I was tempted at the begining to get 
 a refund on this game as it didn't even load up properly, EA effectively launched and sold an incomplete 
 game. Patches were released quickly to fix some of these issues but it took about 3 patches in 
 the space of about a week. By the time you are reading this review though most of the issues will 
 have already been fixed so you don't need to worry about them.
  4.) Multiplayer - This is where RA3 is amazing fun. There are lots of different types of matches 
 you can play, whether its clan 1vs1/2vs2 or ranked 1vs1/2vs2 and so on. The choice is great! What 
 makes the multiplayer so amazing though is the balance. This is easily the most balanced C&C game 
 ever, you will find pretty much all units are used and so are all factions. This opens the game 
 up to lots of different strategies rather than build loads of one type of unit and you win lol. 
 The lobby system is rubbish at the moment but EA are in the process of releasing a patch that will 
 vastly improve this.
  
  My main dissapointments in this game have been, the way EA treated the game (releasing it when 
 it was clearly unfinished) , the lack of any unlockable/secret missions, you can't use tesla tanks 
 in multiplayer :P .
  
  The good easily out weighs the bad in RA3. It is emmensly fun and will keep you latched to your 
 computer for hours trying to plough through the missions for the various factions. The multiplayer 
 is the highlight of RA3 for me as it will keep me entertained for ALONG time. 
  
  Definately worth buying!!!
  
  Peace Out
  
  Icey
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VivaLaRosa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  Probably the most ambitious rts since Star Craft, it has a fluent and quite solid rts system and 
 has many features you may have seen from previous rts games ( particularily c+c ) .
  
  Firstly, it's single player is very engaging with video introductions, story line and taunts from 
 enemy players. It seems a little cheesy, except for the fact that the story line is quite diverse 
 and somewhat believable, but really does a nice job in engaging players to act the part within 
 the game. The co-op selection, where you log in online and then play with a fellow red alert owner 
 on your current mission ( or theirs ) is a fantastic feature and creates another level to the game 
 even once the single player is finished, getting together with a mate trying to complete some absurdely 
 hard missions is quite thrilling.
  
  The multi player is also engaging, with a new system that allows people to chat in large area's 
 then invite and add friends to their friends list, somewhat familiare for wow players ( /w to whisper 
 and what not ) . You can then access multi player games in different styles, simply by checking 
 what games are being playing the channell you are on, by a auto game finder or by finding people 
 to play with or against and starting a private match. In any time of the day you will find it easy 
 to join many different games and game types.
  
  The single player game will last for many hours for each setting and then can be revisited later 
 with friends or on harder settings.
  
  The multi player is very addictive and will keep you involved until star craft 2 or another rts 
 that can bring something new to the plate, or after.
  
  In all aspects this game will continue on for years to come, and im looking forward to seeing you 
 in the tournaments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkboy882
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  aussooom ,good to play it its really good
  public good is a good that is non-rivaled and non-excludable. This means, respectively, that consumption 
 of the good by one individual does not reduce availability of the good for consumption by others; 
 and that no one can be effectively excluded from using the good. [1] In the real world, there may 
 be no such thing as an absolutely non-rivaled and non-excludable good; but economists think that 
 some goods approximate the concept closely enough for the analysis to be economically useful.
 
  
  For example, if one individual drinks a milkshake, there is no milkshake left for anyone else, 
 and it is possible to exclude others from consuming the milkshake; it is a rivaled and excludable 
 private good. Conversely, breathing air neither significantly reduces the amount of air available 
 to others, nor can people be effectively excluded from using the air. This makes it a public good, 
 but one that is economically trivial, as air is a free good. A less trivial example is the exchange 
 of MP3 music files on the internet: the use of these files by any one person does not restrict 
 the use by anyone else and there is little effective control over the exchange of these music files.
 
  
  Non-rivalness and non-excludability may cause problems for the production of such goods. Specifically, 
 some economists have argued that they may lead to instances of market failure, where uncoordinated 
 markets driven by parties working in their own self interest are unable to provide these goods 
 in desired quantities. These spanner issues are known as public goods problems, and there is a 
 good deal of debate and literature on how to measure their significance to an economy, and to identify 
 the best remedies. These debates can become important to political arguments about the role of 
 markets in the economy. More technically, public goods problems are related to the broader issue 
 of externalities.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4EBA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 3
  
  Gameplay 9,5 
  Graphics 8
  Sound 10
  Control 9
  
  In a series C&C There were no bad games and Red Alert 3 not exception.
  But we shall begin with 
 main from a cooperative mode. I passed Red 3 in cooperative society with the brother on complexity 
 - Hard -, so all by me told on it will be based.
  In game there is everything, that it was pleasant so to us in the previous parts: a real video, 
 good actors interesting units, and mission in spirit C&C. Missions in campaign very various from 
 building up to tactical with the limited number units. The war on water now plays the very important 
 role. It is more half of missions occur on water or water by and large needs to be involved. At 
 the Japanese practically all units are able to move on water or above water. Troopers too has learned 
 to float, so now it is possible to send the engineers in free trip. The system of skills is executed 
 on manners LOTR Battle for Middle Earth, where goes tree from 15 abilities on each race. Now all 
 units is used with two kinds of attack, which can be switched depending on a situation. So the 
 cruiser of the Japanese by alternative attack can ram the enemy ship or submarine and to sink her. 
 The new race The Empire of the Rising Sun very much is not bad entered in surroundings of game. 
 They Shinobi are killed from one impact with any type troopers, showering their asterisks or splitting 
 sword. Old units advice and allies too has no place be not divided (unless for exception Prism 
 tank - which now is combined with Mirage tank) . Apocalypse tank now have forgot to shoot by air, 
 but on ground by him is not present equal. The dirigible balloons Kirov have lost in health, but 
 destroying of power all also destroy base for seconds. Air units too became more in comparison 
 with the previous parts. The principle of construction of base at all three parties is executed 
 differently, on manners Warcraft 3. And the resources are extracted as in - Generals - instead 
 of as in habitual red alert style. 
  So who liked the previous parts C&C, Red Alert 3 too it is pleasant. And those who downloads of 
 game with torrents, as the majority those who has put to game of an estimation from 1 up to 5, 
 such can tell go, buy the license version of game and normally play with the friend in the company. 
 
  
  P. S. I have two license copies of the given game (and i happy) :) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antpile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Being the RTS fanatic that I am, I have played pretty much all of the CnC games ever released. 
 One thing that I have never expected out of any of them, however, is a strong multiplayer component. 
 The Command and Conquers have always been predominantly single player RTS's in my eyes.
  
  This is why I was pleasantly surprised to find that this particular entry into the franchise actually 
 put time into making this game fun and competitive. It requires micro, the units are fun and there 
 are varying strategies, and the game doesn't boil down into a tank spam like most other games bearing 
 the Command and Conquer brand.
  
  The single player is well produced with the same kind of over the top, sorta cheesy cut-scenes 
 I've come to expect from C&C games. They are mostly live action rather than animated, and the developers 
 went out of their way to include plenty of hot women in the cast. Although, I found the campaigns 
 rather easy and a bit short. Other than maybe two or three exceptions, all of the missions are 
 a complete breeze even on hard difficulty. The endings also leave a lot to be desired.
  
  When it comes to multiplayer, this game stands head and shoulders above the other C&C games. While 
 it is still no masterpiece with lots of quirks, especially in EA's unerring questionable use of 
 Gamespy as it's matchmaking service, the game is serviceable.
  
  Surprisingly from an EA RTS, the balance isn't terrible. That being said, it isn't perfect either, 
 but that is par for the course for even the greatest of RTS games. I have yet to see a game have 
 perfect balance upon it's release. The game could definitely use a balance patch at this point, 
 but the balance isn't so terrible that the game is unplayable. There's really only one matchup 
 where the game is truly stacked in favor of one side. Hopefully this will be sorted out soon.
 
  
  So if you are a competitive RTS junkie looking for a new fix, this game can definitely help tide 
 you over. While the matchmaking system is on the lame side, the game itself is surprisingly strong. 
 Alright, so Starcraft it is not, but it is a solid entry into the RTS multiplayer scene. Amidst 
 the drought of competitive RTS games to have been released this year, that is nothing to scoff 
 at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: det0xinator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  there's now 3 races, each appropriately balanced and unique. The game graphically is a huge snooze, 
 but if you're an RTS fan like me, that shouldn't stop you; I don't feel this game gets justice 
 from it's reviews most of them are 7-8; when this game is clearly an 8.5-10.
  
  The multiplayer is what this game is really ALL about; they took all the great things they did 
 right in generals, all 3 cnc's and the previous two red alerts.
  
  There are battlefield special abilities unique to your race (clearly taken from generals, and a 
 great idea to keep) , and it's old school style engineers, the ones that enter a structure, regardless 
 of its hit points and takes it in a snap. Every unit in the game has it's own special ability, 
 which makes for a lot of microing fun!
  
  Seriously, if you're into solo play, this game is gonna be eh to you. But, if you loved the multiplayer 
 in Red alert 1 and 2, generals and original cnc, then you will love the multiplayer in this game, 
 since it takes all the great things from those other cnc games and puts them into one.
  
  Did I mention it's a lot faster than generals? The movements and building times are not nearly 
 as slow as generals' was.
  
  To elucidate, buy this game if you are a fan of the cnc style RTS and can't get enough of the multiplayer 
 YOU REALLY WON'T REGRET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  1. Graphics - 6/10
  2. Sound - 10/10
  3. Bugs, Glitches & Exploits - 8.5/10
  4. Story - 6/10
  5. Gameplay - 6/10
  6. Something else
  7. Multiplayer - 8.5/10
  
  1. 
 I can understand why RA3 looks like that. Compared to the C&C: Tiberium wars engine and effects 
 RA3 looks pathetic. The graphics are a little better then those in Warcraft 3. With the exception 
 of the Superweapons effects. 
  2. The games which comes from EA usually have an amazing soundtrack. RA3 is not an exception. The 
 soundtrack is really powers you up during the game. The units quotes are kinda funny.
  3. I haven't find any big bugs or glitches during my play. The pathfinding is a little nasty at 
 times but C&C series have always had troubles at this paragraph. Also there is a very annoying 
 messages which prompt you to update the game (if you haven't) every time you enter the main menu.
 
  4. Compared to the other RA games the story is miserable. The movies between the campaign chapters 
 are awful. I don't know who had decided that if you put a chick with long legs and short skirt 
 during half the movie time is a good idea. The actors playing in the movies looks like they are 
 talking to the wall instead of talking to you (with the exception of the Allied Commander and the 
 Japanese Logistical officer) . The actor playing Russian General Krukov seems like something had 
 hit him on the head. Tanya looks like a prostitute. Do i have to say more? The good thing is that 
 there is 3 different campaigns for the 3 major nations - Soviet Union, Allies and the Empire of 
 the Rising sun. The campaigns are relatively easy with the exception of the final mission. Perhaps 
 the reason for this is your CO-Commander. Instead of actually playing alone you have the option 
 to play each mission with a friend via the online system the game offers or to play it solo when 
 the control of your CO-Commander units are taken by the AI. I must say that the AI do a great job 
 controlling your co-commander usually buy you enough time to build up your forces.
  5. RA3 didn't differ much from the other C&C games. The Allies and the Soviets follow the same 
 route as before. Build a base and expand in the territory around it. The Rising Sun differs a little 
 from this. Their buildings are produced a lot faster and comes by packed in from of the Construction 
 Yard. They can be put anywhere on the map (the Rising Sun doesn't have a control zone around the 
 Main base) . Another thing worth mentioning is that every unit now have a special ability. Some 
 of them are useful some are not but this is not something that we haven't seen in a strategy game 
 before. The gameplay is very dynamic and you have to build fast in order to survive.
  7. I haven't played the the game in multiplayer but from what i see i can make the conclusion that 
 EA have focused RA3 to the multiplayer instead of a single player. The 3 fractions are very balanced 
 (with the exception of Rising Sun Air-to-Air Defense) . 
  
  Red Alert 3 have given me some very nice hours of fun but still in a season with so many good games 
 released i would advice you to go buy something else. Unless you really like strategies or you 
 are a big fan of C&C franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MentalRayman75
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  Amazing graphics some hate the graphics but I like realism and style and its got a graphics style 
 that defeats realism so what it it still looks the best so far.
  
  The problem with this game is the graphics, sound and presentation got a massive overhaul but the 
 Ai is the same one from 1998 I just cant believe the Ai has not been recoded. If you destroy half 
 the computers structures the computer will stop moving its units around like as if the Ai went 
 on holiday this happend alot 10 years ago and with every C&C game.
  
  If you like C&C type games get Company Of Heros and its Expansion Opposing Fronts these games took 
 C&C genere to a new level of realism with far better graphics realistic warfare stratagy and a 
 far more clever Ai. in C&C games you build a load of units swipe a box round them then send them 
 to the enemy. In Company Of Heros you do that the computer Ai will flank you hit you with artillary 
 then storm in from multi directions and try cut off your supply chain. In company Of Heros destructed 
 objects will be used as cover by the Ai for cover also vehicles have thinner armour thickness on 
 each side making stratagy a big part of it. So you see with Company of Heros and Opposing fronts 
 available you get the same type of game but with far more realism and far more clever Ai making 
 Red Alert III a pointless game. I really would of liked Red Alert if the Ai had moved on from 1998. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkfibre
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of C&C since day one. Revelling in the game play, imagination and camp videos. 
 That was until RA3. After playing through most of the allied campaign I have decided that there 
 are better games to play.
  
  Why have I given up. Firstly I dislike the look of the game. The graphics lack clarity and the 
 units all look "fat". It plays fine, until you ask your units to go somewhere and quite often they 
 get lost or stuck in the lee of a hill or a cove. The AI is very poor in this respect. Something 
 which has long since been removed in other games. Finally the visibility of the battlefield is 
 limited to such a small window. I have ramped up the graphics to 1600x1200 which makes no difference. 
 You end up having to scroll the screen backwards and forwards.
  
  RTS belongs on the PC, but I cannot help but feel that this has been butchered for the Xbox. (and 
 yes I am an Xbox gamer as well)
  
  Sorry EA, my copy is bound for Ebay. Then again you already have my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kentfew
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 30, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Buildings/Units are big and bulky in contrast to there map environment - very limited space to 
 branch out and build spaciously (overall usable map area to building/unit ratio considerably reduced) . 
 Map selection menu has been down graded to just basic 1 dimensional polygons. Selecting units within 
 main map/screen area was very sticky and non-responsive. Mini Map virtually non-functional (i. e.: 
 unable to jump to map area with unit selected) ; with the use of 1 dimensional polygon graphic detail. 
 Overall functionality is, at best, Clunky. Overall graphic design very similar to Star Craft 1 
 with a little pinch of the latest technology (did not fully utilize 2008 graphic technology) . Disappointed 
 in the direction they went; it could have been an awesome game. It would also appear that they 
 where trying to target 8yr old and below consumers. What you see is not what you get (not worth 
 the retail value of ~ $50.00 @ +/- $10.00) . Rent before you buy! You be the judge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk_razor
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  First of - whoever thought RA was all about boobs, pretty water and explosions should have their 
 reproductive system removed to save the gene pool from turning into a cesspool.
  
  As for the game, its has 0 (zero) atmosphere.
  Whatever the previous RAs managed to achieve its 
 gone.
  RA3 has no feel about it. We all know that the old RAs were all about atmosphere. They were not 
 even remotely balanced as blizzard's games but yet they had a special place in many hearts ...
 
  Tough if you are fine with moving around extra colorful zero talent unit models you can play this 
 - its a top of the line Generals/TiberiumWars hybrid. Did i mention the boobs?
  As for the video scenes ... Well they really should get all the materials and send it to all acting 
 schools, to define what acting like you've pooped in your pants is. People who like it should probably 
 be abducted by aliens and probed with cold instruments, hope they will be of some kind of use to 
 them as they aren't of any to us... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redrobodragon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Almost all of traditional PC players remember Red Alert, the original, by its unique combination 
 of past and the future, great story line, great game play, and exciting music which transported 
 you into it's universe. 
  However, although Red Alert had a lot of potential in the beginning, sadly, it was infected with 
 the EA flu, meaning that the original producers sold their company, westwood, to EA games. 
  And since then, the game has been ridiculed and the substance of the game and what made it unique 
 has been replaced with unrealistic, toy looking substances. The Story line is not moving forward, 
 instead it is being repeated over and over again (what creativity!) and the game play is no different 
 from all other EA strategy games such as Generals. 
  
  It is important for all players to know, that EA is today's fast-food in the gaming world.. Meaning, 
 they feed players with garbage.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flUx_
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  It's no secret that Red Alert 2 is one of the best strategy games around. It was released in late 
 2000, and it's still my all time favorite RTS. There were however, some slight annoyances that 
 were easily over looked, and it seems that the RA3 dev team saw fit to fix them. For example, ore 
 mining is no longer done in a field of ore or gems, but now compacted into ore mines. While the 
 general gameplay is mostly the same, units now all have a secondary tactic/attack. It takes a while 
 to get used to, even for RA2 vets, but overall it's pretty fun.
  
  You'd think that fixing things from RA2 would make RA3 even better, but somehow it's not. Maybe 
 it has to do with the fact that they made the graphics look really cartoony and unprofessional. 
 Or maybe it just feels slower. I don't know. 
  
  My recommendation: wait until the price drops to buy it, and try the demo first. It's not worth 
 the $40-$50. Trust me.
  
  Also, the voice acting and movie clips are still all done cornily but with such conviction it's 
 funny. Good ol' Red Alert... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naest
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  One of their best. Adding a bit of comedy into some of the cut-scenes genius. The Empire of the 
 Rising Sun's units and abilities just blow you away. And finally they made it in full 3D. I just 
 wish they brought back more of the units from the first and second game like the attack squid, 
 G. I., Crazy Ivan, prisim tank, and the MAD tank if anyone remembers that devastating thing from 
 the original Red Alert. O and why can't you build tesla tanks and why did they have to kill Albert 
 Einstein??? Other than that one of the best PC games I have played this year.
  
  Well there is nothing more i can say so now i am just talking to fill the minimum characters allowed 
 thing so you don't have to read this. Please don't get mad gamespot review people, but that really 
 makes it difficult to voice an opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tahir_Ahmad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review,
  
  Perhaps all RTS players have played Red Alert and Red Alert 2, they both are pretty good titles 
 of their time and very famous too.
  
  Most of us also waited long for Red Alert 3 to arrive, and after that much wait this game really 
 didn't impressed me.
  
  The first most annoying part is that they have completely turned it into a comedy title, it is 
 good in its own but when I compare it to previous Red Alert titles, it looks like a joke.
  
  Again EA has used real actors to make the game exciting with lots of famous faces, not to mention 
 lots of ladies and a total comedy story but in my opinion these things does not spice up a game.
 
  
  The core of the game (Red Alert 3) is same as most of the RTS games and nothing new is introduced 
 like a truly remarkable voice command feature of UBISOFT's EndWar (This is called innovation and 
 creativity) although the game EndWar itself was not a big success due to some short comings but 
 its still a good title because UBISOFT tried to progress further in the genre by introducing that 
 voice command feature.
  
  While on the other hand if we see Red Alert 3, it has nothing very exiting to offer, like some 
 old product in a new packing. Its not a bad game but its not what I was hoping for.
  
  The graphics are good but not realistic, in other words you feel like you are playing with plastic 
 toys, all the soldiers and vehicles and buildings looks like toys running here and there. I still 
 remember the graphics of EA's Lord of The Rings: Middle Earth (part 1 and 2) for their beautiful 
 and realistic graphics. We certainly cannot compare LOTR: ME with Red Alert but I just used it 
 for reference.
  
  The sounds are ok, no crisp sounds and vocals (except in cutscenes) .
  
  Finally, Red Alert 3 is just an "Okay" title but it has nothing very special to offer or may 
 be its not my taste. You should first rent it and check whether it fits on your liking or not.
 
  
  And yeah thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuFazzZ
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I was looking forward buying this game.
  Actually anything that has "Red Alert" in it, even if its Pac-Man, I'm gonna give it a shot.
 
  EA has again created something worth-playing.
  Russians, Allies and now the Empire of the Rising Sun come into play.
  A lot of emphasis has 
 been given on the amphibious skill of every unit and now even building. Not only the Naval Yard 
 can be built at sea but also almost every other building. Most of the units are amphibious, even 
 engineers with a small inflatable boat, really funny. 
  EA added a lot of joy in its units, reactions and saying.. all you have to do to witness this, is 
 to start playing the tutorial, one of the most successful tutorials ever.
  There is a huge variety of units and having to choose between three schools of war, the you realize 
 that the unit span gets broader, with all the super weapons and additional structures.
  Also, the concept of a co-commander is well established in the game. A commander played by the 
 CPU is aiding you during some missions and you can give order to him, but not his units, he only 
 controls his units, you just give orders.
  Of course, multi player, the game offers weeks of fun..
  Unfortunately, in mind comes the comparison 
 with the older versions of Red Alert, which made a major breakthrough in real-time strategy games. 
 This one is more plain and ordinary, unlike its ancestors who their success was echoed all over 
 the gaming community.
  But nevertheless, this game is worth-playing as a classic of its kind.
  +1 EA
  
  PS : i miss 
 Westwood 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ionescu_dan2009
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  The game is simple to beat specially on the easy level... The game can be beat easily with tons 
 of fly units. There where a few hard parts like solo missions with elite units but there are a few 
 mission like that. The story line is not that impressive feels like Yuri's Revenge all over again... 
 Too much eye candy and the colors of the units and the size ratio makes me believe it's made for 
 children from ages between 7 and 12 years old. The effects are nice specially the water is stunning 
 but the rest .... And the actors performance is kind of crappy it like looking to a 7 years old 
 tv show. In comparison with Tiberium Wars. In order for the game to be played it requires a good 
 pc, thats just evil. I'm sorry for my poor English, hope you can understand and i also hope i didnt 
 offend anyone. Remember... work hard but play harder. Have a nice day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo_watson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Overall, it is a very good game - EA has taken the successes of C&C3 and carried them over. Graphically 
 it is a very impressive game although sometimes there are glitches which get in the way of the 
 game play. The overall tactical element of the game is not improved on, and sometimes feels like 
 a step back from Red Alert 2. But enjoyable nonetheless. Anyone who liked the whacked-out storyline 
 of the RA franchise will love this game, but if you only really like the tiberium time line then 
 it may be worth saving the money. Also, do not expect a much better game play experience when compared 
 to C&C3 or Kane's Wrath. The addition of the Japanese side is interesting, but I don't feel the 
 storyline is as detailed or winding as in previous versions. The lack of nuclear weapons leaves 
 something to be desired, and it seems to be of little consequence that the game's time line of 
 the previous game was completely wiped out. Addressing that (canonically) would have been nice, 
 but hey, there are always going to be expansion packs, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimReaperX900
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 3.. *sigh*.. EA ruined the series by chucking in random crap. The aim was to make it 
 enjoyable, fun, fast-paced, funny and challenging. The result was its fun for about 15 minutes, 
 slowly-paced, extremely stupid unit abilities (Shrink beam?! WTF!?) and, quite easy to play in 
 terms of AI difficulty. Here are the good and the bad of the game:
  
  Good:
  - Red Alert 3 title sounds fancy (what? it does!)
  - Cartoon graphics release the realism aspects 
 of the game
  - Large array of abilities work nicely when used properly
  - SOMETIMES the game becomes intense
  
  Bad:
  - EA made it (not all EA games are ****, GENERALS 
 FTW!)
  - Developers tried to combine realism.. and fantasy.. and it failed
  - Units feel weak, sound weak, and occasionally, just look weak
  - Just doesn't feel like red 
 alert anymore
  - Should be called 'EA should be on red alert about bankruptcy'
  
  I was anticipating this game as soon as I heard it was going to be released. I was going crazy 
 over the large array of cool features of the game. Then, I got it. In the first few missions, I 
 knew something wasn't right, it just didn't feel like red alert how Westwood made it.
  
  Honestly, the game isn't entirely crap. There are some units which are incredibly fun to use, like 
 the Shogun battleships, which can own anything it comes into contact with... but have you ever 
 heard of a battleship without AA guns? There is a wide range of vehicles to use however, and the 
 classic terror drone is there. They made units too overpowered and unbalanced, and overall, EA 
 ruined another game.
  
  Overall, if your a Red Alert fan, save your money and buy the game when it is cheaper. If your 
 new to the RTS series, or want to try another RTS after playing age of empires or something, dont 
 buy Red Alert 3. Go for something like Generals, which is an incredibly great game for any RTS 
 lover.
  
  My Score: 7.5/10 Good.. but not good enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brucius
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  I've read some1s review before i got the game and he said something like "only thing that makes 
 u realize its a new game is water" -- graphics are to shiny and to colorful, units and surroundings 
 look like its a sequel to Evil genius not Red Alert.. And tho those videos and actors are supposed 
 to be trashy and sarcastic ( at least i think so) they are nothing but cherry on top of a total 
 crap that this game consists of. All I can say is that im deeply disappointed at the creators of 
 this kinda games.. i understand its your job.. u live of it but u take years of your life spent making 
 product that in the end is nothing but a name "Red Alert" and in the future if u dont start thinking 
 as the consumers and start making it with heart and soul go and get another job... this sucks big 
 time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_spartan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  Finally... after 7 years... RA3 Returns...
  It's a long time for me to wait this moment...
  But... after I played this game.... I was surprised....
  I met again with Kirov Airship... Dreadnought....
 
  Apocalypse... in new form....
  with all of their special abilities.... What a nostalgia.. and.. COOL....
  
  Well... I'll start 
 my review....
  
  IN GAMEPLAY... I guess EA LA had succeeded to make RA3 better than Tiberium Wars.....
  The main 
 reason iz In RA3... we can establish a base in water... that's so fantastic.....
  with that... we can use water unit more efficiency....
  In Tiberium Wars... Water iz completely 
 useless...,
  The other reason iz.. All unit in RA3 have special ability.... That's interesting....
  with special 
 ability... we can make a new strategy with that....
  Such us THE SLOW KIROV... we can make it Faster with special ability "GASTROBURNERS"
  but as consequence.... Its 
 HP iz decrease little by little......
  THAT'S SO CHALLENGING STRATEGY....
  
  IN STORYLINE.... RA3 used "ALTERNATIVE WORLD"....
  the world where "WHAT'LL BE HAPPENNED ?" if 
 cold war hadn't finished in the past....
  and continue to the Future... where all of technology are developed....
  Or we can conclude THAT'S 
 THE "WW III".....
  WW III between ALLIED and SOVIET iz distrubed by.... 
  "NEW FAR EAST MILITARY POWER"... EMPIRE OF THE RISING SUN !!!....
  as newcomer fraction with ALL 
 OF IMPERIAL ARMY AND MECHA 
  that can transform like A "GUNDAM".....
  
  IN GRAPHIC..... I think Tiberium Wars iz "the winner".....
  Terrain Detail...... Model Detail.... Texture 
 Quality....
  RA3 lose from Tiberium Wars....
  But WHY!!!....
  I think RA'S requirement "RESEMBLES BUT NOT SAME" with Tiberium Wars....
  
  IN  
 IZ THE BEST RTS!!!.... 
  that come in the END of THIS YEAR!!!!.....
  
  I think that's ALL of MY REVIEW....
  I recommend this GAME to ALL GAMERS THAT LOVE RTS with "WWIII" 
 theme....
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue-Sky
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Positives:
  
  (1) STORY- Its cliche characters and bizarre plot are so lame it becomes enjoyable plus your hostess 
 are usually hot.
  (2) Co-Op - When your not battling it with a buddy, you can tackle missions with a friend or AI 
 controlled Co-commander
  (3) BALANCE - A good mix of units boasting special moves under 3 fractions distinct enough to feel 
 new.
  (4) GRAPHICS - This is the best looking C&C yet. Negatives:
  (5) Online MP - Just as good past C&C, tons of maps including some revised favorites. 
  Negatives:
 
  (1) UI - Multi player interface is a little clunky and video commentaries in the SP mode blocks 
 out your map.
  (2) BUGS - There are numerous occurrences where commands are unresponsive and internet connectivity 
 issues. 
  (3) Economy - Slower obtainable resources can lead to some unfair disadvantages.
  (4) Innovations - Even with its distinct elements its still more of the same C&C, while not necessarily 
 a bad thing it leaves less reasons to purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gemankapo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Not as good as Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2 but stil worth playing.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 7/10
  Gameplay 7/10
  Story 8/10
  
  I loved playing Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2 
 and I stil do, but Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3 is not as good, I think there is mising somthing. 
 In Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2 the gameplay was so mutch beter and it felt more like a strategy 
 game then Red Alert 3. Don't get me wrong, I like Red Alert 3, but I think they **** it up a bit 
 whit clunky co-op invite system and problematic pathfinding and other glitches.
  There are things thet they improve like vibrant visual design and smooth performance, each faction 
 is fun to play thanks to cool balanced units, the story and cutscenes are wonderfully corny...
 
  The gameplay twist within the campaign is the addition of a co-commander.
  
  In short, 7.5 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  It's been like 7 years since the Red Alert 2, and 12 years since the original Red Alert was born, 
 people have been waiting for Red Alert 3 for a long time. Now, its officially here and thank god, 
 it looks good, plays good, sounds good and more and more and more...
  
  First, we start up with a Hollywood style movie as an introduction, this has been a tradition to 
 the series (it looks cool, even though not as good compared to normal Hollywood movie, but it's 
 a game!!!) . The story come out, the end of the war between Allied Nations and Soviet Union. Soviets 
 need to change things around, travel back in time and eliminate Albert Einstein, which they think 
 he is too good for the Allied. When the went back to the present and found out Allied was indeed 
 weaken by that, but the Empire of the Rising Sun was born (Japan to be exact) .
  
  The movie involved actors like J. K. Simmons (Spider-man) , Gemma Atkinson (Hollyoaks [popular in 
 the UK but not here] ) , Jenny McCarthy (Scary Movie) , Kelly Hu (X-Men 2) and the most popular of 
 all, George Takei (Heroes, Star Trek) . And forgot to mention David Hasselhoff (Baywatch, Knight 
 Rider) also make an appearance.
  
  Okay, lets get back to the game shall we? First of all, the units are all very balanced between 
 3 of them (Allies, Soviets and Empire) , this is what a game like this should be, balance between 
 them. And also, I found out addition of Japan (Empire) is pretty useless. It doesn't mean Empire 
 is bad, it just say that this game is encounter between Allied and Soviets, it's presence here 
 is very small.
  
  Allied is kinda like old fashion combat, with faster units to attack but less powerful weapon, 
 Allied also good on Air unis. Soviets use more powerful arsenal but less agile to Allied, and better 
 on the ground. Empire however, is the strangest of all, transforming robots?!?!?!
  
  New to the series or the whole genre was, cooperative gameplay. The basic concept is get hooked 
 online and find people to play the same mission with you together, while this gameplay is almost 
 impossible when you have that Streamyx around. Don't worry, they will put you with AI to play with. 
 While the enemy always attack you not your co-commander, tell them to defend your base while you 
 build your base... Advice, try hard to connect to internet!!!
  
  1 major issue with the game in the Internet connectivity, it basically won't connect every first 
 try. You need to patiently work out with the connection and play online. And before patching, 2 
 noticeable bugs is the game won't detect mouse clicks and it sometimes can order all your troops 
 back to your base without noticing, which are now resolved.
  
  Red Alert 3 is indeed a great game, even though with some bugs around. Many people say this is 
 not a true Red Alert game, this is still much of a debate. But entirely, Red Alert 3 achieved what 
 a game on this genre should be and with some bugs (now mostly resolved) , plus addition of movie 
 tie-in. This is a game you should try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hussu2001
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I am a total red alert 2 and red alert 1 fan. those were the best games ever made on earth, but 
 this has got to be the worst thing in the command and conquer series. There are very few units 
 and you must micromanage them becasue they all have each of their own special abilities. this cannot 
 be done because strategy games such as these are meant to command units on a large scale DO NOT 
 BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS 
 game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game 
 PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! 
 DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT 
 BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS 
 game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! DO NOT BUY THIS game PLEASE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Not commonly known, Red Alert, which was introduced in the year 1996, was originally designed as 
 an alternative universe expansion to the original Command & Conquer. The game was shaping well, 
 so well in fact that the designer's decided to make it a standalone. Now twelve years later, after 
 a second hugely popular Red Alert, comes a third. 
  
  Westwood, previously a division of Electronic Arts was closed in 2003 by their parent company, 
 then transformed in EA Los Angeles. While the name is gone, the same great ideas and ordeals are 
 transplanted in Red Alert 3. From armor-clad war bears and Tesla power wielding troopers, to zany 
 Gundam-like planes and giant samurai robots, Red Alert 3 doesn't take itself a least bit seriously. 
 Fortunately, this is what has made the series such a blast before, and this third installment is 
 no different.
  
  Following Red Alert 2, the Soviet's are on the verge of defeat. In an act of desperation a pair 
 of Russian leaders and a scientist travel back in time to kill Albert Einstein, the man who gave 
 the Allies the upper hand. Interrupting the "Space Time Continuum" as the scientist put it, the 
 death of Einstein changed the events of history completely. The Allies had now become on the brink 
 of defeat. With this act, unforeseen events brought a new enemy in the mix, The Empire of the Rising 
 Sun to strike at their enemies while they're weak and to claim world domination for Japan. 
  
  This fantastical over-the-top story is illustrated in live-action with the largest Hollywood 
 actor list in any video game. Tim Curry as the Russian Premier, J. K. Simmons as the anti-communist 
 American president, and George Takei as the Empire's emperor to name a few. These campy acting 
 scenes complement the well written campaigns. Skimpy clothing, bad accents and some great humor 
 gives Red Alert 3 a real atmosphere. 
  
  All three factions - Soviets, Allies, and Imperial are all fun to play. Though not dramatically 
 in contrast, all armies are different enough to feel fresh. The Soviets retain their traditional 
 heavy unit focal points; Apocalypse tanks and Kirov airships being some of the most powerful units 
 in the game. The Allies maintain their air superiority with impressive bombers. The new Empire 
 specializes on versatility, with many Manga inspired units and characters.
  
  Resource gathering has been redone. Gone are the gem fields, replaced by ore mines. This method 
 is certainly a step away from the franchise, as it's only suitable to have one ore miner per source. 
 However, it's certainly a relief not needing to keep a constant eye on the gatherers. Another notable 
 change is one similar to the ones present in Command & Conquer 3, special abilities. This skill 
 tree unlocks unit upgrades, and defense crippling bombardments as players surge through matches. 
 
  
  Red Alert 3 offers several unique changes from its predecessors. Bases can now be built on waters, 
 and a large number of units are amphibious likewise. This really changes how bases need to be defended. 
 The greatest addition is perhaps the cooperative play. Surprisingly never done before, every campaign 
 mission; albeit Soviet, Ally, or Empirical are completely cooperative. Along with the coop, the 
 standard multiplayer is present; appropriately fast paced and visceral.
  
  Red Alert 3 cannot be accused of not being colorful or bright enough, but there is one problem 
 that is present in all Command & Conquer games, the inability to zoom in or out in any meaningful 
 way. With a few scant problems aside, Red Alert 3 is one of the most polished and well balanced 
 Real-time-strategies to be released. With the great new faction, innovative cooperative play, and 
 intense action overall, Red Alert 3 is easily worth the anticipation and the wait. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 412DECIVE
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  Do yourself a favour, get a bucket go into your back yard put your money in that bucket and light 
 it. This game is utter crap. Looks like E. A might be having a few cash flow problems, they've thrown 
 together a really cheap 2nd rate RTS which is probably a reworking of an abandoned beta version 
 for something else and then mortgaged the reputation of what was once a much loved (and sorely 
 missed) franchise. A lot of the old units have disappeared and what's left bare little or no resemblance 
 to what made RA2 such fun .The levels so boring and unimaginative that the only thing stopping 
 you from racing through game is the painfully slow pace which is directly due to the resource collection 
 and unit inability to sustain any damage, seriously you manage to get a group expensive units together 
 and after just a few hits their smoking, one or two more and bang. This game might be worth taking 
 a chance on when it's in the reduced / bargain bin for 9.99 (I recon that'll be early next month) 
 but it certainly wasn't worth anything like the 45.00 euro I spent, fleeced .I wish I had that 
 45 euro back, I'd spend it on some of the drugs the Game spot reviewer was taking when he signed 
 up for the "8.0" score? Its rubbish but it's not all bad news, after the down right disappointment 
 I decided to blow the dust off my copy of Yuri's Revenge, quality they don't make them like the 
 used to!
  EA you suck . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ru40342
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  Command and conquer red alert 3 is a fast, furious and fun real time strategy game by EALA.
  
  What make command and conquer better than other strategy game is simple but great resources 
 gathering system makes player focus more on battle and less on base building. Besides, great resources 
 gathering make every game of red alert 3 superbly fast. Usually a game finish below 10 minutes 
 while other real time strategy game resources gathering is so complicated you will hardly see any 
 action in 5 minutes. This make Red Alert 3 game pack with intense/fast action and that's a lot 
 of fun.
  
  Every unit in the game have secondary power which make micro management a lot more complicated 
 and that's a good thing. This is what separate C&C 3 and Red Alert 3. We won't see heavy tank rush 
 like C&C 3 in Red Alert 3 so i bet great player from C&C 3 such as Dackel, Apollo or Relativit 
 will have problem getting to the top.
  
  Another great feature of command and conquer red alert 3 is amazing live action cinematic. It really 
 bring player to the game and player will feel the intensity of the war. It's really separate C&C 
 games from other games where some Lousy CG image talking to you.
  
  Another good feature in Red Alert 3 is the sea battle. It makes battle more versatile so tank battle 
 may not be the only action like in previous C&C games. It also create drastic ending for every 
 game as advantage can easily turned once battle switch from land to sea and vice versa.
  
  So, unlike other RTS game where you spend more time manage your resources and army than battle, 
 Red Alert 3 bring real RTS action from the very first minute and the best part of it, It's superbly 
 fun, fast and addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razer28
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  because its a joke, this game fits april's fool perfectly. Don't get me wrong, im not a hater i've 
 played red alert 1 and 2, and i can say both the previous titles were far off better games than 
 this.
  
  This game really feels like its been rushed. The units look horrible, it doesn't give the feel 
 that your playing red alert. I know they tried to make the graphics/units a bit more fun and humorous 
 but this is ridiculous. Its not fun and its not funny either, its more like an insult to the former 
 creators of RA 3. They toyed upon the greatest RTS franchise of all time...
  
  They tried to mask their weak campaign by throwing in hot chicks in skimpy military uniform in 
 hopes that it might draw the player's attention away and not notice how crappy the story really 
 is. Nice try EA.
  
  And when it comes to sound effects, this game also fails! You will barely hear the sounds of vehicles 
 firing and soldiers shooting even if you turn your sound FX to max. Imagine the apocalypse, the 
 biggest of all tanks firing its huge guns and you hear almost nothing!!! What the hell is that?!! 
 So all units now are outfitted with silencer?!!! Even the tesla coil are screwed, the sound of 
 it charging up is gone and instead you can just hear a weak electric shock when it fires.
  
  This game just disgusts me, no matter how hard i try to like it, its just not the old RA anymore. 
 If these are the people that are going to work on the series then i can definitely say its the 
 end for this franchise.
  
  Don't even bother wasting your money with this crappy excuse for a game. Unless u don't value your 
 hard earned money then go ahead throw it away. There are way way way better RTS (SC 2, DoW 2) waiting 
 to be released so i suggest you guys save up and wait for those to come out.
  
  UPDATE: For the sake of our future generation please stop supporting EA, i don't want our future 
 to have more craps churned out by this completely retarded company. Please support game publisher/developer 
 that really deserves it and not some rubbish ones that tries to deceive you for your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquaintus
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is enjoyable, has decent but cartoony graphics. Its fun and has a decent storyline. It 
 may differ from previous Red Alert games, but it doesn't deviat too far away. If your familiar 
 with Red Alert 1 or 2 this game will remind you alot of those games aswell. There are alot of reused 
 units such as terror drones, dogs and the Apoc tank. I would say this is a fun game for you and 
 some friends to play. It really isn't a good game for pro gamers at all though.
  
  Here are some bad things about the game. The multiplayer is fubar. There just isn't any way around 
 it. It all starts with the chatrooms. If you are a Noobie and find yourself in chatroom Casual 
 18 and you and 2 other people are in it, and you decide you want to play a game, you'll never find 
 one. See the problem with this is, every chatroom has a different list of player games. So if your 
 new, and don't know this, you could get online, search for a game, and may never find one because 
 you are not aware of the subterfuge you have to go through in order to find a decent partner. Some 
 of you have figured this out and flood the Casual 1-2 channels and have plenty of people to play 
 with. Its the new ones I worry about who never find anyone to play with because they have not been 
 told to go to the most populated channels in order to find a game. No manual tells you, and possibly 
 99% of multplayers do not know about this. So this may be the very first time you have ever heard 
 of this, check around see if you find it anywhere else. If a very small portion of the player base 
 knows about this, the big wigs like Producers and Execs are probably unaware too. See they went 
 with Gamespy to handle their online issues, but never bothered to see if everything was a smooth 
 transition. That just left the new players out in the cold.
  
  I simply would like to have a list of all the games and custom games and select the game I want. 
 I hate having to select a new chatroom, look at the custom games and then repeating for every chatroom. 
 Its insane really.
  
  The second part was they had everyones names was in random order. But, they recently fixed this 
 with a patch. But, they failed to do this with the Friend's list. So if you have a huge friends 
 list and your looking to invite him to a game, it would probably be easier to select him not in 
 your friend's list but in the chatroom list of players. So that part is still borked.
  
  The third part is balance or rather fairness of counter units. If you decide you want to build 
 anti-air units, well don't bother, you've probably have already lost at that point. I can build 
 multiple anti-air, and they get owned by air. Counter units getting owned by the units they are 
 supposed to counter. And some units, like the airforce of the USA are so superior their Apollo's 
 can take out 4 to 1 in cost ratios of the exact same unit from Russia which is the Mig. See I find 
 problems like this are just too many to count or to post to try and have them balance things for 
 fairness.
  
  I could tell you the balance is so aweful in this game, and that it may be the worst I've seen 
 ever, but who believes that sort of trash talk. If you don't believe me, see if a Bulldog which 
 costs 900 can take out a a Vindi which is 1200. You'll find they can't, the Vindi kills the anti-air 
 unit with its bombs, returns to its base and easily gets repaired.
  
  So then how do you defend against Vindi? Well you can build 10 flak troopers then hope you have 
 enough money to make a factory and produce a bulldog or two. This of course will force you to spend 
 3000+2000+1800 to defend against 1200. Not exactly cost effective to build counter units in this 
 game at all.
  
  In most cases, it is you attack, take away their resources, and mainly just attack their resources 
 to stop them from producting units. That is the jest of the 1v1 game. Because, counter units aren't 
 that good, you are forced to rush rush rush, and there is NO other strategy at all other than that. 
 The fun games come along with mirrors, since the opponent has the exact same build of units you 
 have, you can have decent fun with that. However, even then don't expect bulldogs from the soviets 
 to take out the hellicopter from your soviet opponent. It just won't happen. You'll have to outnumber 
 them severly to do so, but it isn't cost effective to do so at all.
  
  Here is my rundown, the soviet anti-air and conscripts need huge improvements. The Kirov needs 
 a huge speed boost. The Apocolypse tank can use a nerf. The USA Apollo, Tank buster, Vindicator, 
 and Century Bomber all need huge nerfs. The USA tanks and mirage tanks need improvements. The Jap 
 Tsunami tanks need vast improvements. Most of their units are weaker, but they are multi-terrain 
 or they can transform from air to ground. So they should be slightly weaker, since they have that 
 advantage. However, some of their units like Tengu can go toe to toe with the equivalent from the 
 other nations. Like the soviet sickle is an even match for the Tengu, only they can tranform into 
 the air. This is a disadvantage for the soviet sickle. In order to take down 1 Tengu, a soviet 
 needs 1 sickle and 1 bullfrog. Almost 3 times the amount of resources in order to destroy the Tengu. 
 It is game imbalances like this which makes the game completely unplayable from professional competitive 
 gamer. 
  
  This game is more aimed at unfairness and uniqueness, rather than fun skill play in multiplayer. 
 It is unfortunate.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buchsbaumy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  ... But the game really isn't that bad. As with most games the past few years, the better the quality 
 upgrade, the same subtracts from the gameplay. In fact Red Alert 2 was unplayable in my opinion. 
 This game IS playable. The storyline is cheesy but tolerable ( and at times whitty) , and the background 
 soundtrack is 3rd best in the long series (behind C&C1/RA1) . Most Shocking - the effect that the 
 soundtrack has during the game. When you are flanked or suprise attacked, the music will change 
 suddenly into a soviet ballet of terror. This immersed me as the player even more. The Soviet and 
 Ally campaigns were slightly more compelling as well. I have not tried the multiplayer on this, 
 and will not have time to. I can already tell that it is a simular science to C&C3 Tib. Wars which 
 will make it very fun and can get a smart player hooked on beating the best in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiedhasan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Awesome. There's a mixed reaction going on but I think all those who are fan of Red Alert will 
 definitely like it!!! Infact, I think this ones the best.
  
  Best part is that a new enemy is there and Ally and Soviet gets together to vanish "The Empire 
 of the Rising Sun."
  
  Great units, cool special abilities and nice graphics - these all make this one a great game. The 
 campaign is HUGH and also fun cause almost every mission is unique from the other. And the game 
 gets more challenging because of the warhead power of each of the teams. Ally is best for air, 
 Soviet's is best on land (apocolyps tank RULZZ!!!!) and EOTRS is best when they have water to DRINK 
 :P
  
  And one of the thing that should not be missed is the GIRLS who keeps us informed of the situation. 
 They are just too hot!!! I liked the Ally ending cinematic especially ;)
  
  Overall, am very pleased with this one. As i said WORTH THE WAIT :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dejancek
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  nothing really new... waste of money... I got it and me and my friends had a lan party with this 
 game, we played two matches and then we found out that the previous versions were much more innovative 
 an playable... the third part is really bad.... i deleted it from my comp and i will never install 
 it again... the menu is good, the movies also.... but the most important part is the worst ever-the 
 game. The developers just made a game for themselves to fill their pockets, because the game had 
 a great reputation, but now they will really have to make something better in the 4th part or else 
 this title will disappear. The game made is not worth the title and the history of the previous. 
 
  The game gets more boring by the minute and the graphics should be more realistic. The cartoon 
 style is to childish. I am over 20 years old and i don't want to play a cartoon... i want a real 
 strategy game. Red alert had a style of his own and now they have destroyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxZeta
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  I've played Command and Conquer since the very first game, when there were not red alert, tiberian 
 sun or generals... plus i have them all. So, when i herd that this game was about to be launched, 
 i was very excited, because the last red alert (red alert 2, and yuri's) were not bad, but of course, 
 they were made by Westwood, not EA.
  
  First of all, i've got to say it, EA killed the game. But for the porpouse of being organized i'll 
 write the good first, and the bad later.
  
  The Good:
  
  - Soundtrack is awsome. It's one of the best things in all the game. It's seems that they truly 
 made an effort in that area... too bad that they didn't in the rest of the game.
  - The graphics were not bad, a little recycled, but not bad.
  - Interesting side story. It would 
 be an excellent argument, but, as i said, would be.
  
  The Bad and the WORST:
  
  - Despite it might be an excellent story, the argument was so very poorly developed that the game 
 it self has no sence. For example, in all the campaings, the first couple of missions is to repel 
 an invasion or defend ourself. Then, strike somewhere in some lost place in the globe. And then, 
 you commander says "let's strike tha main base", and like that, you hit at their heart and win 
 the game. My question is: Why we didn't attacked their capital in the first place??... it would 
 been a lot much easier.
  - About the cast, there were a lot of familiar and well known faces, but the acting really sucked!!. 
 I've never heard such a terrible russian accent, and i know for a fact that they can do it better. 
 I was really disapointed, specially with Jhonathan Price and the guys who plays as the russian 
 scientist and the premier (sorry, but i never remeber the names)
  - Another thing about the cast is that it seemed to be aimed to horny teenagers. No, I'm not gay, 
 but there's a difference between looking hot and be trashy. For example, do you remeber Lt Sophia 
 of Red Alert 2?. Yeaah, she was hot, but she was never flashing her breasts in a tiny uniform like 
 Gemma Atkinson or Ivana Milicevic. Don't take me wrong, it's a good view, but it takes out all 
 the seriousness of the "briefing".
  - Regarding the units... well, they did it, they have no more sence now. A guy said: "what were 
 they smoking when they made those units??", and I ask the same thing. It's ok that they evolve 
 in something new, it's been a long road since the very first tank of the first Red Alert to now, 
 but come on!!, it seemed that they were design by a kid or something and they lost all perspective. 
 Now i ask: What's teh diference between RA3 and Tiberium Wars?, to say it simple, you harvest gold 
 instead of tiberium and your enemies are commies and samurais instead of Nod and the aliens. We 
 reached this ponit were the diference between both game is fadeing away.
  
  Now the HUGE errors:
  - First of all, if they removed Einstein of the way then WW2 HAPPENDS!!. 
 Why?, well if you are fan of Red Alert (specially the first one) then you might remeber that was 
 Einstein who came back in time and removed hitler, and THAT was the trigger for the Soviet Union 
 to advance over Europe. So, no Einstein no Red Alert 1 in the first place.
  - And second, and this is another huge mistake, if Einstein is no more then the Cronosphere is 
 gone!!. He was the one who invented it!!, so why the hell you can still build it??
  
  Well all i've got to say is that Electronic Arts really killed the franchise. The game had so much 
 potential but in failed attempt to do a "pimp my ride" of the game by adding flashing units, some 
 well done explotions and hot girls (wich c'mon!!, wich self respected commando wears make up??) , 
 they destroyed it. 
  
  So think what you want, but compared to the first two Red Alert, this game sucks... big time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlayerz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 3 is the latest in the command and conquer series and the third Red Alert game (excluding 
 expansion packs) , and despite the long wait it was worth it. Graphics are seriously improved since 
 Tiberium Wars. Guns are detailed, for example you can tell that conscripts wield ak-47's and Peacekeepers (allied 
 infantry) use pump-action shotguns. Surroundings are also stunning when played on the highest detail 
 level. Even on low, the game still has awsome grahpics.
  
  Now, RA3 has 3 factions- Allied, Soviets and the Empire of the Rising Sun
  
  I'm sure most 
 of you know the Allied and Soviets even if you do not play Red Alert from general knowledge. But 
 who on earth are the Empire of the Rising Sun? Japanese. Katana wielding soldiers. Laser armed 
 infantry wearing straw hats :) . Factions are unique and very fun to mess around with.
  
  Bases can now built on water! Tesla Coils on water (although it makes no sense.) . Navy forces are 
 a huge aspect of Red Alert 3.
  
  
  Trust me. You NEED this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelteel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for RA3 and StarCraft 2 since they were announced and from the early previews 
 this could be the best of the series. My 7.5 rating could definitely go higher. There are some 
 cool new units to discover their skills and how best to use them. The RA series of Command and 
 Conquer has been my favorite to play.
  
  I will play a couple of skirmishes to see which skills are actually worth using. I always do this 
 as I can find out which skills are broken. I plan on buying it as soon as I can get a Strategy 
 Guide from Prima.
  
  Gamers buy the game and the strategy guide so you understand each units capabilities better. I 
 believe both can be bought via GameSpot.
  
  Now, the wait for Starcraft 2 and "Diablo III" and I pray they don't screw either of them up!!!
 
  
  The review requirement of 800 characters is to high IMHO. I think a minimum of 500 to 600 would 
 be better and there would be a better chance of more reviews.
  
  [ UPDATE: 01/06/2009 Final Rating::: Up from 5.5 to a 6.5 ]
  
  I found Red Alert 3 to be probably 
 the worst of the RA and C&C series. The main reason is the Co-Commander idea as I felt it pushed 
 you through the story line and took away your control of your side . I was very disappointed in 
 this game.
  
  I did not finish the final campaign. I instead reloaded from my collection Red Alert 2 and played 
 it. I then loaded C&C Generals (also from my collection) and played it. These two games are superior 
 in fun and difficulty than Red Alert 3 is. I still hate those darn Scud missles when I was playing 
 either the US or Russia. I enjoyed using them when I was playing the GLA.
  
  Developers seem to forget what made their hit games fun in the first place in their attempt to 
 create a new hit with flash instead of substance. I don't want to give up control of my character 
 and his actions or strategies to the programming of the game. I enjoy taking my character or team 
 out and having myself control whether they live or die and not having to listen to the fact that 
 my co-commander wet his/her pants or not.
  
  Red Alert 3 does not make it into my collection and I hope the same thing does not happen with 
 StarCraft II and DIABLO III. I have seen bits of both and am beginning to worry about the final 
 products flash versus the quality of their predecessors. Don't blind us with flash give us good 
 fun substance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  I haven't played any new PC Game for quite a while now. And the last titles that I remember playing 
 was Flatout 2, Tiberium Wars and NFS: MW. But when I heard that my used to be favorite strategy 
 game is coming out with a third title, I got really excited and waited patiently for the game to 
 be released.
  
  When I installed and tried playing the game however, I felt nothing but pure disappointment. What 
 struck me the most is how bad the graphics look like, I mean c'mon, Tiberium Wars look 3 times 
 better than this game (not to mention runs much much better) . Don't get me wrong though, I switched 
 to handheld gaming and I'm using a Nintendo DS so graphics is not my top priority (just wanted 
 to clear that out) .
  
  Gameplay is okay, but it didn't offer anything new that might have prevented me from uninstalling 
 the game after a few hours of playing it. Yes we still have the sexy ladies acting on a computer 
 generated background, but if staring at them is more exciting than actually playing the game then 
 there's obviously something wrong with it.
  
  In my opinion, EA ruined what used to be one of the best RTS franchise available. I guess I'll 
 just switch back to Tiberium Wars for my RTS fix and wait for Starcraft 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OutlawPrime
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  red alert 3 is a pretty straight forward Real time strategy game with a few cool improvements. 
 for one the co-op story feature is an amazing addition and it's really fun if the person you want 
 to play is already on your friends list. if not it can take a long while to get started. I also 
 like that each side has a well thought out navy. On the down side the A. I. for your units is very 
 simple and to be an effective player you have to know all your units secondary abilities and use 
 them. also the campaign missions are relatively simple and even on hard rarely take more than 15-20 
 min each. Don't get me wrong the story is great. The acting is funny and engaging i as specially 
 like president Ackerman and his vice-president. 
  
  The best way I can describe Red Alert 3 is deliciously cheesy and fun. A must have for every Strategy 
 Enthusiast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameaddict93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing the first red alerts back when i was like 8. This game is very nostalgic. I 
 love the actors (Jenny Mccarthy, George Takei, etc...) They added a bunch of cute girls to the 
 game, very cute girls. The graphics are great for a strategy game, it's very colourful let's just 
 say. The gameplay is basically the same as i remember it, it's a game i wanna keep playing, story 
 mode is very addicting and single player is as fun as always. I love playin as Tanya and destroying 
 **** Just buy the game, if ur a new or old player of red alert.
  
  
  
  
  
  fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun funf unf ufn ufnun funfdun fef ejfnefefwefweo 
 wef lnweflwenflweflwekf f ef e er e r e re r e r wer erwe rw e rw er werw erwe rw er wer wer wer 
 w er we we rw er werw erw erw e rr we e e ee e re fre fwer r e r e r er er wer ew rw rwe rwtr wer 
 we rwe rw erw er r ere rt rrt r trt r tr tr t r t r tr r tfn f nf nf nf nf n f nf n n f nf n f 
 nfn f fn fn fn fn f nfn fn f nf ndf gsd gfd f sd fds fsd fs dfs dfs df sf
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-hiro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert has always been one of my favorite RTS games. Especially Red Alert 2 has a special place 
 in a lot of gamers hearts. This is why many people were happy with a Red Alert 3, but at the same 
 time were anxious about it. Could Red Alert 3 come anywhere near the now pretty much classic gameplay 
 of it's predecessors? 
  
  Yes, it can.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are gorgeous - providing you have a quite powerful machine. But even when you have 
 a mediocre computer, everything looks more than OK. The frame-rate is stable and especially the 
 water looks great. Units are detailed and the environment is vibrant and alive.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds are cool. Lasers sound as you would expect and Soviet accents are great. Every 
 faction (which are now three instead of two) have different sounds and soundtracks. The music responding 
 to you triumphing or retreating really emerges you in the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  What it's all about. First off: as most of you know, RA3 adds a new faction to the extended-Cold-War 
 - The Empire of the Rising Sun, A. K. A. Japan. I could write pages and pages about these three factions 
 but I think the words "great", "balanced" and "fun" are gonna have to suffice. 
  A lot of the gameplay is now at sea - every building can now be build on sea as well on sea. This 
 adds strategic depth as well as chaos into the mix.
  Special secret protocols (certain, faction-specific powers that can be unlocked during a battle) 
 add to the chaos of the battlefield that is Red Alert and new and old units alike feel as realistic 
 as they do surreal.
  
  Recap:
  In conclusion: Red Alert 3 will please new and old fans of C&C: red Alert alike with it's balanced 
 gameplay and vibrant units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chevydriver1123
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Contrary to what all the EA bashers say, Red Alert 3 was done just right. I have played through 
 all three campaigns and have done a few multiplayer matches and couldn't find anything wrong with 
 any of it. The only buggy feature I noticed was the online co-op mode. To my understanding this 
 is the first RTS to have a campaign co-op mode so typically I don't expect a new feature to be 
 completely perfect but it was a great feature none the less. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  As with all of the Command and Conquer games, the learning curve is very small and very easy for 
 those who have never tried RTS before. A first in the series is that every single unit has secondary 
 functions which are all activated with the simple stroke of the "F" key; no longer one must memorize 
 or refer back to the manual for the two key combinations which has been more common in RTS games. 
 Balancing was very important, especially after Yuri's Revenge (the expansion pack for Red Alert 
 2) was considered a rush job by many in the Command and Conquer community. After playing the game 
 fully I couldn't find any balancing issues with the typical archetypes that are found in RTS games; 
 brute force and numbers (Soviets) , versatility (Allies) , and last but not least hit and run (Empire 
 of the Rising Sun) .
  
  Sound/Music:
  
  The soundtrack once again does not disappoint especially since Frank Klepacki was brought back 
 to do the flag ship song Hell March 3. I couldn't find a track that didn't fit with the game although 
 there was some I didn't like but with any soundtrack there will be some tracks that nobody likes. 
 The voices of the units were quite amusing, my personal favorite has to be by the Soviet Conscript 
 ("Promotion here I come, Just like in training video, He die like watermelon) . 
  
  Cast:
  
  When the cast trailer came out in the middle of the summer I was a bit disappointed that none 
 of the original cast from Red Alert 2 was brought back but the new cast was great none the less. 
 Tim Curry ( Soviet Premier Cherdenko) , Jonathan Pryce (Allied Field Marshal Bingham) , J. K. Simmons 
 (US President Ackerman) were cast perfectly for their roles. I was annoyed how stereotypical they 
 portrayed the Empire characters but George Takei (Emperor Yoshiro) plays a great Japanese Emperor 
 none the less. The big disappointment was how Gina Carano (Soviet Commando Natasha) or at least 
 in my point of view anyway was hyped up in her trailer but wasn't given a bigger role cut scene 
 wise. 
  
  Overall, Red Alert 3 is a very solid game and I will be looking forward to next Command and Conquer 
 game whether it will be an expansion to Red Alert 3 or Generals 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSgirl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 3 obtains more of form than remarkable to maintain the spirit of the Red Alert franchise 
 and to transfer it to the modern times. The formula earth, sea and air works so well as always, 
 and equips the combats with the authentic frenetic and rate marks of EA.
  
  The balance between the armies is very well secured, although the Empire of the Rising Sun feels 
 like something irregular by some decisions of concept referred its air defense. The Japanese units, 
 however, enjoy a great wealth of shades, and in fact they require more micromanagement; then the 
 great majority of them admits two positions and changes. This means that, for example, we can use 
 the surface-to-surface weapons with a Japanese unit but that, pressing a button, we can turn it 
 into a vehicle that shoots to the air. This is the most flexible faction, and probably also the 
 most innovating since his debut in the series. The campaign modes of all 3 factions are long enough, 
 each one telling a different side of the story.
  
  Nevertheless, by interesting that is the off-line mode, it is in the multiplayer where the third 
 delivery of Red Alert returns to find the strength that has intensified the fire of previous episodes. 
 It at the same time includes a very fun cooperative mode for two users, who can surpass accompanied 
 the campaigns entirely. It is possible to be enjoyed this cooperative mode with human company or 
 the artificial intelligence like colleague. Obvious it is recommendable to look for a friend, because 
 the IA has certain deficiencies that do not make it so useful.
  
  In order to put us in contact with another user we counted on support of voice, and the possibility 
 of marking on the minimap certain objectives on which we want to draw its attention
  
  Graphically Red Alert 3 supplies exactly what we hoped of it. We are before a title deliciously 
 colouristic, and equipped with a personality that overflows the screen. The new launching of EA 
 enjoys that rare virtue to tell so hard on a charisma that just by seeing a screenshot of it we 
 know of what videogame we are talking about.
  
  Nevertheless there are some shades in which the progress has been enormous. On one hand we can 
 mention the water, one of the best treatments of this fluid that we have seen in a strategy title. 
 The effects of illumination, explosions and rays also border to high altitude. Lamentably the restricted 
 camera is something, and also & keeps deep reminiscences from the last Command&Conquer. We can 
 turn it to left or right, and also make zoom lens, but this one is so limited so much to approach 
 as to move away, it feels frankly deficient.
  
  In the sound another great work of Electronic Arts. The sound track is frankly good, with an excellent 
 work of support, and even with some winks to the first Red Alert, with a luck of revision of the 
 mythical Hell March with which the original one began.
  
  Red Alert 3 is a very remarkable title of strategy. It is light, the tactical rigor is little and 
 we could consider it "The arcade of the RTS games" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minhtung91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  If you're tired of more 'serious' stuff (like Company of Heroes, Call of Duty etc) , this must be 
 your choice. The Red Alert series is truly worthy in terms of its quirky storyline alone. Yet this 
 version just has a lot of new things to offer you. The new graphics is so painstakingly designed 
 that you can see a lot of interesting and quirky details like the Japanese soldiers realistically 
 stretching their legs when they are unoccupied, or things like Indian pyramids under the perfectly-programmed 
 water. The game-play is just awesome. The game boasts 3 factions with distinctive building styles 
 and weapons. The twisted history of the Red Alert universe also allows a great deal of far-out 
 stuff like the Soviet bears, Yuriko Omega and so on.
  
  This game is definitely one of those few games which are worth the time spent on playing these 
 days. 'Are you ready to send those commies (and Yankees) running back to their mommies?'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aalnius
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Very well put together game acting is a bit poor but to be honest it isn't a film so you know and 
 the hot women are good to look at :)
  The gameplays very well it is a bit graphic hungry (understatement)
  but it is still very good 
 sometimes glitchy with specific unit moves tanya mecha c4 etc but no game killing glitches as far 
 as i have seen.
  Their is some funny humour from the game and the co- op ai is a very good idea sometimes annoying 
 though if they blow up a building you wanted to capture but also a good ally when they back up 
 your bombers with migs.
  I have also tried a few games online and have had some very good battles but I'm still continuing 
 with the story's which are very well thought out and the storyline however much it isn't totally 
 original still different to other rts'..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoZbaNaToR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert was the key factor when it came to grabbing my attention to the RTS genre. So many childhood 
 memories were brought back after this game was announced, as I used to play it when I was so young. 
 The game still holds both classic factions and adds one more for extra value. Whether you play 
 as the Allies, with their strong aircraft, the Russians, with their ever so powerful (and classic, 
 if I may add) Tesla Coils and Apocalypse tanks, or now with the 'Empire of the Rising Sun', your 
 eyes will be glued to the screen for hours on end.
  
  Much like the first classic title, the campaign once again revolves around a time machine especially 
 built to take out an important figure in the past. The first title's time machine was built by 
 Albert Einstein to take out Adolph Hitler, thus merging Germany's forces with the allies. In this 
 game however, it is used by the Soviets to actually go back in time and take out Albert Einstein 
 so that they (the Soviets) may reign superior in the future. Little did the Russians know that 
 by doing this, not only did they un-harm the Allied forces in the world, but they also contributed 
 in the creation of a new faction: The Empire of the Rising Sun. Without Einstein to create the 
 infamous Atomic Bomb, Japan would have never been nuked, and it would later rise to become one 
 of the world's most fearsome superpowers.
  
  Unlike the old games, were you could once build a massive army of only one type of unit to overwhelm 
 your opponent's base and annihilate it with one blow, this game focuses on your ability to control 
 different units at one time to effectively defeat your enemy. No longer can you waste precious 
 ore on a single unit, but you must evenly distribute it among the different units you wish to use. 
 Ore is the primary resource in Red Alert 3. You will no longer find fields of gems to harvest, 
 but ore mines for the harvesters to extract. Each station holds 60,000 units of it, so spend them 
 wisely.
  
  Building techniques have also changed, and each faction has a special way for expanding their bases. 
 The Soviets build their structures in real time. Much like real life, were workers gather around 
 to build a structure, the Soviets use this method of production but without the workers (of course) . 
 This however, only puts the structure in jeopardy, as it may be attacked by the opponents units 
 while in production. The Allies' technique of building is of standard mechanic (classic) , as a 
 building can not be placed until fully completed in the build queue. The Empire however, adopts 
 a new method of construction: You control movable structures called pods and unfurl them in a particular 
 area to create your desired structure. This method requires a tad more micromanagement, but it 
 is a much faster method when you need your defenses up and ready quickly.
  
  What really makes this title stand out from its predecessors is the special ability mode. Each 
 unit now has the ability to make further use of itself on the battlefield by using secondary methods 
 of engagement or defense. This option clearly separates the men from the boys, as you must figure 
 out how and when to effectively use them, which can turn the tide of the battle in seconds to your 
 favor. The Empire's Mecha Tengus are a perfect example, due to the fact that they can switch from 
 ground-to-ground to air-to-air methods of engagement.
  
  One thing that really impressed me was the co-commander addition. You have the option to either 
 play the campaign with a friend, or an A. I. Playing with your friend will no doubt add more spice 
 to the over-all experience, but your friend won't always be there. The A. I is just there to engage 
 randomly and buy you the time to build your base and forces while he wastes your resources. Yes, 
 the ore is equally divided among both players. You can however, issue commands for the A. I to follow, 
 and he will act accordingly. It is a first for the genre, and I'm sure other strategy games will 
 adopt this method in the future.
  
  Red Alert's visuals are sometimes bad for the eyes. But that's just me, as I prefer darker lights 
 and easier brightness. None-the-less, it's this kind of graphics that have been used throughout 
 every Red Alert game, and I wouldn't have had it any other way. The game however is not glitch-free. 
 There have been a couple of times when units couldn't figure out how to steer away from obstacles, 
 which made them stick to it. And ordering others to descend from higher to lower grounds sometimes 
 confused them. The music is also worth a mention. You will be pleased to hear the classic soundtrack 
 along with new ones.
  
  Minor problems aside, Red Alert 3 is a game you can easily recommend to any person who loves the 
 RTS genre. It's the kind of game that provides many hours of explosive game play at the expense 
 of your time. You'll be entertained with the story and the main characters' cheesiness, and glued 
 to the screen for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I like the game. Im not the worlds greatest rts player but i like playing them. i find the cut scenes 
 in this game and other c&c games just amusing .I know a lot of the hard core fans find them annoying 
 .But i enjoy them .I like exploring trying to see what unites are good against other units and 
 what are not necessarily the best and fastest ways to beat a map but the most enjoyable for me 
 like the other night missmanaged econemy but still won bu defending my base with nothing more than 
 ten rocket turentts and housed rocked troopers in them and tanyain one till i could build an economy 
 and enought troops to defeat the map until i achieved victory by buildinga proton coliderand taking 
 my enemies ability to produce units it was a long hall but a fun one so enjoy the game try not 
 to be to seriouse just have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGH777
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  I am a huge C&C fan with my favourite franchise being Red Alert. I could not wait for this game 
 to be released and when it was and I bought it, I was not disappointed.
  This game is as good or maybe even better than the previous Red Alert games. The gameplay is pretty 
 much the same as ever which IS WHAT IT SHOULD BE. I don't want any of the Command and Conquer games 
 to even be remotely like Company of Heroes or Supreme Commander and I wish people would stop going 
 on about that. The Command and Conquer series defined RTS, if it was not for it then Company of 
 Heroes and Supreme Commander may have not even come to exist!
  The graphics are really good with bright vibrant colours that effectively show the action in amazing 
 detail. The unit and building models are also well detailed but above all the water effects are 
 just something else. I have never seen such great water in any other RTS game. Its also important 
 to mention that the water is simply not to just decorate the map/battlefield, much of the combat 
 actually takes place within it (you can even build bases in the water!) .
  The audio in the game is amazing from the voice acting to the sound effects (some of which were 
 actually taken from Red Alert 2 and Generals) .
  The campaign is great and done in classic Command and Conquer style with live action cut scenes. 
 For the first time IN ANY RTS GAME the whole campaign can be played in co-op. So for those who 
 say Command and Conquer is the same every time....... YOUR WRONG! It's also the only RTS to incorporate 
 the water in combat to this level.
  The multiplier is also very good and will no doubt make the lasting appeal of this game so much 
 longer along with a skirmish mode against AI.
  Overall this is an excellent addition to the Red Alert franchise and I am telling you right now.... IF 
 YOU LIKE THE RED ALERT OR THE TIBERIUM WARS FRANCHISE THEN BUY THIS GAME, YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabusan
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  At least, it has issues for me.
  
  Micro-managing is way too important, all units have special abilities that can change the tide 
 of war if used at the right time. But at the same time, battles are way too fast, everything explodes 
 or dies too quickly to react properly. Online has serious flaws. Automatch seems to have serious 
 problems to find opponents and you cant easly find someone to play cooperative. The lobby has minimal 
 features, you cant sort by name to find someone or invite someone who has just sent a private message, 
 very clunky. At least there is no medal system, that I always hated.
  
  The game is reasonably fun, specially in single player, but I do remember C&C3 being a better experience 
 overall. Even the cutscenes seemed to be a bit worse in Red Alert 3. Having two characters in two 
 different cameras is way too abused here. The sexy female cast is a plus, though.
  
  Oh, well. I guess we will have to wait for Starcraft 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oo6En_A9oo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  my expectation was pretty high for red alert 3 being a massive franchise and own memories on the 
 good ol days of the red alert mania. i never give the game a second look, never even bother to 
 read previews or watch demo or leak images of the game, expecting since such a big company as EA 
 holding it now (and the extra hype it gets) its gonna be at least a good if not excellent experience. 
 so i bought it first hand after the long wait, install it n i discover...
  
  
  damn.. does this game teleport me to 2001 or what???
  
  the game just dont fit this era anymore. 
 ugly looking cartoonish artwork, the extra-cheese drama with all standard RTS mechanics, filled 
 with the coolest character michael jackson can imagine while he still black. seriously, it is a 
 very outdated design and idea! if another company is doing this exact game, with a different title, 
 Blue Emergency maybe, im sure the rating will be lucky if it even pass 5. 
  
  i have Company of Heroes and World in Conflict as the latest very good RTS in my book, and Red 
 Alert 3 is waaaaay way way behind them. for everyone else who really think its good, i guess they 
 just dont game enough, or just simply easily satisfied. you will got major love from EA, trust 
 me, u r their no.1 cash cow.
  
  yeah im sure the game is pretty entertaining, but not in 2008 please. its just lazy and unacceptable. 
 but who care what i think, hell maybe they in work for Red Alert 4 now, with more cheesier drama 
 and weirdly design units. ill buy it if theres cutscenes of Scarlett Johannson and Jessica Alba 
 making out in HD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epakille
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Ok this has REALLY been done before. The game is so standard it feels pointless to play it. I see 
 no reason to play this over old starcraft, generals or dune 2000 to mention a few games that outclassed 
 this game a long time ago.
  
  Also, visuals are really poor and i dont see any reason for it to be that way. All units are over 
 the top with strange special actions. Nothing in the game feels like "war" more like some kind 
 of arcade "too cool for school" (you see what i mean right:)
  
  The only good thing is the very bad cutscenes that are so over the top its good humor. Also some 
 unit abilities like the vehicles that fires soldiers from a tube is great fun, but its all very 
 short-lived.
  
  I cant understand how a big company could spend time developing this piece of crap.
  
  Pure 
 nonsence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectrewolfman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, this game is fun to play. Especially after a stressful day at work or a busy day 
 at school, this game will surely help you to relax.
  
  If you are keen to complete the game in the shortest time in order to catch all the cheesy video 
 clips, then play solo at easy mode, under 10 hours maybe around 8+.
  
  Generally, the various missions of the 3 factions (with the addition of a new one being the Empire 
 of the Rising Sun) are not too difficult to complete although there are a few that requires both 
 finese and very offensive mindset ( very minimum defense of your own base) . The AI co-commander 
 can usually hold its on ground and rarely need your assistance but again in those few "tough" missions, 
 you have to forge together otherwise its crushing defeat may also be your defeat. Oh yes, the Enemy 
 AI is not too shabby and they generally put up a reasonable fight to give you enough satisfaction 
 of crushing them. 
  
  While I tend to agree with Gamespot review, I felt that this game deserve a 8.5 rating for its 
 fun factor and the usual addiction to keep going to the next & next mission.
  
  Either way, solo or co-op online, you can't go wrong with this game. Just buy it and have a fun 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wait321
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  First of all, this game does a decent job of continuing the humor from the previous games. The 
 American attack on Pearl Harbor, robot president, and Japanese units were hilarious. But, the movies 
 are too serious. The actors don't seem to be as comical or fun as the they were in Red Alert 2.
 
  
  Also, the models for the units are too different. Although the vibrant coloring is the same, the 
 designs of the units look too futuristic. They look like they belong in regular C&C instead of 
 Red Alert. 
  
  Lastly, the gameplay has completely changed from that of Red Alert 2. The pacing is way too fast. 
 Units drop like flies and there's no time to apply tactics during a battle or plan out your strategy. 
 Although the developers said they wanted to remove the tank rush, the basic gameplay is still about 
 unit spam.
  
  Overall, the game is more similar Tiberium Wars than Red Alert. There's none of the planning and 
 slow battles that can you can actually influence in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xCasadoRx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  I've never been a die hard fan of the C&C series, but the RA series I've enjoyed a lot. And this 
 third part didn't fail to deliver for me the same fun the previous two parts have with a little 
 cherry on top. I've seen a lot of people complain about the cartoonish graphics of the game which 
 I tought was weird ,because after only ten minutes with the game I got use to them and can honestly 
 say they have never bothered me. The game features a great campain again with a whole new twist 
 to it being that the Empire of the rising sun is now one of the three greatest powers of the world. 
 I suppose how much one will enjoy playing with this new faction is totally up to the individual, 
 but the opportunity to explore a whole new side of this conflict and the changes to the other two 
 factions definitely helps keep the content fresh in the series. The live actor cast is certainly 
 one of the most spectacular aspects of the game. Tim Curry, Peter Stormare, Jonathan Pryce, J. 
 K. Simmons, George Takei , David Hassehoff as the vice president of the USA and all others are 
 great comic relieves at times and I'm saying that with all the good intentions there can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge RTS fan, and wasted too many hours/days/weeks playing these kinds of games, and I was 
 truly looking forward to RA3 for a long time. And finally it arrived, in all its candy colored 
 glory.
  
  One of the big news in the game is the co-op mode. That's a nice feature, but what is a bit less 
 nice is the fact its not an additional feature, you are stuck with having another player together 
 with you in every mission whether you want it or not. If you have no real friends, the CPU volunteers, 
 but I found it to be quite unsatisfying to be stuck with an AI controlled sidekick. The game only 
 gets hard enough when he is finally wiped out, up to that point the game virtually plays by itself, 
 and you do not really need to do much yourself, just sit back and watch the numerous poorly acted 
 cut scenes that sometimes clutter your radar or drags the camera away from what you are doing. 
 These cut scenes are annoying but forgivable due to the humorous tone.
  
  The AI surely has improved a lot from previous CC/RA games. You can only truly appreciate this 
 in the Skirmish modes though, as the campaign mode is far too easy even on the highest difficulty 
 level. In skirmish mode I had to struggle even facing only one enemy on Brutal setting, while in 
 CC I had to face several before having to struggle. In particular I found the enemy now intelligently 
 withdraws when facing too many of your forces a lot. 
  
  Better AI should mean better game experience, but frankly I'm not sure if that is the case. A lot 
 of times I found myself very annoyed seeing enemies withdraw at the exact perfect time leaving 
 them with one pixel left in the healthbar. In fact, building up defenses seeing the enemy being 
 ripped apart in wave after wave is kind of satisfying, but do not expect this in RA3. It's an improvement 
 in challenge, but perhaps not in the satisfaction department.
  
  Units seems quite balanced this time. There is no longer any unit that can be spammed out and deal 
 with everything when in huge numbers, perhaps with the exception of the rocket infantry unless 
 they are facing the Russians who has very efficient superweapons that will wipe out entire platoons 
 of soldiers easily. You basically are forced to combine your forces in smart ways, to deal with 
 sea, air and ground threats. You will find water in every map by the way, so expect to be building 
 a lot of sea vessels.
  
  RA3 is a fast game, it offers a lot of action all the time, keeping you busy. The economy is quite 
 generous, allowing you to focus on building and fighting a lot. So, its definitively an emphasis 
 on "real-time" here, and the life span on each unit is very short. Personally I prefer a bit tougher 
 units which you do not need to be replaced every second, pushing the game more into the "strategic" 
 section, but RA3 seems to enjoy blowing up things quickly and conveniently, so gone are any super 
 units that are hard to build and hard to destroy.
  
  All in all the game is a welcomed sight, but neither revolutionary nor very memorable. I doubt 
 I will keep playing this for long, I'll probably revert to CC instead next time I need a dose of 
 RTS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithers43
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  OK guys this is rediculous ANYONE WHO RATED THIS GAME A 1-5 needs to change it right now it does 
 not deserve that rating AND YOU KNOW IT
  
  My guess is the majority of players who game it a low rating got the game EXPECTING EA to mess 
 it up and just went with that....... they installed the game.......... sat down to play............ played 
 the first or maybe second soviet mission on then said it sucked
  
  well that was the story of my life except i like EA...... I sat down to play and was not impressed 
 first off the graphics sucked but then i realized i had it on low for everything, and once i moved 
 them up to highs and medium's i loved the graphics 
  
  Graphics = here is the part where the game might seem .5 of a score less for some than others, 
 this is purley you style of game choice, because i like this games graphics and i know other people 
 do too!
  
  Story = the story in ALL the red alert games has always been outstanding and that has come back 
 here too...... with really hot babes!!!...... some people might take a point off because they thought 
 some of the actors (scientists) were really fake and cheesy but THAT IS ON PURPOSE
  
  Single player = as all RTS games the first few mission for any faction explain the basics and you 
 wont like them but in the end the missions are awsome so u cant really take of for this
  
  CO-OP = this is where you would ADD one point to your review, since this is THE FIRST RTS game 
 to ever have a co-op single player through the whole thing......... very impressive
  
  Gameplay = once again some people might take half a point off for this, since on the outside it 
 might seem simple, but if you get into the game it has a large amount of depth..... 3 FACTIONS 
 = EACH with their own unique units and powers..... but are still very balanced :)
  
  Mulitplayer = Here is where i take off my 1 point from this game........ their are like 30 maps 
 to choose from (ALOT) and you can play from 2 players to 6 players (also good) COMPLAINT = if you 
 play with someone who has really bad connection the game sometimes freezes or shuts down and you 
 will have to get all the way back in COMPLAINT #2 = no in-game rankings.... except your own, however 
 they do have player rannkings and 1v1 / 2v2 player AND clan rankings on www. Commandandconquer. com 
 but they should have those in the game (could be in an upcoming patch :O)
  
  Graphics = 10
  Story = 9.7
  Single player = 10
  Co-Op = 10
  Gameplay = 9.6
  Multiplayer 
 = 9.0
  
  OVERALL SCORE ================ 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fel_rossi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  
  This is one of the best games.
  
  Because I grew up playing.
  
  and the story is over.
  
  Not counting the graphics that are great.
  
  the gameplay is 
 very good.
  
  Command & Conquer game was good.
  
  Command & Conquer 2 was better.
  
  and now the Command & Conquer Red Alert 3 is great.
  
  is the best kind.
  
  I loved 
 the Command & Conquer Red Alert 3 is very good.
  
  I liked the Command & Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars was very 
  
  good too.
  
  I liked the Command 
 & Conquer 3 Kane's Wrath also very 
  
  good
  
  But I liked was the same as expected Command & Conquer 
  
  Red Alert 3
  
  I was hoping 
 this game for years.
  
  lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
  
  lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
  
  lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
 lol! lol! lol! lol! 
  
  lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
  
  lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
  
  lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
 lol! lol! lol! lol! 
  
  lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! 
  
  lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol! lol!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrpostal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I love the tried and true RTS formula. I should be pretty easy to please. I remember fondly the 
 old Sega Genesis game "Herzog Zwei". So I always look forward to the newest from classic series 
 like this. The biggest disappointment from long standing series was the latest Empire Earth (Ughhh) , 
 but this new Red Alert is probably the second biggest disappointment. 
  
  I can't give it a truly bad score because it isn't an unprofessional game. It has all the parts 
 of a classic RTS. I never cared much for the cut scenes and think they are a waste of production 
 money that could go to pay the folks actually making the game instead of Tim Curry et al. But whatever, 
 Not really a flaw. The development trees seem OK. The units seem decent. There is no bizarre twist 
 on gameplay that others have tried to separate their games from the masses- and failed. And I personally 
 like the graphics. They aren't CoH great, but somewhat comical futuristic and completely serviceable.
 
  
  So why is it a disappointment? Firstly, it's too damn hyper. The reason I prefer PC games and find 
 consoles to be 500 dollar DVD players is because they are twitchy reaction festivals. With a key/mouse 
 I can actually use the "S" in RTS. But not with this game. I was rushed insanely quickly the first 
 skirmish I played. Once I figured out the speed at which I needed to build I could compete, sure, 
 but it just isn't fun. It's like instead of adding true technique and strategy, they substitute 
 game speed to trick people into thinking it's more than simple and rushed.
  
  There are other niggles like pathfinding, the achille's heel of the RTS. Another common foible 
 is also present - the camera won't zoom out enough. Why don't they USE some of that graphics power 
 and allow you to see a bit more of the area. Even my loved CoH has this problem, although angling 
 the camera somewhat helps. But with 19-24 inch widescreen monitors being standard these days, they 
 are missing the boat here. Probably giving the money they'd have spent on that to Tim Curry. Grrr. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Red Alert 3 is another great game in a franchise that just keeps producing 
 great games. Red Alert 3 has a solid campaign which, although is quite short, has some replay value 
 in the form of playing with friends online. The campaign levels get more difficult as it wears 
 on, like in any other good game, but the thing that made them the most fun for me was the co-commander 
 who would often do any of the dirty work I didn't want to do. The cinematics are hilarious, like 
 in any other CnC game, but this one manages to work up quite a collection of them that last for 
 quite long. The skirmishes are fun, as you can have more co-commanders doing your bidding while 
 playing as each different army. Each army handles differently, for example they all build their 
 structures differently, and each of them upgrades their buildings differently. All in all, I loved 
 Red Alert 3, and was glad to see the franchise kept this title up to standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linexip
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, i just finished alliance story, and already have done russian one. Well, its not what i realy 
 expected, unit and building models are changed too much, Bears? Yeah, seem all factions have animals 
 now, they a little overdid it for sake of multiplayer games, but i can live with it. Another thing 
 i didint like is resource mining change, it was so fun to kill oponent miner and always look after 
 yours, now you just mine next to your base, too easy and feel too much like CC: generals. New faction? Hell 
 no, i wont even play theyr story, i just dont like them, Youry would have been better choise! Still, i 
 feel red alert spirit, and its not only movies, if you have played previous game you are going to 
 like this one, but yah, it may be something new for you.
  
  
  p. s. about posts like http://www. gamespot. com/pc/strategy/redalert3/player_review. html? id=621773&tag=all-about; review1 
 from so called The_Free-Man.
  ppl. stop wasting web space with stupid rewievs like that, first of all its not a review but only 
 a complain that you have no idea about games or you are just stupid, go play barbie or something, this 
 game have holes, but not one that worth 1-3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Free-Man
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  this is a way worse game then the origional 2 red alert games. many peope say that that doest matter 
 because it is a really good game but that is not true. there are many fatal, game-crashing, errors 
 and glitches made in the game, its music makes it seem like a 5 year olds 2$ arcade games you can 
 find in a dollar store! around the fourth mission in every campain the game crashes without warning 
 making it impossibel to beat it. the ai sends tons and tons of infantry at you and drown you with 
 bears and dogs making your infantry useless and making every area on the map retardedly overrun 
 making you build defences all over the map to defend your refineries. and there is sooo little 
 gold on the maps that you will need alot of refineries and tons of defences. 
  the biggest dissapointment is the whole thing about water, almost every unit is amphibious taling 
 away all the strategy in building ships and making the maps on big battlfield with hardly anything 
 to block a units path. and the powers you get like setting bombs and spawning units and stuff like 
 that is soo horribly done that it renders every thing you build in your bade defencless angains 
 the bombs and other powers like it. AI often build superwepeons and fire it at you biggest army 
 cluster, your biggest set of defences or right in the center of your base making you have to rebuild 
 everything again and again every five minuts which is the cooldown time for a superwepeon.
  online play is stupid, the other player will unknowingly plant bomb and other tpowers like that 
 in your bade and you will do the same making every matches outcome depend on your patients and 
 how many times you can rebuild your army before giving up. to be honest, after this i have lost 
 all faith in strategy games and mainly in EA!!!
  
  this is one of the worst games i have ever played in my entire life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaizerWolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  When I got RA3, I was having some mixed reactions as I installed it. However, upon seeing the intro 
 cinematic, a sudden surge of nostalgia got to me. The cheesiness was back!
  
  As I played through all the campaigns, I couldn't help but let off a grin, and an occasional laugh 
 at the cinematics and all their cheesiness. It's one of those things I really missed from RA2.
 
  
  Now onto the actual review.
  
  Graphics: 
  Although the graphics engine is the same as Generals and C&C3: TW... and a bit dated, EA did a pretty 
 wonderful job of making it all fit into RA's niche. Not very 'modern' in a sense, but very nice 
 to look at. If I were to compare the graphics, I guess it's something like WoW's charm; not hi-end, 
 but still nice to look at.
  
  8/10
  
  Sounds:
  The music is defenitely one of the things I really like about RA3. Its got that Frank Klepacki 
 charm and stuff. Unit responses are pretty hilarious at times. Gun and explosion reports are not 
 really up there, but still nice nonetheless.
  
  9/10
  
  Story:
  The campaigns are defenitely not linked, but each of them are pretty nice. Each has a nice twist 
 to them, though arguably, very predictable. The introduction of RA3's story is plausible enough 
 from a Red Alert point of view. Nothing too astounding really. 
  
  7/10
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay is really (in my opinion) the best part of RA3. Each faction is very 
 fun to play, and has a pretty unique playstyle. The unit sub-abilities are a very nice touch and 
 adds a bit of micromanagement to the game. The pace of a game is just right; not too fast, not 
 too slow. The return of single infantry units is surely a feature I welcome with open arms, unlike 
 C&C3: TW's infantry squad system.
  
  9/10
  
  Overall:
  Red Alert 3 is a pretty solid RTS, which I more thoroughly enjoyed than C&C3. 
  
  8.5/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: artyom570568
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Compare to others strategy games C&C RA3 is a total letdown. even on the most high spec this game 
 looks so bad that i uninstalled it after 5 hours of playing it.
  I mean come on!! no matter how hard you try and what resolution you play with you will only be able 
 to see a small portion of you're forces on the battlefield and i have to say that's really annoying! 
 And the other thing.. the movie prologues shot with real people... what the hell if that about? is 
 it new generation of strategy games? because if it is it suck big time! it hilarious.
  I have to admit the idea was good enough, three factions a bit different from one another, fighting 
 at "the worlds end" ... eh shame it didnt came out right.
  I was waiting for this game but it turned out a total waste of money and time... some impressive 
 graphical effects wont make up for bad gameplay.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Okay... where do you want me to begin? I have pretty much the same complaints with this game as 
 I did with Tiberium Wars. The units are all excellent, but if the Apocalypse Tank looked weak in 
 Tiberium Wars, it's absolutely apathetic in RA3. The support power have been handled unusually 
 well, although the Soviets have some pretty uninteresting garbage (literally... one support power 
 is to drop space garbage on your enemy) . The Japanese Oni units make for some interesting action, 
 but while all this might keep you hooked in the game, the actual thing holding the game together 
 are the cut-scenes, and that's where RA3 miserably fails. This game features some of the worst 
 acting by people on screen I have ever seen. B-grade high-school slasher flicks have more talent 
 than these. I knew it would be hard for anyone to replace Lt. Zofia after RA2, and I was right 
 there. The gaming community in general was also right in fearing that EA would totally and utterly 
 screw up this game. The campaign seems to move too fast and end too quickly without forming the 
 story carefully, and you barely know when or what to concentrate on.
  
  EA should be ashamed for taking an epic game and essentially blowing it up graphically while destroying 
 it's essence... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfur488
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  I was an avid fan of Westwood Studio's Red Alert 2. I didn't play Red Alert 1, but that was just 
 as well, since RA2 was an amazing game. Even though there were only two factions, skirmishes did 
 offer the choice of having select upgraded units to use, and the unit promotion system was an excellent 
 aspect of the gameplay. Sure, they take this stuff and bring it over into RA3, but it just isn't 
 the same.
  
  When I saw the RA3 trailers, I, like other RA2 fans I believe, gasped in awe an expectation as 
 to what was to come. However, all those hopes were dashed. Sure, it resembles 2 a bit, but aside 
 from some building and unit names, it could have been a whole different game. RA3 rips more from 
 CC3 and Generals than it inherits from RA2, and I am wholly disappointed in that. Instead of taking 
 charge and fleshing out what was a classic, they instead built off of what they already had, and 
 mutilated it to fit the series. I'm not saying it's a bad game, but it is disappointing to see 
 this "sequel" turn out this way. The menus are CC3 style instead of the much more readable RA2 
 style, and since I've never gotten used to CC3, I still don't know how to build stuff without having 
 to either hover over icons or having to memorize all the hotkeys. The units themselves are flimsy 
 and easily killed, much more like Generals and CC3 than RA2, where the units were rather hardy. 
 This slowed the game down a bit and allowed the commanders a chance to salvage some units or even 
 stall, instead of having everything blown away in a second. The superpowers also resemble the Generals 
 hierarchy, and some even resemble actual Generals powers.
  
  So, in short, this is a very familiar game. More familiar to a different game than it is named 
 for, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyman365
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  After having my previous review removed I have looked more carefully at the game and have prepared 
 a less frustrated and rash response.
  
  Firstly this game is extremely disappointing to long time C&C fans, possibly the worst RTS in franchise. 
 You can see from reading reviews that most long time series fans are disappointed especially because 
 of the long wait between 2 and 3. What is more is that around March/April PC Mag released a "sneak 
 peak" that got me, and assuredly other fans hyped up.
  
  With that said heres my opinion: 
  GRAPHICS: Well, honestly they aren't that nice. I personally 
 believe that Kane's Wrath is much better. You can't zoom in close to see unit detail. Although 
 this is rather useless during play its cool to see the units up close and personal. Although the 
 overall graphics are not stunning the water is pretty nice and there is a great detail of lasers/bullets 
 reflection over water. HOWEVER this game is taking up around 8 gigs on my hard drive and I expected 
 better graphics.
  
  GAME-PLAY: Here is where it seems like RA3 just stole from every other RTS on the market. Best 
 example is the structure building. Americans build like Red Alert traditional, Russians build like 
 Chinese in Generals, and the Rising Sun (aka Japan) builds like the task force talon from Act of 
 War.
  I previous harped about the cartoony units (I still hate their look) , so I tried to identify their 
 problem. Maybe its the yellow line around them when you select them, maybe its their bright colors, 
 maybe its the colorful weird shaped building surrounding them. I don't know, but I'm going to read 
 other reviews to find out!
  Finally no nukes sucks! I loved russia (and china in generals) cause nukes were so cool. No more 
 scorched earth or units melting *tear*, o well there are a few interesting new features like the 
 strong magnet but nothing much new.
  There is also limited overall number of buildings to build (i think 8) compared with other c&c.
 
  
  Maybe the reason I have rated so low is because my expectations were so high. My final verdict 
 is that RA3 is simply not up to par with the other games and appears to be thrown together by mixing 
 others' ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allied32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  It's by no means the genre defining game Red Alert was, but this game holds some promise if you 
 don't take it too seriously. The plot, without wanting to reveal too much, basically revolves around 
 a Soviet experiment to turn the tides of the infamous war between the Capitalists and Communists. 
 Unfortunately, by around mission three, this theme is quickly merged into the background with little 
 comment after the impressive introductory sequence.
  All of the key Command and Conquer elements are thankfully still alive. You build your base, raise 
 some funds by constructing an ore refinery and then build some units and hopefully wipe the other 
 guy off the face of the planet. A few twists in the gaming include the co-operative mission function, 
 whereby you can either play with a buddy or if no-one's home, the computer. Whilst it would have 
 been nice to have had the chance to play some of the missions solo, the idea of two commanders 
 outflanking the enemy is good, but still requires work. On a number of missions my co-commander 
 was quite happy to get annihilated by the opposition with little regard to their own production 
 facilities. A further twist includes the 'secondary attack' feature. The Allied main battle tank, 
 for instance, can make use of a targeting laser that will increase friendly units accuracy. For 
 the most part, it's too complicated to actually use the fancy gadgets attached to your units so 
 more often than not, the secondary fire feature will go forgotten.
  There are three factions in the game, which to my knowledge, all have nine missions. Whilst the 
 campaigns do feel remarkably brief and disjointed, they are enough to keep you amused for a number 
 of hours.
  The main problem I found with this game was the pacing. It runs too fast and there's simply no 
 option available to slow things down a little. Micromanagement is a factor and it's very easy to 
 get overwhelmed by the AI, despite the bad pathfinding it exhibits. Although in theory it makes 
 things more challenging, more often than not I quit the game out of pure frustration during some 
 of the tougher Allied campaign missions. Despite that, the game was appealing enough to make me 
 want to keep playing.
  
  Overall, the game feels familiar to the Red Alert series. The new faction doesn't seem to add much 
 to the game, but adding a new faction does seem to be a trend in RTS games lately. At the core 
 of Red Alert 3 is a very enjoyable game that's not to be taken too seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youyou132
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  As the other reviewers already said, Red Alert 3 team in EA did not spend much money nor thoughts 
 and time on it. 
  
  Good:
  1. It's new series of red alert. the Red Alert 3. 
  2. came back with better graphics.
  3. continuing? story
  4. new co-op mode.
  5. new super 
 power (Japan)
  
  Bad:
  1. Better graphics don't make the game BETTER
  
  2. Horrible cinematic scenes. no money or much time spent into it.
  
  3. computer system has 
 to be better than the actual graphics and game speed smoothness. CCTW looks better in some aspect 
 and runs better and faster.
  
  4. horrible character designs (tanks, units, buildings, etc.) .
  feels like I am playing a kindergarden 
 game. 
  Although it is kinda future background, what are all those big robots with samurai hats on it.. putting 
 gundams was a bad idea.
  
  5. I know that RA2 had an Asian country of Korea as one of the allies. CCGenerals had China (which 
 made sense) . but RA3 of Japan..? dose it really make sense..?
  
  6. No new unique thing in the game.. just same normal RTS. 
  
  overall:
  EA should have spent 
 more money on it. They should have learned their lesson of BETTER graphics doesn't make the game 
 fun of BETTER. RA3 by EA ruined the RA series. I miss WESTWOOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincentga
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  Extremely Deceived about Command & Conquer Red Alert 3
  
  When I think my favorite game of all time was Command & Conquer Red Alert 2, I'm extremely deceived 
 about Command & Conquer Red Alert 3.
  
  I think they create this one just to make fast money.
  
  They use same engine than Command 
 & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars and make CCRA3.
  
  Even I think they make CCRA3 in same time than CC3TW.
  
  I think EA think we are idiot.
  
 I guess they already create Expansion Pack for this bad game.
  
  EA is like Microsoft. Too big.
  
  Westwood you miss me.
  
  And I hear they will continue 
 with Lord of the Ring.
  What joke.
  
  I'm surprise to see how ugly is CCRA3. Graphic are so bad.
  Like bad toon. Very ridiculous graphic.
 
  
  Like this game was created for 3-8 years old kids.
  
  Even at maximum settings graphics are ridiculous.
  I don't suggest to buy this game.
  Play 
 the demo and you will see how ridiculous this game is...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: franolisse
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - -- -- - --- -- -- - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blixxard
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Where to begin with this instalment of Command and Conquer? Well I am pleasantly surprised, I awaited 
 the games release with little overwhelming anticipation, the old 'what on earth has EA done now?' 
 was at the fore front of my mind. After installing the game and reading the manual to see what 
 units I have to play with it was down to the business of playing the game. After a stunning FMV 
 intro to the game the music and feel was just right. 
  
  There are three campaigns each with 9 missions, the Soviets are the obvious starting choice and 
 then you can follow on with the Allies and Empire of the Rising Sun. Also even if you're a C&C 
 veteran it is worth playing the tutorial for a few laughs and to get the most out the game. The 
 campaign missions themselves are pretty good although at some points it can be a little tedious 
 when you hear the words 'battlefield expanded.' One new addition to the game is a co-commander 
 who aids you and who you can give orders too. However, this is largely at the mercy of the A. I 
 sometimes they don't listen to you or do random things. 
  
  EA have gone at great lengths to get known actors and the cut-scenes are largely well done to a 
 high standard. My only concern was how they have 'over-sexualised' the game. They have hired very 
 attractive female stars, with low cut tops and flirt throughout the game, you even get a poster 
 with them on. All the hero units are female, I would of much preferred the return of 'Boris' from 
 Yuri's Revenge, it could of even been played by Brian Blessed. It just seemed EA have taken what 
 Westwood did with the Red Alert 2, which had a great Allied ending and turned up the sexual aspect 
 of the game tenfold. It is not particularly a sticking point for the game but it seems to have 
 leaped female wise from C&C Tiberian Wars.
  
  Gameplay wise. Well the units are very well designed and each has a neat secondary ability. This 
 can range from a V4 rocket switching from single missile to multi missile load, to an engineer 
 having a temporary speed boost. There is much more emphasis this time around to naval units, you 
 can basically builds on land or sea. This is a great addition however I do feel EA have taken it 
 to the extreme. Nearly every mission has water and sometimes there feels too much emphasis on water 
 based units. At times the gameplay can feel clunky and lacks fasted paced action, a more general 
 war of attrition is fought. One major problem I have with gameplay is the way resources are collected. 
 It back to the old Generals style of single node supplies. It is more of a personal preference 
 rather than a critical game breaking one. Superweapons are a tad bit disappointing. They seem to 
 lack that explosive factor like the nuclear bomb from Red Alert 2. However they are more technically 
 appealing and this seems to be a general way units have developed. Both Allies and Rising Sun have 
 these nice units that feel technical as opposed to the Soviets who focus on pure firepower.
  
  Sound and Music. Frank Klepacki (who produced just about every other C&C soundtrack) has reprised 
 his role in this one. Let's just say he has taken the Red Alert 2 music and cranked it up. Hell 
 March 3 sounds great and overall his music makes the game feel that extra bit special and an extra 
 bit C&C. Sound of units has also been partially lifted from Red Alert 2, so there is a curious 
 mix of the old style sounds to new and better sound effects. This is really demonstrated with most 
 of the Rising Sun units, they feel entirely new and blend in nicely
  
  The great problem with this game is online. An easily corrected problem that hasn't been solved 
 is lack of alphabetical names in the lobby. You have to spend a few minutes looking down the list 
 for the person who wanted an invite to your game which is slightly annoying. Also, rankings and 
 symbols for peoples names like the previous Red Alert are not there. However, online itself the 
 game feels more streamline.
  
  
  Pro's:
  - Great single player
  - Atmosphere of the games feels great
  - Unit designs are great, each faction is very distinct.
 
  
  Cons:
  - Online is poor, and trying to find a co-op player is difficult in the non alphabetical list
 
  - Some of the gameplay feels sluggish, increasing gamespeed helps a bit.
  - Minimap is simply atrocious, flat, ugly and a step backwards.
  
  Overall the pro's out weight 
 the cons and I give it a score of 8.0.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaren_Kuldes
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  In Red Alert 3, the desperate leadership of a doomed Soviet Union travels back in time to change 
 history and restore the glory of Mother Russia. The time travel mission goes awry, creating an 
 alternate timeline where technology has followed an entirely different evolution, a new superpower 
 has been thrust on to the world stage, and World War III is raging. The Empire of the Rising Sun 
 has risen in the East, making World War III a three-way struggle between the Soviets, the Allies, 
 and the Empire with armies fielding wacky and wonderful weapons and technologies like Tesla coils, 
 heavily armed War Blimps, teleportation, armored bears, intelligent dolphins, floating island fortresses, 
 and transforming tanks.
  
  Red Alert 3 asks the question "What If?" What if every bizarre research project and technology 
 experiment for the last 70 years had actually borne fruit? What if the Philadelphia Experiment, 
 time travel theory, teleportation, invisibility, Tesla technology, and a hundred other intriguing 
 research projects had all paid off and gone mainstream? What if the Soviet Union survived and thrived; 
 what would it look like 10 years in the future? What if the Japanese Empire had never fallen and 
 instead became the ultimate high-tech military superpower? The end result is an imaginative and 
 playful vision of an alternate future filled with possibility.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcdeeb4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  Too much clicking. Too much micro. Red alert has always been a game where you set a base real quick, 
 gather resources, and bonk some heads! That was it! Now with RA3, it feels like you need to take 
 your time, build your defenses, climb up the tech tree - ALL THE WAY - and build probably ALL (not 
 only 3 or 4) types of units and then maybe you win! In other words, there are no fast games anymore. 
 I cannot see 4 multiplayer games in an hour. RA series have never been a Warcraft, Starcraft, or 
 to some "turn-based" exaggerated extent, Civilization pace game! However, music, graphics, story 
 line, and the options available for a lengthy strategic game makes RA3 very enjoyable to play. 
 RA3 just needs some time to get used to but will hopefully get back to the level of previous RA 
 games soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0crates
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I can still remember buying the original Command & Conquer for a whopping 50 bucks (big money to 
 a starving grad student in 1995) . That was just about the best 50 bucks I ever spent. I got hours 
 of enjoyment from the single-player campaigns and cheezy cut scenes, and countless sleepless nights 
 from playing head-to-head via 14.4 modem. When the original Red Alert came out a couple years later, 
 picking that up was the best 40 bucks I ever spent. Same story.
  
  Sadly, Red Alert 3 tarnishes the once-great legacy of the Command & Conquer franchise. Generals 
 was the best version released this decade. C&C 3 was a fun diversion for a while, but I tired of 
 it quickly, and it pales in comparison with the now-greatest RTS of all time: Supreme Commander 
 Forged Alliance.
  
  EA managed to ship the game without a full key code, so I got to spend a solid half-hour guessing 
 what the final character might be until it finally worked. What did I get for my efforts? Sheer 
 flat-line.
  
  RA3 is little more than a cosmetic overhaul of the C&C 3 engine. The single-player missions are 
 uninspired and yawn-inducing. I thought I would enjoy the hammy cut scenes, but they are just plain 
 boring (other than the flashes of T&A -- but everyone knows how to find that in much bigger & better 
 doses) . The two main "improvements" are just gimmicks that actually make the game more complicated 
 and hinder any fun you might otherwise have.
  
  One is each unit has some sort of special ability activated by the 'F' key, but it's hard to take 
 advantage of all the different abilities in the zany RTS context, especially when units and structures 
 go BOOM after just a few hits.
  
  The other is a sub-commander that will assist you when you issue rudimentary commands. It can be 
 AI or a real person. But why would anyone want to be someone else's sub-commander? If that's what 
 you want, it's easy enough to make such arrangements in other games without this special "feature."
 
  
  It's a sad, sad day when the best part of a $50 game is the small fold-out poster of the game's 
 hotties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrook
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Pretty bad game overall. The graphics are bad and they are very cartoon-ish. All the units do more 
 combat damage faster so battles are always too short. One point that pisses me off is that your 
 units adjacent to a unit under attack wont do anything unless you step in, absolutely no AI help 
 for you. So you can easily end up with a large group of units being taken out by just a couple 
 if you don't pay enough attention. They made lots of units aquatic and lots of it is just plain 
 stupid, when your island base gets rushed by aquatic Russian War Bears you'll know what I mean. 
 Just a strange game, definitely feels like a remake of Red Alert 2 with even less focus on detail. 
 If you like strategy games with a faster pace though you might get a kick out of this, your able 
 to build more units and harvest more ore faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathsAngel666
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Even though many people says that Red Alert 3 was a flop and failed miserably I do not think that 
 way.
  
  Of course many will whine that RA3 looks cartoony, which was made this way because all Red Alert 
 were made like this.
  
  The basic controls, constructions are all the same. This time however a bit more fancy and the 
 panels takes less place in the game environment which makes you feel more in the battle.
  
  The story is just GREAT. Once again EA and C&C were able to make a good story in the lines of RA3. 
 The characters acts well and for those who wonders yes the girls can be called the "Babes of Red 
 Alert 3".
  However, I must be honest I am beginning to get a bit bored with the Time machine, conspiring and 
 traitors inside Soviets ranks... All the same on this point.
  
  Gameplay is quick to learn, especially with the detailed tutorial which let you looks at the three 
 factions. I found, personal idea, that the tutorial was too much kiddy... having 3 tanks talking 
 to me was feeling like I was listening to a TV show for young kids...
  
  A new addition to the RA3 is the CO-OP game! Either with a computer or with a friend you have to 
 play the campaign which is great and gives new opportunities and makes the campaign way more different. 
 Only bad point : Computer sometimes is kind of stupid as usual.
  
  SUMMARY :
  
  Classic as good as RA2
  Cool new faction and units
  Very good story
  CO-OP : A new addition 
 to campaign.
  
  Overall : Very good. 9.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rperez69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Those who are sick and tired of playing RA2 will find this iteration to a great franchise very 
 enjoyable. While paying homage to its predecessors the game moves forward by introducing new factions 
 (Rising Sun) while keeping much of what we enjoyed previously. Its not fair to say its just a new 
 coat of paint as the AI is better and at the harder levels performs very good surgical strikes 
 as well as continually tests you. The improved network play is a vast improvement which now offers 
 improved co-op play (good bye IPX and good riddance) , not to mention the IP network play whether 
 local or wide plays very well. It's a colorful game and the graphics while not stellar are enjoyable 
 and silly and enjoyable. The cut scenes are campy but fun. The action is intense thank goodness 
 the concept of mindless rushing has less effectiveness of super weapons makes this a much more 
 strategic game. So far its been enjoyable and a well made purchase.
  
  Negatives: 3 patches in less than a week ... not a good start (No crashes so far) . Easy to lose 
 soldiers as in the previous game, AI at times gets stuck and the map count for skirmishes at this 
 time is very limited and needs a lot more map packs. Much of what has been presented can be fixed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkdonky
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  i really don't want to spend much time on reviewing this game it's just terrible, it doesn't contain 
 anything of the old RA's.
  it's terribly chaotic, to much cartoony olmost a kid's game, i grew up with playing RA one of my 
 first CD's where warcraft and red alert, the second red alert disappointed me as well but was playable 
 this is just garbage material i would use it as a frisbee if it's in the garbain bin.
  
  they even managed to screw up the old engine of Warcraft 3 the cutscene's are ok their watchable 
 but if you go for that, youtube them because buying isn't worth it, i played it 20 minutes watched 
 3 cutscenes and thats the only thing that kept me going for every minute of the 20 i was watching 
 tv with 2 medium computers on me wich didn't stand a chance in the chaos i created, this aint a 
 strategy for me. not even close
  
  conclussion don't believe the hype it's just another piece of crap of the money machine EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malstyne
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that stands out is that the graphics are probably worse than some titles from 2002. 
 There are absolutly no lighting, no shadows, and everything is low resolution. EA sells this as 
 a "feature" saying it is "style", fact is it took the programmers about 1/10th the effort to give 
 you cardboard box buildings and units.
  
  The camera will no move out and you cannot see what is around you, kinda like the games from 2002.
 
  
  Units are limited to rock, paper, scissors, cheese. No really, they are all cheesy. There isn't 
 any strategy here, it is the same old, build this to counter that. If anything there is less because 
 you don't have harvesters to protect any more.
  
  This game is another example of the hype machine that is the game industry today. Market the crap 
 out of a shoddy product and throw in a poster is chicks in mini skirts for the kids to wank off 
 to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roadwarrior9
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  One of the least interesting things is the storyline. One of the most interesting things is how 
 the characters have so much trouble guiding their way to the destination you set. Its like the 
 anti ai. They could not come up with something better? Its like a bad comic book. I was looking 
 forward to playing the Japanese Empire but their build process is not good. There are some fun 
 things but they are overwhelmed by an overly hyped box of crayons. I just hope that when the Starcraft 
 2 comes out, they have not made the games the same goofy cheesiness... dont get me wrong, love cheesiness, 
 especially on fries, but when it becomes the games premise, it is like some of the bargain bin 
 games from five years ago! Hey, maybe the next one, or the expansion, might even have jalepenos 
 with the cheeese? I would definitely recommend to buy it if you have nothing better to do with 
 your time than waste it or are under 12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  This by all means is the worst ever red alert i had ever played.
  lets take the graphics for instance:
  where is the graphics ? generals in terms of looks is more 
 realistic this one is like playing a cartoon game come one its a warrrrr game not a cartoon game 
 for kids under 15 even red alert 2 at its time had better gfx for its age.
  
  and since when Russia don't have nuclear power ??? yeah the story is good , the cut scenes are 
 nice but Russia without nucs is like a bicycle with no pedals EA lost it this time 
  and honestly speaking the units fighting power is not fair at all 
  add to that the game is really 
 heavy while i dont see any gfx that needs all that resources
  my system is 
  Asus mobo p45 based chipset with a core2duo 8500 @3.4 with 4 gig ddr2 ram 1066mhz and an nvidia 
 9800gt i guess that beyond enough to play the game with no problems at all all settings set to 
 ultra but still the game needs like 10 minutes to pass the menu thing jeez thats a killer
  
  honestly EA shouldnt buy Westwood studios they knew how to make the game attractive and they 
 knew what gamers want in the game not like EA with their new Marketing concept of we sell what 
 they got
  
  Marketing concepts changed now to sell what the customers need EA maybe you should start thinking 
 of changing your marketing team for a better one
  
  honestly speaking i regret paying money for that game its worst than my worst expectations 
  
 
  and for game spot i don't know how come you said that the game is smooth it aint at all.
  
  seriously this game is over rated.
  and for the audio:
  the music is yak big times the 
 sound effects maybe nice but some classic units like Tanya got her voice worst then ever come on.
 
  
  i really love the CNC series and i waited a long and was really anxious for RA3 but it was a total 
 disappointment i hope they release an expansion or something to fix it up cuz its not playable 
 this way
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lauxanhxanh
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  yes, very bad game. It even worse than RA 2. bad graphic and game play, poor troop types. Sometimes 
 game suddenly crash after introduction video. when it crash, my computer turn into blue death screen 
 and restart ! 
  
  
  I played Soviet union. Apocalypse Tank and V4 tank look ugly. while I use both of them, they often 
 damage each other rather than enemy. I also played Rising Suns, and feel disappoint too ! RA3 just 
 waste my time, I'd rather play RA2 or Supreme Commander. 
  
  RA3 seem just is RA2 in 3D view (a bad view) .
  
  I love every C&C and RA releases, but I'm really 
 disappoint with what RA3 done ! RA3 is just waste money and time. If you think it's worth to buy, 
 please think again !
  
  Game : RA3 version 1.0
  
  Intel (R) Pentium (R) core 2 Duo 2.0
  2GB System RAM
  OS: Microsoft Windows XP Professional SP3
  Video card: Geforce GT 8600
  
 
  
  ==========================================
  PLEASE MAKE RA3 BETTER, I DON'T WANT RA3 LIKE THIS ONE ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostermw
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  I have been playing C&C since it's first edition (by Westwood) and got addicted quickly. I loved 
 Red Alert for it's well-worked out missions. Lot of tensions. Just right balanced. For this release 
 I hooked up with the beta-test, but could not stand it for longer then a couple of hours. This 
 game is a joke. It is an insult to the series. I cannot point my finger to a single defect. It 
 is the whole atmosphere of the game which simply does not feel right. The comics works against 
 it this time .. seems over the top. I want to develop and change my strategy, and work out my plans, 
 but also do some micromanagement. This game simply rushes over you with a lot of noise and too 
 bright colors. The game-play seems some sort of broken, although most of the things still work 
 the same. The graphics are not bad, they simply do not match with the content of the game anymore. 
 I does not draw me in any more ... if you know what I mean.
  
  Sorry to say, but it seems this is the end of an era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kubilius
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  No review from me this time, just a question - can this genre still be called strategy?
  
  Build a random-location base, collect lots of units, click-a-lot, go blow up stuff, next map... it's 
 more and more like an RPG-FPS-PUZZLE game to me. Everything looks just so no "strategic" - units 
 are running around so fast, the graphics look like from a LEGO Batman or Simpsons. Everything is 
 just so fake, unrealistic, not serious and not involving...
  
  You might think that I just hate RTS, but it ain't true - i'm still a big fan of Starcraft, World 
 in Conflict, Company of Heroes, but I do love old-fashioned turn-based strategy more.
  
  Nevermind, maybe it's fun to play online, i dunno, i just tried couple of scenario maps, but I 
 must say that i'm realy glad i tried this game in a shop, instead of buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railroad40
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 4/10 Cartoonish
  Reality 2/0 Kind've cartoonish
  Sounds 3/10 Fair
  Units 2/10 They tried to make it funny like RA2
  Music 8/10 Hell March, Hell March 2 Remixes 
 
  Gameplay 7/10 Pretty Good Gameplay
  Multiplayer 8/10 Gotta' Love it ;)
  
  
  All in all, its worth it, i know i know, its not the same as RA1&CNC1, but its still Command and 
 Conquer! It must not die! Lets atleast try to keep CNC alive! But EA kind've disappointed me, so 
 cartoonish, and the units...... so goofy acting. Too many same units from RA2. But you still gotta' 
 love the Multiplayer Gameplay, at least INFANTRY work properly now, and there is the navy, if you 
 like CNC i recommend it, its not as bad as what everyone says, look at my ratings above to help 
 you make yor final choice............ I still love the game NeverTheLess....
  
  
  
  LONG LIVE WESTWOOD!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lifestinks37
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  wtf is this garbage EA you need to go and take your whole company out for an afternoon of electro 
 shock........................ and ps did me and others mention this game $uk$!!! never make anything 
 this bad again and please come out with a mod someone to at least make this game enjoyable for 
 those of us who bought it and are stuck with it. i admit the girls are hot but hot girls and shooting 
 is not everything. hot girls yes and may i complement them if they ever hear of this but the game 
 it self and the gameplay is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_utdmasta
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  All the hype that was around for this game and its a let down. The gameplay is slow and tedious 
 and every little thing to do is a chore especially with the way it looks. The graphics are dreadful, 
 i know they are supposed to look cartoon like, similar to RA2 but i swear they have gotten worse. 
 Storyline is the same as the others really i mean come on at least change it slightly or something! 
 I liked the look of the Empire of the Rising Sun before release and in the opening video, but they 
 are so.... confusing!
  But i have to admit some of the actors are very good and famous some to and some of the girls they 
 have on there are HOT, like the Allies one (not Tanya) .
  All in all very disappointing, Im only playing it to pass the time really and to try and fill in 
 some classic C&C moments. To be perfectly honest for C&C to be as great as it used to be Westwood 
 is needed, ya cant beat classic C&C or RA1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daanh
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Unit transformations are just to much work. There is so much to do it just makes playing the game 
 such a hassle. It feels as if all the improvements that where made in the past in this genre just 
 got left out. I totally was annoyed about the fact that a lot of times when i send a group of units 
 to a certain spot on the map only half of them actually got there.... the other half ran into an 
 obstacle and just said to its self forget it time for a break. It reminded me off the first C&C 
 game that also had this problem... what happened to the 10 years of improvement. The view feels 
 to much zoomed in. The colors and the irritating little flowers everywhere may be (kind of) a part 
 of the red alert look and feel... but really I would have preferred a more serious less saturated 
 look that made it feel more of a war game and less like a kiddies console game. I am so disappointed. 
 blehhh :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valyvr
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the C&C franchise and especially Red Alert i was so happy that RA3 will come out. 
 After installing and starting the game.... total disappointment.... what the hell?! is everyone drunk 
 in EA? didn't anyone from the team tell them that this game SUCKS?!!! Very very ugly graphics (even 
 with the highest setting still looks like crap) bad gameplay and waayyyyyyy much to simple for 
 a decent RTS fan even casual players i think, extremely idiotic units (i wonder what person came 
 up with these stupid units!!) I like the music.... the rest is absolutely pure garbage. Btw.... what's 
 up with the **** and girls? There are websites for these, i just wanted to play a decent RTS. Another 
 franchise down the drain... Great job Ea... great job...
  
  P. S. The Gamespot rating is 8 probably because they've played another RTS instead of RA3. This 
 game barley deserves a 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onextwo
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  oh this game is out just in time for Thanksgiving.. cuz its a TURKEY!.. Man-Cannon? Whoever came 
 up with that one should be slapped in the face with a Sea Wasp. Graphics? HAHAHA! Everything looks 
 like the bathtub toys you buy at the $.99 Store. The "attack lines", the gigantic pop up boxes, the 
 waypoint arrows are all extremely annoying and cannot be turned off. It likes to crash, too. Alas, this 
 is the bane of a lot of games now.. artsy-fartsy, shiny graphics over solid, tactical gameplay. Red 
 Alert/Afetrmath was the best multiplayer RTS of this franchise. Other than Generals, everything 
 else by EA is just junk -- worthless, un-fun junk. IMO, Supreme Commander is the standard now for RTS, even 
 though its graphics can be hard on your eyes too. RA3 will be $19.99 in no time flat so if you 
 want it just wait a few weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smino
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  The Good: Multiplayer Campaign rocks. I only play coop multiplayer games, and RA3 got it right. 
 In fact in campaign mode, one of you is the lead and the other is there to support the other player 
 (cause distractions, keep them safe while they attack, coordinated attacks) . There are several 
 times where you have to work together closely or you die. For example one team will have a weapon 
 to disable Tesla coils while the other has something to blow them up. Neither is successful on 
 its own.
  The interface is great. I really hated the C&C3 interface where you have to click on buildings 
 to build items. I like the all in one tab approach.
  Buildings and units are pretty straight forward so far.
  
  The Bad: A few glitches in how to 
 continue your campaign. The menu's Should have a coop button right on the main menu, instead of 
 hidden down two or three layers.
  Patches are many, already at 1.03. The third patch.
  Voice over ip quality is very sad. Use Skype (or other free voip software) instead for free, and 
 clear chat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamille
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  After all the hype and the wait - Westwood please come back! This is a major letdown of tooooo 
 much colors and whacky thingies. Yuri was cartoonish but fun with a real sense of armies going 
 to do battle (like the copters morphing into field artillery when they land) - but this?? I was 
 hoping for more punch  that "Whoaaa" factor (aka-the ION CANNON effect)  there are few in that 
 category here (wtf??? - space debris, killer bears???) and yes co-op is cool - wish EA would have 
 done it for CnC 3 or even Generals  now THAT would have been AWESOME!! The naval focus is a good 
 addition for new strategy too. But more than co-op and a few dreadnoughts poking around the pond 
 is needed to fix this thing.
  So, it appears we are stuck with some expensive trippy, imitation to the proud history of Command 
 and Conquer. Hmmm... maybe thats why no demo....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberjannie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Way back in '95 the Command and Conquer series launched. Its first game was Command & Conquer, 
 as the name suggest you command and you conquer. Its one of the RTS game that set the standard 
 for how we now play RTS games.
  
  The story for Red Alert 3 is that the Soviet nation loses the war (Red Alert and Red Alert 2) and 
 now, being pushed back in a corner sees no way to win the war. They then turn to the Soviet researcher 
 (Peter Stormare) who have invented a time machine. They go back in time and ruins the space/time 
 continuum by "removing" Einstein from the face of history.
  Now back in present again they have made a new fatal enemy, Empire of the Rinsing Sun.
  In this 
 spin-off, Japan never lost WW2 and now wants to rid the rest of the world of the brutal barbarians.
 
  
  In campaign mode you get a mission you have to complete. The mission briefing is where all the 
 exciting is at. Known actors like Peter Stormare, George Takei and J. K. Simmons among others push 
 the storyline onward in familiar C&C style.
  
  Now some new features have been implemented in the Red Alert series. Every units now have an extra 
 ability or action it can do. For example, Rising sun does not have any airplane specific unit like 
 the other factions. Instead they have mechs that can walk on land then transform into aviation 
 units. They even have a submarine like unit which transforms into an aviation unit.
  
  This time around they add another feature we desperately wanted to have in RTS since multiplayer 
 was introduced in the genre, Cooperative multiplayer!
  How many times have we not played so-called "comp stomps" where you team up with friends to crush 
 the AI?
  
  Well now you don't have to play those non-story comp stomps anymore, now you can team up with your 
 friends to play the entire campaign cooperatively! Imagine how much better other really good RTS 
 games would have been if you had the same option (think Company of Heroes with your friend!) .
 
  If you don't have any friends and don't like playing with strangers you can play the single-player 
 campaign with a not so helpful but not totally useless AI co-commander. Though this feature is 
 not half bad, the game itself was made to play with other humans.
  
  That said, the game is way fun in multiplayer but it feels lacking in some other areas.
  Unit 
 path-finding is one of them. You will sometimes constantly find your units blocked by units thus 
 creating frustrating moments. In time you learn not to stop and fight in tight places like bridges 
 and valleys.
  
  The graphics are not superior technologically advanced for the genre but its pleasing on the eyes 
 and fits the setting. Look out for fancy water effects.
  
  The campaign took me and a friend of mine about 30 hours on hard difficulty. Personally I think 
 the game is too easy, but that may depend on how you like your games.
  
  Like mentioned above, one big leap for the Red Alert series is the introduction of a new faction, 
 Empire of the Rising Sun. you might be afraid that this move would have drastically balancing problems, 
 worry not. While all factions have their own unique units, all factions have their own strong side 
 and weaknesses. Allies have strong Aviation units. Soviets have the better tanks and Rising Sun 
 have the best versatile units, and infantry units in my opinion.
  When it comes to naval units, all three factions are about equally good.
  
  This is a game 
 players not acquainted with the series can play and enjoy, alongside (coop) with players who have 
 enjoyed the series since 95 and since. 
  Even with its AI problems and easy difficulty level you will enjoy this game, that be alone or 
 with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seventanks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Maybe I just wanted to be wowed too much, but there was just a slight delight after playing. The 
 look of the game is ok as well as the sound. The campaign is fun and the cut scenes are entertaining. 
 The units offer some diversity and have some interesting abilities and the factions do offer some 
 differences from one another. Unit AI is fair and path finding can be a headache. It is pretty 
 straight forward in game play and the missions offer some challenges and are interesting. The addition 
 of co-op play is great although the online accessing and activation is a pain. I guess that is 
 the problem in general, with all this desire and wait for the next game in a long time running 
 series, it is just ok. The game has some great features, especially the co-op play, but it is just 
 another good RTS Game. I guess I wanted more, but am I wrong to ask? This is after all Command 
 and Conquer. Call of Duty 4 blew me away with its fast pace and very diverse missions. Company 
 of Heroes added territory grabbing as part of its strategy to play and ultimately win. Half-Life 
 2 was so fun and had us going with the story. Portal, Gears of War, Far Cry all did something for 
 me and Command and Conquer Red Alert 3 was good, but not great. I will still play and enjoy the 
 campaign, but it did not bring to the table what some other games have brought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottozero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Unlike CNC RA2 this game is in 3D (not a bad thing) , and not 2d therefore the buildings, terrain 
 and troops lake Detail. I perfered the previous art Direction. But Still it is on par with Recent 
 CNC games.
  
  The Movies look Really Great, Good picture quality and Sound is great. The Women are even more 
 beautiful (Cheers) , but so far the over all story line is not that great. The Characters are not 
 as over the top in terms of being funnny like RA2, and to be honest I miss the The old Tanya from 
 part 2 (she was HOT!!) . 
  
  Game play gets some getting used to, but well implemented. I dont particulary like the fact that 
 most Maps are Water Based. I need more Ground. Some of the Vehicles are terrific, and that small 
 video clip that shows you what each unit can do it a PLUS (nice Job on that EA) . I haven't tried 
 Co-Op Yet but will sonner or later... a nice feature to add (again nice job EA) .
  
  
  One more new feature that is cool is that extra Special Attact that is accoumulated after a certain 
 amount of time/score it a good idea. Being able to play as 1 of the 3 factions is great. I have 
 to say that This Game feel like Team Fortress 2 (cartoon style) in that EA is making material for 
 all ages (ya I know its war, but it could of been bloodier) and has taken this series in that type 
 of direction. I take it that the inclusion of the Japanese is also a Marketing ploy to sell more 
 units in Japan (hey not a bad idea should work) .
  
  Here is a Crazy Idea... EA Do a Smash Bros type of Game with Multiple Units from both the CNC universe 
 and CNC RA universe, add the option for RTSs/FPS and you make a Bunch of MONEY$!$$$$$!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Real-Tek
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  Well it seems the EA haters have gone off and decided to smash this game to hell and back.
  
  This isn't the first CnC game for EA to be accused of destroying the franchise, take Tib Wars 
 and more importantly Kane's Wrath for that.
  
  What annoys me most is that this game is constantly being compared to Red Alert 2. Red Alert 2 
 is in a totally different time frame, Einstein is still here, the Japanese are on the Allies, Prism 
 exists etc.
  
  This game is NOT a successor to Red Alert 2.
  It may HAVE 3 on the end of it, but doesn't automatically count it as a successor, its not, Einstein 
 is dead before the start date of the Russian Invasion of America in RA2. 
  
  Now down to the core of the game. Missions are totally immersive, special units such as the Emporor's 
 King Oni (its red, has anti air, it is a King Ownage) , Co-op play, fantastic unit ideas with equally 
 good secondary powers make this game a fun way to have desktop battles.
  
  A lot of people knock this down on realism. Yes, most units are ridiculous off the scale, I mean, 
 what the hell is up with that Magnet on the Apocalaypse Tank (who cares really) . This game isn't 
 totally unrealistic. Looking at the units on realistic to date:
  
  Soviets:
  Conscripts
  Twinblades
  MiGs
  V4 Launchers
  Dreadnaughts
  Akula Subs
  Kirovs (happened 
 in WW1, which actually happened in all Red Alerts)
  Flak Trooper
  
  Allies:
  Attack Dogs
  Peacekeepers
  Vindicators
  Aircraft Carriers (drones... well)
  Guardian Tanks
 
  Apollo Fighters
  Century Bomber
  Javelin Soldier
  Spy
  Riptide ACV (hovercraft)
  
  The Empire:
  Yari Mini-Sub (not totally)
  Shogun Battleship
  Naginata Cruiser
  Tsunami 
 Tank (amphibious tanks exist)
  Burst Drone (unmanned flying vehicle, scouting)
  
  As you can see the game does actually have a good degree of realism, but adds a twist which makes 
 this game more fun to play. 
  
  Another likely reason for the constant knock downs on this fantastic game is its ability to stop 
 the Tank Rush. Many RA2 games and other CnC games resulted in games which were decided on who's 
 Macro for making Tanks was better. Now, it takes a mixed battleforce to take down enemy bases, 
 which is what EA were aiming to do with Tib Wars and KW but never quite got it right. They have 
 stepped up to the plate this time and got rid of the amount of versatile/customisable units and 
 upgrades for certain units (anyone remember the Purifer with Purifying flame upgrade?) .
  
  The graphics are clear and make the game more believable, having a graphics set that looks like 
 any ordinary battlefield would instantly take away the wackyness and acually cause a clash with 
 stupid units on a realistic setting.
  
  All in all, this game is fantastic. Granted, it has flaws, pathfinding a key issue and units getting 
 stuck etc.
  
  If anything, don't believe the amount of people giving this game a bad name. Over 40k of people 
 went and played the Beta, and nearly all contributed to the forums on the CnC website (I was one 
 of them) , and this was 2 weeks into launch of the Beta. 
  
  Welcome Back Comrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Review Deck
  
  Vista 64 bit Ultimate
  4GB DDR2 Ram
  Geforce 8800 GTS
  Intel E8400 1333fsb
  
  
  I am one of the CNC series' biggest fanboys - I own every title 
 even going back to the CNC predecessor, Dune 1, so obviously I awaited Red Alert 3 with eager anticipation 
 - AND WHAT A TOTAL LETDOWN ! 
  
  EA bought the rights to the CNC series from the original game studio, Westwood and they have screwed 
 what was literally the greatest RTS franchise. EA have done to CnC, what Ubisoft have done to Far 
 Cry
  
  I'm not going to go into the ins and outs of whats wrong with this game in any depth because to 
 be honest it doesn't deserve my time.
  
  
  Out of the box
  
  The game comes as a massive install - almost 10gb. That's not because of the extensive game content 
 but because of the very long cutscreens. I'm not complaining about the cutscreens (especially as 
 they are full of babes!) , the CNC series were the first games to do cutscreens and do them well, 
 but these are incredibly long, boasting a cast of B-Movie ham actors wearing terrible costumes 
 that look like they were made by their mothers for Halloween.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  GFX are pretty awful - They follow much the same lines as the original red alert and look 10 years 
 out of date. In fact I would go as far as to say the graphics are appallingly bad. This is 2008, 
 not 1996 when RA2 came out. Compared with CNC Tiberium Wars (out earlier this year) , World in Conflict 
 and Company of Heroes, RA3 looks decidedly sad and old. The game just appears low rez with poor 
 textures. The player cannot zoom in and out far enough. The only good graphical aspect is the water.
 
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Standard RTS fayre but the units are ridiculous with their abilities eg tanks that catapult infantry 
 hundreds of yards, dolphins with sonic weapons and parachuting bears. AI is terrible. 
  
  To be honest everything about the game comes across as very tongue in cheek, there is no seriousness 
 to it and it feels like it would only appeal to the 10- 12 year old age bracket.
  
  
  Sound
  
  Spoiled by an incessant heavy rock soundtrack
  
  
  Value for money
  
  There's 
 lots of playtime her with 3 single player missions to complete and never ending online play. No 
 doubt other players will make gameplay mods and new maps for it in time
  
  
  Stability
  
  The game is very stable with no crashes or glitches which is not surprising given the game's 
 low requirements.
  
  
  Graphics 5
  Gameplay 7
  Stability 10
  Value for money 9
  
  Overall 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yacbos
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  This by all means is the worst ever red alert i had ever played.
  lets take the graphics for instance:
  where is the graphics ? generals in terms of looks is more 
 realistic this one is like playing a cartoon game come one its a warrrrr game not a cartoon game 
 for kids under 15 even red alert 2 at its time had better gfx for its age.
  
  and since when Russia don't have nuclear power ??? yeah the story is good , the cut scenes are 
 nice but Russia without nucs is like a bicycle with no pedals EA lost it this time 
  and honestly speaking the units fighting power is not fair at all 
  add to that the game is really 
 heavy while i dont see any gfx that needs all that resources
  my system is 
  Asus mobo p45 based chipset with a core2duo 8500 @3.4 with 4 gig ddr2 ram 1066mhz and an nvidia 
 9800gt i guess that beyond enough to play the game with no problems at all all settings set to 
 ultra but still the game needs like 10 minutes to pass the menu thing jeez thats a killer
  
  honestly EA shouldnt buy Westwood studios they knew how to make the game attractive and they 
 knew what gamers want in the game not like EA with their new Marketing concept of we sell what 
 they got
  
  Marketing concepts changed now to sell what the customers need EA maybe you should start thinking 
 of changing your marketing team for a better one
  
  honestly speaking i regret paying money for that game its worst than my worst expectations 
  
 
  and for game spot i don't know how come you said that the game is smooth it aint at all.
  
  seriously this game is over rated.
  and for the audio:
  the music is yak big times the 
 sound effects maybe nice but some classic units like Tanya got her voice worst then ever come on.
 
  
  i really love the CNC series and i waited a long and was really anxious for RA3 but it was a total 
 disappointment i hope they release an expansion or something to fix it up cuz its not playable 
 this way
  
  EA start listening to what gamers need not what your decolorising teams tell you we are the ones 
 who play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 3 is the newest installment to the command and conquer franchise, the sequel to the wildly 
 popular Spinoff series, while this game is great, it draws to many simularities to the Tiberium 
 Wars.
  
  The story goes is that one day, the soviets thought, "Hey, what the hell, lets go kill Einstein 
 back in time!", they did, this disabled the Americans developing Nuclear weapons, now the soviets 
 and the allies are now at war, but during this whole conflict, there flanks are left exposed to 
 the Japanese, while the whole story is has an interesting setup, it just doesn't drive you to care 
 what happens to the nations, all the female commanders are depicted by sport's models and what 
 not, that's not exactly what I would like to see in the military, your reporting to your mission 
 coordinator, I guarantee you are going to be seeing the Russian Mission coordinators skin-tight 
 suit, looking down at her cleavage, thanks EA, Now I am too uncomfortable to play the Singleplayer 
 campaign.
  
  Something new that is very fun to play around with is the Coop feature which is a new thing in 
 the RTS genre, you can play the SP story together, this makes all the missions more satisfying, 
 and actually makes doing some of the bonus objectives easier, and playing with a real player really 
 does take your mind off the AI Commander that would normally be playing with you, if you had played 
 solo.
  
  The AI in the game is a very tricky foe indeed, on medium, they do there job, but the real money 
 and challenge comes in if you were to be playing the game on hard, on hard, they switch up there 
 tactics, depending on what you do, if you do too much land, they will kick your ass with bombers, 
 but this usually only happens with the Allies, if you want to succeed in Skirmish battles, you 
 must utilize the scout units in the game, trust me, they will save you ass...
  
  The Strategy in the game is fine, but the only problem is that it feels to similiar to Command 
 and Conquer 3, that's not good in my opinion, Red Alert shares the same name as Tiberium wars, 
 but surely you can make more changes to the formula to at least make the two a little different 
 to each other, when I looked at the Apocalypse Tank, mine as well be the **** Mammoth Tank, the 
 Hammer Tank? Predator Tank! Tesla Troopers? Mine as well be the **** Zone Troopers! EA LA, Get 
 with the **** program, if you are going to make a Red Alert 3, least have the decency to make completely 
 new units! You might have noticed that there is a new dynamic to the gameplay, sea combat, why 
 this is a great idea on paper, it just didn't feel right in execution, in my opinion, its hard 
 enough to fight on land, but when your also dealing with the sea, it becomes way to cumbersome 
 for its own good, and during sea combat, your versatility is limited to taking down naval bases 
 and other ships, least that is what I have been encountering so far, lemme ask you one question 
 however, why can battlecruiser's attack Submarines? Let's talk about more similarites between Red 
 Alert 3 and Command and Conquer 3, first off, they are the third generation in each franchise, 
 bad joke and observation I know, but on topic, there resources? Its Ore deposits, they mine as 
 well be Tiberium Fields, they have limited resources located at each depot, the air fields? They 
 to use the 4 a field system, come on EA, get with the times, this game depresses me, I really don't 
 feel like spending 60 bucks on another Tiberium Wars. They did manage to cram one idea that is 
 different, remember how in Tiberium Wars they had squads of infantry units? Well they thought, 
 "Hey wanna do something guys? Lets hamper the effectiveness of Infantry by giving them one for 
 300!" They got rid of squads in place for 1 marine, thanks... that's going to do alot to a squadron 
 of helicopters... ever seen the tech progression in the game? Looks like a rehashing of Tiberium, 
 for the soviets, build the Battle Tech, Thats the Russian Euphamism for "TECH CENTER!!", for the 
 Allies, you must buy in the MCV, wow... thats different...
  
  The three sides... Wtf... again... its like Tiberium Wars, Soviets are basically GDI! All the strongest 
 Land units, Allies are the **** Scrin! And Japan is NOD! Wow... Soviets have the strongest tanks 
 in the game, meaning you have to try and stay on land as much as possible to win the game, just 
 like GDI in C&C 3, Japan? Bunch of advanced techy's, they have all these versatile units, and cloaking 
 units, you know what that reminds me of? NOD STEALTH TANKS!!! Allies are scrin, wanna know why? 
 STRONGEST AIR UNITS!!!! I think I am done...
  
  The Graphics are very colourful! Looks like a comic book, everything looks like it could have been 
 cel-shaded if they wanted to, the lighting and water effects are done very well, light shimmers 
 off the waves of water, the lighting is bright and illuminates any building on the ground, the 
 explosions are satisfying to see, nice to see building's tumble to the ground, ground units such 
 as tanks look awesome, Some tanks could have been bigger, you know for an apocalyse tank, its not 
 much bigger than the MBT of the Soviets, some Super-Heavy Tank ya got there Stalin... The sound 
 is hit-and-miss, explosions, gun fire, and maybe one or two segments of voice-overs are done very 
 well, but the rest of it is GOD-AWFUL! The acting in the game is staler than 5 week old bread, 
 Russian accents are way to forced, the Allies just sound annoying (Don't even want to mention Lt. 
 Eva Mckenna, looks kind of whorish in my opinion, top that she is just flat out annoying, well 
 including the Russian Coordinator, I mean come on, I am dam skippy if I see someone like that leading 
 me into battle...) Please, you play this game, try to have music play in the backround to cover 
 up the voice overs!
  
  They were so lucky that I loved the C&C 3 combat, it was satisfying, and it did what the C&C series 
 did best, strategy, because if it weren't for the satisfying combat, I would have thrown this out 
 on the curb and would have stomped on it, and possibly lit it up with fire crackers, if you are 
 looking for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MekkZ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  For those of you who loved Red Alert 2 and were looking for a great successor, like me, well you're 
 in for a shock just as much as I was . . . Red Alert 3 ain't what it's cracked up to be.
  First off, the co-op kills the campaign missions because, unless your playing with a friend, you're 
 saddeled with a witless A. I.
  Then let's discuss why it seems half single player missions have some kind of time limit, cutting 
 short the opportunity to really take your time and really eviscerate your enemy.
  The online play is fine and I should know since I participated in this game's beta and spent 2 
 months playing online with the same two maps.
  I really enjoyed Tiberium War and Kane's Wrath but Red Alert 3 just feels like EA missed the mark 
 on this one, experimenting on too many new concepts.
  If your more of an online player anyway this game is great, but don't expect too much from the 
 campaigns on account that they feel so rushed and haphazard you won't want to play them again for 
 a long time (if at all) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G00dEgg
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  Red Alert has been the grandfather of RTS alongside with Warcraft. RA had been a game with operation 
 simplicity but the toughness comes from the technical handling of the units compared to WAR where 
 operation complex but technically simple.
  
  This new Red Alert 3 by EA had retained most of its Operation Simplicity which is the key interest 
 point I believe for most of the RA players like me. I do not like to spend to much time to think 
 and manage things like food and pop count but go straight into the heart of combat operations. 
 
  
  This new RA has introduced a system of secondary weapon system. This indeed add complexity to the 
 game as units are required special care instead of leaving them there to use their special skills 
 like the old mirage tanks. But shortcut keys are the angels to problems like this. When u group 
 them up u could hit F1 to F6 to chose which unit type to change their weapon system.
  
  They had also changed the mining sequence to much simpler refinery in front of the mine but I need 
 to bring in the fact that it has also undermined the importance of alternative mining and also 
 mining strategies. Which makes it easy for enemy to cut ur resource off.
  
  To put it simple, RA had prove the point that if u can't make the 3D effects as good as reality 
 then dun do it. Make it cartoon like so it is more enjoyable. I personally don't like the fact 
 that much of the unit's classic ability has changed so I am like playing a new game all over. I 
 really missed how mirage tanks used to work, as well as the spies.
  
  Good Job. It did not fall short of my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ENVYHYSTERIA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  i have played rts for over a decade now. command and conquer has always been close to my heart 
 theres something about the style of fighting, building a base very quick and grabbing a few tanks 
 and away you go to fight. this is a total letdown. the graphics are impressive but unit wise and 
 direction they took is a bit confusing. this game is a shame to the whole entire franchise but 
 when i get my Qcore up soon in the following week or so ill play it more. im kinda left with the 
 feeling like i just got butt raped again for cash and i feel like a fool its sad i gave it the 
 benifit of the doubt abd i already knew the outcome. just me being a die hard rts fan and a c&c 
 fan for so long i just want to say thanks ea for ruining one of the best franchises of all time. 
 you guys are great .
  
  the babes are fun to see . i meen the cutscenes take me back but i soon come to reality and realize 
 this is it this is really the new red alert . ^slaps face in amazement. 
  
  SC2 is coming soon this was just a stepping stone to help me break away from my wc3 and d2 addiction. 
 NOTICE my pattern. BLIZZARD titles....... it seems all dev teams besides them perfect there games 
 and give the fans what they deserve which is 110% commitment not crap games like this . seriously 
 dont buy this you will be letdown just like me and i love RTS over any gaming avaible/ this is 
 the day and age where a$$holes like EA just want money and thats all that matters . there is hope 
 though as i mentioned above SC2 D3 
  
  EDIT 12/20/08 
  
  i was very very wrong that was my first instincts up above when playing the game. multiplayer has 
 changed this greatly its actually a very good game. i havent been able to stop 1v1ing on the multiplayer 
 very snappy gameplay when the lag is not bad. every unit having the flip 2nd fire mode is actually 
 pretty cool. so it becomes a matter of who does it first or w/e ... but give it a chance i did 
 and i totally changed my outlook on it. i actually find myself playing this more than anything 
 now . go figure, i feel like a tool now.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcvax2003
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Terrible. My eyes can't take any more bright colors
  Audio: Too much recycled garbage
  Video: Hot babes, some good B-movie actors (this is where the 
 3.0 rating came from)
  Story: Huge negative. The RA franchise always had potential, but they decided to make it even more 
 ridiculous.
  Gameplay: Here we go again, don't ya know, you betcha, they decided to remove all aspects of strategy 
 by forcing you into a s***storm of insane, extremely fast paced, dumbed down gameplay with unrealistic 
 units only a 10 year old would love. Special abilities for each unit are pointless when there isn't 
 any time to activate it in a meaningful way.
  
  conclusion: Gamespot has lost any credibility they had left after the recent ratings of RA3 and 
 Farcry 2. Both were terrible games that deserve mediocre scores at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: td_tempest
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 3. Successor to the highly acclaimed Red Alert 1, and RA2 and Yuri's Revenge. That's 
 quite alot to live up to. Unfortunately, its not quite able to live up to all that.
  
  First, the story. The Soviets take a leaf out of Albert Einstein's book, go back in time and erase 
 Albet himself. Unfortunately, no Albert, no nukes, no nukes, no Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and enter 
 the Japanese. Kinda standard RA fare; its how the series started in the first place.
  
  Now, the factions. They all feel like they should; the Soviets staunche reliance on heavy armour, 
 the Allies on high tech power and well trained soldiery. I'll leave the Japanese for last. 
  
  The Tesla tank is no more, replaced by the Stingray, an amphibious Tesla ship. The Hammer tank's 
 ability is pretty nifty, letting it steal the weapon of a dying unit while healing itself. They 
 also have a reliable attack chopper, though I feel that it should've stayed on the Allies. The 
 Kirov has returned, with a rocket booster that will damage it as long as its on. The Dreadnought 
 is back, as is the ever-present Soviet submarine (Personally, its my favorite naval unit) . Boris 
 and Jarmen Kell have been combined into Natasha. And the new Tesla Trooper looks like an Elemental. 
 That kinda wraps up the highlights for the Reds.
  
  The Allies have some nifty units. The Cyrocopter is ... well. Interesting. The ever present destroyer 
 has returned, with the ability to climb onto the ground. Allied airpower is still dangerous, with 
 the addition of the Century carpet bomber. The Guardian tank has a surprisingly big gun, but fires 
 slower than the Hammer, and has noticably weaker armour. The Aircraft Carrier returns, with the 
 ability to shut down defenses in an area. And the Mirage and Prism tanks get merged into the new 
 Mirage tank. 
  
  Now, my gripes. The Allies repair units with a repair radius around their buildings, while the 
 Soviets simply erect a crane. The crane, however, has a much smaller footprint and larger repair 
 radius, which means its much more efficient at repairing units than the Allies. It also adds a 
 building queue. The Allies have no simple way to add building queues. They also have to constantly 
 upgrade their clearances at their outposts or MCVs to build advanced units. The Soviets just have 
 to climb the tech tree once. Also, the only Allied chopper has no damage potential. It has lots 
 of offensive potential, sure, but sometimes I'd prefer to be able to kill rather than simply freeze. 
 Its also much easier for allies to blow apart garrisoned structures rather than march Peacekeepers 
 in.
  
  Factions aside, the campaign is much too short. 30 missions in total, albeit with multiple stages. 
 Ore is also slow in coming home in campaigns, because income is split between you and your co-commander. 
 I'd much rather prefer the ability to send resources. Speaking of co-commanders, their abilities 
 in the campaigns are UTTERLY RANDOM. In one mission, my co-commander finished his half of the objective 
 in 20 minutes flat. When I replayed it, he barely made a dent in the Soviet forces. Also, if you're 
 supposed to be a NAVAL FLEET commander, WHY are you massing INFANTRY?? That aside, co-op campaign 
 is probably the best thing since sliced bread. Its infintely more fun with a human backing you 
 up. For one, you have actual co-ordination.
  
  Now, on to the source of much controversy; the Japanese. When you figure that the erasing of Albert 
 Eistein means the Japanese never got nuked, it actually makes alot of sense for them to be around, 
 because they never really got stopped during WW2. One of their missions is, in fact, defending 
 Pearl Harbour from Allied naval assault. Breathe in the irony. Their MCVs produced nano-cores, 
 which unfold into structures anywhere. Which means expansion is extremly easy, no need for expansion 
 vehicles for them. They are also extremely high tech, with beam katanas, laser beams, and an extremely 
 overpowered artillery piece called the Wave Force Artillery.
  
  There's nothing else really of note for the Japanese faction, save that its like a collection of 
 anime fantasies. The Mecha/Jet Tengu is obviously inspired by Macross, and Yuriko Omega is bascially 
 a successful Alma. The only stuff of real note in their army is their navy. Their battlecruisers 
 are like RA1's cruisers, but they actually hit their targets. Their cruisers are surface versions 
 of Soviet subs, and can fire a spread of torpedoes instantly. They also have a pair of submarines, 
 one a mini-sub with a kamikaze ability, the other is an anti-air sub which can switch into an anti-infantry 
 plane in a snap. And their main battle tank can go on water to assist as well. The biggest thing 
 to master for them is their transforming units. Only 3, but each one can transform, and they specialize 
 in different things when in different forms. 
  
  All in all, Red Alert 3's most striking point is its water effects, seeing as how the gameplay 
 now centers around sea combat alot more. Its AI is competent, but somehow lacking. The musical 
 score, is nice, but I can only hear it because I have the music CD. Normally, the rock music that 
 comes on during combat lasts throughout the mission. No idea why though. Personally, I feel that 
 it could have been alot more. Especially if they had redesigned the interface, maybe having more 
 detailed mini-maps, and not using TW's own interface. They merely streamlined it, but it still 
 feels like I'm just playing a TW mod, not a whole new game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaka790
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Needs more maps 6 players and needs more detail on game options. Should let your grab maps from 
 Red Alert 2 or C&C 3. Like the Co-Op feature. I WANT MORE MAPS, RIGHT NOW. I enjoy the Empire of 
 the Rising Sun especially the Naval Group. It is easier to build units and manage them. We see 
 the pure exsitement and enjoyment of information by pressing the "?" (Question Mark) within the 
 game to find out more aboutthe units and their special abilities. Even the Dog and Bear have them 
 too.
  
  If you did not buy Game Stop Exclusive Version, you are missing out on the extra maps; 1 vs 1 and 
 2 vs 2. I completely enjoyed playing these maps. Furthermore in was a pleasure to see a New Map....... lol
 
  
  
 
  
  tHANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND PATIENCE IN THIS AND FUTURE MATTERS.
  
  BROTHER ALI, VP PEOPLE IN ACTION @ BMCC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eescobar81
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  No puedo creer que despues de esperar tanto este titulo y con la aceptacion que lograron C&C GENERALS 
 y C&C GENERALS ZERO HOURS, crearon un juego tan aburrido y lento!, perdio toda la emocion del juego 
 y por favor que paso con la tecnologia TESLA!!!!, parece que es de mentira, yo me preguntaria si 
 Tanya podria ir corriento contra un Tesla Coil en el original RA!, y donde estan las unidades de 
 RA2?, el tanque MIRAGE disparando tecnologia prisma, no existen los generadores GAP como estructura!, 
 y no vamos a hablar de la unidades AEREAS!, dan pena los se que los juegos no se pueden comparar 
 pero esperaba tener por lo menos una unidad que tenta el poder de fuego de un AURORA ALPHA!, tampoco 
 existen las contramedias para actualizar los aeroplanos, Sin mas creo que este juego fue arruinado, 
 EL TIBERIUM WARS presenta menores graficos y una menor jugabilidad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Yes, EA sometimes really knows how to ruin the game. Even that guy that everyone favors (ex gamespot 
 guy or something) didn't contribute enough to change this failure. Is it really that hard to mimic 
 the old C&C: Red Alert? The first part seems to be un-repeatable and it will never be outplayed. 
 This is a game for 3-8 year old children. The stupid Russians, pretty cartoony graphics, everything 
 is cute and nothing shows even a bit of seriousness in whole game. Is this a comedy game all of 
 the sudden?
  
  There is a nice part anyway. The water is done beautifully. I could watch it all day. And the movies 
 too are greatly done and that's actually the only thing that can and WILL keep you going in this 
 game. 
  As for units that's a joke. Almost every unit has a special ability that can be executed with 
 a mouse click or shortcut F. That's something you probably won't use in critical situations, unless 
 it's a toggle ability. Useless and stupid. Imagine you have 40 units in total, and 4 types of those 
 units in 1 group and you want to use only one ability from one specific unit. You're after some 
 unit hunting in heat of battle, wasting time on that kind of management. Passive abil. should have 
 been implemented here.
  
  But then again, who am I to judge? You just might like this piece of as a collector. As for RTS 
 gamer haha don't make me laugh.
  
  I give it 3 cause of movies. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkfirestorm
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 31, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Sadly it appears most of this games developement budget went into the FMX cutscenes, The graphics 
 are just as cheap and tacky and the main menu., and the first thing I thought after loading the 
 fist level was is that it, is that the very best you can do.
  
  Graphics of course aren't everything in a game but it kind of appears they went out spent a bucket 
 load of cash on the FMV then someone realised they had nothing left to spend on the game.
  
  It looks more suited to release 10 years ago than today, supreme commander it most certainly 
 isn't, while the game itself plays okie, it certainly doesn't offer anything new and there's no 
 real wow factor or innovation to this game.
  
  I've given it a 6 because it's nothing really special, there's nothing majorly wrong with it, but 
 then there's nothing majorly right with it either, and your left playing more for the cheesey acting 
 cutscenes than you are for the game sadly.
  
  It's kind of like going to a restraunt and being served a steak the size of a postage stamp, it 
 may taste okie but your just left wondering where's the rest?
  
  
  And with so many great example of this Genre you can't help but compare and this one falls very 
 short, it's no supreme commander that's for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  well. that was quite a joke if i do say so myself. and oh! here's another. Guys got shot to death 
 in a split second. and guess by whom? girls. is this suppose to be something called "women's right"? 
 or something to do with players fetishes?
  
  ehem. well. i've always been a fan of Westwood's/ EA's Command & Conquer series of games but lately 
 they haven't been digging their brains properly.
  
  you see, it may be HURRAH! adding the Japanese army into the foray, but this isn't what i was expecting. 
 it looks to me like Command & Conquer 3 is a joke. LITERALLY. if i were to compare it with Tiberium 
 Series, its storyline is really bad. at least tiberium have a clear long time antogonists named 
 KANE and the forces of NOD. for this. you don't even know who you're suppose to be fighting against. 
 its like the Allies are bad, the Soviets are bad and the Japanese are bad. there are no CLEAR antogonists 
 in this game. and what are you fighting for.
  
  and then there is gameplay. resources wise. it ends up being used too fast and suddenly there aren't 
 any more ways for a person to get resources. and unlike the tiberium extractors (the one where 
 it looks like a pole) all the other extractors are destroyable which is also bad then there is 
 also units. compared to maybe. the Tiberium series of games. most of the units are like overpowered. 
 but then overpowered units comes at a price. but for RA3. the price is high but the units are useless. 
 albeit the Empire of the Rising sun units are too overpowered. a few Rocket Angels could take out 
 a whole Allied Base early in the game and co commander styled battles are more of a nuisance then 
 a helping hand.
  
  though even with its shortcomings it is still a nice game to play. albeit for the fun of it. and 
 besides Red Alert 3 would probably be a seat-warmer to the next StarCraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoscang
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I have always grown up with the Westwood studios games. I had Command and Conquer and Command and 
 Conquer Red Alert on release day back in the 90's. I played through 10 hours CO-OP on the soviet 
 campaign and I love this game. I was a fan of Red Alert 2 but when the expansion came out while 
 it was good a Yuri side really didn't make sense. I love the poorly acted (purposely) scenes with 
 George Takai and Tim Curry. 
  There were some initial issues that I ran into, I was running a beta NVIDIA driver and my computer 
 kept crashing. I went back to the latest regular driver and everything was smooth. I also had a 
 CD key not valid error but was fixed in less then a day. The load time for menus seem kind of ridiculous 
 but nothing a patch can't fix. 
  
  I didn't find the friend system all that hard. I just went into a lobby my friend was in and invited 
 him. 
  As far as game play, it's a blast crazy units and every unit has a special attack. All 3 factions 
 seem different but not overpowered. I am not hating on any of the people who gave it lower scores 
 but seriously how much have you played?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarem
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting six years since Yuris Revenge, FOR THIS CRAP!? I don't think the Westwood team 
 was involved in this project at all. EA has dumbed this game down. Yes the premise of this game 
 was always campy, but the gameplay was always top-notch and level design allowed for intense battles. 
 The score (music) for this game is terrible, totally goes against the war theme. All the stages 
 are terrible in this game! even the radar looks like something out of a game from 1980s. 
  
  They have taken out so many of the awesome units they had in Red Alert 2. There are no deployable 
 G. Is or Guardians. They have taken out the ore mining aspect of it, the Japanese units are totally 
 out of proportion with the soviets and the allies, you are unable to see enough on the map, ones 
 units die by the time you are alerted that they are under attack. The bot coop totally does not 
 work. I was not expecting this to come from people that made games like generals and tiberium wars
 
  
  The only thing i can say i like about this game was the water, it looked good. The cut scenes were 
 not nearly as good as they in RA2. Definitely not worth your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saltfordstar
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  It always seems that everyone gets exited about C&C game when they come out, especially now they 
 have ventured onto consoles along with the PC. Red Alert 3 is no different with the usual mix of 
 cheesy but entertaining FMV's (with a quite amazing cast this year I feel) and simple yet engaging 
 base and combat structure system you know you are going to have a RTS that will be a good, solid, 
 entertaining game.
  
  This in itself is the problem with Red Alert 3 and the whole C&C franchise as a whole, there seems 
 to be no real advancement from their tried and tested method, though the new co-op missions are 
 quite cool, but apart from that the system seems stale unlike games like Company of Heroes which 
 tried to move the RTS genre on with its combat focused game-play.
  
  However the game is still another solid, enjoyable attempt from the C&C team and no one, if their 
 new to C&C or series vets will be disappointed with the single, or the again strong (as it always 
 is in C&C games) on-line play
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuconteaza
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  In short: A perfect 5. EA's mediocrity strikes again.
  But i'm willing to change that to 8 or 9 if i get payed too, like all the major review sites.
 
  
  Story : Something with time travel AGAIN. Alternate universes AGAIN. Just an excuse to introduce 
 Japan. There is nothing worth talking about. Like pornos have a plot line is an excuse for the 
 "cute" part.
  
  Sounds : The voices aren't as good as the previous C&C games. But the real problem is that you 
 will be hearing "enemy detected" every 10 seconds max. You can't turn it off, you can only sit 
 there trying to mentally block it.
  
  Graphics : Now i like candy as much as the next person... but i don't wanna play a game that feels 
 like it's giving my eyes diabetes.
  
  Gameplay : Exactly like tiberium wars. It's a MOD for TW. At first i thought it was some kind of 
 tribute but it just seems lazy to me. Examples include the buildings with the little robots around 
 them that repari, the sound for achieving veterancy, the apocalypse tank has the mammoth tank's 
 skin etc.
  And a little touch of Generals thrown in there as the apaches for example are now on the russian 
 side.
  
  C&C Red Alert 3 : This game is as RA3 as the second game in Far Cry is Far Cry 2. They just have 
 the names of things but that's it. It's a Tiberium Wars mod. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  If it is C&C it doesn't mean that it is good, especially when it comes from EA  which has shown 
 it's real face in the past few years that it is all about the money, and not about the game (r) s.
 
  
  Am i missing something into he game or what? Why is the score so high except to lure people at 
 buying really crappy game?
  
  I don't see anything good int he game  it has cheap graphic, really nothing special, disastrous 
 missions and mission briefing which looks like TV show for 5 year old kids. The graphic is so "nice 
 and shiny" that with such contrast color picking it would hurt even the blind guy. Sound is cheap 
 and units  well, you can count them on the finger of your hand, especially when they start to 
 repeat themselves (you can produce half the units in the vehicle factory and in the naval factory) . 
 The only nice thing is unit transformation. Everything else is average or below it.
  
  I can understand the high score for the game from people who are new to RTS, but people who have 
 played C&C form the first title, trough the all the series (Red Alert, Tiberium Wars, Generals) 
 would surely agree that the series is going the wrong way. The game play has been ruined, the story 
 has been lost.
  
  Except for avarage graphic (yes, it's nothing special like others say  I run it with everything 
 on high and It looks nothing but average with bad color picking) . Some people say the game is supposed 
 to be fun ad it should be played as such. Well, it isn't fun for me when units can't find path 
 to the destination, get stuck by one another or by buildings, unit number is so low that you ask 
 yourself WTF is the installation so large and so on The game can be fun, but not this one. This 
 one is MAKING FUN OF THE GAME (RS) .
  
  To make long point short:
  amazing: sorry, you won't find that in this game
  Good: unit transformation
  average: graphic
 
  bad: story, missions, unit path finding, color picking, unit diversity
  really sucks: that this is sold as C&C title
  
  Sorry mates, it just isn't worth buying nor 
 playing. Especially after you have red THIS new policy form EA:
  http://gmes. slashdot. org/games/08/10/31/004213. shtml 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outsider1580
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 31, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  I was hoping to have a fun time with RA3 instead I was let down again my the glorious EA, but what 
 else is new. Isn't it just like EA to obtain rights to an awesome franchise simply to lay utter 
 ruin to it. If you want to play RA3, go ahead and play it but don't say I didn't warn you! I am 
 sure most of us who played RA2 were expecting to be blown away by RA3 but all you will be is let 
 down, wow what an utter disappointment. I wouldn't suggest ever purchasing this game under any 
 circumstance. At this point for the review I still need 400 more words, I however feel that there 
 is nothing more to say  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegrimmreefer
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely abyssmal.... worst C&C to date. I guess EA has never heard the expression "If it isn't 
 broken, don't fix it." Because the RA series definitely wasn't broken at the end of RA2: YR, but 
 it has been decapitated and dismembered in the coming of RA3.
  
  Gameplay - No tactics or strategy. Spam blobs, send at base, rinse and repeat. Been there done 
 that. Too many units IMO, and everything is amphibious almost, even Engineers. Lack of substance, 
 lots of flashy colors, no real flavor. Units are cartoonish and retarded looking. Warning system 
 is horrible, and doesn't warn well. Japanese school girl takes out my base, and I get 0 warnings 
 that I'm under attack, did the girl take out or mindwarp my notification system? Must be her special 
 ability.
  
  Graphics - Was this game made in 1998? If you look at anything but the water, you would think so. 
 Yet again, cartoonish and fake looking.
  
  Sound - Nothing out of the ordinary.
  
  Actors - 10 just for the mere fact its hot women.
  
  Best Feature - The poster of the girls 
 of RA3.
  
  Don't waste your time or money, especially if your a C&C fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say I think this game is fun, but somehow I expected more. I have been playing 
 Company of Heroes at the same time as this game, and I guess the analogy would be that Command 
 and Conquer 3 is cotton candy while Company of Heroes is a steak.
  Command and Conquer is fun for a while, and the Campaign so far (playing as soviets) is interesting.
 
  The weird units are fun, but I guess I expected a "bit"
  more realism, and the characters are so cartoonish that it is impossible to identify with them.
 
  The main criticism I have of the game is that it is too much like Command and Conquer 3 and Kane's 
 wrath.
  Maybe that is the whole point of the game, but it seems that some new gameplay mechanics could 
 have been implemented.
  The other criticism I would note is that the game engine needs to be updated. For crying out loud, 
 the same engine has been used since BFME 2. For some reason in this game the graphics to me look 
 worse than C @ C 3 and Kane's wrath, and I even get slowdowns on high setting at low resolutions 
 with a fairly decent PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allinchrist7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Gay graphics, Gay story, stupid flaunting chicks with masculine egos and what else...... the only 
 reason i gave it a 7.5 is because of its predecessors.. kind of like .. "i have some respect for 
 you because of your superiors..." The gameplay was somewhat enguaging .. but thats about all i 
 can say for pros. So many cons its pathetic. I dont want to even give it the time to list them 
 all. If you are looking for a game that is a waste of money then please go ahead and flush your 
 money down the crapper. ...... could have been so so much more... not worthy to be in the C@C family 
 imo.. i dont quite understand why game manufactuers havent figured out after all these years what 
 kind of content a game needs to make it a good game. I mean, do they have retards working for them 
 that have no clue of what a good game is suppose to look and play like, or is it that greed or 
 somthing has corrupted the quality of products? ... what a waste EA of your time and OUR money.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skyline5
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Game is terrible, besides the huge serial key issue and no one being able to play online yet we 
 have the actual game. The game uses so many units ideas from C&C 3 that the game seems recycled. 
 Not to mention this flashing lots of colors crap. Game has no depth. While alot of high paying 
 actors are in the CG it cannot make up for actual gameplay. So flashing its like a comic book, 
 these units are crazy dumb, what ever happened to a heavy tank or something normal now you have 
 bears and gundam wing style units uhh what a nightmare. This is not C&C. The interface is terrible 
 especially the mini map, it is simply a flat texture no depth at all to it too see what is going 
 on, there is no scroll depth either you cant get close to any units to see what they look like. 
 Units design and building design is just ... idk what they were thinking i really dont 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BxMxS2004
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Great game! Get it if you love C&C.... if you never liked C&C this will not change your opinion. 
 It is the most colorful and entertaining of the series and features fantastic little touches (Shinobi, 
 Mechs, a Russian soldier that spouts a one-liner from 'Batman Begins') and the graphics, while 
 nothing groundbreaking, feature great detail such as civilian cars being smashed under the weight 
 of mechs and fantastic water effects. Definitely more than meets the eye here- don't let the lack 
 of new features or lack of depth fool you- this is a non-stop blast. The cut-scenes are top notch 
 as well, who can go wrong with Tim Curry?? The performance is silky smooth, the "pathfinding" is 
 great.... despite what the Gamespot review states and the sound effects are awesome. The addition 
 of the Japanese to the game greatly increases the entertainment, as the way of playing changes 
 dramatically (might I even add the Japanese have a slight edge over the other two from an economical 
 and combative stand point) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phitzc
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game so much and still do kind of due to my almost blind love of the C&C 
 Series. But what gets in my way is:
  -The graphics remind me of The Sims (the original one) .
  -The AI is well below average.
  -The 
 menu system is far from intuitive like in "World In Conflict". -The Training Tutorial takes too 
 long.
  -Attack Dolphins are too cute and just silly.
  -EA got no respect for the C&C series after dropping this in public. -Attacks by flying and screaming 
 Japanese School Girl... this is lame on so many levels.
  -The Campy factor goes way over the top. It makes the game appear completely childish
  
  Some 
 of the pluses are:
  They got a pretty good crew of actors and lots of hot babes for the video scene. too bad it was 
 wasted by the no talent hack wonder bums that run EA. 
  
  I LOVE U NATASHA ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vincas2004
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Damn... after "world in conflict" i was expecting not the less.. but now ... please.. change tha 
 name.. its not ra3.. it just can't be so ... damn you EA...... man im so dissapointed .. damn you 
 alll ... its like a "toy story" strategy, a full dissaster for RA fans all over the world ... i 
 can aprove the menus, bet then the game loaded .. i was in shock... i double checked the settings 
 ... i couldn believe what i see... visuals is just lame... and that intro.. there it says "EA proudly 
 presents" its just historical tragedy .... tragedy... tragedy... tragedy... tragedy... tragedy... 
 tragedy... tragedy... tragedy... tragedy... tragedy... tragedy... im so madd... im so madd... im 
 so madd... im so madd... im so madd... im so madd... im so madd... im so madd... im so madd... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGuzz
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I wait for 6 months for this after Kane's Wrath.. the worst expansion in RTS history since it hardly 
 worked online for the first 4 months it was out.. and here we are, the famous Red Alert 3, the 
 last checkpoint until the world changing Starcraft 2.
  Right away. the game won't even go online because of some widespread invalid cd key issue So I 
 didn't even play it the first night. Simply Amazing... for a game that was supposed to be Beta tested 
 (a beta that I wasn't even accepted into despite the fact that i blew 30 bucks on Kane's Wrath 
 to get a beta key) The single player aspect of RTS means absolutely nothing to me since as any 
 real RTS player knows, the real wars are fought in online multiplayer like the previous reviewer 
 stated.. Now I hear you can't even do a 2v2 ladder. we'll that's it then for me and my friend / 
 teamate from Florida. We have been competing in RTS games for almost 8 years can't even do anything 
 of meaning now.. so what's left? 
  
  I played skirmish.. LOL its exactly the same code as C&C 3 except with different units. oh my god 
 in Heaven I can't believe they got my money again. I'm going back to Starcraft 1. That game is 
 10 years old this year and runs better and is more fun online than a game that game out today if 
 it were't so sad it would almost ... almost be funny... save your money for Starcaft II. don't be 
 a sucker like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ION_87
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  The game is so horrible, It is hard to start pointing all the annoying aspects of it. 
  
  First of all the general menu inside the game is undeveloped and very shallow compared to Tiberium 
 Wars or Kane's Wrath main menu!
  
  The mini-map is so annoying, because it is without map textures, just a lame map with landscape 
 frames, more as tactical overview (something like in SC: Forged Alliance version of mini-map)
 
  
  The zoom level? Whats the point of the zoom level if u can't zoom in for a closer view of your 
 units and what is the point of big maps, if u need to scroll down the map for quite a while for 
 getting to the location where u want the camera? Oh, sure, use the mini-map, well I think that 
 isn't the best option, because players should have the option to zoom out the map a bit higher!!!
 
  
  The units? What the hell? As one reviewer said:" I really wonder what the devs have been smoking 
 when they came up with some of them"! Come on, don't you have some dignity of creating the units? 
 They are like toys, like silly and colorful toys! As if they were creating this game for children, 
 that are under 10 years old, or even worse!
  
  Not to mention the design of the buildings, which are pretty much the same as units - too childish.
 
  
  Now about harvesting, WHAT IS THE POINT OF HARVEST STATIONS, WHEN HARVESTING MINE IS LESS THAN 
 5 METERS FROM IT? Then you could just make something like Tiberium Spike of some sort without any 
 harvesters, it is so stupid from my point of view.
  
  In overall I would like to add, that I am very, very disappointed with this game, and if this game 
 was the first in its series, I would hate the devs and wouldn't lay my eyes on other game releases 
 from them. But as it isn't the first one, I can't forgive the fact, that they just wanted our money 
 and didn't care about the thoughts of the series fans, but cared only that much as getting the 
 money from our wallets with a really DISASTROUS game. CnC Fans, don't bother, it is just waste 
 of money and time unless you are a BIG fan of colorful graphics, lame gameplay and funny units! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paragus1
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a complete debacle. What do you expect though from the same people who botched Command 
 and Conquer 3, and numerous other franchises.
  
  First off, I didn't buy this game for the single player, so quite honestly I don't care how many 
 of these paid actors they parade by my screen. I couldn't give a flying crap. I bought this for 
 online multiplayer.
  
  The online is broken right out of the box. There are massive reports of CD Keys not working. I 
 thought they beta tested this game?! I mean seriously, how much time would it take to find out 
 you can't even log into the freaking game, let alone play online? It is absolutely stunning that 
 in 2008, games are being released like this and that suckers are still willing to trust companies 
 like this who churn out more crap then a rectum afflicted by Taco bell.
  
  But wait, there's more! Online 2v2 ladder is auto match only! That's right! Now you don't even 
 get to pick your teammate when you try to do real competition. Those dreams you had of you and 
 your friend teaming up to take on the world can go right down the toilet with the game box. All 
 this of course is barring the fact that the people you do fight decide not to desync the game to 
 avoid getting a loss. Hell, the game is screwed up that people are actually getting WINS for d/c!
 
  
  This game should be reviewed on ratemypoo. com because it is just another pile of slop blown out 
 the butt of EA in an attempt to swindle people out of $50.
  
  The only hope a true RTS fan has left at this point is Starcraft 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pkolsut
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I played Red alert since i was a kid... you knew when you played soviets you had heavy tanks etc. 
 I started playing this game and what i see... units look like kids draw them, you can't build more 
 refineries, it is like making everyone equal, that's not the point. I am disappointed, it is not 
 a red alert... the game is ok but that's it... you will play it once and you will not play it again... 
 Tiberium Wars is much much better product, units look real not like some funny looking tanks (if 
 we can call them tanks) . I sit at the computer and i am trying to build my army and i do not know 
 what to build, in RA 1 and RA 2 you knew you have to build tanks, some infantry... now you build 
 "ships" which can walk on land... i am sorry but it is too funny, you do not feel that "thing" 
 when you played RA 1 or RA 2 at night and you were building your mighty army. EA destroyed great 
 game, westwood studio made Red Alert great game, EA made it crappy... i am sad, i was waiting for 
 Red Alert so long and i am disappointed, now i have to wait for Diablo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gfish19
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Its unbelievable that in our time these so called developers are still making steamy pile of **** 
 games... then they pass it to us and charge 50$ for it....
  This game is the now new low for rts genre! No tactics involved, just spam a unit and u will win, 
 graphics are sad, just reworked from C&C Generals, gameplay a failed attempt to unison Generals 
 and Tiberium wars together. Some concepts from previous games have been brought up again, but sadly 
 even those seem to let the RA fans down. 
  
  Even simple things like resource collecting have been so demolished that all u have to do now is 
 place the building next to a set ore collection bin and watch the collectors rack the $$$ for you...
 
  
  As for the units, i really wonder what the devs have been smoking when they came up with some of 
 them, i understand their not supposed to be realistic , or resemble real life counterparts, BUT 
 the previous RA games have showed some sense in them... but now even simple things like submarines 
 have to surface to fire a torpedo... GG
  
  Save your self the money and go buy different RTS game that at least wont dumb you down in the 
 end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerrob22334
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  What can I say. I anxiously awaited this game for a few weeks. Ever since I saw RA3 was announced 
 in PC Gamer I was ecstatic, however I must drop a bomb and say EA really F^ this one. First off 
 minor technical issues ruined the experience for many people including myself such as 1 missing 
 serial number, not being able to log in to co-op/multi-player (they didn't even provide a LAN method) .
 
  
  The units are not as great as I thought they would be. I remembered playing RA2; you have memorable 
 units that intimidated your opponent, such as THE REAL APOCALYPSE TANK, and PRISM TANK. The Apocalypse 
 tank in RA3 is weak. The two returning units that made me quite happy are The blimps (I forgot 
 the name haha) and Natasha aka Boris.
  
  I would go on and on but I have a paper to write and I would like to ask WHERE THE HELL ARE MY 
 DESOLATORS? F the desolator bomb or w/e it's called. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex86buc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  First thing... i saw 2 reviews here...2 guys saying they hate red alert 3 cuz its not like tib wars 
 ?! and cuz u dont gather ore like in ra2... nice reasons to shhhit talk and to rate a game 1.0 :) . 
 Anyway the game is pure fun, and the factions are great. I know most american children wont like 
 the empire... but its ok, u cant like all the factions/races in a game... as i like most the soviets 
 in this game. The ideea to put japan is nice cuz like this u can really have a WW3... western europe 
 + us, soviets and from asia japan 3rd power , so its cool.
  Every faction is very unique , and plays totally different from each other. I wont talk about campaign 
 and single player too much... its not an important aspect 4 me... i like a fast fun rts, to play 
 it online or with friends. U have 2-3 sexxy women in there who will +up the sales in the us... cuz 
 lots of fat nerds live there :P.
  
  1. Sound - Great, best in rts games!
  2. Graphics - Funny and satiric sometimes, good water lights, booms :) ) and original design 4 most 
 of the new units (+new units besides beta vers)
  3. Gameplay - Paws !! The water adds alot of twists, the old units are great and the new ones as 
 well !! There are alot of cool specials and tech ups that i like, thus make it a very skill based 
 game.
  
  Most of the good things about ra 1 and 2 are here... not all but most, and second the new things/units/water 
 combat is great!
  Not everyone will like, or will play this game, cuz u have to be very good at rts, fast and u will 
 have to micro extremly well! U cant just win by making lots of 1 or 2 units... like in most... if 
 not all rts out there... including sc (btw blizzard wuz great now it succcs big time , so dont expect 
 sc2 to be good)
  
  Give it a go, when i first saw some sshots, and the first trailer... i said geez... to cartoony and 
 whats with the water builds... but, read, watch some real matches, play it , try to understand the 
 mechanincs of it and u will like it!
  
  Stop comparing tib wats to ra! its usesless to say ra2 was better and was most popular than tib 
 sun... now its gonna be the same comrade :) ) u cand beat soviets with nod :) ) . now im joking. Its 
 a good game , but its a mistake to compare ra1 95 to ra2 2000 and ra3 2008-2009... the time diff 
 is huge.
  
  Im out :) sry 4 spell mistakes!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serapth85
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  What the hell does EA think their doing to the C&C RA Ive known since childhood??? This title had 
 turned from bad to worst ever since the "GREAT" EA bought C&C over from Westwood. Especially since 
 C&C Generals. eg. C&C RA harvest ore from ore fields not a ore mine. Its like changing a important 
 prop/item in a movie (imagine a in Star Wars they release a new episode n Death Star is transformed 
 from a Gigantic Circular sphere into a Gigantic Cube, not right right?) They say so much abt revalutionary 
 play but in actual fact it totally changed it into a different game changing stuff that should 
 NOT be changed. As for the graphics, besides the water, the other stuff seems less impressive than 
 C&C3. The new Japan faction what are they trying to do? Introduce Gundam and anime schoolgirls 
 as commandos (no offence) into the picture? Than why dun u bring in Transformers and Marvel into 
 the picture for alies and soviet?? Its like totally just trying to intro a new faction without 
 balancing out the "technology" of all the factions.
  
  All in all this game is like EA just wants to squeeze the money of C&C players since C&C3 was successful 
 and decided to make a quick profit from the players, without putting effort into considering the 
 players feelings if they change certain stuff in the game and make SO MUCH commercials on it SERIOUSLY 
 OVERATING this series, destroying the reputation of the title Command & Conquer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naitvol
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  This is the worst game i saw this year... it is an insult to all RTS fans, but mostly to the C&C 
 universe fans. It can not get any worse than this. Who in the name of common sense can rate this 
 game any higher than 3... this is a joke... why just because EA is one of the great names, or because 
 Tiberium Wars was such a good game? This is garbage pure loads of junk. I can not imagine how something 
 this awful was even released on the market. Very disappointing. I was hoping for something good, 
 TW was great... i expected the same, but its nothing but a commercial soulless clone.
  
  This is the worst game i saw this year... it is an insult to all RTS fans, but mostly to the C&C 
 universe fans. It can not get any worse than this. Who in the name of common sense can rate this 
 game any higher than 3... this is a joke... why just because EA is one of the great names, or because 
 Tiberium Wars was such a good game? This is garbage pure loads of junk. I can not imagine how something 
 this awful was even released on the market. Very disappointing. I was hoping for something good, 
 TW was great... i expected the same, but its nothing but a commercial soulless clone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfj_exuaf
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Since the Red Alert alpha I have never missed buying the CNC series including the expansion. But 
 this time I'll skip the present game. My friend bought the game yesterday and i tried it. Before 
 this I have played the beta version and the first thing I want to emphasize to all of you is that 
 the game is still fun and entertaining. Unfortunately the things that they think are the best for 
 the game is actually blow it away. 
  
  1) The game is added with so much unnecessary features for the units but in fact when you engaging 
 the enemy in the real battle (particularly when you play the game online) you dont have 
 time to use all the secondary combat function unless if you consider using only one or two tanks 
 maybe you have enough time to use the secondary ability. But when you involve in a chaotic situation 
 trust me you don't have the opportunity to use them (dont believe me, see the replay and 
 experience it online) . But when you want to use the secondary ability just press the "F" it makes 
 me happy with it. I'm not telling that all the secondary ability is useless but some of the ability 
 they put to the units are just for shows. It just likes the buggy (Nod) that upgraded with the 
 EMP in Tiberium Wars. How many players used the ability when they play the game? Just a little 
 and actually it's not helps you much. In fact your units dont have chances to use its power. 
 
  
  2) The cartoonish looks of the units are the other point that make me not happy with the game. When 
 you played Red Alert you need to know that the concept, background story and technology in the 
 game mostly are based on the real world. Playing the game will make you feel that you are actually 
 controlling real soldiers fighting in the real battle. That is the differences between red alert 
 from others and that what red alert is about.
  
  3) If we think that we will meet the new and fresh units you are wrong. The radical changes are 
 only the looks. You will still feel like you are playing Tiberium War. It same goes to the game 
 balance between the factions. They are not so differ from Tiberium War except for the naval units. 
 I feel like playing a same game but difference name. Ore miners for me is a little bit irritating. 
 They just go around and the last thing you know is "ore miner under attack" and i see that they 
 are accross the border to the enemy base that i don't have ample time to defence them. That case 
 will happen when you train Ore Miner from War Factory. WTF
  
  4) the players will also find some problems in the game but don't worry they will fix it.
  
 
  Really miss the great old days. Only 7.8 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
