-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer Renegade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/commandconquerrenegade/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 26, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.5, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 2,783 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Feb 25, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Renegade makes great use of the source material, yet it's suitable both for C&C fans and for those 
 who enjoy team-based multiplayer competition in general. 

 Westwood's Command &amp; Conquer, released back in 1995, is one of the most famous, most influential 
 real-time strategy games ever made. It achieved unprecedented popularity due to its superb gameplay, 
 intense action, and strategic depth -- and also its great setting. You'd control the military forces 
 of either of two futuristic military factions -- the Global Defense Initiative (GDI) , a technologically 
 superior version of the United Nations; or a terrorist group called the Brotherhood of Nod -- in 
 an effort to wrest control of the world's supply of a precious mineral called tiberium. Many aspects 
 of C&amp; C were original and memorable, down to the individual military units you'd control. Perhaps 
 the greatest of these was GDI's commando, a one-man army capable of single-handedly taking out 
 legions of Nod infantry and entire Nod bases. Now, that GDI commando is given an entire game to 
 call his own in Command &amp; Conquer Renegade, a solid first-person shooter spin-off of Westwood's 
 classic. The game does have some noticeable problems, though C&amp; C fans may find themselves having 
 too much fun to care. Renegade makes great use of the source material, yet it's suitable both for 
 C&amp; C fans and for those who enjoy team-based multiplayer competition in general.           C&amp; C 
 fans will see some familiar territory in Renegade.    

  Throughout the single-player mode of Renegade, you'll play as Captain Nick "Havoc" Parker, a special 
 forces operative for the GDI who's cocky and insubordinate and prefers working alone -- but he's 
 got more than enough skills to back up his bad attitude. Havoc loses the laid-back Southern drawl 
 of the original C&amp; C commando in favor of a rough-and-tough personality laced with a chauvinistic 
 streak, similar to Solid Snake from the Metal Gear Solid games. Like Snake, Havoc may not be the 
 perfect role model, but he manages to be likable -- that's partly because he spouts a number of great 
 one-liners during the course of Renegade, many of which are based on the commando's lines from 
 C&amp; C.   

  Havoc will need to complete about a dozen sequential missions, all of which are quite big and pit 
 you against droves of Nod troops. Most of the missions center on a rescue operation -- you're trying 
 to find a group of scientists who've been captured by Nod. You won't rescue them right away, but 
 at least you'll get to gun down a whole bunch of bad guys while trying to do so. The best thing 
 about the missions in Renegade is that they can give the sense that you're part of a larger battle 
 already taking place. You'll see familiar C&amp; C vehicles -- transport helicopters, various tanks, 
 humvees, and more -- all taking part in the action. Sometimes you'll be joined by other GDI troops 
 in pitched battles against superior numbers of Nod forces. These moments will make you feel as 
 though you're right there in the middle of an intense C&amp; C skirmish. The fact that the game 
 recycles many of C&amp; C's sound effects helps maintain the effect.   

  Renegade has a number of such moments, but the brunt of the action actually tends to fall flat 
 for several reasons. It's sometimes hard to tell when you're taking damage from enemy fire -- this 
 is also a problem in the multiplayer mode, where you'll sometimes suddenly drop dead, without any 
 indication that it was a sniper who picked you off. Though you'll fight a number of different types 
 of enemy troopers throughout the single-player game -- from Nod's lowliest fodder up to its elite, 
 the black guard -- they all exhibit the same sort of scripted, robotic behavior that makes them uninteresting 
 to fight, though not necessarily easy. Nod troops will sometimes do a good job of weaving left 
 and right to avoid your fire. But in general, they'll all stupidly charge straight at you while 
 shooting or just keep firing at you from sniping positions. They'll get confused by obstacles such 
 as tables and doorways, and out in the open, they'll stand perfectly still off in the distance 
 while you snipe at them. If two are standing side by side and one gets shot in the head, the other 
 usually won't even twitch. Defeated enemies will randomly drop armor, health, and ammo power-ups 
 as their bodies mysteriously disappear in shimmering, blue light. While the game sometimes gives 
 you the sense that you're actually involved in a real battle, all these things undermine that effect. 
   

  There's a ton of weapons available in Renegade, but most of them are similar in function, a number 
 of them seem underpowered, and some of them will serve little purpose in the single-player game. 
 Almost all of the weapons are very direct -- just point and shoot. The weapon models look good, but 
 many of the sound effects lack punch, and the weapons themselves often seem ineffective unless 
 you hit your enemies right in the head. When you do shoot a Nod grunt, you'll see him reel in pain, 
 opening him up to further attacks. The enemies in Renegade animate smoothly, since their movements 
 were motion-captured to look realistic. The violence in Renegade isn't particularly graphic, though -- defeated 
 soldiers mostly just crumple to the ground. There's no blood in the game, unless you count what 
 looks like a faint red puff of smoke that you'll see emanate from wherever you shoot your opponent. 
           Havoc's a one-man army, but he won't always fight alone.    

  Not all the action takes place on foot. You can commandeer a number of GDI and Nod ground vehicles 
 over the course of Renegade's single-player mode, and they figure even more prominently in the 
 multiplayer mode. All the vehicles look good, which is fortunate since you can only control them 
 from a third-person view -- but they seem hollow and lack any real sense of mass and girth. The vehicles 
 are very simple to drive, but C&amp; C fans will still love seeing, and directly controlling, their 
 old favorites such as the GDI mammoth tank and the Nod flame tank in a 3D environment. Most of 
 the vehicles can absorb a great deal of damage, they all have swiveling weapons and unlimited ammo, 
 and even if they're blown up with you inside, you'll always emerge unscathed.   

  Renegade's single-player mode offers three different difficulty settings, the toughest of which 
 should be challenging for shooter veterans, while the other two should be suitable for less experienced 
 players. Whatever difficulty you play at, you don't need to set aside more than 10 hours to complete 
 the single-player game. Renegade's multiplayer mode, which is the superior part of the game, should 
 last you a lot longer. It's a team-based GDI-vs.-Nod showdown that challenges players to be the 
 first to destroy their rivals' bases. The bases in Renegade look like they're straight out of the 
 original C&amp; C game, which is just one detail that helps the multiplayer mode succeed in playing 
 like a C&amp; C skirmish.    

 As in the original C&amp; C, in Renegade's multiplayer mode, the GDI and Nod sides are quite different 
 from each other but seem equally capable. Each side has a few basic character classes that are 
 always available, but as you accrue credits over the course of a match, you can upgrade to more 
 powerful specialized character classes and also purchase vehicles. GDI relies on sheer force, thanks 
 to its powerful but expensive tanks. Meanwhile, Nod is more subversive and has cloaking infantry 
 units as well as its flame tanks and stealth tanks. Both sides also have their own cheap but effective 
 artillery piece, as well as engineers who can repair buildings and vehicles and heal infantry. 
 It's effective to operate vehicles as an engineer, since you can hop out and conduct field repairs 
 if your vehicle takes damage -- but watch out, because enemy players can steal unoccupied vehicles 
 and proceed to wreak havoc. Some of the most satisfying moments in multiplayer Renegade involve 
 jumping in the driver's seat of an unaware enemy engineer's vehicle and making your first order 
 of business to run him over with it -- what better way to teach him a finders-keepers lesson?    
        Multiplayer Renegade features classic C&amp; C vehicles -- and strategies.    

  Conveniently, there's an offline practice mode available, where you can freely run around a map 
 and figure out how everything works. You'll see computer-controlled bots running around in the 
 practice mode, causing you to wonder whether it's viable to play multiplayer Renegade against the 
 computer -- but you'll quickly realize that these bots are thoroughly incompetent. Fortunately, it's 
 easy to jump right into a multiplayer match using Westwood's built-in player-matching service. 
 You'll definitely need a broadband connection for smooth gameplay over the Internet, and even then, 
 it's not a guaranteed way to avoid lag. The recently released multiplayer demo caused many players 
 to complain about severe latency issues -- online games would be sluggish and unresponsive even on 
 dedicated servers that appear to be fast in the game's server browser. Our own experiences were 
 considerably more favorable. Using a DSL or T-1 connection, we encountered very little lag during 
 many extensive sessions over the course of several weeks (even in large matches containing more 
 than 60 players) , at least on Westwood's own servers. In any case, Westwood plans to offer free 
 downloadable content upgrades for multiplayer Renegade (including flying vehicles you can control) , 
 and one can only hope that these will include optimizations to the game's netcode.   

  When lag isn't an issue, multiplayer Renegade can be great fast-paced fun. There's hardly any waiting -- you 
 respawn right back at your base as soon as you die, and if there's a friendly vehicle around, you 
 can catch a ride with the driver straight back to the front line. You'll notice that dying isn't 
 easy -- it takes a serious amount of concentrated fire to take down most characters, although a well-placed 
 shot from a sniper can be deadly. To offset their power, snipers are practically useless against 
 buildings and vehicles. That's part of the reason why team tactics are so important -- coordinated, 
 concentrated assaults are necessary to breach automated base defenses and destroy key structures. 
 Destroying enemy structures is satisfying -- the loss of any of the main structures will cripple 
 the opposing team in some manner, preventing it from using vehicles or advanced character classes, 
 and so on. The best way to dish out damage to the enemy's base is to use either the GDI's or the 
 Nod's respective superweapons, the ion cannon and the nuclear strike. Beacons for these must be 
 deployed at the target spot, after which a devastating and visually impressive attack will commence. 
   

  Renegade uses a proprietary 3D engine that Westwood built for the game. The vehicles and character 
 models look good, and you can clearly distinguish between different vehicles and characters from 
 a distance. The game has a few other notable graphical features -- you can play it from a third-person 
 perspective as well as from the standard first-person view, and in a subtle yet very sensible touch, 
 you'll automatically pull back your weapon when you're standing right in front of a wall or a friendly 
 officer. On the other hand, the game's textures and environments are simple, and the weapon effects 
 are nothing special. Renegade's indoor environments look particularly bland, though it's nice that 
 you can move from indoor to outdoor environments seamlessly.           You'll want to stand clear 
 of Nod's nuclear strike or GDI's ion cannon.    

  Much like the graphics, the audio in Renegade does an adequate job but isn't exceptional. The bass-heavy, 
 synthetic music that plays throughout the single-player game sounds much like the stuff from the 
 original C&amp; C, but it drones quietly in the background and isn't memorable. No music plays during 
 multiplayer, though you'll hear an odd "boink!" sound whenever you take out an enemy player. In 
 multiplayer, you'll also constantly hear the robotic female voice of your computer informing you 
 that various targets, either yours or the enemy's, are being attacked. These audible warnings are 
 of questionable use and can get rather grating during large matches where a lot is going on all 
 at once. Other than that, the voice acting found in Renegade's single-player mode all sounds great -- Havoc's 
 voice is dead-on -- though you'll sometimes hear the same lines incessantly from enemy troops searching 
 for you.   

  Most PC gamers have extremely high standards for shooters after having played outstanding games 
 like Half-Life and Unreal Tournament. Renegade aims to match the high-level quality of these much 
 older games but falls short -- Westwood has never made a shooter before, and you can tell. That doesn't 
 mean Renegade isn't a fun game. For one thing, Westwood is extremely experienced at making multiplayer 
 games, and that too comes across in Renegade. In the end, the game's single-player mode is a fine 
 homage to a real-time strategy classic, while the multiplayer mode has a lot to offer those interested 
 in multiplayer shooters -- especially those who also consider themselves C&amp; C fans. Furthermore, 
 like all of Westwood's products, Renegade is also a highly accessible, impressively produced game, 
 making it well suited for players who've wanted to get into shooters but have felt intimidated 
 by their generally steep learning curves.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (82 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kelleroid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I will write in sections:
  
  Graphics: You can compare Renegade's graphics to HDP Half-Life in all.
  Blue Shift with HDP was 
 released in 2001, CnC Renegade in 2002. So, Renegade's graphics are late for the time. Still the 
 textures and vehicles are good.
  
  Gameplay:
  SP - The Single-Player involves you, or actually, an elite GDI commando Nick "Havoc" Parker. You 
 start some assaults, in which you retrieve information about stolen GDI scientists, then you chase 
 them all over the Earth. You kill Nod main enemies one by one, then blow up Temple of Nod, infiltrate 
 its remains to rescue scientists daughter and win the game. "Nod has suffered extreme casualties 
 in this area."
  MP - Command AND Conquer. The Multi-player game is about a Skirmish between two teams - GDI and 
 Nod. The goal is to destroy enemy base. Each base has a few structures: Power Plant, Tib. Refinery, 
 Inf. Barracks or Hand of Nod, Weapons Factory or Airstrip and an Obelisk or Advanced Guard Tower. 
 PP gives you power, destroy it and units will cost twice more, defences will be not active and 
 Tib. Ref. will give only 1 cr instead of 2 per tick. Tib. Ref. gives additional income, lets you 
 use the Harvester to bring every player for his own 400 cr and generate a stable income of 2 cr 
 per tick by default. Barracks and Hand of Nod let you buy adv. inf. classes (heroes) , destroying 
 it will limit enemies to only Soldiers, Shotgunners, Grenadiers and Engineers. Weapons Factory 
 builds (Airstrip buys and deploys) vehicles for player use and rebuilds each destroyed Harvester, 
 destroying it will limit enemies to only infantry and hamper their 400 cr income. AGT and Obelisk 
 (Nod also has 1 or 2 turrets which do not require power) are main base defences, with AGT using 
 ceiling guns and rocket launchers as defence quickly decimating infantry and light vehicles, when 
 Obelisk slowly charges it's laser and emits a powerful strike killing infantry and vehicles from 
 1 or 2 blasts. They both require power, so taking the PP down will take down base defences with 
 it.
  
  Sound & Music: sound is... uhm. Ok. Sound is good. Though the weapons sound too light, even the 
 Rocket Launcher and Personal Ion Cannon. Music is abit too ambient, but makes a good ambience sound, 
 so you don't feel alone in silence.
  
  By the way, "I've got a present for ya!"
  
  Gfx: 7.5
  SP: 5.5
  MP: 9.0
  Sfx: 7.5
  Total: 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylan0597
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:40 pm PT
Review:  It is a very awesome game I love it. I like it how it is a hard game and has the right amount of 
 missions. It can be played on line and can be played single player. Start the game with the tutorial 
 that will teach you about everything. When starting game start on recruit because even on recruit 
 it sort of hard. Experience the C&C universe on foot as Havoc, The wisecracking GDI commando. Take 
 on the evil brotherhood of Nod using your own mix of brute force, stealth and strategy. Choose 
 from a multitude of weapons, including The Tiberium Auto Rifle, Chemical Sprayer and the devastating 
 Personal Ion Cannon. Beef up your arsenal by driving lethal vehicles, such as nod buggies, flame 
 tanks and Mammoth tanks. Sneak inside and explore full scale structures like immense Tiberium Refinery's 
 and the ominous Hand of Nod 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 909009
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  as i said it's a great game one of the greatest in cnc series great mods red alert a path beyond 
 , renegade x .... (look on google for more ) The campaign is quite hard but in comparison to Cod 
 is just fine The weapons are the best weapons in any fps game i played 'till now (recognize are 
 better than the weapons in counter strike ) The multiplayer good ( shame some players use cheats 
 like golden god and that means they suck at renegade) The characters good clothes but weak faces 
 : ( especially the faces Shame on EA that it didn't develop Renegade 2 or Tiberium : ( (
  Bonus objectives 
  In the island mission
  Destroy the shore defense cannon (the big cannon)
 
  Destroy all the nod buildings
  In the first sidney mobius escape mission 
  Free the gdi prisoner from the basement prison 
  Find the raveshaw secret room (go in the 1st 
 floor library and kill the technicians there and then search with the crosshair a health meter 
 then shoot shoot shoot)
  In the prison excaping mission 
  Destroy the mct from the door behind the fake wall in front of the elevator 
  Destroy the harvester (before 
 you see the defense turrets there are some ways to go deep in the mountain take one of them and 
 you'll find the harvester )
  In the doctor mobius escape mission 
  Kill the nod officers from outside the facility
  In Tomorrow's technology today (before the last 
 mission)
  Destroy the nod obelisk 
  Infiltrate the UFO (you must have red security card (found at a stealth black hand) ) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onewang
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  I've been gaming since C-64 and Atari, and multiplayer gaming since Doom2. My roommate and I did 
 reviews for a small website, that no longer exists, several years ago and EA sent us several copies 
 of this. It sat on my shelf about a week because I was familiar with C&C... and I suck at RTS. 
 The cool thing was this was an extra copy and neither of us had to do the review. We had a rainy 
 day and I installed it for grins... didn't bother with single player, I just jumped into multiplayer. 
 I ran my soldier out into the base during an assault, and I was taken. I've enjoyed all kinds of 
 games since then, but Renegade was my game. For multiplayer, this is the game I base my judgements 
 on. I have enjoyed others, this one remains the most fun. It is unrealistic, colorful, and the 
 graphics almost seemed outdated when it was released. None of that mattered. It was just fun. I 
 still play once in a while, and there's still a few servers left. I would say that the players 
 I see online now are much better, technically, than when the game had 300 dedicated servers. It's 
 fps, and if you take that approach, and have good twitch skills, you will do well. It's also rts, 
 and if you can execute force moves, or covert moves, it pays off. It's truly a team effort, but 
 often a lone-wolf player can sway the tide. True, cheats were common for a while, and Renguard 
 came about to protect from that. In my opinion, Renegade, multiplayer, is the best game I have 
 ever played. The 9 review includes singleplayer. It's a completely different game. If you have 
 that decade disk, and have a couple hours to spend, install renegade, download renguard, and have 
 a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer: Renegade (2002) , developed by Westwood and published by EA Games, is just another 
 nice First-Person Shooter where you play with an uber hero, killing a lot of stuff usually alone. 
 What makes CnC: Renegade a bit different from any other First-Person Shooter is the touch from 
 the Command & Conquer strategy series.
  
  You play as Havok, a GDI soldier who must break in the Nod facilities, accomplishing important 
 missions for your faction. I'll not spoiler everything here, but the objectives are fairly varied, 
 although they're only excuses to make you kill the dozens of enemies found throughout the maps. 
 For instance, Havok's superior often order him to rescue someone, but you'll never go stealth at 
 any time to do so. This means, if you are to guarantee safe passage for the guy you just saved, 
 you must kill everyone in the path. Just like that.
  
  Since butchering around is your main activity in CnC: Renegade, it would be nice to have the proper 
 tools for that; and you have. There're a lot weapons to be found on the battlefields, such as the 
 laser rifle, the chain-gun, the rocket launcher, the sniper rifle and so. Not to mention that Havok 
 is really skillful with vehicles, and that's particularly great since you'll come across really 
 powerful ones. Yes, this means you'll control the Mammoth Tank, as well many other destruction 
 toys from the original CnC strategy game.
  
  So, what else truly makes CnC: Renegade faithful to the original strategy series? Well, intriguingly 
 enough, when you aim to an enemy trooper or building, you'll see that the targeting system draws 
 a life bar, pretty much like the ones you see in CnC: Red Alert 2. Another great concept is the 
 structures, mostly recycled from the same strategy game, which reproduces exactly how a Nod base 
 looks like. You'll see the barracks, the refinery, the auto-turrets, the SAM sites, the power plants 
 etc., all very close to the CnC strategy games. And when you enter in them, the game doesn't load 
 a new map; instead it's just a building like any other which you can get in and out any time you 
 want. Because some of those structures are repeatedly found throughout the game, you'll notice 
 that the barracks you entered before looks exactly the same as the other one you found later on. 
 Perhaps this will become a bit tiresome over time, but it's precisely one of the greatest concepts 
 presented in CnC: Renegade, which helps to make it a true addition to the series.
  
  Westwood was known for their amazing multiplayer modes, featured in all games they released. CnC 
 Renegade isn't an exception, and the on-line experience is surely the most important component 
 of this game. When you start a multiplayer match, there is the option to choose between the GDI 
 and the Nod factions, which are slightly different one from another. After that, prepare yourself 
 to play CnC: Red Alert 2 (or any other CnC game) as a First-Person Shooter. Each base has its own 
 amount of resources, buildings, units and vehicles. You can destroy the opponent's harvester to 
 slow the gathering of resources, or disable the power plant in order to make things more difficult 
 for the opposite faction (such as turning off the defenses or making the purchases more expensive) . 
 As you can see, if you manage to find enough players, the multiplayer mode can be very entertaining.
 
  
  The single player is just for fun, and it doesn't really differ too much from the other First-Person 
 Shooters, even with the nice touch from the original Westwood strategy games. The tactical concept 
 is presented in a much more intriguing way in the multiplayer, and it's very rewarding no matter 
 how much you already played. If you're already a Command & Conquer fan, then you'll love to see 
 everything from another point of view. However, if you didn't played any of the other CnC games, 
 then treat CnC: Renegade as any other good First-Person Shooter, just don't forget to check the 
 great multiplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  If you have liked the Tiberium series and also like playing FPS, then you could think about getting 
 Renegade for yourself. It was a risky and daring move for Westwood to shift from RTS to FPS, but 
 well they sure made a good game.
  
  The story follows a GDI soldier Havoc who is to search and rescue a group of scientists who have 
 been abducted by NOD (enemy) . He won't always be fighting alone. Most of the time you will have 
 some reinforcements to save you, but they are more fragile than a thin glass and will be killed 
 almost by anything. The other commandos are comparatively better and at least can put up a fight. 
 The game will have loads of NOD soldiers kicking your butt every other minute. As the campaign 
 progresses the game gets tougher, but the final objective remains to find the scientists.
  
  The graphics in the game are commendable, but not perfect. The sounds in the game are almost 
 completely copied from Tiberium Wars. In all the game has a feeling of being striving to be the 
 best, but still falls behind at being good.
  
  This game has become popular because of it's multiplayer mode where you can play as GDI or as NOD. 
 The multiplayer has a feel of CS.
  
  Personally I don't play a great deal of Multipayer and so as a Single Player it has been fun playing 
 it, but just plain fun. For a hardcore FPS or Action fan, Renegade might seem a little boring.
 
  
  Westwood had better brains than to move to FPS and so it dropped the idea of continuing with FPS 
 and hence (thankfully) returned back to making RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geniustiong
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great multiplayer gameplay, attractive cutscenese, weapons are fun to shoot.
  
  The Bad: Glitched, SP mission objectives are repeated again and again in later levels, Dumb SP 
 AI, stupid maps
  
  
  When C&C Renegade was first announced, i saw that it would be released as an fps/tps game. I thought 
 hey why not give it a try. C&C fans will be disappointed thanks to EA screwing things up.
  
  In the singleplayer campaign, you take the role of Havoc, a one man army fighting against the 
 Brotherhood of NOD. You'll be able to drive a number of vehicles and did i mention.... tanks? That's 
 right. You'll be also driving tanks out there and creating havoc. Havoc may be a one man army but 
 he does not alway fight alone. The names of the game's characters are just plain stupid and they 
 don't make sense at all. Hotwire.... why the heck is it Hotwire? Does she hotwire tanks? Nope.
 
  
  Yes the multiplayer is quite nice, you can buy tanks, you have to protect your harvester and all 
 that but it lacks the C&C feeling. The maps are also stupid and retarded. There's also a lot of 
 annoying glitches in it. Telehax, Bluehell, redhell, tanks getting stuck and all that which ruins 
 the fun.
  
  
  Get Battlefield 2, stop being an EA fanboy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Renegade is a great mix of the first person shooter genre and the Command and 
 Conquer background and history. The storyline has you playing as a commando from the GDI on the 
 ground, where you get to view the Command and Conquer series like never before. Following the story 
 on the ground brings a whole new perspective to the game, as you get to use many different weapons 
 available, as well as many of the vehicles that players of the previous Command and Conquer games 
 will be familiar with. You even get to call down an orbital bombardment form the Ion Cannon once 
 it has located the beacon, and you get to experience the insides of many Nod and GDI buildings 
 first hand. The game's online play is fun and exciting as well, allowing you to battle your enemies 
 as one of several different characters, in many different vehicles, making sure to protect your 
 Tiberium Harvester while destroying the enemy's to gain an advantage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Renergade is a failed attempt to bring the C&C universe to ground level. However where there are 
 bad points there is also good points. 
  
  The story is based in the Tiberum univers in the C&C series and you take on the role of a lone 
 Commando named Havok, he's a right badass and the best of the best. Your sent on missions all over 
 the place to destroy NOD. Other from this the missions never change until you spend 2 or 3 missions 
 trying to rescue some science chick. 
  
  This is not so bad but the way the missions and the story is set out kind of sucks, you never really 
 seem to be doing anything different from the last mission you just played and some area's look 
 very similer. There are however some excellent missions in the story mode that allow you to use 
 the many C&C units to destroy even more stuff, such as Humvee's, medium and mamouth tanks. These 
 are excellent to use and very satisfying.
  
  Wile playing the story you rearlise that Havok once dated one of your now enermys, this is a stupid 
 idea for the game, but I guess it adds a little more depth to the dull story line, also the game 
 feels very like a one man army, you never really get help from your team and this makes the whole 
 game feel like you might as well be the only GDI solider on the planet.
  
  Other from the Story mode you have an instant action mode, but with only 1 map this gets very boring 
 very fast, however using all the different classes and units can be really fun.
  
  Online play is the best feature of this game, with a wide range of maps and still the great units 
 and classes to choose from, the online play really saves this game.
  
  With quite good visuals and excellent online play this game just about gets a 7.5/10. But the poor 
 story and boring as hell instant action mode really let this game down, big time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zertos
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  yeah babe this game is still kicking ass you just need Internet connection experience the essence 
 of this game how fun it is, all the possible tactics you can use this is one of westwood best game's 
 cause they made there best game and story line which involves GDI and NOD into an FPS.
  
  the campaign you should play just for training i would recommend playing online with zero experience 
 you get totally owned. the storyline fun and the cut scenes are bad so don't watch them but the 
 game play in them is fun till the very end.
  
  online play extremely addictive tons of online servers running so there always room. online play 
 for this game is the only thing you should do when you learn it cause its so addictive enough said
 
  
  if you want to know bad things about it then the only one is the graphic compare to today's but 
 it is old and only an newbie to the world of gaming or a bad critic would base a game on its graphics 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  Being a big fan of the C&C series i picked this out on day one, and have been playing it off and 
 on for the last, gee i don't even know i have been playing it for so long. 
  
  The Story
  Simple, your a GDI Commando, and you open a six-pack of whoop Arse on nod forces to save the world. 
 It starts with an invasion, then you work your way to find the nod threat and eliminate them as 
 you see fit.
  
  The Game Play
  Although the story line is dull, the actually game play is pretty good. Head shots are a must, 
 different characters have different health points, multiple weapons to choose form, and all out 
 chaos with vehicles. One of the most interesting things about the game play is how Westwood took 
 the weapons used in C&C tiberium dawn and inter graded them into a fps. 
  
  The muliplayer
  This by far the best part of this game. Basically there are two sides, Nod and 
 GDI, each have there own units that balance well. Each have there signature vehicle, Nod has the 
 flame tank and stealth tank, GDI has there mammy and medium tank. 
  The objective is simple, destroy the other teams base to win. There are usually four main buildings 
 each with there own purpus. The War Factory/Air strip - produces vehicle, Barracks/Hand of Nod 
 - produces infantry characters, Power Plant - powers defensive structures and lowers the cost of 
 units. Refinery - generates money in a timely manner and uses a harvester to collect tiberium to 
 transform into credits.
  There are the defensive structures, the Obolisic which can destroy any unit with one shot, or a 
 vehicle with two. GDI has the Advance guard tower which will destroy Nod units rather quickly when 
 in range. 
  The best part is that you need strategy and team work to win a map, which usually consists of a 
 group rush of some sort. As each building is destroyed the benefits from that building are lost, 
 so if you lose the air strip, no more stealth tanks, you kill the power plant, the base defensives 
 are off line and you can rush with out getting killed by the OB and the enemy team now has to pay 
 double to get any units.
  
  
  
  "Keep it Coming"
  + New Game play for the time
  + Multiplayer is addicting
  + Snipers / Tanks 
  + C&C Story line in tacked
  
  "Nod Power 
 plant Destroyed"
  - Graphic were good for the time
  - Cheaters are everywhere
  - Game Glitches lead to exploits
  
  
  Over all 
  I must say i am personally involved with 
 this game, it's the game that started my only FPS career and has been my fall back to game for 
 some time. I love this game dearly, and wish that the tactical use of buildings and vehicles would 
 be use by other games in the modern day era in stead of these capture points we are seeing today 
 as the main objective.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  It's not fair to review a game developed in 2002, in 2008. Anyway, C&C Renegade is a first person 
 shooter in which you are a commando for GDI and you should eliminate NOD forces. The commando is 
 the same commando you had in C&C real time strategy but there are differences which make it a distinct 
 game than the other first-person shooters. This game has a story behind it. If you are not a fan 
 of C&C you won't love this game otherwise it would be a nice game to be played.
  
  If you expect something special from this game that was not developed in other first-person shooters, 
 you are wrong. There are some new developed weapons with some C&C background. The rest is simple 
 you should kill the NOD and move on until everyone is killed then you move to the next mission. 
 There is no specific AI used to make it fascinating. Finally I recommend you to play it if you 
 really love the original C&C 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onefiredude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- 8
  The gameplay has your average run and gun aspect. You shoot your way through a campaign, with various 
 weapons and vehicles. Weapons include laser rifles, flamethrowers, and grenade launchers. You can 
 drive vehicles such as tanks and humvees, which are fun to use. They usually have a useful weapon, 
 and you can run over enemies. You can have lots of fun shooting many enemy infantry, and blowing 
 up turret guns and helicopters. You get 12 missions, each with their own objectives. Navigating 
 your way through terrain and buildings, you shoot whatever infantry and vehicles that pop up, and 
 destroy some buildings. The campaign maps are expansive, but too large. There is too much empty 
 space, so I spent hours trying to find the objectives. Confused, I backtracked to see if there 
 were any more possible paths. The artificial intelligence of the enemies in this game are too linear, 
 and do not provide much of a challenge. Sometimes you will see them standing there blankly, not 
 noticing you. They dont even notice when a guy next to them gets shot to pieces by my chain 
 gun. When they do see you and chase you, they will charge straight towards you and stop once you 
 go through a door or turn around a corner. Also, when they get hit, they stop and reel in pain, 
 which makes it easy to finish them off. In multiplayer games, two teams are formed with a base. 
 Whoever destroys the enemy base is the winner. This mode is unique and fun, but one downside is 
 that vehicles are overpowered. Vehicles are needed to win, but there is not much walking ground 
 units can do. 
  
  Graphics- 9
  The graphics are quite well done and they look quite sci-fi and as they should. The maps are great, 
 along with buildings that look familiar if you play Command and Conquer. 
  
  Sound- 7
  The music is barely audible, and it does not contribute to the feel of the game. The weapons sound 
 bland. The speech sounds good, but it can get annoying when your enemies say the same lines looking 
 for you, and when a female robotic voice constantly informs you of attacks in multiplayer. Aside 
 from these flaws, the sound is fine.
  
  Value- 8
  The campaign is too short. I finished it in 3 days. That is probably less than 10 hours of gameplay, 
 not counting the huge amount of time it took me to find my way around. After you have finished 
 the campaign, all there is to do next is battle through the campaign again in a harder difficulty 
 setting (3 difficulty settings) , or play multiplayer. However, the multiplayer may be fun, and 
 composes most of the games value.
  
  Tilt- 9
  Fans of Command and Conquer ought to try this game. There is a great variety of weapons and vehicles, 
 and a good campaign with lots of objectives and killing action. The multiplayer is also fun. Even 
 though this game has its faults, it can still be great fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  It's known fact that the campaign for Renegade is quite trashy, clich and what you suspect in 
 a Command & Conquer game when EA Games start to take more control. But it still manages to make 
 some interesting moments for sure, but those are especially under the cut-scenes, which are in-game 
 and looks quite good for its time. 
  
  Music is absolutley on the positive side, there might not be alot of variety in the music but it 
 is still good and works under most scenarios, just a pity those aren't playable in the Multiplayer 
 games. Visuals are solid for the time and any computer would run the game terrific today, even 
 decent laptops, without stressing much - those requirements makes it very attractive for bigger 
 local games when you can get your laptops up and play since this game still has some balls to talk 
 about in Multiplayer. I might as well give you guys unfamiliar to the game a quick briefing of 
 how the Multiplayer works; it's the standard Command & Conquer experience, your team has one base, 
 and the other team has their base, consisting of 4 buildings and at certain maps also a defensive 
 structure (Obelisk or Advanced Guard Tower) which all play their vital role in the teams performance. 
 Specific buildings are; Barracks, lets you purschase advanced characters such as Snipers, Black 
 Hand, etc. depending on how much resources you have collected from fighting and how well the Harvester, 
 which collect resources, have survived. We also have a Vehicle Structure which allows your to order 
 vehicles, all from Recon vehicles to the Stealth Tank and Mammoth Tanks, and if this building is 
 destroyed you cannot respawn your destroyed Harvester unit. There's also a Refinery where the Harvester 
 dumps its cargo, and a Power Plant which allows base defenses to work and will keep unit prices 
 down. The whole objective is to destroy the enemy base while defending your own which is one of 
 the best modes in any Multiplayer First-Person-Shooter I've seen and I'm surpriced no other game 
 has followed this path. 
  
  Multiplayer is fantastic at most point, there's still a quite big fan-base which produces skins, 
 maps, server hostings, special gameplay mechanics and even costum sounds and most other things 
 you can think of since Westwood left this game in a quite open state so modding and map-making 
 is very popular, or atleast it has been in the past. The only negative things about the game is: 
 Story, Wierd In-Game Voice-Command layout, networking (small lag is quite often found, but it still 
 well works) and decreasing amount of players (what did you expect for a 4-5 year old game?) . But 
 if you find the game for ten bucks I'd totally recommend it, I've been playing it for 4 years and 
 I love it even if it can be quite frustrating at times. I just hope they'll renew the multiplayer 
 mode in a new game, even if it's EA Games who would work that out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Though I have left this game for 2 years, I still miss it in deep mind. Renegade has many great 
 features modern games still haven't offered. For example. You can go inside a building, repair a 
 building and buy some equipments from a building. You can put a tactic nuke to destroy all units 
 in the specified area you want. Commonly a nuke is used for destroying buildings.
  
  To me, Renegade is the best FPS forever. Well, why did I leave it if I love Renegade? Because I found 
 some cheats ruining the game, I turn into other games. Hopefully prior Westwood guys will make a 
 game like Renegade one day.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: han_andchewbaca
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty amazing game i had some hardcore fps training cause this may have been in my early 
 fps stage. After a while i got better (slowly) then the first disk cracked from to much use basically. 
 Then the other disc could play but certain things where off. But eventually that broke too. This 
 is my first (and only) game to break from over use. But it still is vivid in my memory such a great 
 game. Would make an excellent sequel if it was done right. But that would never happen because 
 the Command and Conquer series was screwed up. they had lots of different games but nothing.... 
 and I say nothing like renegade. Just lately have i thought of it. I have no idea where to find 
 it.. but I will! A game now cheap with surprising amounts of online people. (the single player 
 mission were ok, but defiantly an online game. But if you can read this youre probably good ;) 
 ) Maps just the right size and the money idea (counterstrike stole it grrr! But thats also a great 
 game see what Im saying ;) But hands down one of the best revolutionary games made. (It was the 
 pioneer of the unlocks or you have to work to get something ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoyholyhoy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  wow i got this game just a few centuries ago and i just found out it is way to cool for words because 
 if you mach up the stuff from this game and the stuff in halo obviously you know who would win 
 ahaha. so before you switch over to that hellgate london ad over there... yeah i know i can read 
 your mind, you should to your everyday bargon bin and pick thi baby up because it is awesome! oh 
 yeah and the only reason i rated it broken is because mine really is broken. but i can still play 
 every level and download the MOH demo. wait is it just my game that came in expantion pack have 
 that or does everyone elses have it too? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Let's skip the usual reminiscences; nearly every gamer in the world is familiar enough with the 
 Command &amp; Conquer series (or if they aren't, they ought to be) . Let's just say that when Westwood 
 announced they were translating the concepts and content of their premiere real-time strategy franchise 
 into a first-person shooter. Throughout the course of development, we've kept a close eye on this 
 one and have been among it's most ardent supporters, anticipating that the chance to take on the 
 role of a single unit in a first-person view of an RTS world would be refreshing and original.
 
  
  And while the end result is indeed an inventive and faithful interpretation of the C&amp; C license, 
 Renegade suffers somewhat from a few poor design decisions and embarrassing AI. There are some 
 notable strengths here and definitely some innovative ideas but much of it is still a bit too unrefined 
 to compete with the better action games (and some of the better RTS games) currently on the market.
 
  
  The single player campaign is mostly enjoyable and makes excellent use of the franchise. In fact, 
 the whole Command &amp; Conquerishness of the title is its biggest draw and its best-implemented 
 feature. The units, buildings and situations are all exactly right for the license. That's not 
 too surprising given that Westwood's in charge of the project, but it's still commendable. A few 
 of the old sounds have even been used to add that extra level of authenticity.
  
  During the game you'll take on the role of Commando Nick Havoc Parker, the one-man army for GDI. 
 GDI's interested in recovering information about the latest plans of Nod, a morally unambiguous 
 terrorist group that's bent on world domination (the actual objectives during the mission are more 
 specific, but not necessarily more clear) . Each mission in your quest to uncover Nod's latest plot 
 takes place in one immense level. At the start you may be standing on a landing spot on the beach, 
 by the end you'll have traveled deep under the earth to the heart of a Nod base with nary a load.
 
  
  The price we pay for the immense levels is reduced graphical detail. When we first saw the project 
 (back when I was but a lowly cub reporter here at IGN) , Renegade's graphics and lighting effects 
 were spectacular. Sadly things don't seem to have improved much in terms of graphics -- Renegade 
 still looks good, but it's a bit dated. While the character models are quite good, the environments 
 are relatively blocky and the textures are flat. Lighting effects could be improved substantially 
 and there are more than occasional clipping problems. At least a few of the glitches are good for 
 some laughs. Like when it snows indoors, or when two helicopters pass through each other. What 
 did you think of C&amp; C Renegade? Beyond the somewhat flat graphics, the engine also seems to 
 lack a sense of weight or momentum. There are some really impressive motion-captured animations 
 in the game that tend to minimize the sort of empty feel that the models have. Death animations, 
 runs and even little throwaway movements are really well done and contribute greatly to suspending 
 your disbelief. Still, it can't keep you from noticing that the figures in the game lack substance.
 
  
  This feeling carries over to the weapons. None of them actually feel substantial enough for you 
 to buy into the world completely. Part of it is the sound. While the team took the classy route 
 and used a lot of the sounds from the first C&amp; C game, the weapon sounds are too weak. The weapons 
 themselves are fairly generic, despite the thin veneer of C&amp; C laid over them. The only real 
 difference between the weapons seems to be in their rate of fire and their damage type. Apart from 
 that, the weapons all seem unreasonably accurate and it was all too easy to take out sentries hundreds 
 of yards away with a few bursts from my trusty chaingun.
  
  Westwood changed their standard approach by relying exclusively on CG cutscenes using the game 
 models. In the past, Westwood's been known for their astonishingly well-produced cutscenes that 
 are as professional as anything else that's being done in gaming. This time, the scenes are all 
 run in the game engine and, while the characters look a little uncomfortable and slightly freakish, 
 look amazing. Good use is made of a handheld camera effect that keeps the cutscene looking dynamic.
 
  
  A few of the other general presentation items deserve to be noted. The Westwood install program 
 has always been a treat and Renegade is no exception. I'm a little puzzled by the fact that you've 
 got to put the Game disc in to start the game but have to put the Data disc in to play. And since 
 you can't start using the game disc... whatever. Also, the game comes in the new smaller box which 
 is always a big plus for me. Not much in terms of boosting the score but convenient nevertheless.
 
  
  More than just about anything else it's the dreadful AI that ruins the potential enjoyment of the 
 game. Enemies possess very little sophistication and their main tactic seems to consist of running 
 right towards you trying to empty their ammo clips as fast as possible. This can be especially 
 funny when they're running at you in a straight line and the guy at the back kills as many enemies 
 as you do. There have been more than a few situations where enemies didn't notice me even when 
 they should have -- like when I've run in circles around them or shot the crap out of the guy standing 
 next to them in the cafeteria.
  
  It also seems like the vehicles are far too passive. You can safely peek out from around the corner 
 of a building and blast away at an exposed corner of an enemy vehicle. As long as the turret can't 
 see you, the vehicle just sits quietly and waits to be blown up. Pathfinding is a bit of a problem 
 as well as we've seen quite a few buggies trying to drive straight through walls.
  
  Still, the vehicles are an excellent addition and well integrated into the game. Getting the chance 
 to jump in a Nod buggy and scoot around the levels is pretty awesome. Once you've had the chance 
 to drive around a bit, you'll really appreciate the fact that Westwood made these vehicles so unique 
 while keeping them authentic to the standard C&amp; C setup. Mammoth tanks do lots of damage but 
 are horribly slow while stealth tanks are nimble and able to hide from their enemies. APCs let 
 you carry infantry deep into enemy territory while mobile artillery lets you take out buildings 
 from afar.
  
  The only other real downside to the vehicles is that there's not enough room in the levels to fully 
 enjoy them. In keeping with the shape of the rest of the game, the vehicle sequences all take place 
 in narrow environments where you can't really take advantage of the movement. This drains the tactical 
 opportunities of vehicles of nearly all of their sophistication. Instead of using a captured Nod 
 buggy to sneak around the back of an enemy base or heading to the tiberium fields to take out enemy 
 harvesters, you'll spend almost all of your time hopping out of your tank, checking around the 
 corner for enemy vehicles of rocket soldiers, then hopping back in the tank driving to the next 
 bend in the road, then hopping out again. This is a problem with the overall level design. Things 
 are much too constricted and narrow for you to really feel like you have much choice. While there 
 are a few branches along the paths (and a handful of wide-open areas) , most of the levels consist 
 of running down a long  until you get to the end of the level. 
 Along the way there will be ample opportunity to enter the various buildings and rummage around 
 inside. Making the levels a bit more open and offering more approaches to key objectives would 
 go a long way towards making it more intelligent (and consequently reducing the player base) . Larger, 
 more open environments would also finally give us a chance to take advantage of an otherwise impossible 
 stealth-oriented approach.
  
  There's quite a bit of scripting in the game, most of which is pretty good. The story is engaging 
 (although some of the audio cues tend to pile up while you're trying to pay attention) . As I said 
 at the start, the Commando's job is primarily rescuing people from Nod. Along the way you'll blow 
 up stuff, steal data and get involved in some seriously large battles. The scripting's a little 
 less apparent in the larger battles and, as a result, it's much more effective. It's a bit of a 
 paradox that the Commando works primarily as a loner while the game's best sequences are those 
 in which he's merely part of a much larger force.
  
  Consequently the real gem of the title would have to be multiplay and C&amp; C Mode is where the 
 whole promise of the game finally appears to be fulfilled. Taking on a role in a GDI versus Nod 
 base assault is really inventive and quite a lot of fun. A class-based character system, a full 
 set of vehicles and the traditional C&amp; C base structures all contribute greatly to your immersion 
 in the game world. Quick respawns and the chance for heroic, individual action let you take as 
 large a role as skill and luck will allow.
  
  But even here there are some real snags. Although we haven't experienced anything blatantly frustrating 
 with the code, quite a few players have experienced serious lag, even on fast connections. Further, 
 the lack of any grand strategic overview weights the gameplay even more towards individual action. 
 There's a difference between being part of a group and just having the same goals as the other 
 people on your team. A more convenient set of team commands or a strategic map might have helped 
 here. LAN games are definitely a blast if you can talk to the people you're playing with.
  
  An offline practice mode is included but the AI there is even less effective than it is in 
 the regular single-player portion of the game. If nothing else, it'll give you a chance to get 
 used to how hard it is to kill an opponent in multiplay. The weapons that seemed so effective against 
 your enemies in the single-player game will seem pretty feeble in mutliplay. But, hey, since everyone 
 has to use them I guess it's okay.
  
  With a lot more stability (and some slight balancing) through future patches, the C&amp; C Mode 
 of Renegade could well be the reason to try the game out. It's certainly a novel enough idea that 
 seems like a perfect mix of the three big genres -- online, action and strategy. Hopefully the 
 next few evolutions of the idea will bring it closer the refinement that it needs to compete with 
 the games in the individual categories.
  
  Closing Comments
  Westwood's been careful to position this game so that it doesn't openly compete with the other 
 first-person shooters on the market and to be fair, the game does have a different take on the 
 whole genre that sets it apart. The trouble is, that many of those other games are much more enjoyable 
 than Renegade for the first-person shooter fans that are likely to be interested in the game. The 
 novelty of the Command &amp; Conquer mechanic is definitely enough to hold your interest but the 
 overall production is what, ultimately, keeps the title from attaining the success we all thought 
 it ought to have.
  
  I guess I wanted something a lot less scripted and a lot less cramped from the single player game. 
 The chance to jump into the middle of a battle between GDI and Nod would be made more attractive 
 by the inclusion of large open levels like those in Ghost Recon or Operation Flashpoint. As it 
 is, it's a lot like running through a hall until you get to a building, clearing the building and 
 then running through a hallway until you get to the next building.
  
  I wanted to like Renegade more than I eventually did. The challenge in it comes not from its sophistication 
 but from brute force and weight of numbers. In the end, it's not quite smart enough to really deliver 
 the grunt's-eye-view of the RTS that it should have been. It's a departure for Westwood and only 
 a moderately successful one. Still, with another title or two in this same genre, Westwood may 
 finally be able to refine the concepts of Renegade into something much more enjoyable than the 
 current game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for a long time, finally played it... although not that great, I'm still glad 
 I played it through.
  
  This game gets really hard near the last few levels when enemies get powerful weapons... it comes 
 down to having to quicksave every few minutes incase you get 1 shotted. Having automatic checkpoints 
 would have been better, or at least making it less likely to die in one shot from a rocket or other 
 weapon.
  
  The graphics aren't really that bad for a PC game from 2002. When I was playing this game, I did 
 like the feeling of actually being a little person in a battle from the original C&amp; C. They 
 did a pretty good job at that, except it gets boring really fast when every mission and building 
 looks the same.
  
  The music wasn't very good, very repetitive and seemed to try to hard to mimic the original C&amp; C 
 sound. Most of the weapons were well put together, and there were a lot of them. The rocket launcher 
 wasn't too good, it should have had more effect, even if you didn't directly hit an enemy. Vehicles 
 controlled far too stiff to actually enjoy using them.
  
  So this games alright, its good if you liked the original C&amp; C (which I did) . But its just quicksave 
 over and over. Its that crap that way too many PC games have, this game shows a bad side of games 
 and is filled with many mistakes that shouldn't be repeated in future games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, it seems unbelievable that Westwood Studios decided to make a FPS game for the Command and 
 Conquer series. What, you think I'm lying? No I'm not! Well anyways, Command and Conquer Renegade 
 actually is somewhat of a remake of the original Command and Conquer game (Tiberian Dawn) and in 
 this game, you get to play as most of the characters found in the original game (multiplayer only) 
 and it incorporates the gameplay elements of a RTS game into a FPS game. For example, this is not 
 your everyday FPS game, so don't hope to do a blind rush at the enemy and hope that's goana win 
 your day. In fact, you need a lot of teamwork with your teammates as well as percise strategy (enemy's 
 weaknesses, strengths, etc.) to win. Uh, don't even remind me of single player mode, I'll give 
 you one word only: CRAP. The reason you should buy this game is because of the multiplayer mode, 
 but feel free to play single player in order to get used to the weapons in the game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_loei
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  I liked it. A lot. It's great fun running around just creating carnage, blowing up buildings, and 
 fighting mutants! And you get plenty of all three! it was like a dysfunctional game of Allied Assault 
 meets Rambo... in the future! I played it once, and that was good enough for me, afterwards, you'll 
 never be able to play past the first level. The multi-player on the other hand, is endless! With 
 cool bases, vehicles, and character classes, you'll never get bored of blowing things up. And I 
 stress that! The entire multi-player portion is based on blowing your enemy's base into nothingness. 
 And plenty of sirens, smoke, and flames illustrate your impending doom. As a mammoth tank advances 
 on your position, You can't help but wonder which way your body's going to fly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChicaQueenWarGa
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game just blew me away. I wasn't really a big fan of the Command and Conquer series.
  
  ~Gameplay~
  Grab some coffee or some hot cocoa because each mission is pretty long. Packed 
 with a lot of enemies, allies, vehicles, and weapons. There's so many enemies, but it's like one 
 of those war games where it's one main character versus the world.
  Weapons are very useful. Sometimes, there would be a couple of tanks, but I have no clue on how 
 to destroy them. Thankfully, there's always a guy to help say your objectives and to tell what 
 weapons and vehicles are around.
  
  ~Graphics~
  Not the greatest, but the worse. The enemies were done neatly, but Havoc's muscles were stiff and 
 blocky. But this is an old game.
  
  ~Sound~
  So many sounds you hear in this game! The only problem I had were in the movie scenes that the 
 voices were quiet, and Havoc's voice mumbles while you are playing.
  
  ~Value~
  I payed $10 for this because it was used. And I thought it was a great value. If you find anything 
 around $10, then I strongly recommend getting this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taker0003
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  its multiplayer, and how addictive it was. I found this to be one of the best fps multiplayer experiences 
 with how so many people made many upon many maps for it. I haven't touched my original copy in 
 a very long time (probably since 2004) . This a game for those who want a good multilayer experience, 
 maybe that's why I'm praising it so much for it.
  
  Every match was different and when you start downloading maps people have made that's when you 
 start picking favorite. Some maps are no-vehicles, some are small, some are huge, but all have 
 some place in my heart with some being in the hated side but they're there.
  
  The story is a little boring for my taste and the AI is a little well stupid, but it's the multiplayer 
 that brings them coming back for more and more. The learning curve is a little high because it 
 takes a while for someone to pick out their favorite channels, people, and vehicles they like. 
 Mine was the sniper rifle and the vehicle was the stealth tank and I loved being NOD.
  
  I highly recommend getting the First Decade and play all of Westwood's finest games of the past. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lincolnhoole
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  The Command and Conquer series has always been my favorite series of any game. I love to command 
 futuristic armies and watch wonderful stories take place in an epic universe. One thing though 
 is that you never really got to experince what it is like at the very heart of a C&amp; C battle.... until 
 Command and Conquer Renegade! Command and Conquer Renegade takes place during the end of the first 
 Tiberian War. Basically you're near end of the first C&amp; C game. You play as a commando named 
 Nick Parker or Havoc as you will be called throughout the game. Remember the unit in C&amp; C could 
 kill infantry instantly and blow buildings up with C4, that always had the best lines? No, well 
 how about this one, Got a present for ya! or That was left handed! ? Ah, now you remember. Well 
 your're one of those commandos. Havoc is your typical steriotype hollywood commando. He's loud 
 mouthed, cocky, deadly, and has an attitude problem. As Havoc you'll play through many levels that 
 take you at groundlevel into the C&amp; C universe. You'll get involved in a plot that will take 
 you through secret Nod research labs and even into the Temple of Nod. As a matter of fact the very 
 one that is destroyed at the end of the first Command and Conquer game! The game play for single 
 player is like an action movie for the most part. You will get the chance to control mammoth tanks, 
 rocket batteries, and hummvies along with other vehicals. You're a one man army through most of 
 the game, taking on whole Nod bases by yourself, save for a couple of GDI reinforcements that just 
 hold the ground you take. You'll rescue POWs and civilians also. The gameplay is in no way tactical, 
 but it's certainly fun. I've been playing this game since 3rd grade and single player is still 
 just as fun as it was back then if not better. It's great to be able to see what the inside of 
 a Hand of Nod is like or a harvester going into a tiberium field first hand. Multiplayer is what 
 really shines in this game though. It's the factor that will make you play this game long after 
 you've beaten single player more than twice. Multiplayer requires tactics and stragey that single 
 player doesn't have. You get to play as either GDI or Nod as they battle for control of the map. 
 They way it works is that your side's harvester brings in credits that you can spend to purchase 
 your unit class or vehical. You also get credits for killing the enemy team's soldiers, vehicals, 
 or buildings. Multiplayer really does a good job of showing how each side is different from each 
 other. If you're Nod you can be a stealth soldier and sneak into the enemy's base to wreck havoc 
 or get in a stealth tank and join a sneak attack rush to quickly overwhelm GDI. As GDI though you 
 can play as Syndey Mobieous with her personal protoype ion cannon that can quickly destroy vehicals 
 or buy a mammoth tank to crush Nod with the brute force that GDI is so well known for. Depending 
 on what side you are on calls for the different stragies like the ones I just mentioned. There 
 are also basic tactics that you are encouraged to use in multiplayer as well. It's best to have 
 a couple a players (of which there can be up to 120 on some servers!!!!) stay by the base as technicians 
 or Hotwires, wich are higher level engineers, to repair the buildings after attacks. It's also 
 a must to have snipers in key choke points on the map to pick off support infantry like rocket 
 officers or shotgun troopers. All of things together make multiplayer truely feel like a C&amp; C 
 battle. Multiplayer is especially good today since almost all of players are experinced and know 
 the basic tactics along with the fact there are a lot of addons today such as Renguard. I should 
 say though, that because of the great balance in multiplayer, new commers aren't slaughtered by 
 advanced players like in other games. I mentioned Renguard earlier. There is plenty of great content 
 out for Renegade as of now. You can download lots of cool skins, TONS of great maps, and other 
 programs too. Renguard is an execptional program that prevents hacking/cheating and gives you lots 
 of other options. Almost all of the current C&amp; C: Renegade servers are hosted by people with 
 Renguard so you are guaranteed no-cheating. Some of other options Renguard provides you with are 
 added things like recommendations (tells others what you are good at and gives you nice rep) and 
 anti-theft vehcial protection, which prevent your team members from taking your purchased vehicals. 
 Renguard also gives you community patches which is really nice. Now Renguard isn't an offical thing 
 that comes with the game or was made by Westwood, by it's a community favorite that is free and 
 to be trusted. Just something I forgot to mention is that an extremely talented group of C&amp; C 
 fans which we all owe our graditiude created online co-op for Renegade. Something is one of my 
 favorite thins to do. It makes for some truely epic battles with up to 60 players verses super 
 human modified AI. Now that I've given you a run down on the good parts of Renegade, I'll tell 
 you about the few flaws this game has. Renegade's single player is very fun, but it lacks any real 
 acting cutscenes. The animations of the characters could be a little more developed when it comes 
 to stuff like weapon reloading. The sounds for the game are a little dull, but that can be fixed 
 with a download that gives you better sounds. The AI isn't that smart also. You slaughter all computer 
 enemy's with easy and the only time you can get killed is when you are outnumbered. Commando diffculty 
 is joke really. Really though that is only real thing that is bad about the game that I can think 
 of. So overall you've got a game that has a good single player experince that will take you through 
 critial parts of the C&amp; C universe and story. Multiplayer enhanced by the community that will 
 keep you crawling back for more if you a Command and Conquer nut. Not to mention a game that at 
 the very least, will show you what the C&amp; C universe looks like in the eyes of a foot soldier. 
 So to sum it all up, Westwood truely ment it when they added the famous line to C&amp; C,.............. 
 I've got a present for ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JcDent
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer series split in three different directions: the tiberium one, from which it 
 started, Red Alert universe and the Generals. This game deal with being a GDI commando.
  From the surroundings in the game i would guess that this game takes place in the First Tiberium 
 War (before the Tiberian Sun ) : troops and civilians are without any life supporting gear, landscapes 
 are green and tiberium can only be found in small, isolated places. The game itself places us in 
 the shoes of GDI commando named Havoc. That's what he does: causes havoc. He can carry as much 
 weapons as he can find and command many vehicles of GDI or Nod, provided he can get into them. 
 It's up to him to kill hordes of Nod troops and to save the world from tiberian nightmare that 
 Kane plans.
  In shortm the objective of this game is to run and blow stuff up.
  One nice thing is that other units in the game are displayed in brackets like in RTS and have the 
 health meter over their heads (that doesn't mean that there can not be any headshots. Heck, the 
 game even counts hits into different parts of enemy bodies) . It fun to mow down hordes of Nod troops 
 with mashinegun, miniguns, laser minigun and so on. Plus, there are many trucks and other enemy 
 vehicles to be destroyed with rocket launcher, portable ion cannon, Mammoth tank and so on (my 
 favourite target is Nod's reinforcements chooper) .
  If you need to relax you brain form other stuff or you just plainly have no respect for you troops 
 in RTS, you should play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  This experience for C&amp; C fans such as myself is like Charlie in Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory. 
 The experience is overwhelming. I could say I'm moved to tears when I walked my commando Major 
 to the entrance to the refinery. Man! I'm actually going inside the Tiberium refinery to disable 
 the facility instead of just blandly clicking it with the mouse and see pixel explosions!
  
  Everything you knew from the original C&amp; C was brought larger-than-life to Renegade, from 
 Nod buggys to GDI Mammoth tanks (with the same armaments!) , from Power Plants to Obelisks of Light! 
 Details are true to the core and you feel like you're in a movie for C&amp; C.
  
  The gameplay is balanced between players who are accustomed to the C&amp; C culture and usual FPS 
 players, so you won't find much awkwardness for such a genre makeover. The weapons Major used are 
 familiar to both C&amp; C strategy fans as well as FPS gamers so both types of players can get really 
 comfortable with the game easily. However, it's quite a difficult game for first time FPS players 
 who may be the hardcore C&amp; C strategy fans. But again, it doesn't pose a threat since C&amp; C 
 fans are usually elite commandos of videogaming anyway!
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWiseolDragon
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 23, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy all the C&amp; C series until I come upon the one in the world first C&amp; C action pack 
 first shooting. This is the most explosive and insane game so far in this series. Came second from 
 Series Sam . The whole story line is great. All the mssionsis mostly based on the original command 
 and conquer game. I love all the weapons in this game. My most faviroute gun would be laser chain 
 gun. extremely powerful. the multigame is fun, but not as good as battlefield. But its ok for there 
 first First and third person shooter game. Maybe this isn't the best action shooter game, but its 
 fun for those C&amp; C fans. So go ahead and buy it, I know you are giong to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurtlePerson2
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 20, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  C&amp; C Renegade was a great idea. Combine what people loved about FPS and RTS to make a great 
 game, unfortunately it didn't quite work that way. The game would be perfect, except that a lack 
 of features such as voip and several glitches. The single-player gameplay was run and gun and a 
 level hopper. It takes about 15 hours to beat the single player on the easier levels, but will 
 take a lot longer if you play on commando. The plot is predictable and the story really isn't that 
 great, but it fits the C&amp; C world just fine. The multiplayer is like a C&amp; C battle from the 
 perspective of a soldier. You must protect your harvester and your buildings so that you can gain 
 money and buy new equipments or vehicles. In ideal situations, your team works together to plan 
 attacks and strategize, but this is rarely the case. Most of the time the most advanced strategies 
 are someone typing apc rush in the chat and having two others join them. Unfortunately there is 
 no voip so coordination is tough. The multiplayer often turns into people doing their own thing, 
 which is fun, but not as much fun as teamwork. I played the multiplayer for a long time and I enjoyed 
 it. There is a large community of people that play still so finding a game was never a problem.
 
  
  The graphics aren't special, but they're not a problem. Because the game didn't try to have good 
 graphics, the game doesn't look bad today. There aren't very many curves, which doesn't bother 
 me too much (graphics aren't that important to me) . Frame rates are smooth with old hardware so 
 unless your computer was from the 90s you should be able to run it fine.
  
  You can probably find this one in the bargain bin at your local gamestop so I reccomend you go 
 pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C Renegade is a fun FPS in the C&amp; C Universe. Going inside the structures and vehicles 
 are fun and shooting hordes on NOD soldiers. The graphics are ok. The enemy AI is really bad, but 
 the only thing that makes it ok is the hordes or enemies. The missions are huge.
  One of the bugs is that your friendly GDI soldiers are so stupid, you just want to kill them off. 
 The worst part of the game, is when you have to rescue Dr. Mobius and he just runs out to the exits, 
 so you have to shoot hundreds of NOD soldiers and run out there before he gets in the way of the 
 gun fire. So I lost that mission many time on easy because he runs towards the NOD soldiers with 
 rocket launchers. Besiades that it's an enjoyable shoot em up game on the PC with many weapons 
 and vehicles to use. If you want to get it , buy C&amp; C the First Decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackhimlin2
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  this is a really good game the levels are long there are lots of guns and lots of enemys to use 
 the guns on. there are loads of different tanks like humm vee flame tank and mommath tank lots of 
 guns like flamethrower roket launcher machine gun gatling gun and much more . there are also lots 
 of enemys and lots of good guys and a couple who did not make up there mind i still have not completed 
 it yet so i dont no how it ends will nod nuke the gdi inti submission or will gdi blast their hope 
 with the ion cannon who nos but i do now 1 thing it will be god danm good finding out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squanx
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Typically, I am a console and hand-held gamer and not a PC gamer, but one of my friends recommended 
 this game. I got it off of E-Bay and started to play the missions. It starts out pretty good but 
 then gets boring by doing the same stuff over and over again. However, I managed to slide into 
 the online multiplayer and it was awesome. It was Command and Conquer but you got to do the one 
 thing that you always wanted to do, control the soldier. The online part is probably the only good 
 thing from the game. You get to work with the other members on your team to destroy the other teams 
 base.
  
  The gameplay is very good and very easy to learn.
  
  The graphics are actually pretty crappy despite the fun gameplay.
  
  The sound is ok.
  
 
  This isn't the best game but it will keep you busy for a couple of months.
  
  Overall, this isn't the best game but is a very good online shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  It is rated 16 somehow yet everything feels like teletubby land (kids cartoon don't ask me how I 
 know: P) i mean the guns look good but when u shoot it feels like there is no game physics. It feels 
 like the bullets r hitting exactly where u shoot with no recoil or anything. Everything is just 
 so colourful and the single players isn't really worth playing. To me the soilders look bad so 
 I ended up getting a reskin for everyone of them. The AI's brain like suddenly dies every second 
 and u can shoot them without them even doing anything. The mission, from my memory, r quiet long 
 which is a bad thing. Multiplayer is realy really fun with the option of buying vechiles and stuff 
 but too bad it ends up as a huge clash of vechiles and u never using ur gun. But everyone should 
 try this cause the multiplayer is so worth it. Hmmm, i kinda wanna install Renegade and play it 
 again now....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Alright, here we go faithful readers, another pointless review.. You know you love them..
  
  Command and conquer renegade.... Well, fun shotgun, so fun game.. thats the way i think.. All 
 the guns are fun, especially the flame thrower and the sniper rifle. I like the fact that you can 
 get into any vehicle you want and then blow it up and find another to explode. If you have ever 
 played (for those who have the game) the multiplayer practice thingy, play as nod and run around 
 ( dont buy anything ) and get a bunch of money and buy a nuke.. first get your tank into the gdi 
 base and destroy that tower thats gonna kill you, then go into the barracks plant your nuke run 
 away turn around and watch it go boom. Wtf.. i just wrote a tip... thats not a review.. ah o well 
 you should do it anyway because its fun...
  
  The game itself is very fun... for a while... The game gets boring after about 3 hours.. The enemies 
 are pretty stupid but hey, who doesnt love stupid enemies? I love them because it makes them easier 
 to kill and i like to kill things. I only dont like the dumb ones who stare at you and dont shoot 
 because you have to have a little bit of a challenge. The explosions are ok and the story is alright. 
 Being a commando who gets pissed off at every little thing and doesnt listen to his general ( who 
 is only a one star, wtf why would i want to be ordered around by a guy with only one star? ) is 
 fun. The tanks are fun because you get in and go wheeee and then eventually blow up, and find a 
 new one..
  
  So if youre interested in the whole stupid enemy finding tanks blowing them up and finding more 
 then you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTKirovy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  This has been by far my most favorite game ever. Any real C&amp; C fan would be making a big mistake 
 not to try this game out. The single player campaign is a neat reflection on the C&amp; C universe, 
 though not very deep, however, the online play is where the game shines. More than 40 players can 
 go head to head playing as either GDI or NOD, making for some intense action where teams must work 
 together to win the game. The game has alot of customization to aswell. All the skins and sound 
 effects for the game can be altered from content created by fellow players which helps keep the 
 game fresh after playing if for awhile. Unfortunately, the game is now 5 years old and Westwood has 
 been shutdown which means the game is no longer supported, but for people who haven't tried it 
 out yet, it is still worth a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  When most think of Command &amp; Conquer they think of the critically acclaimed real time strategy 
 series, and I doubt many people saw this particular title coming. Command &amp; Conquer: Renegade 
 arrived several years after Tiberian Sun: Firestorm, and it was a fairly decent shooter but it 
 definitely had its flaws.
  
  The Renegade campaign is set around the same time as the original Command &amp; Conquer. You take 
 on the role of Global Defense Initiative (GDI) commando Havoc in his fight against the multi-national 
 terrorist organization the Brotherhood of Nod which is led by the enigmatic Kane. The story, like 
 in most C&amp; C games, is hardly anything spectacular, but it's a solid and complete story (five 
 second ending cinematic aside) that ties its decent levels together very well.
  
  Renegade's gameplay is fairly generic. You perform mission objectives in each level while blasting 
 away your enemies. Basically it's like every other shooter out there. The sad part is that the 
 AI is mentally deficient. Actually, that's an understatement. Your enemies will just stand there 
 and shoot at you, or charge straight at you while shooting at you. What makes the AI challenging 
 isn't their intelligence, because there's no intelligence there; it's their large amount of numbers. 
 There are times when you end up battling a dozen or so Nod soldiers equipped with different weapons 
 all at once. Sniper rifles, regular machine guns, mini-guns, rocket launchers, flame throwers, 
 Tiberium weapons, some weapons can hurt you very badly if you're not careful. Fortunately Renegade 
 makes up for its lousy AI with some pretty good level design.
  
  Renegade came out during a time where level design was going downhill, but Renegade managed to 
 deliver a very diverse selection in missions for the player to embark on. There's small European 
 towns, tropical islands, battleships, mansions, etc. Most of these levels are big, and no two look 
 at all alike.
  
  Where Renegade really shines is its unique multiplayer C&amp; C mode . The player gets to play as 
 a soldier for either the GDI, or Brotherhood of Nod, and their objective is to fight with their 
 allies to destroy the enemy base while protecting their own. As each factions Tiberium Harvester 
 returns to the Refinery from the nearest Tiberium Field each player gets credits which they can 
 use to purchase vehicles, or switch their class. It's a really fun game mode, but Renegade's mediocre 
 net code can often make games laggy.
  
  Renegade's graphics were okay for their time. They were very colorful, and the animations and character 
 models were solid. Some of the weapon effects are odd, though.
  
  The audio... well the voice acting is decent for the most part. The sound effects are fine. The 
 music is mostly a collection of remixes of classic music from the original Command &amp; Conquer 
 which is not at all a bad thing.
  
  Renegade is a great game for its level design and multiplayer, but it's definitely a flawed gem. 
 Lousy enemy AI, a very arcadey feel, and other minor flaws prevent Renegade from going down in 
 history as a milestone in FPS gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bran20022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best C&C game so far, making an RTS based game into an FPS is quite the change, 
 and I found that it made this FPS a little more unique than others just because it's C&C.
  
  The single player kept you busy and was fairly alright, for a first time you'll play it but 
 wanting to come back and play it over again, I didn't have that feeling like other C&C games. The 
 multiplayer is where it's at, I really enjoy it a lot and all the mods and custom servers make 
 things a lot more fun. If you want a change from the RTS C&C games this is for you, in fact for 
 any C&C lover this should be a game to play and love as well, the multiplayer should keep you playing 
 for a very long time, as I said theres a lot of mods out there to play with, and there is also 
 anti-cheat clients to help make gameplay a lot more fun, without having to worry about cheaters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alejoshadow
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Renegade is an astounding shooter to pack into the C&amp; C series. Although 
 the AI is not state of the art, or even very smart, they can still pack a punch when they are in 
 groups. The wide variety of vehicles, enemies, and especially weapons keeps you entertained through 
 all of the game. Some missions are difficult, especially in the cities when there are countless 
 enemies and sniper outposts spread through the extensive map. But, in many levels, it is easy to 
 get lost in the mazes of corridors, staircases and tunnels that are packed with NOD troops. Yet 
 the countless list of weapons will keep you experimenting with the different guns on your foes. 
 (My favorite is the personal ION Cannon) . Overall, it is a good game that will keep you begging 
 for more C&amp; C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brown767
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  once in a while 3d games are soooooooo good. i have alot of c&amp; c games but this one stands out! 
 i will give u a cheat later. this game will place you in a hot seat of a driver or ground infatry.- 
 lets get on that cheat :) On armoured assualt go to the master contorl terminal. roam around till 
 you be behind this engine. there will be a hall way. follow the path till you come outside. find 
 the hydrulatics and go through a elevator. you will be at the power plant. kill the enginer plan 
 a beacon oorrrr blow up the master terminal.
  
  well rember me! i give out cheats...... my reviews are differnt. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, the Command and Conquer series is one of the most well-known, if not most popular, 
 gaming series for the PC. With the original release back in 1995, the series provided regular doses 
 of solid and innovative RTS action. Command and Conquer: Renegade is a first person shooter representation 
 of the series. The basic story and facts remain the same, but instead you are a Commando and placed 
 in the thick of the combat. It starts of just fine, with an engaging storyline and some solid FPS 
 action. However, it runs out of ideas and some gamers may have to force themselves to finish the 
 single player campaign. Further, the problems that were clear to all on release are only amplified 
 when played four years later. Unfortunately, it's a game that has not stood the test of time.
 
  
  In Command and Conquer Renegade you play as Nick Parker, better known as 'Havoc', a GDI commando 
 with a lot of history and a lot more attitude. As usual, the NOD forces are up to their usual tricks 
 and have kidnapped a number of GDI scientists. Over the space of twelve lengthy missions, you will 
 blast you way through a number of enemies in varied terrains and environments to free the scientists 
 and stops NOD's evil work. Whilst there a few vehicles to drive and a few puzzles to solve along 
 the way, this will mainly involve eliminating NOD forces and infrastructure with an expansive range 
 of weaponry. It is all done in the tried and tested FPS format, though a third-person option is 
 also available. Whilst Havoc does at times have allies fighting with him, he primarily takes in 
 the NOD forces lone-wolf style.
  
  The graphics are reasonable at best and are definitely showing their age. There is plenty of variety 
 and some reasonable quality and detail to the environments and levels are very large indeed. However 
 the vehicles and enemies / allies lack true definition (and character for that matter) and there 
 is a lot of variety until the last couple of levels. The enemies all do the same thing and go through 
 the same motions. There are also some clipping issues and other minor graphical bugs.
  
  All the weapons look reasonable enough and there are some solid, though not spectacular, special 
 effects with explosions, the glow of Tiberian, the stealth effect and the quite impressive ion 
 cannon discharge. The cutscenes are very well developed and presented and do keep the story moving 
 along. The sound is also reasonable without being anything outstanding. The weapons sound reasonable 
 and there is a clear audio distinction between each weapon. The voice action in both the cut-scenes 
 and in-game are competently done and you'll play all missions to a looped, bass-heavy tune of sorts 
 that whilst repetitive, is not offensive. There are a couple of rocking numbers during the course 
 of the game and the environmental sounds are competent enough.
  
  The gameplay simply has too many programming issues and lacks variety to succeed. All missions 
 bar the first are long and seamless gaming campaigns without any load screens. The potential is 
 clearly there. However, there are some major programming issues that take away from the enjoyment. 
 The AI is probably the biggest issue. On one hand there will be enemies approaching you backwards 
 offering no contest whatsoever or not even notice you are in the area. Then therell be enemies 
 that will shoot you and flame you through walls! The enemy pattern movement pattern is singular 
  straight at you. No cover, no retreating and at times, even no shooting. It is the weight of 
 numbers, or the one shot kill weapons they possess that will cause problems, which is even worse 
 when they shoot at you the micro-second after you enter a room or come around a corner. The ally 
 AI is also broken. When you are with a squad, they will rush to enemies, almost to the point of 
 being face-to-face with them when engaging in combat. They will also rush ahead of you, which is 
 not what you want when you have to keep them alive. Then on the other hand sometimes you have to 
 backtrack and pass a certain point on the screen to make them move at all.
  
  On two occasions I had to restart a level because a door would not open, leaving me stuck in a 
 room and the only reason I beat the boss on the finally level was because she was stuck on the 
 ramp, facing the wall.
  
  There is a solid story to the single player campaign, and there is some interesting character development, 
 but there is not the variety in gameplay to support it. The hardcore FPS player will be engaged 
 in the games early missions as the primary combat is competent enough. However, by about the sixth 
 mission, the game has run out of ideas and you are simply doing the same thing over and over again. 
 Shooting the same enemies (until the last two levels) , destroying the same infrastructure and driving 
 the same type of vehicles. The only change is that there is an increase in challenge and the addition 
 of extra weapons, but that does not result in an increase in enjoyment. There are always primary 
 and secondary objectives with some hidden tertiary objectives and you are afforded a rank at the 
 end of each mission. But again, these objectives dont change. Its OK to keep the gameplay simple 
 and repetitive if its tight and it works, but unfortunately for Command and Conquer Renegade, 
 its not tight enough to get away with it.
  
  It took me about twelve hours to complete the single player campaign on the default difficulty. 
 However, I did have to force myself to play the last quarter of the game and I think I started 
 and finished three other games whilst attempting to complete this. There is a multiplayer component 
 that does still have servers up and running, but there is little incentive to play the single player 
 campaign again if you finish it.
  
  I did pay only $AUD10 (second-hand) for Command and Conquer: Renegade and that also included Commanche 
 4 (but with no with serial number illegible!) That is probably about right for a game of this quality 
 and of this age.
  
  Across the board, there are things that age well and things that don't. Unfortunately, despite 
 a decent story and some competent combat mechanics, Command and Conquer: Renegade has not aged 
 well and really has been left behind due to the programming issues and repetitive nature of the 
 gameplay. However, appropriate credit is afforded to Westwood studios for presenting a different 
 angle on the Command and Conquer scene. It is a game that is recommended for hardcore FPS fans 
 and hardcore C&amp; C fans. But in the end, there are better games in the genre that are available, 
 both from back then and more recently.
  
  Reveiwers Note: This review is for the single player campaign, and some of the programming issues 
 may not be relevant for the multiplayer component of the game. If you like multiplayer - there 
 still is an active online community. You certainly won't have enemies running at you backwards, 
 that's for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valherran
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  I FINNALY write a review for C&amp; C Renegade, this game has a few unique qualities to it, such 
 as the usage of vehicals, the large weapon arsenal at your disposal, and one of the best FPS games 
 to be played online!
  
  I have been playing Renegade since it came out, i have spent my entire time learning every trick 
 in the book, and boy is there alot! But the time to write this review has come. The single player 
 story was outstanding! (kept me going through the game!) the story in my opinion was taking place 
 after C&amp; C 95 and just before Tiberian Sun. Its nice that the computer tries to help by giving 
 you back-up during single player gameplay, but the computer could have gave them more inteligence 
 to survive longer. Other than that i like the fact that you can C4 the buildings like a traditional 
 commando unit, and/or planting an ion beacon and watch it blow up a building!
  
  Multi-player! The Best part of C&amp; C Renegade. Although the gameplay online was free, the game 
 did have a few glitches that were permanant that really made the game irritating to play if you 
 are bent on getting highly ranked. (i'll let you n00bs figure them out the hard way!) Playing Renegade 
 online is completely different from the single player version, alot of defending and destroying 
 involved! Online offers more options to Renegade that single player couldnt offer, such as purchasing 
 infantry and vehicals from buildings and using them to thwart your enemies.
  
  Reccomended servers to visit online are the Ren-Ladder servers and n00bstories, n00bstories is 
 the most recommended by me if you agree with this review, the faculty can teach you everything 
 you want to know about this game! (plz dont hack online, you spoil the fun if you do) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer, like I said above, is just awesome, ESPECIALLY for a game made in 2002. A lot 
 of people still play it to this day.
  There are tons of classes and multi-man vehicles with seamless teamwork. Though buildings can't 
 be built or rebuilt, it holds a very strong Command and Conquer feeling with tiberium being gathered 
 by a harvester for both teams, and vehicles/powerful classes being bought with the tiberium. Buildings 
 look exactly like their RTS counterparts, with almost completely identical functions.
  The single player starts off really good with a lot of cool teamwork, having the player moving 
 in alongside friendly soldiers and vehicles to destroy an enemy base after rescuing an ambushed 
 squad of friendlies.
  Sadly, teammates aren't consistent throughout the game. There are basically small parts with teammates, 
 and the teammates usually die quickly without coming back to life via extra reinforcements. When 
 teammates are around, things get pretty explosive and fun, but when they aren't around, it can 
 be a bit dull and repetitive. For the majority of the game, for some weird reason, the player is 
 alone.
  Though the best parts are the parts with teammates, and they really should've made teammates throughout 
 the entire game, being alone isn't too bad, because the player can quickly and satisfyingly tear 
 through groups of enemies with ease.
  Luckily, they ditched their original stealth concept and stuck with mindless action.
  
  A lot 
 of people still play the game online, even now in 2006, and most of the single player is pretty 
 fun, even if just one time through. This game is old, so it will run on just about any computer 
 and it will come at a cheap price, and combining that with the fun of the multiplayer/single player, 
 this game is well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The problem with this game is that although the concept is pretty cool, the game is just so boring. 
 Shooting just becomes a menial task after a few levels and it soon becomes a race with time as 
 to how long you can finish the game before you nod off to sleep, no pun intended. The weapons just 
 suck, and all but the chaingun look any good. The best weapon however that will always stick in 
 my mind is like an orbital artillery strike, the graphic effects for that just rock and its really 
 awesome seeing this beam from space just obliterate everything near it. But these events are few 
 and far between, and unless you cheat, you won't be nuking much. You can drive vehicles, which 
 is expected, but while it may sound good driving C&amp; C tanks around etc, again, its just so boring 
 ! The cutscenes are probably the best bit, it looks like it was done for a movie which is pretty 
 cool. And it probably would make a good movie, just not a good game is all. Level textures soon 
 become boring once again, there's no substance in the bases, no desks, trash cans or what have 
 you, and apart from enemies its usually all empty except for the part you're supposed to blow up. 
 In the end, its a good concept, but the game itself just becomes a chore after a while, and its 
 a shame because it could have been an excellent game, but such is life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jokul
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  First Person Shooters are now ten a penny, so when C&amp; C released this one I was expecting it 
 to be a little different and I was very disappointed.
  The game play for Renegade is not very different from most other FPS games of the era, you get 
 dropped into one end of the map with a couple of distinct objectives to complete, but as you make 
 your way to your targets a few more opportunity objectives will be called through to you.
  The graphics are better than I originally expected, the buildings are familiar from earlier versions 
 of the C&amp; C era and you will recognise one building as being a barracks, another as a war factory 
 and another as a refinery. This is very handy if your mission is to demolish one of these buildings. 
 The ability to enter a building and kill all the troops is nice touch, most games like this the 
 barracks are just blocks made to look pretty and not much else.
  Vehicles play a good part in the game as well. The character you play as has the skill to drive 
 and shoot tanks and other vehicles but small things like crawling out of the burning wreck of the 
 tank unscathed after getting it by an artillery shell for instance isnt the most realistic use 
 of the game play.
  There are a variety of weapons in the game but they dont really differ from each other to much 
 and unless you have something like a grenade launcher they arent as powerful as you would think. 
 Dont get me wrong, the guns in the levels look fantastic. Some programmer some where has spent 
 hours designing the looks but it seems to be at the expense of the guns dynamics and power.
  I have to admit though, at time of writing this I havent actually completed the game before I 
 stopped playing, its pretty unusual for me to do that but this game didnt grab my attention as 
 much as it should have done. Lets hope that if they release a sequel, all these little creases 
 with the game would be ironed out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shasam712
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Back in the day, Command and Conquer changed PC gaming for the better by bringing about the wide 
 acceptance of Real Time Strategy. Then along the line came a time for C&amp; C to diversify, to 
 become something other than the godfather of RTS. This change brought what is known as Command 
 and Conquer Renegade, an FPS from Westwood Studios and their new publishing partner Electronic 
 Arts.
  
  When first thinking of how Renegade may make use of the C&amp; C basics, a whole flurry of ideas 
 comes to mind of how the game could or should work. Large scale battles, all the classic units 
 and buildings and devastating super weapons. As it is, Renegade partially delivers on all of this, 
 managing to create an experience that will please any Command and Conquer fan but perhaps not the 
 non-believers.
  
  The single player campaign is an interesting move by Westwood, deciding not to give you control 
 of any random unit in large wars, instead giving you control of one of the most prized units in 
 any C&amp; C veterans arsenal, the Commando. This particular Commando is called Havoc, he is a one 
 stop shop for both moody one liners and a one man fighting force. You get thrown into a campaign 
 against Nod and the particularly nasty Raveshaw.
  
  In all honesty, the concept is the only intriguing aspect to the single player. The Story is rather 
 bland, Havoc tarnishes the good name of the Commando and the whole feeling fails to capture the 
 C&amp; C spirit. The AI is also appallingly dumb, which is unforgivable in an FPS. However it is 
 fair to say that it was always going to be tough to transfer the feeling from RTS to FPS, in their 
 defence Westwood, in all probability, did as good a job as they could have at the time.
  
  However, the appeal of a C&amp; C FPS was never going to be the single player modes or whatever 
 they could bundle into the offline experience. No, the real fun was to be expected in online multiplayer 
 and Westwood delivered in abundance there. The online mode pits two teams of up to 32 players each 
 in head to head combat with a great choice of strategy and tactics. Of course the games consist 
 of Nod versus GDI, the good versus evil struggle that we have seen in the RTS portions of C&amp; C. 
 Slight differences between the teams means that they each have different options available.
  
  Of course Tiberium plays a big role in this universe of C&amp; C and Renegade is no exception. 
 Each team has a refinery and a harvester, the harvester goes out to find a Tiberium field and comes 
 back when it is full giving the team credits. Players earn 2 credits a second while the refinery 
 is active, but receive a massive bonus if the harvester makes a successful trip. The harvester 
 will be a target for the opposing team to destroy, especially at the start of a game, as you will 
 have less credits to work with. Credits are key if you want to buy both characters and vehicles. 
 Players can chose from 4 free characters, Soldier (Machine Gun) , Shotgun, Engineer, then a choice 
 of Grenadier for GDI and Flamethrower for Nod. There are also several beefed up characters that 
 costs different amounts on how good their health and armour is and their weaponry. Vehicles are 
 also different for each team, with Nod getting more irregular vehicles like the Flame Tank and 
 the Stealth Tank, and GDI getting your regular looking, more modern vehicles such as Humvees and 
 the ever massive Mammoth Tank.
  
  The goal is one of two things, get more points than your enemy before time runs out or destroy 
 their base. You score points for shooting at stuff and repairing stuff, that is the basics of it. 
 Destroying the base is the harder of the ways to win, but a failed attempt will result in you getting 
 at least some points for it. You can destroy a base by either wiping out each building, you have 
 different buildings depending on the map but the basic ones are Base Defences (Advanced Guard Tower 
 or Obelisk of Light) , Barracks or Hand of Nod, Weapons Factory or Airfield, Power Plant and Refinery. 
 The other method is to place the Ion Cannon or Nuclear Strike Beacon on the Pedestal, found in 
 the Hand of Nod or Barracks, this ends the game after a 30 second countdown in which the other 
 team has to defuse the beacon. It all sounds rather complicated but after a few games it all becomes 
 clear.
  
  Destroying certain buildings will take away certain abilities for the other team, taking out the 
 Refinery will result in no more income of credits while destroying a Barracks will mean the opposing 
 team can no longer buy infantry. Depending on the map some buildings are easier to take out than 
 others while some will have more importance, such as the Weapons Factory on a map that almost relies 
 on Vehicles.
  
  The game is balanced quite nicely in multiplayer. GDI and Nod each have their advantages and disadvantages, 
 however there is one glaring addition to Nods armoury that makes them better on maps without base 
 defences. Nod has a infantry unit called the Stealth Black Hand which, as the name implies, is 
 invisible unless they are extremely close to the enemy. Combine this unit with a Nuke beacon or 
 some C4 picked up off dead soldiers and you have yourselves a cocktail of disaster. Although the 
 SBH is not unstoppable by any means, they do make life a hassle for GDI and will often tip the 
 balance in Nods favour.
  
  Technically Renegade is not the perfect title. The graphics are decent but there are a lot of technical 
 glitches throughout the game. The music is rather unnoticeable and strays from the quirky style 
 which C&amp; C is noted for. SFX are generally really good, however there will be times when you 
 will notice the lack of a sound when there is quite obviously a place for it, such as when a Stealth 
 Tank cloaks. It is these kinds of faults that Renegade falls down on, although they dont devalue 
 the multiplayer much they become overly noticeable when youre playing through the single player.
 
  
  If you get enthralled in the multiplayer of Renegade then you will spend a long, long time playing 
 with the rest of a community that is still going strong. However, if you lack the wonders of the 
 Internet or just arent that kind of person then I wouldnt suggest buying Renegade, its only 
 saving grace offline is perhaps the fact that it is Command and Conquer. Battlefield 2 is what 
 this game would be if it were made now and you cant help but feel it is time for Renegade 2, but 
 for now we have this stand up title to keep you busy fighting the Tiberium War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makaveli111
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  C&amp; C Renegade is good game and graphics are nice not the best i seen but i love gameplay cause 
 its using C&amp; C universe but thanks to EA theres been no expansion pack or another Sequel of 
 C&amp; C renegade using C&amp; C 2 storyline and one problem i have with this game is theres no nod 
 missions at all i mean all C&amp; C games ever made always had the idea of 2 sides or more and not 
 able to do NOD missions really suck or expansion pack to the game so we can have nod missions never 
 happen thats what my major problem with this game is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer was actually my first ever RTS game. I liked it but didn't fall too much for 
 it. So when this game released titled Command & Conquer Renegade I imagined it to be another RTS 
 but I hesitated in buying it despite know it was a sci-fi. But well my risk was real well worth.
 
  
  This game has a thing the feeling which makes you feel you are in a hollywood action flick. The 
 way the story takes twists and turns is simply amazing. But the real reason why I liked this game 
 is that the small view in earlier RTS C&C was gone with real action graphics and sound which pumps 
 up your adrenaline. This game's storyline actually quite follows the C&C's GDI v/s NOD. The introduction 
 of a NOD subsidiary known as Black Hand is actually the main villian in this game. The units are 
 really very familiar to a C&C player like me who knows weaknesses of really tough defense mechanisms. 
 You are Havoc A. K. A Parker. As a GDI commander and a member of spec ops division of GDI, Dead Six 
 you are given the task to finish the Black Hand.
  
  But the story reveals a lot of inner NOD turmoil and also shows a few glimpses of the evil, cunning, yet 
 a charismatic Kane.
  
  Overall, Renegade is a game with superb multiplayer compactibility and EA has finally mastered 
 the art of making a Hollywood action game as this is surely a one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalfantasy923
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The game would be perfect if it had a greater variety of weapons and more detail on the people 
 like they do with logan in the tutorial. Once you get to the end of single player you will go mad 
 because of the stealth black hands. The multiplayer is great but if you want to be a host you better 
 have at least a cable modem. If you are a 56k person then it takes like 5 minutes until you can 
 run around without getting teleported like 10 feet away. If you like online team games then get 
 this game! You wont throw this game away after you beat it so get the game if you like a challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Using the mouse for FPS's continues to be great. Plenty of great battles up close. Instead 
 of controlling the troops, you are the troops! Though I like RTS better for C&C, it's great to 
 get an FPS. The controls and all are outstanding. The levels are huge and exciting. The battles 
 make it feel like one of the biggest wars I've ever played in a game. A great amount of weapons 
 and vehicles adds to the excitement.
  
  Graphics- Being able to be up close with the C&C environment is the best feel to this game. Looking 
 up at a Hand of NOD or a Weapons Factory and going inside is just incredible after having to look 
 down on them for so long. The graphics are polished (though nothing amazing) , but definitely get 
 the job done.
  
  Sound and Music- The sound effects are exactly what you expect with the same sounds that the buildings 
 make from the orginal C&C games. I've always enjoyed hearing them from over your head instead of 
 under. The music is great as I've always liked C&C themes.
  
  Online- Being able to take on dozens of people at once makes the online play terrific. Much better 
 than games like Halo imo. Some of the battles can get really intense and you have so many things 
 you can do (i. e. snipe, smash through enemy lines with tanks, and try to get through on ground) 
 to help your team out. It gets really laggy at times, but it's fun nonetheless.
  
  Replay value- The missions are outstanding and will keep you playing for quite a while. It's the 
 online that I love though. I still play this game quite a bit, after several years of having it.
 
  
  Overall- This is a very under-rated and great game. The single player missions are great, but the 
 online is the best. Just for that, I say it's worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob5o
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  C&C Renegade was a brilliant idea: fight as a commando in C&C battles that are complete with usable 
 C&C vehicles and buildings. At times, it lives up to its promising premise. The C&C feel is great. 
 The seeing the weapons, vehicles, and buildings up close is a delight for any C&C fan. Kane makes 
 some appearances, and I'm pretty sure they even used the same "enemy soldier dying" sound bit from 
 the original RTS game. Sometimes, Renegade was just incredible. Running through a battlefield, 
 gunning down Nod soldiers, and riding the tanks I fondly remember commanding... now that's a good 
 game. However, between the brilliant in-the-battle missions are boring, long, and derivative missions 
 like "sneak through the submarine" or "sneak through the science facility". The AI is kind of crappy, 
 so when Renegade goes down to a small, vehicle-less scale, its pretty mediocre. Once you get back 
 onto the battlefield, you'll love it. 
  
  If C&C Renegade had been structured like a C&C game (i. e., each mission is a different battle) 
 rather than like your normal shooter, it would have been much better. Even so, its pretty fun, 
 despite some inconsistencies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  While this is not your typical C&C RTS game this adds a new style to the C&C games which makes 
 this game another good C&C game. The graphics are OK, the sound is good, and the gameplay is excelent. 
 The only problem is that I'm stuck on a level now because I'm out of ammo for all of my good weapons 
 and since the guards are tough ones with rocket launchers it only takes them one good shot to kill 
 me while it will take awhile with my puny little pistol to kill them. My advice would be to buy 
 this game if you want another good FPS game or a new taste of the C&C games. I also had multiplayer 
 trouble because I needed to pay with Game Spy in order to play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweeten16
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Now, this is weird turn for the popular game series. The previous command & conquer games series 
 each featured a top-down normal sort of strategy game, however the series has come a long way and 
 this latest installment shows. You now take on the battle on a first person basis. You immediately 
 injected into the action and involved in the production of vehicles which you actually climb into, 
 fly / drive, with the aim of destroying the other army's base. 
  
  This game deserves the status of a classic. Although mainly tailored for multi-play the game does 
 succeed in terms of fun. When you first enter the game with the rest of your team you are able 
 to walk upto several terminals located on walls in your base. Pressing the "E" key allows you to 
 build up credits which may in turn be used to create your arsenal. this ranges from tanks to helicoptors 
 to sniper rifles and rocket launchers. Pick what you will and make a run for the enemies base. 
 Destroying building by simply shooting them will render a paticular function your army has to be 
 useless. So, for instance, you could destroy a building which will not allow them to make any more 
 tanks and helicoptors. In the middle of your enemy's base is their central building which you must 
 destory in order to win the game. So the game is a simple defend - attack game between two teams. 
 You could probably already imagine how the multi=play aspect of the game would compare. It is excellent. 
 It involves team co-ordination, planned attacks and alot of intelligence to defeat your immediate 
 enemy. 
  
  The controls are the usual keyboard - mouse combo as you would expect for first person shooters. 
 It is probably hard to classify this game, is it a strategy? or a FPS? The simple answer is its 
 a bloody good shoot-em up combined with elements of strategy never before seen in a game. The visuals 
 are pretty neat although admittidly not brilliant. The motion and animation of the players is good 
 enough the display presented to you has great clarity and people are easily identifiable (especially 
 scary when you see an army of tanks coming your way and you've only got a pistol!) . This game is 
 great with any number of players whether it be 2,4 or even just 1. Got a home LAN? well, this game 
 is a must, then. If you dont have a hime network, this is a good excuse to get one, and if all 
 else fails the single player campaign isnt bad either. 
  
  The audio are also pretty good, although not brilliant. All the elements are brought together in 
 the gameplay and since the audio / visuals / gameplay all blend in seamlessly together it can be 
 assumed that the develepors have inculded the essentials. One point of critisism though, the sniper 
 rifle when on zoom mode displays an awful green colour which makes veiwing difficult and takes 
 some getting used to. For first person shooters and for strategists this blend of the two will 
 bring both groups together and will give many hours of happiness, a top game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitzza_1301
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  This game stays true to the series and sets you as a war hardened merc who is currently employed 
 by the gdi. It increases the difficuty constantly though the game and can be quite defeating when 
 uve cut ur way all the way until the end of the level only to die and realise that the game doesnt 
 have check points.
  
  The guns rock from the flame thrower to the laser chain gun to the personal ion cannon (really cool) 
 and are a clear cut above the normal set of generic weapons aka assualt rifle, pistol, sniper rifle. 
 It has a few tiberium based weapons in the single and multiplayer portions of the game.
  
  The vehicles are also pretty cool with the good old humvee and the huge mammoth tank for the gdi 
 and the really cool flame tanks and stealth tanks for the nod. They all are pretty interesting 
 
  
  The difficulty settings allow you to progress through the game with ease whilst the higher difficulty 
 levels will leave you clawing for grounds as you struggle to lay waste to the nod forces.
  
  The enemys remain fresh and interesting and vary from the basic nod soldiers to the black hand 
 special forces to a really cool enemy which i wouldnt want to ruin.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Renegade is actually a really intersting, and extemely addicting game to play. 
 It has the right balance of team strategy, awsomely large levels, and one of the best online game 
 modes I've ever seen! It is so easy to start to play, after about 15 minutes it is idiot proof! 
 ANYONE can and probably would have fun with this title. VERY fun, the character choice and vehicle's 
 are excellent. No shortage there. But probably the best part is the way everyday users can make, 
 code, and add their maps to the online area. (You need to download the map in order to play with 
 it) I remember all the cool things you could do, it was really fun, for ALL! Though a hard find 
 now, you probably would be extremely happy with this purchase. Everything about this game is good 
 ;) No problem playing, or learning here. Get it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  When i got this game, i expected it to be a little cheesy, like just running through with your 
 gun blazing not paying attention to anything else but killing everyone in a certain direction to 
 get to your objective. I was wrong, if you do do that, then it'll turn out disastrous, cornered 
 in... and angry.
  
  The gameplay I thought was excellent, the vehicles, such as jeeps, tanks, and that's it, but each 
 one has its highly affective abilites, whether its creeping behind the enemy with a stealth tank, 
 circling with a jeep or anything, though the multiplayer may get boring eventually. The storyline 
 was alright, just a high ranking G. I. that gets into some trouble and fights his way through making 
 allies who play big roles, then loosing them and stuff.
  
  The graphics weren't that good, but the buildings, unlike the strategy game, were enormous, towering 
 into the sky taking out a dozen of your troops at once makes you even think twice when you try 
 the strategy game. Such as the obelisk, it looked ridiculous in the strategy game, but it was a 
 destructive terrifying object in the game to get past, like a giant scorpion tail towering out 
 of the sky... blowing up tanks and sizzling people to KFC chicken lying on the ground.
  
  The sound i thought was great, with above average voice actors, and interesting gun sounds, and 
 with enough going on it sounds like you're in the middle of the fight.
  
  Overall i think it was a great game, definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ed_206
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  Its a great online multiplayer game, where you can play with real people the aim of the game is 
 there are 2 bases Hand of Nod and GDI the first team to asassinate all bases wins or when the time 
 is up the team with the highest score wins. You can choose from Flame  
 Tanks and if your thinking you dont get these for free as you play your money builds up otherwise 
 known as Credits these can go up in 3s or 2s if your attacking or shooting a enemy these will go 
 up more quickly, There is a wide range of guns to chose from anything from a machine gun right up 
 to a Nuke. As you kill your eneimes in the top left you will get points the more enemys you kill 
 the more the points go up and at the end it will show all the players in a collum Hand of Nod collum 
 and GDI collum and it will have in lowest to highest on who got the most points and who got the 
 lest points.
  
  The storyline is a bit dissapointing you play as Havoc which is not very exciting but is ok if 
 you dont have interent connecton. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor_bblade
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  This is a different type of COC game and i think that it is a good game. The graphics are pretty 
 good and the story and missions are good. I think that the best part of this game is the multiplayer. 
 If you dont have the right connections you can play a multiplayer game against the computer but 
 playing against a human is better. The story is based on this general guy and your this soildier 
 calld havoc and you have to do all these missions. There is some bad stuff about the game the sound 
 is a bit crappy but it still is good. I think you should check for bargains on this game it is 
 a bit old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  Command and conquer lets you play as the legendary unit, the commando from c&c original. The first 
 thing you notice as soon as you enter the game is the total hanging on of the original series. 
 The search for the nod base etc, which in the original could take a good while.
  
  But it isn't all game and no con. It's more con. See this game is at it's best, when you aren't 
 in a nod base, but outside mass murdering people. Which sort of defies the point os command and 
 conquer. This is a little bit of hell on a good series. Don't get me wrong, It's a fantastic game, 
 just not very fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FronzenShock987
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  The only word to describe, this game is: Disappointing. I hoped that this game would of been really 
 exciting, long lasting, and smooth graphics. But it turned out to be the exact opposite of what 
 I think.
  
  1. Not really exciting. Does'nt bring the joy of FPS game, and it's all so short.
  
  2. Terrible 
 graphics! Graphics are rough and simple. You can hardly go anywhere. For example, can't jump into 
 the water. Two, same maps over, and over.
  
  3. Very easy to beat. This game is a little too short. Beat it 2 times in about two and a half 
 hours.
  
  And in conclusion, this is one of the worst FPS game ever. But one good point in this game, and 
 that is the multi-player. But still not really that good as I though it would be.
  
  A fun FPS game would be like Counter Strike, Medal of Honor, Battlefield 2, and Doom 3. Those games 
 are popular, and fun. I recommend you not to buy this game. Very short is the only reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  When people think of Command and Conquer, they think of the long running RTS series from EA developer 
 Westwood Studios, not an awesome FPS with outstanding and inovative multiplayer. Renegade is just 
 that, an FPS that is solidly C&C, but from a different perspective. In single player, you play 
 as GDI commando Havoc, who must lead the army into battle to save the world. The single player 
 is fun, but not too different from many other FPS games out there. What stands out about Renegade 
 is the online multiplayer. It's a team based protect the base mode that has some RTS roots in it. 
 You have to have your harvester mine for minerals and a power plant pump energy into your base 
 to keep it going. You also can build vehicles like tanks and humvees to drive around and plast 
 the heck out of the enemies. You also can change your character class... if you have the funds. 
 Which ever team destroys the other team's base first wins. This unique and fun multiplayer mode 
 would have been awesome on Xbox Live, but it was confined to PCs thanks to EA... Hopefully we'll 
 see a continuation of the series on next gen consoles, but until then, we can enjoy this great 
 PC FPS on the First Decade collection. Check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pault17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game will grow on you faster than............ something that grows really fast. The story is 
 pretty good, the Single-player multiplayer is dececnt. But Multiplayer is where this game really 
 shines. With a huge online community, a rather large rankings ladder, and some of the most fun/interactive 
 maps in the gaming world...... This game is not to be missed. Although I have stopped playing (because 
 Guild Wars is a better game, but not by much) I regret uninstalling it everyday. I made many friends 
 in some of the RolePlay games, and you will too. Also, a new element, intruduced recently, is the 
 Multiplayer mission mode. It is a bunch of hacked maps, that are exactly the same as the mission 
 maps. The objectives are even the same. Play all the single player missions with a bunch of really 
 good people. If you think that the Single-player was tough, try it with smarter/respawning enemies 
 and 150 people. Pick this game up as fast as you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luongj
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game can be incredibly fun. A simple small enclosed map with a base to base fps with tanks, 
 air units, and of course infantry. It has a good variety of vehicles and infantry. The single player 
 mode does not have a same type of story like the other command and conquer strategy games, but 
 it is there. If you ever played the original C&C back in 1995, this is a nice little treat to dive 
 in. If you never touch any C&C game that was made before Westwood was engulfed by EA, this game 
 is still worth playing. In the whole, the FPS multi player experience is one of the funnest I ever 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackVBlack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  The was quite a catch back in the old dyas and it still is now. YOU GET TO ENTER AND PLAY THE COMMAND 
 AND CONQUER UNIVERSE FROM A FIRST PERSON PERSPECTIVE! what more can any fan of the genere wish 
 for? Nod tanks, gdi humvees, dozens of unit classses are availible for the player in multiplayer 
 mode. It is very encouraging that the game still has a rather healthy multiplayer community. The 
 single player is great as well, lots of veriety in the gameplay there. Drive tanks, perform lots 
 of secondary objectives (if you wish to of course) and get to visit each and every oner of those 
 little bulildings you contructed while playing the first C&N. I consider this game a progressive 
 step towards a larger market of players. Its a nice one guys, play it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Renegade takes players back to the past around the Tiberium Dawn era within the game where you 
 take up the role as Havoc, a tough as nails stereotypical commando from the command and conquer 
 series of games. Throughout the game your pupose is to go up against a special group of NOD forces 
 and the game on the overall is just a first person shooter with a few different weapons. The main 
 portion of the game plays itself out quite nice as it is always nice to see how things come out 
 in 3D where you can actually use the weapons directly as opposed to just looking at them from the 
 overhead and ordernig them to commit some form of an action. The multipler of the game is very 
 fun, as you have to both go out and fight enemies while at the same time protect your base from 
 the opposition. There are many different ways of infiltrating the enemy base besides just walking 
 in straight with the mammoth tank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefangogh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  very cool game playing whit lots of freinds :P i like co-op missions and flying great teamplay 
 nice map's mamut tank real funny and the choppers muhahaha must have renguard what i dont like 
 : noobies they think that they are smart but they arend and stay a lot of time in the base sniping 
 sometimes repairing tak lot of points like to be gdi for vehicle's and nod for characters and artie 
 
  
  very cool game playing whit lots of freinds :P i like co-op missions and flying great teamplay 
 nice map's mamut tank real funny and the choppers muhahaha must have renguard what i dont like 
 : noobies they think that they are smart but they arend and stay a lot of time in the base sniping 
 sometimes repairing tak lot of points like to be gdi for vehicle's and nod for characters and artie 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  I really like this game. I think it has all of the necessary elements to make a fun first-person 
 shooter and to encourage an abundance of multiplayer action. The problem with it is that there 
 is too much competition with great online games like Halo, Unreal, and Half-Life to really give 
 this one the same recognition.
  
  The company Westwood is making an attempt to enter new realms and try to make popular shooters 
 that take off in popularity the way that the previously mentioned games did. Unfortunately, this 
 was a first attempt that was not close enough. It has all of the arsenal, the large online support, 
 the vast number of players waiting online to start a game, and enjoyable maps, but the other games 
 have better graphics, better maps, more support, and more players waiting to join.
  
  This is one that I originally downloaded the trial version and had enough fun with it. You can 
 do that too or try and upgrade to the full version. Your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phili4life
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  The Command and Conquer series has been the greatest so far and now Renegade joins the series. 
 Renegade has very supporting graphics and has some great sound. The Gameplay allows you to pick 
 any character in multiplayer in a infamous battle between two teams GDI: The Good Side and NOD: 
 The Bad Side. This game is a good first person shooter and has some great AI in the mix. The only 
 problem is I kinda expected music in multiplayer because it gets a little boring just running around 
 with no music to get you pumped. I give Renegade a 9.2 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  i have been waiting for a game like this since 2 months ago and i finnaly found it! WOW!!!!!!!! 
 the single player is ok but the heart of the game is in the multie player!! WOW! I dont even know 
 what to say about this game its so cool man you get to ride vehicles and choose from different 
 people its so awsome omg so many people playing online its amazing so get this game if you like 
 command and conquer and like team based games and you got high speed internet get this  
 well get this game now this game is coo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canmoore
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game since the demo first came out. I love this game, i was brought up 
 on C&C and war-craft type games.
  
  This game is so much fun, because to win online, you must work together... you cannot win it on 
 your own.
  
  So many vehicles, characters, and type of combat to choose from. You can become a sniper, and snipe 
 unsuspecting players. Or jump in a vehicle and lay a pounding on the enemies vehicles and buildings. 
 Or you can become an engineer.... dont underestimate those engineers! with there C4 and remote explosives 
 a well organized group of engineers can demolish a building in no time!.
  
  Veryy addictive, very fun. Two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4-SaGohan
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Well This C&C is a first screen shooting game. This game is like CS, COD, DOD and other games. 
 Most people would like this game but if you ask me, I would say, that this game stinks.
  
  In single player mode, the campaign mode, is mostly very easy. This game has nothing really good 
 except MP (Multiplayer) . The levels aren't that hard. When you play the game, you just can't take 
 your hands off the keyboard. It feels like you have to play it. This game is very boring after 
 you play this game a few times.
  
  The multiplayer is the best part of this game. You could play in different maps that you have never 
 seen, and you could drive, air vechicles. Woo hoo, ya! And there are lots of other vehicles that 
 you could use in MP, and I'm sure you've seen them in single player before. 
  
  If I were you I would suggest not to buy this game. It get boring after a while and it's very simple. 
 And for those C&C fans, you would love this game more than other C&C games. 
  
  If I were you, I think that the old classic Commander and Conquer game, is better than this C&C 
 game. And I think thats all I could say for now. Until we meet again my good people.
  
  Ciao 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grenadier53
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Great game. I really enjoyed playing this game. The more people the better, but then creates lag 
 that can be bad especially when your in the lead with the highest score and then you lag out, exiting 
 the game. the gameplay itself is great. The main objective is to protect you own base and destroy 
 the oppents base. There are diffrent ways to win: destroy the oppents base, place a beacon on the 
 pedestal and when time expires have the most points. The weapons you can choose is pretty cool 
 too, such as  flettchet/ rockets guns, tiberium auto rifle, 
 ion personal cannon or the railgun ,snipers, and other cool weapons that i didnt mention. The vehicles 
 are awesome. From light tanks to mammoth tanks and from buggys to apcs. (unlike other FPS games 
 that dont really let you play like this game) Single Player is pretty fun and the story line is 
 funny and it's great to play . Overall, Its an awsome game and the sound effects make it seem closer 
 to the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  While there are some issues, this game does a rather good job of making and enjoyable experience 
 for almost anyone.
  
  I'll start off with my complaints about the single player to get them out of the way. The single 
 player campaign has varying difficulties perfect for all skill levels and has a fairly engaging 
 storyline following the GDI vs NOD formula from the original C&C and Tiberian Sun. However the 
 1p play is very linear and commits one HUGE, and nearly unforgivable sin. SCRIPT BREAKING! Yes, 
 it's possible. If you complete an objective on purpose or accident before the game displays it 
 as an objective in the objectives section on the EVA, it will NEVER count as completed. This means 
 that if you accidentally complete one primary objective early, you will never be able to complete 
 the mission, even though the overhead voice does say "primary objective complete." If you hear 
 that and don't know what you did, go back to your last save or restart the mission because it's 
 already Game Over for that attempt.
  
  Now that I've covered that, I'll get to the good stuff, the online multiplayer. The action really 
 feels like you are a character in a battle on a C&C field. You can rush the enemy base and try 
 to destroy some buildings (which can't be replaced) or spend your time repairing your own base 
 to help the team if you're no good with a gun. With a wide variety of characters and vehicles to 
 purchase and use, which are fairly unique for each team, the possible team strategies are endless. 
 If you're really skilled, you can win by placing a superweapon strike beacon (Ion cannon-GDI/Nuke 
 missile-NOD) on the pedestal in the enemy barracks and defending it until the weapon strikes, instantly 
 destroying the enemy base and claiming victory for your team.
  
  The graphics and sound in this game do a great job of putting you right into the heart of a C&C 
 battle with authentic sounds form the games and, while the buildings are clearly very polygonal 
 and not super detailed, they look like they were pulled straight from the original games, making 
 up for the lack of detail.
  
  This is a game that you have to try yourself to believe, so try it, you'll like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 72neziar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Westwood has taken a blind jump into the world of the pc fps with its C&C series... and it has 
 definitely left its mark for future titles in the series. While single player is good and uses 
 the type of story line we have come to expect from C&C, with its buff action hero's, easy girls, 
 and world domination attempts by crazy bald men. The multiplayer is the life of this game. So if 
 you don't plan on playing online, and you can't take the challenge that single player offers... 
 then this game is not for you. Otherwise, even if you are new to C&C, this is definitely worth 
 your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  C&C universe made into an RTS: sounds like a good idea. Well, C&C fans, this game does not disappiont. 
 Well, mostly. The singleolayer takes place between Tiberium Dawn and Tiberium Sun. You are the 
 standard grizzled ant-hero commando that ends up saving the world and getting the girl. The story 
 is pretty run-of-the-mill, and the creativity of the missions is pretty lacking. There are your 
 generic escort missions and base infiltration and stuff like that. All together, the singlelplayer 
 aint that great. But the multiplay definately makes up for it. The battles are intense and epic, 
 with up to 25 people on each side. Its fun stuff.
  The game's graphics are ok, but I expected more from such a recent game. The sounds are pretty 
 bland, and the voice acting aint that great. However, the music is great and really gives off adreniline. 
 
  If you want a bargain priced game that has a great multiplayer, this is your game. If you want 
 a game with a solid singleplayer as well, then look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nely_nelson
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 8, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  4 words! 
  SINGLE PLAYER ---  SUCKAGE
  MULTIPLAYER ------  AWESOME
  
  The single player was not great. They story line was mastly radiod in while you were fighting so 
 it was pretty hard to follow. Also it was not that hard. The map was confusing. YOu would be standing 
 right at the end of the mission and find out that ur 3 stories below ground. So 1 hour later you 
 find the exit. The multiplayers great. Its team based with lots of servers. There is very high 
 lag though. Its incredibly hard to snipe. You actualy have a better shot of getting a head shot 
 if you don't zoom in then if you do. If you are a n00b looking to get better at shooters i recomend 
 it. If you are already a pro go 4 something else like battle field 2 or Counterstrike.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeshwent
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:37 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer is a well-known strategy series by Westwood Studios. Well, they have invented 
 a new action game Renegade that is a First/Third person action shooter in C&C mode type game play. 
 You are placed as Havoc, a GDI Commando who looks like he has just taken a bath in Tiberium (a 
 green radioactive chemical) . It is a real good game and is a must play for any C&C fan. But the 
 storyline of Renegade crumbles like a chalk piece. Many questions are left hanging in air. For 
 example what happens to Kane and Sakura. At the end of the day Renegade is not a real good single 
 player game.
  
  As usual the main point in C&C is the multiplayer and even in Renegade the multiplayer is the main 
 point. t helps you to fight individual as well as clan battles. Renegade also offers good varieties 
 of maps. As if I havent got tired of criticizing Renegade another problem is that the bodies 
 of dead enemies mysteriously vanish into thin air. Is there a glitch in the game or is there a 
 hidden funeral teleportation machine? Well, whatever it might be Renegade is worth only for Multiplayer 
 and nothing else. Not recommended for pro-gamers, as it is TOO EASY!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 29, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  The author was very surprised to see any Command and Conquer games in first person shooter. Followers 
 of the usual heads down, strategy, of the other Command and Conquer Series of games gave this game 
 severely bad marks. One would suppose if the gamer is used to a specific format any change would 
 seriously disrupt the following otherwise acquired.
  
  The author enjoyed the main character's wit and interaction with the others in his sortie or group. 
 Graphics were particularly well done when turned to the highest setting. This would be an excellent 
 game for the novice FPS who owns an older computer. There are weapons that will do extraordinary 
 damage. Many are mounted on vehicles. There are even tanks battles for the gamer to complete in 
 the game play.
  
  The game follows a very logical and believable, but somewhat Sci-Fi story line. Adventure lies 
 from beachheads to the back street of French towns. The author has played this game three times 
 and would highly recommend it as a genuine FPS classic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolve3308
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 15, 2005 2:24 am PT
Review:  this is definately a must have for any command and conquer fan. not only is its multiplayer unbelievable, 
 it also has a very addicting story to it. u dont have to b a command and conquer fan to enjoy this 
 game, even fps fans will find enjoyment through this game. it is practically halo for the pc, tiberian 
 sun style! u run around doin various missions but they get very in depth w/ multiple ways of completing 
 them. they also make it very detailed, almost every building u can go in... or destroy!! multiplayer 
 is probably its strongest point, i have played it once nd it was amazing!! giant wars that take 
 stratedgy nd skill to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaine2467
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 15, 2005 4:19 am PT
Review:  Well the Single player is horrible, the plot sucks and the opening sequence that is supposed to 
 move you is hillarious. "Help we're pinned down under fire from the Nod, there are tanks and lots 
 of troops." "I'ts ok we're sending in a Commando!". The single player also lacks any decent plot. 
 But the multiplayer is really fun, there is plenty of stuff to do, and lots of people to play against. 
 The teams are balanced and each of lots of uniuqe troops. The vehicles are fun and work well, and 
 the players always accuse anyone who is good at cheating. So if someone accuse you of cheating, 
 put 2 rounds in there chest and one in there head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KRAZY_JACK
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 27, 2005 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I was really hoping that a FPS would be made out of Command & Conquer and when it came out 
 I got it right away. Here is the breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 The game was good but at times it would slow down. The framerate was not that good. 
 Other than that it was pretty fun, the enemies were a little too easy though. I was amazed to see 
 how detailed they got with the buildings. Another down was that the loading time was horrible. 
 I spent almost more time loading than playing the game.
  
  Graphics: 8/10 The graphics were okay, but they could have been WAY better. The vehicles looked 
 like boxes with wheels. The people looked okay and so did the air units. The buildings looked great 
 as well.
  
  Sound: 9/10 the sound was very well done. The explosions sounded great. But then you get to the 
 flamethrower and machine guns. The flame sounded like a lighter not a high powered weapon. The 
 machine gun and chain gun sounded the same, they could have made the sounds a little different. 
 The sniper rifle is you ask me was way too loud. They should have made it sound like it was silenced. 
 Other than those errors it wasn't too bad.
  
  Value: Well I think I could have spent my money better than buy this game but since I did buy it, 
 it wasn't too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 3, 2005 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Command and conquer has had quite a run in its past few years, so they try something new with its 
 hands on first person shooter. Most strategists that have played command and conquer games have 
 just dreamed about being on the battlefield hands on and change the fate of the war because of 
 one man. The game has nice eye candy graphics and tons of guns that just make you feel like a total 
 commando to run around and shoot whatever moves. But to say this game was a complete success would 
 be inaccurate. The game has a lot of issues for example the multi player crashes alot for being 
 on gamespy, second would be is how many bullets or rockets your hurl at someone and they just plain 
 don't die. Controls operate the same way as any other first person shooter, vehicles seem to be 
 a tad to weak also. The game deserves to be borrowed from a friend and put it away with your dusty 
 stash after your done with its about 10 to 15 hour campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ULTIMA-Demon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 12, 2004 12:00 am PT
Review:  I love Real-Time Strategy games. When EA announced that they would be bringing the Command and 
 Conquer series to the FPS genre, I was a little skeptical. I didnt think it would work. I was 
 wrong. This game is great. The single player mode has a pretty standard storyline and game-play 
 but is still pretty fun to play. Youll play as a commando named Havok, a sort of hard-ass anti-hero. 
 During the course of the single player campaign, youll find yourself doing pretty much the same 
 thing every level: moving from point A to point B, killing NOD baddies and destroying things while 
 rescuing various good guys in trouble. The graphics are pretty good and so is the sound. The sound 
 is a little weak when it comes to the weapons though. Nothing spectacular here. That isnt what 
 this game is about though. Its all about fun. The multiplayer mode is where this game really shines. 
 Multiplayer matches play like a Real-Time Strategy game from a first person perspective, where 
 each person plays a single unit. It is all team-based in Renegade. Choose to play as either the 
 forces of NOD or GDI and win by destroying the enemys base. This can be done a number of ways, 
 either by infiltrating the structures and blowing up the control terminals or by bombarding the 
 structures with mobile artillery and other vehicles, etc. All of the characters, vehicles, and 
 buildings are taken straight from the original Command and Conquer game. You have your soldiers, 
 grenade-launching dudes, officers, technicians, engineers, tanks, humvees, artillery, helicopters 
 and all. The possibilities are limitless, and with a little teamwork and thinking in RTS mode will 
 make your team unstoppable. This game can be considered a hybrid of sorts when it comes to multiplayer. 
 Where it lacks in single-player and overall appeal, it more than makes up for it in multiplayer. 
 Although not an RTS, Renegade is still a great Command and Conquer game and I would recommend it 
 to fans of either genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilebill
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2003 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Renegade is an excellent game. With the graphics at the highest setting of 1280 x 1040 on my 32MB 
 Nvidia card, the graphics are very easy on the eyes, with detailed landscapes and weather effects 
 like rain, lightning, snow. For someone new to FPS like myself, Renegade is a gentle well-scaled 
 introduction to programs of this type that will remain fun to play for a very long time. For single 
 player mode, there are many additional maps available at the fan sites, so you need not play online 
 to continue enjoying the game after finishing the supplied campaign, which seems to me to have 
 a lot of replay value. Highly experienced players of FPS games will say the technology has moved 
 on, I suppose, but I really wonder if any of the newer games really have as much to offer the player 
 new to FPS as Renegade? Particularly when you take the price into account ... Perhaps some day 
 EA will do a Renegade II. We can always hope. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
