-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer Red Alert 2: Yuri's Revenge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandconqueryurisrevenge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 3,420 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 10, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
All its new features combine to make Yuri's Revenge ideal or even downright necessary for anyone 
 who enjoyed Red Alert 2. 

 Don't be compelled to buy Yuri's Revenge, the official expansion to last year's Red Alert 2, just 
 because the box shows a mind-controlling maniac giving you the cold stare -- besides that, there 
 are plenty of perfectly good reasons for owning the game. This impressive add-on to the fun and 
 frantic Red Alert 2 does what other great real-time strategy expansion packs, such as The Conquerors 
 for Age of Empires II and Brood War for Starcraft, have done before -- it makes an already great 
 game even better, not only by piling on new features, but also by adding enough significant enhancements 
 that the result stands out as being not just broader than its predecessor, but legitimately different. 
 That means Yuri's Revenge will more than likely renew your interest in Westwood's over-the-top 
 game.           Yuri's Revenge introduces an all-new faction to Red Alert 2.    

  The original Red Alert 2 was set during a near-future war between the Allies and the Soviets -- a 
 serious-sounding premise, but Red Alert 2 didn't take itself seriously. Actually, the game's sense 
 of humor proved to be one of its strong suits, as it gave the designers license to come up with 
 some truly bizarre units -- the Soviets could deploy mind-controlled giant squids, while the Allies 
 had access to elite troopers whose special weapons could literally erase their foes out of time. 
 Yuri's Revenge steers Red Alert 2 even further toward the absurd -- most notably, the game introduces 
 an intriguing, all-new playable faction headed up by the titular Yuri, a renegade Soviet psychic. 
 Yuri, played with panache by veteran creepy-character actor Udo Kier, has assembled a truly unusual 
 army composed of various evil gadgets, mind-control weapons, and experiments-gone-awry. Yuri's 
 forces are the enemy in the two new campaigns featured in Yuri's Revenge -- one for the Allies and 
 one for the Soviets, each with seven big missions. It's too bad that Yuri doesn't get his own campaign -- but 
 you can control his forces in skirmish or multiplayer modes.   

  Many of Yuri's units are very interesting. His Gatling tanks fire faster and faster upon their 
 targets -- if you can protect them long enough, they'll eventually be dishing out huge damage at 
 a tremendous rate of fire. These flimsy units can be great for defense from within Yuri's tank 
 bunkers -- immobile fortifications that let his tanks fire on attackers without fear of retaliation. 
 Meanwhile, the mastermind unit, a strange tanklike vehicle, can automatically mind-control any 
 enemy unit that crosses its path -- it mind-controls units automatically, but the catch is that it 
 starts short-circuiting if it mind-controls more than three. Yuri also commands legions of Incredible 
 Hulk-like mutants called brutes, which can go toe-to-toe with enemy tanks. He has defensive structures 
 that automatically mind-control groups of units that enter their sphere of influence -- truly an 
 imposing obstacle. Plus, he's got a very nasty nuclear submarine in his arsenal. Altogether, Yuri's 
 new faction is very different from those of the Soviets and the Allies -- even his ore harvester, 
 called the slave miner, is nothing like the harvesters for the other sides. It's a self-contained 
 refinery, and slave units automatically shovel ore into this armed platform to fuel Yuri's war 
 effort. Like the other two factions, Yuri's side has a lot of personality and largely consists 
 of units that are well designed, memorable, and worth using in most any battle. Yuri's forces are 
 physically weak when directly compared with those of the Allies and Soviets -- but they can be used 
 to devious effect.           Yuri himself can mind-control anything -- even enemy structures!    
 

  Fortunately for the Allies and the Soviets, they each get several powerful, new weapons that can 
 level the playing field when up against Yuri's dirty tricks. For instance, the Allies get what's 
 called a battle bunker -- a vehicle so large that it can crush enemy tanks under its powerful treads. 
 Up to five of any kind of infantry can be placed into a battle bunker, allowing it to be an extremely 
 powerful multipurpose weapon that can keep the enemy guessing. The Allies also get a powerful new 
 addition to their already strong infantry division: the Guardian GI, whose antitank weapon can 
 wreak havoc on enemy armor and flying units alike. The new Allied robot tank is another great new 
 unit -- this mechanized weapon can hover over any surface, including water, and it's immune to mind 
 control. But Allied players who put all their eggs in one basket by investing in many robot tanks 
 have to be careful, because if the enemy knocks the Allies' power plants offline, all robot tanks 
 in the field will go dead.    

 The Soviets gain some equally versatile additions -- for example, the siege chopper can attack most 
 enemies from the sky without fear of retaliation, but its true power lies in its ability to convert 
 into a powerful long-range cannon. The new Soviet hero unit, a haughty fellow named Boris, can 
 easily hold his own against armies of enemy infantry -- and, using a laser designator, he can call 
 in MiG air strikes for good measure. The Soviets also gain a facility that boosts the production 
 speed and drastically decreases the cost of all their vehicles, allowing them to fill the battlefield 
 with their armored forces and gain an advantage in sheer numbers. These and other new units make 
 both the Allies and the Soviets play quite differently from the way they used to in Red Alert 2. 
 Though the Allies can still use their prism tanks to quickly demolish most anything on the ground, 
 the new units and structures introduced in Yuri's Revenge do add a new level of tactical depth 
 and will make you reevaluate most all your strategies both on the attack and on the defense -- you'll 
 find that even some of the old, unchanged units have newfound strengths in their ability to combat 
 some of the new ones. All told, between Yuri's new forces and the additions to the Allied and Soviet 
 sides, there are more than two dozen new units and structures in Yuri's Revenge.           Yuri's 
 psychic dominator device wreaks havoc and mind-controls what's left.    

  The two new campaigns in Yuri's Revenge are completely entertaining and quite funny, though linear 
 and relatively short. Most of the missions will take you between 30 minutes and an hour to finish. 
 Objectives are numerous and varied even within individual missions, and Westwood once again makes 
 good use of full-motion video sequences to keep the game's wacky semblance of a plot moving right 
 along from one mission to the next. Some video is even incorporated right into the game's scenarios. 
 If there's a problem with the campaigns besides their somewhat short length, it's that the computer 
 doesn't use Yuri's forces all that capably. Often, it'll just send droves of Yuri's weak infantry 
 toward you, like lambs to the slaughter. The missions aren't easy, though -- if anything, you might 
 be thankful that the computer doesn't use Yuri's forces to their fullest potential.   

  Yuri's Revenge also adds 10 missions that can be played cooperatively with another player. This 
 is one of the various ways in which the expansion enhances Red Alert 2's already solid multiplayer 
 game. Online matches now support six players rather than just four, and numerous other improvements 
 to the multiplayer options and the proprietary Westwood Online player-matching service promise 
 to make Yuri's Revenge a long-lasting multiplayer game, like Red Alert 2 before it.           New 
 units like the siege chopper provide for even more strategy.    

  It's no surprise that Yuri's Revenge looks and sounds about the same as its predecessor, as it 
 uses the same isometric 2D graphics engine that was used in Red Alert 2 and in Command &amp; Conquer: 
 Tiberian Sun before it. The colorful but small units in Yuri's Revenge can be a bit difficult to 
 distinguish from one another at first, but you'll get an eye for the differences between them quickly 
 enough. The full-motion sequences found throughout the game are hammy and enjoyable and as well-produced 
 as ever. Yuri's Revenge sounds like Red Alert 2 did, meaning the repetitive unit acknowledgments 
 tend to be amusing enough that they don't get tiresome. The fast-tempo soundtrack fits well, and 
 the new units generally sound good, like many of the Red Alert 2 units did in the first place. 
   

  All its new features combine to make Yuri's Revenge ideal or even downright necessary for anyone 
 who enjoyed Red Alert 2. Like its predecessor, it's a well-designed, fast-paced, flexible, and 
 ultimately very fun real-time strategy game with a lot of variety and a lot of appeal. The enhancements 
 it introduces to the gameplay of its predecessor are meaningful, well thought out, and diverse -- so 
 much so that you'll probably find it impossible to go back to vanilla Red Alert 2 after you've 
 tried Yuri's Revenge. Those who couldn't get past Red Alert 2's hectic pacing in the first place 
 probably won't get what's so great about Yuri's Revenge, either -- but the game's combination of 
 action and strategy elements, tied together with Red Alert 2's streamlined interface and precise 
 controls, really are a blast. Even if you somehow missed out on Red Alert 2 these past 12 months, 
 Yuri's Revenge is good enough on its own terms that you'd be well off to give it and Red Alert 
 2 a try.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (49 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: roughnecks17
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:29 am PT
Review:  I remember starting playing the red alert series during late 90's before PS lost it's glory to 
 his brother PS 2... and it change my gaming life forever.
  
  Yuri as an expansion to the game added a twist to the game and the fate of the world although it's 
 not clear to me why did he created his own empire, he's smart but not enough. Allied improvements 
 are better than Soviet ones but can't still deny the all time instruments of doom- the Kirov and 
 the apocalypse. an added air supremacy for the soviet is the arrival of boris who can call deadly 
 fighters that can blast enemy buildings anytime, anywhere. yuri who can corrupt the battle filed 
 and stole some significant soviet technology is a little bit short, with limited unit options your 
 foe can easily predict your movements but your a step ahead knowing what will happen in the future.
 
  
  Skirmish games are not that tough compare to warcraft. the AI is a bit stupid and redundant with 
 their attack strategy always, again and again: blasting your money first. if you want to survive, 
 then keep your ore refinery and minners safe. 
  
  over all it's a classic startegy game plus with amusing fiction story lines. I'm looking forward 
 to play RA 3 but still i had problems downloading it at torrentz :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VXCOM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:29 am PT
Review:  WestWood now EA make its awesome... another expansion with a great unit balance... the creativity...
 
  In the 1st Story single player mode Yuri is backstabbing soviet in a stealthy way of his mind 
 control act... again the story mode is awesome.. plus more army and a weird super weapon (psychic 
 wave) ...... with every fraction have some added new unit such as attack chopper/Soviets special 
 unit- Borris /Gatling Cannon and 
  Borris is now your special unit since Yuri backstabbing Soviet already make his own army to attack 
 both side... Borris can call an airstrike of Mig's super jets to obliterate enemy structure and 
 carry Ak47+ to kill enemy personal and even tank in when in (3^^^) Sergeant rank promote..... and 
 much more to make this game go nuts.... 
  Yuri got alot of mind controlling unit and will make your unit go haywire and maybe turn your army 
 to attacking you... and make the tides of battle to your sense of crazyness of rushing attacks....
 
  anyway just kill all enemy in your path anyway....
  new music track to suite your mood
  and win...
  this game its just awe you in many way... again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K-lord
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:08 pm PT
Review:  But this time the story have completely changed. Yuri, which helped Russians at Red Alert 2, now 
 is a third party
  Both Russians and Americans have to encounter wit him. The campaign brings you a new fine story [even 
 missions on the moon] . Player have to fight through ultimate military technology of Yuri while 
 fighting with their common enemies.
  Oh.... playing Skirmishes in Red Alert 2-Yuri's revenge is more excitable. Manege your oen battlefield 
 wit Allys and enemies as your own and experience the game as you wish. The units gain promotions 
 during the battle and they become more and more effective in battlefield. Although the game is 
 little bit old you will gain a gaming experience like no other. If you haven't played it yet, this 
 the game you must play next......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  If you have not played Red Alert 2, then go buy it. This marvelous piece of a game won't work without 
 it (as far as I know) . However back to the review.
  
  Yuri is back! and so are the Allied and the Soviet forces close at his heels. This time the campaign 
 takes you to a post RA2 scenario, where Yuri has nearly finished building his psychic dominator 
 and is about to take over the world. Special agent Tanya (for allied missions) or Boris (for Soviet 
 missions) must use Einstein's time machine and stop Yuri.
  
  With the addition of numerous new units and vehicles, the expansion is the perfect expansion. It 
 also introduces the new Yuri clan, which you can't play with in the campaign mode, but can do so 
 in the Single Player mode. Yuri's two superweapons are the Genetic Mutator (it mutates all units 
 in the area of effect to Yuri's monstrous units) and the psychic dominator that converts all units 
 in a particular area to Yuri's side.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrtycoon14
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Yuri's revenge is certainly a game you'll scratch your head over, but once you figure it out it 
 is highly addictive. While this game takes a step away from traditional command and conquer games 
 this game still has a c&c feel to it. The gameplay is very simple. All of your build commands are 
 divided into structures, defenses, infantry, and armored vehicles and tanks.
  The graphics are really good for its time, you can see a lot of detail in the buildings and units 
 and vivid colors. I wasn't too fond of the sound, mainly the music, I think that more time could 
 have been spent on the sound, but it doesn't hinder the very much at all. You could very well spend 
 over 3 hours at a time on this game. The game also has a very interesting storyline and still keeps 
 to that live action cutscenes from previous C&C games. Ther is much the same and much different 
 about this game from other C&C games but its well worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoiled_spanich
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Campaign was slightly more linear then before. Many levels were just kill these enemies, you get 
 a base. Plus, often times it just gets boring from rinse and repeat during mid level. Lastly, I 
 felt dissapointed that the story will not have any further influence on the series.
  
  Yuri's faction, however, makes up for nearly any minuses this game might introduce. 
  
  If 
 you are the kind of sly, sneaky player, Yuri's faction is an amazing force. They introduce tons 
 of more strategies to the already deep Red Alert conflict. The expansion also fix tons of glitches 
 and adds extremely handy new features. This expansion + game, in my humble opinion, define the 
 RTS genre.
  
  If you have a friend to play with either over the net or LAN, then the replaybility is even more 
 (amazingly) . Great coop teamwork is rewarded by uncrushable forces (Yuri clones + tanya + Battle 
 FOrtress?) , or you can go head to head against the other player. 
  
  Lastly, if you are waiting for a soon-to-be-released RTS title, Yuri's revenge can help you with 
 that wait with a high chance to satisfy your desire to command.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_06
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  I have always been biased on anything related to biology, which made me think that Yuri's Revenge 
 with all the bio weaponry and psychic crap would be a disaster, but the truth is I was totally 
 wrong. 
  
  Yuri's Revenge fundamentally improves the core game including the graphics and the gameplay. The 
 game features a totally new side - Yuri. Yuri's weapons may look like crap, but they'll send you 
 back home if you don't take them seriously. I lost seven heroic navy seals and the worst part of 
 it all was that they ended up sinking my fleet of eleven aircraft carriers along with my pride 
 and prestige. But thats not all, the worst of all his "crap" are his gatling tanks and gatling 
 turrets. No aircraft, not even kirov airships can't last long against those things. Their firing 
 rates keep increasing along with the damage caused by them.
  
  In the game you'll find many new units along with those in Red Alert 2 new maps and a whole new 
 and interesting campaign (in a specific mission you have to fight dinosaurs, believe me, I know) . 
 Its a good game and a must play for all CnC fans.
  
  RATING
  
  Gameplay-9
  Graphics-9
  Sound-9
  Value-9
  Tilt-9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  When Yuris Revenge was released way back when it should have got the Expansion game of the year. 
 Its simply amazing.
  
  Red Alert 2 was good enouth and when you think it couldnt get anymore better... it does. YR added 
 a new army of Yuris, new missions, maps, modes and units. Its just one of them games you need to 
 own.
  
  The stort was excellent and played off the RE2 one nicely, everything just seemed to fall into 
 place. The graphics are bad now but still play this game because GFX dont matter and the game makes 
 up for that with its gameplay.
  
  Hell March returns with the 2nd version of the best game soundtrack of all time. Not as good as 
 the original but still a stonking track.
  
  With awesome gameplay and a brillient soundtrack this is a must have for all C&C fans and anyone 
 else thats just passing by 
::::::

::::::
UserName: privetdan00014
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I got a little disappointed with the expansion pack. First, there are only a few missions to do, 
 which bores me, without much challenge, not fun. second, the allied mission on my computer crashes 
 after the time travel movie part, I can't continue the Allied mission! Third, the brutal Yuri enemy 
 (one-on-one play) almost massacred my army! It's too hard, it took me 2 hours and 33 minutes to 
 stop it! The brutal enemy is just way too hard for me. One the bright side, there are, obviously, 
 a lot of improvements in the game, such as the unit voices, each one has a different voice rather 
 than the same one in every type of unit (such as the vehicular unit, excluding water units, every 
 unit says the same thing) . And the new faction, Yuri. Although, his army is the "most boring" of 
 them all, from the fact he only has weak and few units, the floating disc just cuts the cake! It's 
 the best one they got. Now, for the maps, they are indeed pretty good, especially Rush Hour (the 
 Hollywood map) . Overall i give it a 9 out of 10. There's still something good in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorro
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 24, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 2: Yuri's Revenge is set shortly after Red Alert 2. The game still continuous it's humorous 
 storyline that creates such enjoyment to the campaign.
  
  The gameplay is still the same as well as the graphics with few enhancements. The user interface 
 has been improve visually and gameplay's system is also been changed to bring new features to the 
 game.
  
  The soviets and allied gets new and powerful additions to their arsenal, which creates a new style 
 that force old players to adjust their strategy.
  
  A new faction has been added. These new units are far different from the units of Allied and Soviets, 
 which is composed of very unusual and weird units and structures. Unfortunately no campaign available 
 but it is still playable in other campaigns.
  
  There are two new campaigns for both the Soviets and the Allies, both have weird missions such 
 as traveling through time and going to the moon.
  
  Because of all the additions to the game that it creates such imbalance which ruins the multiplayer 
 competition. The new faction is so powerful that it creates mockery to the others.
  
  
  Highly recommended if you want to follow up the single player game, but not advisable to the multiplayer 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  I love this game actually my whole family that plays computer games loves it. It never gets boring. 
 The missions are worth the tiem because they are fun and can be hard. The story line throughout 
 red alert and this one is a nice little story. The newer games have some problems so if you like 
 command settings get this game. I would suggest this game over the other ones because it doesnt 
 take that much more of a visual card then the latest versions. Its terribly fun to play. I would 
 rate this game a guilty pleasure. The game can last hours playing and then keep playing and getting 
 harder. It plays with custom type games for domination. You can also play online which is very 
 nice and fun because you can tear it up agaist someone and the game is pretty old and it still 
 has people playing online. You have to have red alert to play this game so get that one first and 
 have fun with that so be happy with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rsoub
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Its very good expansion but its short game on campaign mode you can play as SOVIET & ALLIES.
  if you wanna play as yuri army you can play it on SKRIMISH MODE or internet
  any way i dont like 
 the yuri army but there is a new construction in allies and soviet, like robots tanks and crazy 
 things like this.
  yuris army is mind a controller it mean that when make a construction you have to make things to 
 control your enemy mind and make them with you, they dont have a strong tanks, but they have a 
 very good defend weapons.
  so if you are fan of red alert 2, you must get this expansion now dont waste more time because 
 you have to be prepared for red alert 3 so end this expansion first before you play red alert 3.
 
  the story is that yuri was making his army while he was controlling the soviet power, now his 
 army is ready and he wanna control all the world and made a big big controling mind machine and 
 make the human minder slave, and you got to stop him.
  have a fun bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarheeljoemaui
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I played the original Red Alert, and it was pretty good. I really enjoyed the diversity of the 
 factions and various tactics each could employ. Red Alert 2 and Yuri's Revenge take an already 
 great series to the next level. 
  
  The Allied unA must-have for sure. If you like RTS games even a little bit you should get this 
 one. The factions are diverse and fun to play. 
  
  The Allies' answer to the Soviet tesla technology is prism weapons. While weak on their own, these 
 light-based projectiles combine with other units and structures nearby to unleash devastating amounts 
 of damage on anything on land or sea.
  
  The Soviet units are tough and powerful, but lack some of the finesse of the Allied or Yuri units. 
 That doesn't mean they are any less useful. Any Allied commander staring down a fleet of zeppelin 
 bombers knows he's in trouble.
  
  Yuri's units are weak, but tough to get around with their special abilities. The definition of 
 "frustration" is sending your entire army charging hard, only to have them all turned against you.
 
  
  Yuri's Revenge makes a great game (Red Alert 2) phenomenal. I've played Generals, Age of Empires 
 3, and many other RTS games, but in my opinion, this is the best RTS of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Putzwapputzen
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  This game was a wonderful expansion to Red Alert 2. As seen in Red Alert 2, the main protagonist 
 was a Russian general. his sidekick was a man that could control minds. this man was called Yuri. 
 and yes you have guessed it, Yuri is back and has his 'mind' set on controlling the world. this 
 command and conquer game does not fall short of its predecessor. this game has all of the original 
 content including infantry units and vehicles. instead of fighting against the soviets, the allies 
 team up with the soviets to destroy a new and more menacing threat, Yuri. being able to control 
 both the allied units and the soviets there is a chance that you will be able to combat yuri's 
 army. this game does not only introduce a new storyline along with its campaign mission and new 
 skirmishes, maps, and of course Yuri's army, but gives you new units for both the allied army and 
 the soviets. with new units at your command this game becomes more fun and challenging at the same 
 time. Yuri's revenge is one of the best expansions and sequels to a game i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle8674
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Yuri's Revenge is pretty easy to finish. That's why it would have failed if it didn't have an online 
 feature. The Online battles are very amusing. MOD maps are fun when you're not very good at C&C.
 
  
  The Graphics are pretty simple but still work! It's only like 2 and a half D but it works for the 
 game it is! The best part is that since it's a PC game you can edit things to make tons of add-ons 
 that make the game endless!
  
  This game would have been HUGE if it was made for the DS, but it was made before that time. 
 
  
  Mainly the OnLine part is what made this game so great. Yeah, the OffLine missions are fun but 
 they end so fast and become easier and easier the more times you do them, so when you're online 
 you always have a new battle!
  
  I highly suggest this game to anyone who needs something new to do for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metc123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Well Well Well............ Its pretty silly its taken me so long to write a review for command 
 and conquer ra2 Yr, but i've just never got round to it.... until now. RTS heaven...... the older 
 versions of command and conquer were addictive but this game basically Ruined my life!!
  
  Everything from the colours, textures, systems, the flow of the game was perfect, you jus wanted 
 to go back and do another mission just so you could take control of the tanks/ super weapons again.... 
 The units and structers were better than ever...... The supers also rocked, A weather storm when 
 you're just rebuilding your base after heavy attack kinda suks!!!
  
  Oh how Fun this game was.........
  
  The replay value was simply amazing...... thousands of 
 people are still !! logging into EA servers today so that they can take the fight online!!!!
  Their was a big online community, many clans, tournaments..... providing endless fun, playability. 
 gradually over time players got better making this game such a great piece of work 
  
  9.5Unreal
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet_sora
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet_Sora Review #23
  
  AIM OF THE GAME: I actually never played the Single Player mode, so i have no idea!!
  
  BETTER 
 THAN: Age of Empires 3
  WORSE THAN: Command and Conquer 3
  
  Ok, firstly, this is the best RTS game i've ever played, it's way better than AOE3.
  
  After 
 I fell in love with Red Alert 2, I needed this game. As soon as I got YR, i ditched Red Alert 2, 
 and became addicted to YR! I only did skirmishes because the campaign mode in this game can get 
 quite boring.
  
  The best part of the game is playing online against friends or relatives, or unknowns! I have spent 
 countless hours of my life versing my brother online!
  
  Another highpoint for this game was the introduction of Yuri's Team. He had unique abilities, and 
 i loved them, especially the Mind Control. The game doesn't get boring, but it is really an on 
 again off again type of game. The gameplay is better than AOE, I personally would rather use the 
 left click to move, rather than the right click and the all the units are awesome!
  
  The game is much more quick moving than the AOE games and is way more enjoyable, with way more 
 - furturistic things to build. MY SCORES:
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9.0
  
  Awesome gameplay! I actually prefer the gameplay and controls in this than in C&amp; C3, it is so 
 conveniant to only use the left click, oh well. Unfortunately, it can get annoying when you run 
 out of gold and there is no more left on the stage... but that is fairly minor.
  
  GRAPHICS: 7.0
  
  Well, the graphics in YR aren't really up to standard but still, they are 
 a fine sight. SOUND: 8.0
  
  The sounds, music and voiceovers are GREAT!!! I love the music the most. Unfortunately, it can 
 get REALLY ANNOYING when you have heaps of Conscripts and you try to move them, they will continuosly 
 say Conscript Reporting in the exact same voice!!! *sigh*
  
  VALUE: 10
  
  B-E-A-Utiful, the game was great and is worth a lot. I don't think they even sell it at stores 
 any more, right now, I'd pay at least $AU85 for it, I think that is worth it, you won't get bored 
 and it's really hard to find...
  
  OVERALL/AVERAGE: 8.5
  
  The above scores average to 8.5, so I think it is a fair score. It is definately a great game that 
 you will get the kick out of, but it takes a while to master... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon102fw
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  The first Command and conquer game (aka Tiberian Dawn) , first released for the PC in 1995, was the 
 start of a great R. T. S. franchise. Ever since then, many CnC games have come out like Red Alert, 
 Tiberian Sun, Red Alert 2, Covert Operations, Counterstrike, Generals, Generals Zero hour, After 
 math, Yuri's Revenge, Tiberian Wars, etc. Let's just stop for a moment take a look at one of the 
 old one's, Yuri's revenge. It was first released in the month of October 2001. It is a game that 
 has drawn many gamer's such as I to it, once you play it you can't stop. Yuri's Revenge is the 
 expansion pack to a great game, aka Red Alert 2. Yeah, Red Alert two is a fabulous game, but with 
 the expansion it hits number 10. This game features multiplay capabilities, such as LAN and internet 
 play, different clans to join, tourniments, etc. This game also features extensive gameplay, good 
 for several hours (100+) and it keeps going with the skimirsh capability the game has. This game 
 also has new units and a new side, Yuri's side. Some of the new units for the Allies is the Battle 
 Fortess, and the robot tank. One of the new units for the Soviets is the seige copter. Really nice. 
 This game also got new structures. You have to play the game to see all these awesome features.
 
  
  BTW, this is my first review so it's not good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Forget the Generals which was a game that had nothing to do with command and conquer and just swap 
 its name on for recognition or C&amp; C 3. Yuri's Revenge is the best game in the series. The three 
 sides Allies, Soviet, and Yuri are well balance. The single player is short but funny and cool. 
 This game has land, air and don't forget sea units, cmon Generals you need sea units.
  
  The controls are more streamlined, and the game still plays smooth. Soldiers get promoted when 
 exiting a structure, If they killed any units. The interface for Yuri's Revenge is the best. It's 
 quick and you can set your production queue to 30. Generals is only 9. in Generals needing all 
 the money at hand makes the game slower, which is lags the game. The pay as you go (original formula) 
 is last used in this game.
  
  The skirmish maps are a lot better, since there is more tech buildings and resources for quicker 
 gameplay. Better mechanics than the generals series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I love this game and thats really all to say. The Americans is my favorite army in the game, but 
 both are really fun. The campain is really fun and brings joy to me. I played the game so much 
 that I never really wanted to get off the PC. I hate when people think this game is stupid, but 
 really its an awsome game that deserves attention. The single player missions are cool. The multiplayer 
 i dont like because I entered so many games that had cheaters in it and I dont like to play with 
 people who dont play by the rules at all. Thats the only downside about this game otherwise its 
 perfect. I wont sell this game at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlracing
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  i am not a pro RTS gamer, i play race sim, flight sim, FPS, etc. i am not interested in SC WAR 
 AOE, but after i played RA2 and YURI, i love these 2 games. because these 2 are easy to learn, 
 easy to control and fast paced. unlike AOE series, you don't need to spend much time upgrading (especially 
 you have to select different buildings in order to upgrade different things which is micro-managing 
 is AOE) . these 2 games focus on combat strategy instead of running a business (sim city?) . they 
 are more close to real life (unlike SC WAR) and they give heavy metal feeling.
  
  another thing i really like is the humor in YURI. different characters have different personality, 
 such as the talk of SEAL units is proud, that is too easy who's your daddy , the miner talks really 
 like a nice worker oh, good day, sir ah..., there it is , the psychic says predictable his mind 
 is weak , the slave miner of yuri says liberty is sweet etc. the voice acting is professional. 
 and the conversation between your intelligence lieutenant and Tanya in Soviet mission 3 made me 
 laugh. lieutenant: Tanya's C4 is useful, but she is not so skilled as Bori. Tanya: what? Bori? 
 oo, look at me, i can call in an air strike... hehehe, please. lieutenant: oh, sorry, sir, i thought 
 this channel was secure 
  
  the graphic is 2D and looks like cartoon which add more funny feeling (3D RTS games take away that 
 feeling) . and you need only 1G CPU + 256 MB RAM to run the game smoothly (i play these games on 
 my old notebook) .
  
  the gameplay is very interesting and not repeating. about half the missions are without a base, 
 you have to rely on a few special unit. even in the easiest level, you have to find a good point 
 to break in, or you can never win. and in some missions there are different ways to break in. in 
 other games such as AOE, you don't need to think differently, just gather resources, use them evenly, 
 defend, build, upgrade, accumulate your army, and crush the enemy. RA2 and YURI provide more types 
 of challenge. and in hard level, even in the missions with a base, you have to manage all types 
 of resource at the limit. too bad there are only 14 missions in YURI. i have played through RA2 
 3 times and YURI twice, i am still not bored.
  
  all in all, this game is the best for casual player whos want fun and excitement and don't want 
 to spend much time accumulating in computer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psyfon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  I've played this game more than any other I own. Even if it let it sit for a time, when I start 
 it up again, it's as if I never stopped playing. The game play is simple and straight forward. 
 Point and click interface basicly. The graphics are good enough, but this isn' the game's high 
 point. The sound is great. The music, like many games, does get repetative after a while. This 
 game has a great value. The replay value, as I said in the second line, is very high. I love this 
 game. This is a must have for C&amp; C fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthunder26
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  After the United States and her allies once again stop the Soviet Union and her russian allies, 
 everyone starts to head home to rest after the terrible war. When victory had been achieved everyone 
 started to celebrate, only to find out that the main menace had not been contained yet. Yuri, the 
 diaboloical mastermind who betrayed the Soviet Union, unvealed a device that would bring catastrophy 
 to civilizations everywhere: The Psycic dominatar. In an attempt to stop this vile machine from 
 activating, the United States have Einstien built a time machine that will take them back in time 
 to stop Yuri's forces in the first place. Unfortunately, the Russians are also have thier eyes 
 on the time machine as well and they have thier own plans for it. Enter the final war between the 
 United States, Russia, and the all new third side: Yuri. Build and command new units, engage in 
 warfare with two other armies, and make an unexpected alliance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Just to let anybody that reads this: I've had the Red Alert 2 games for about 6 years and haven't 
 really played them since then and base my current opinions on what I thought then.
  
  This game is just incredable, it is everything Red Alert 2 has, with much much more. RTS Expansions 
 nowadays have 1 or more new civilizations added on, except they're really just modified versions 
 of the previous civilizations that are usually better. In Yuri's Revenge, the civilization, you 
 guessed it, Team Yuri, is added on. They are completely different than any of the other 2 civilizations. 
 As you know, in RA2, Soviet is totally different than the Allies, the Miners are different, it's 
 crazy. Team Yuri is no different, with a great array of new units, buildins, and special buildings. 
 Allies have their Weather Control Device and Chronosphere, Soviet Union has their Iron Curtain 
 and Nuclear Silo, now Yuri has 2 new special weapons that I wont tell you, you have to buy the 
 game yourself :D. Plus I can't remember them. Allthough the story has only 10 levels if I remember 
 right, they are long and hard to beat on a high difficulty. Worth the buy, definatly go for it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Every C&amp; C game except Sole Survivor and Renegade has had at least one expansion pack, so it 
 was a given that Red Alert 2 would get one. Yuri's Revenge takes the light hearted, and downright 
 bizarre campaigns and unit designs from the original game one step further... unfortunately.
  
  Yuri's Revenge is set shortly after Red Alert 2. The Soviets have been driven off of US soil, 
 and Romanov is in prison. Yuri is still on the loose, though, and now he wants to take over the 
 world. Through some strange storyline involving time travel, and fighting on the moon, as well 
 as Transylvania, you have to choose to fight for either the Allies or Soviets like in the original 
 game and bring victory to your side by crushing Yuri.
  
  The biggest addition to Yuri's Revenge is the new Yuri faction. You can't use it in the campaigns, 
 but you can use it in skirmishes and online games. Yuri's faction is extremely odd, even by Red 
 Alert 2 standards, as he has flying saucers, mutants, clones, you name it. Unfortunately this faction 
 is also an imbalanced mess. Getting near a Yuri base is extremely difficult since a decent Yuri 
 player can build mind control defense towers turning your units against you, the horror.
  
  Graphically the only new content is a couple tile sets and the new units, which were just as good 
 as the original ones. Yuri's Revenge also features a new in-game playlist, strangely enough the 
 original RA2 music is not present which is disappointing. Still, the new tracks are fairly good, 
 Brain Freeze is probably the most... interesting.
  
  Yuri's Revenge is a mess, in my opinion. The once again lousy campaigns combined with a new and 
 imbalanced faction ruin this expansion. Decent new graphics and audio aren't enough to save it, 
 I wouldn't recommend it unless you are a die hard C&amp; C or RA 2 fan. The former doesn't necessarily 
 apply. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 is a great game, and RA2: YR adds some nice new units, but it makes the game seriously 
 unbalanced. The Yuri side is way overpowered with it's mind control towers, cheap yuri clones, 
 and masterminds. Without super weapons, it is really difficult to defeat a fortified yuri base, 
 especially because spies cannot get past a yuri, for the yuri will just mind control him. The soviets 
 now suck because they don't have yuri anymore. The only decent unit is the Kirov Blimp and the 
 Apocolypse (which by the way will just get mind controlled too) Even though YR makes it RA2 unbalanced, 
 it does add some really cool units and it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  If you loved the first one, then the expansion is the perfect game for you. The new units for the 
 different armies are great, specialist troops, and vehicles. Yuris army is a new level of fun, 
 allowing you to overtake another players army by only creating your basic troops. The specialised 
 GIs you get are a great barrier against tanks and aircraft. The choppers that the Russians get 
 are a great way to supply some quick firepower to a hard to reach place. The super weapons used 
 by Yuris army can either turn enemy patrols over to your side, a great tactic if your enemy has 
 large numbers of troops patrolling his/her base. Or, if you would rather inflict a lot of damage 
 in a short time, you can turn them into brutes. And yes these troops are exactly as their name 
 implies brutes. They can smash tanks with their bare fists. The campaign adds some new fun things 
 to do, while using the little amount of troops you have to the maximum potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PETIKPO93
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I was a day, in my friend home, Sebastian exactly, when he asked me:
  - Wanna play a Yuri's?
  - What's that?
  - Well, you must play it to know!
  - Ammm... ok, 
 new games always are good hehe.
  
  And we played. Sebastian was quickly and poweful. 5 Tesla Reactors, and bam! One Nuclear Silo. 
 6 Tesla Troopers and bam! One Iron Curtain. One nuclear reactor, and bye to Tesla Reactors. With 
 the remaining money he made some Kirovs, then he used a Nuclear Missile and then Allied Forces 
 crashed. He was playing good, and I was looking so surprised! Then I asked him:
  - So Soviet and Allied Forces... Then, why Yuri's Revenge?
  - Here comes the best part my friend.
 
  
  We started a new game with Yuri as enemy in brutal mode. Some minutes were enough to show me the 
 super Yuri's squad! I saw how Yuri Clones, Master Minds, Lasher Tanks and those strange OVNIs attacked 
 my friend! Well, as you know my friend was good (hehe) and destroyed'em all with his BIIIIG army.
 
  
  - So Mind Control, eh?
  - Yeah, Mind Control...
  - This game looks cool, wanna play it on LAN?
  - Ok, but we'll be a team!
  - Haha, of course. 
 Let's play!
  
  And we played... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frontball
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 1, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Here's an expansion that did what many other expansions don't: it changed the game! Most expansions 
 offer more levels and a couple new units. In the case of Yuri's revenge, it adds a new side to 
 play as, as well as severely modifies the existing ones!
  
  What did it change you may ask? Well, most of you should recall that Yuri was part of the Soviet 
 side, and now that he left, the Soviets lost part of themselves to him. To make up for their new 
 lack of pyschic warfare, the developers upped thier war machine, making the soviets a formidable 
 foe on the battlefield in shear power and numbers. The new faction, Yuri's armies, are primarily 
 based on psychic power, using amazing new technologies to create new and unique units. The Allies 
 are the only true exception to my arguments of change. They don't change too much other than a 
 mobile bunker and robotic tanks. The new storyline is also worth playing through, as it begins 
 where the game left off, but it is already too late, so the player must travel through time to 
 the height of the Soviet assault on America to stop Yuri's world dominating plans before they are 
 ready.
  
  The game looks pretty much the same as Red Alert 2, but be warned. Slower computers that ran Red 
 Alert 2 at an alright speed will suddenly experience some graphics lagging when playing as or against 
 Yuri. New super weapons have also brought graphic intensive effects. You've been warned.
  
  Sounds haven't changed much either. Same ol Red Alert 2 quality we've come to love.
  
  This 
 game is definitely a must play for fans of the storyline of Red Alert. Although it offers almost 
 comic closure to the game, it definitely has an intense plot. So, if you ever plan on buying Red 
 Alert 2, do yourself a simple favor and buy the Red Strike combo pack for both the game and the 
 expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  I actually haven't tried this game yet but it looks like a good additon to C&C Red Alert 2 and 
 the C&C game series. It adds some new units and other new things and also it adds a new storyline. 
 The graphics look the same as in Red Alert 2 OK but not so good by today's standards, and the sound 
 is allright. My advice is to buy this game if you really want to or if it is on sale or in a bundle 
 of older C&C games (this is what I did) . It also has some conflict with Windows XP because this 
 game wasn't desinged for that system so it might not work on Windows XP (this is what happend to 
 me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  This is the expansion for Command and Conquer : Red Alert 2.
  
  GAME STATS
  RELEASE DATE : October 10 2001
  COMPANY : EA Games, Westwood Studios
  LEARNING CURVE : BEGINNER 
 ~ Novice ~ Expert
  
  It's actually been quite a long time since this game was released; I actually played this game 
 two years later, somewhere in early 2003, but as I was browsing my shelf yesterday, casting around 
 for any old gaming titles I could spend my time with, I found Yuri's Revenge (YR) . Luckily, CnC: RA2 
 was already installed on my PC (because that's the kind of person I am) , so I just put in the YR 
 disk, waited for the installation, and feasted my eyes on some of the worst acting by veterans 
 I have ever seen...
  
  The absolutely first thing that will hit CnC: RA2 fans about this game is the acting. The same actors 
 are back, but they're older, much fatter (especially Eva and Zofia... the only two in the game 
 who we all really cared about) , and their acting is more fake. I'm serious. Maybe it doesn't bother 
 you when you play it, but I saw Gen. Carville and Lt. Zofia put on an excuse of a performance, 
 and it really pained me. I had REALLY REALLY expected better from them. At least as good as CnC: RA2. 
 But alas, at least Yuri hadn't changed. He seemed a little more... umm... I wanna say "hyper-active"? 
 No, no, that's too strong a word for Yuri. Truth be told, I would've appreciated the game a LOT 
 more had the acting been better...
  
  But enough about this, already. As the previous game, you play the campaign from the Allied and 
 the Soviet perspective. The good thing about the game is that Yuri, an entire new faction, has 
 been added to the game. The bad news is... you don't get to play with him except in skirmish, which 
 is just sad. The Soviets contain an all new Siege Chopper, which is just a normal chopper that 
 turns into a huge cannon when deployed. Think of it as a cross between a Rocketeer and a Grand 
 Cannon. The Apocalypse tank sounds WAY MORE apocalyptic this time. All the old units are back. 
 As is the Demo truck with the infamous "Why don't you drive?" punch line. The Allies have a Battle 
 Tank, which can crush normal tanks and can garrison up to five units and amplify their powers. 
 So, if you garrison two Chrono Legionnaires, two Guardian GIs, and a Seal in a Battle tank, you 
 got a deadly machine. The Allies also have other units and stuff, but I really want to talk about 
 Yuri now...
  
  Yuri is the brand new faction made just for YR, hence the name. Yuri's units and buildings mainly 
 consist of mind controlling stuff. There is a tower that can mind control units in a defined radius. 
 There is a Mind-control tank. A Chaos drone. Yuri's forces have a Grinder, which can literally 
 "grind" captured units or even Yuri's own units to generate money. Lots of money. Yuri's superweapons 
 include a Genetic Mutator that can turn infantry units into Brutes, and a Psychic Dominator, which 
 not only destroys units and buildings, but mind-controls whatever is left.
  
  The three factions, apart from their various additions and upgrades, get one special unit each. 
 The Soviets get Boris, which attacks just like Tanya, but instead of putting annoying bombs on 
 buildings, he can call in an airstrike of MIGs and destroy targets from a distance. Really cool. 
 For the Allies, Tanya does the same things she did in CnC: RA2, but unlike the previous installment, 
 you only get one Tanya in YR. The Yuri's have a Yuri Prime, which can mind control BUILDINGS. It's 
 really effective. Go into enemy territory, mind-control the MCV, and sell it. Or, capture an enemy 
 Air base, launch their planes against their own units, then leave. Experiment, have fun. Unfortunately, 
 and quite logically, Yuri Prime can't capture Superweapons.
  
  YR is a lot of fun for CnC: RA2 lovers, and even more who haven't tried these games yet. The campaign 
 storyline isn't all that great, but it'll become secondary when you actually start playing. Udo 
 Kier, the guy who plays Yuri, is just as good as he was in RA2, though the others could've done 
 a LITTLE better. Don't let this game go for anything. The YR skirmish allows you to make teams 
 this time around, though this wasn't possible in RA2, at least without patches or updates. Play 
 YR, no matter what, then tell me what you think about it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgon_9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer Yuri's Revenge is a great add-on for the Red Alert 2 game. It comes with multiple 
 new units, map types a new fraction for Yuri. Yuri's Revenge continues the story from Red Alert 
 2, showing what happens after the Americans win the the war against the Soviets. The game starts 
 off with one of the usual FMV's that appear in the previous Command & Conquer games. One of the 
 disappointments with this game is that there are only two campaigns, American and Soviet. A Yuri 
 based campaign would have had an interesting story. But, other than that there's isn't much more 
 you can ask for from this add-on.
  
  Playing the single player campaigns for Yuri's Revenge is pretty much the same experience from 
 Red Alert 2, except for new units. The Americans have a new infantry unit that carries a rocket 
 launcher, a new troop transport unit that allow infantry and missile troops to fire and a robot 
 tank. The Soviets have a few new units also. They include, an artillery chopper, which allows you 
 to shoot ground units while flying and firing the artillery piece while landed. There is also Boris 
 who is the Soviet answer to Tanya, he comes with the standard one shot kills, but he can also call 
 in an air strike. Finally, the Red's also get a new building, a factory that lowers the price of 
 units. Yuri's fraction gets a whole new set of units and buildings. Of course there are a lot of 
 mind control units. One thing you can also say about Yuri's troops is that they are killers on 
 air units. The Gatling guns rip apart air units in seconds.
  
  Overall, the graphics and music is Yuri's Revenge is of the same quality from Red Alert 2. There 
 is a brand new soundtrack with some great music. The new units and maps have great animations. 
 If you're looking for a quick fix to you real-time strategy need and you already played Red Alert 
 2, grab Yuri's Revenge. The story alone will be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  RA2 started the ball rolling to be the best out there. the Westwood gave like the best expansion 
 pack ever made to an RTS like ever. It added a completly new faction to the game ulike the other 
 exsisting sides. I played this game like for a gazillion hours and i probably would still be playing 
 it if I could get it to work, but unfortunately ever since MS released SP2 I have been unable to 
 install it. Still though I have a ole lot of memories of sitting playing this game for hours on 
 end. This was Westwoods swan song before being assimilated into EA just to put out the average Generals 
 series. Many had hoped that RA3 would be next in line but it apears the they are rturning to thier 
 roots with C&C3-Tiberium Wars. Fair enough I suppose. I know I,.. like many fans are hoping for a 
 return to the the gameplay of the clssic series we know and love. Or is RA2-Yuri's Revenge destined 
 to be the last of the greats. Who knows? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: descender
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer: Yuri's Revenge is the sequel to the smash hit Command and Conquer: Red Alert 
 2. The game features new plots, new units, new weapons,& about 7 or so campaigns each for the Allies 
 and the Soviets.... and an entirely new faction which you can command in the skirmish and multiplayer 
 battles!
  Now let's take a close look. Yuri's Revenge takes place after the Allied victory over the relentless 
 Soviet Union...... Yuri the villanous mastermind is back after he disappeared in C&C Red Alert 2. 
 He plans to unleash his waves of psychic forces using a powerful device called "The Psychic Dominator" 
 and wipe out all free will while asserting his own. You as commander must........ lead the allies 
 through the storm of Yuri's forces and bring Yuri down..... or on the other hand...... change history 
 for your people of the Soviet Union and bring down that traitor Yuri! The campaigns also have movie 
 scenes incorporated into them just like in Red Alert 2 with the return of familiar faces: President 
 Dugan of the United States of America, allied Lieutenant Eva, Tanya, Premiere Romanov of the Soviet 
 Republic, soviet Lieutenant Sofia........ and of course Yuri himself! Now i have revealed more than 
 enough of the plot and stuff.... Now we dive into the game features.
  Graphics: Same spectacular effects as we have seen in Red Alert 2 and many more for the new units 
 and weapons..... need i say they are spectacular? Sound: Excellent as ever!...... Gameplay: Don't 
 think super strategy! Don't react stupidly, insanely fast! On the spot think and step by step high 
 voltage action and think ahead of your game!!!..... then maybe you would be able to come out in 
 not too many pieces..... Fellow Hard difficulty players especially pay head!...... Learning the game 
 takes only 15-20 mins max that is if your new. 
  The Game: Ok... time for the good stuff. The game features the same soviet and allied units (every 
 single one!) which you have seen and commanded in Red Alert 2..... wait there are new units as well!..... The 
 allies have a new on-foot soldier called the guardian G. I. and ,like its little brother, the G. I., 
 he is capable of deploying himself on double-click. Difference here is... undeployed: he uses a machine 
 gun that deals the same damage as that of the regular G. I. and can kill on-foot units quickly.... deployed: he 
 digs himself in and sets up a strong barrciade of steel as compared to the sand bags of the regular 
 G. I. and weilds a rocket launcher that can turn tanks to scrap metal in no time, and also down 
 the flying units... nice! The war factory now can build Battle Foretress, which is a huge heavily 
 armoured mobile bunker which can house five on-foot units of any kind as you see fit.... Combination 
 of units inside would make this thing unstoppable! Chrono legionnaire+2Guardian G. I.+one or two 
 navy seals.... get the picture? Time eraser+anti tank rockets+anti infantry bullets!!!! Also once 
 you build a "Robot Control Centre", the war factory gives you lightly armoured and armed, hovering, 
 robot tanks..... immune to mind control and even floats over water! Excellent, ain't it.
  Ok, Ok, come back to the Soviets before you forget that they also exist. The new infantry unit 
 is seen only in one campaign of the soviets... which is sad cuz these guys are good.... The Cosmonaut: infantry 
 in a rocket powered space suit that can fly overhead and ,like the rocketeer, can engage both air 
 and ground units using his specialised lasers! Awesome!..... New soviet vehicle, The Siege Chopper: 
 built in the war factory, the siege chopper can harass enemy ground units, particularly the infantry, 
 using its light machine gun..... That's it?... Not on your life. For the siege chopper can be deployed, 
 upon which it lands and takes out one really BIG gun, that can fire long range, pulverising most 
 targets before they can even come in firing range! Extreme as a base defence or an assault vehicle.....
 
  The Yuri faction has a number of new units, structures and two super weapons, one of which I have 
 already mentioned. The problem here is they are actually weak when compared to Soviets and Allies. 
 Don't get your hopes up against Yuri cuz when used deviously they can totally cripple and eliminate 
 your forces and leave you scratching your head , wondering what just happened. This is about all 
 I can tell you for Yuri faction cuz going into these will be exhausting. Plus, I bet you wanna find 
 out for yourselves........
  So what do we know from this?...... There are sooo many reasons for having this game other than 
 the fact that it is the sequel to one of the greatest strategy games of all time! Not to mention 
 the return of the mysterious mind bending genius who is Kane (lead villainof tiberian sun) of this 
 new reality! So I have said my bit for this game.... and let's face it... the action will be much 
 louder and explosive than my pitiful words that hardly do this game any justice!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mijjim23
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 4, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  This game is what an rts game should be.
  Really great campaign, amazing gameplay, balanced but very different countries, online play, great 
 selection of units, and a very nice skirmish mode.
  
  If you are anyone who DOES NOT despise anything and everything strategy, buy this game and love 
 it.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is near perfect. With an easy to use format and the size of the battles 
 you can have, it would be hard to make a game any less spectacular than most other rts games. The 
 three "races" you can choose from are the Allies, Soviets, and Yuri, which play fairly different 
 but are still very balanced. Unfortunately you can not play a Yuri campaign, but the Allies and 
 Soviet campaign are quite enjoyable and live up to those found in Red Alert 2. The CPU is intelligent 
 in skirmish and the ability to play online really rounds off the amount of time you can spend enjoying 
 the perfected gameplay.
  
  Graphics: While it does not necessarily look as great as some games out there right now, the animations 
 of the units and the special power attacks all look very nice. A bit basic, but it doesn't take 
 away while in fact adding to the feel and playability of the game. The live action pieces actually 
 feature fairly well known actors. While cheesy at times, they are still a very nice addition to 
 the mood of the game.
  
  Sound: Amazing voice acting. The voice acting in game and acting in the cinematics is superb. There 
 is also a very nice selection of music that fits very well in the game.
  
  There is alot of value in this game. My only real problem with the game is the lack of a map editor, 
 which would have been a very nice addition. The deep skirmish mode and online play do a very good 
 job of keeping you playing long after you finish the great campaigns.
  
  Just please,
  Buy this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game is an excellent addition to an already great game.
  
  In this game you'll now be able to take a 3rd race in Yuri. His frontline troops and tanks may 
 not be much to look at, but Yuri himself makes up for it all with the ability to take over units 
 right from underneath you. His superweapons strike right at the heart and can leave you just leveled 
 if unprepared. The added SP campaings are done nicely and the MP is once again where this game 
 shines. The graphics aren't really much different and the sound is pretty much the same as Red 
 Alert 2. Not only does Yuri get new units, but both sides do as well. Some really nice stuff has 
 been added to keep this game going. I recommend it.
  
  A great addition for a great RTS game already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  If you want more fun into the game, you definitely must have this, it really boosts the value of 
 the game, and playing with Yuri's troops is really fun.
  Playing Red Alert 2 for too long without Yuri's Revenge made the game really boring, but with this, 
 I could play this game for hours. Why?
  
  -You get to play with Yuri's Army.
  
  -New missions
  
  -You'll be able to train heroes. Yuri, Tanya and Boris.
  
  -Allies got 
 some new things. For example, Battle Forteress and Guardian G. I
  
  -Soviets for example have Battle Bunkers and Siege Choppers.
  
  -Yuri is a total new army, 
 so ALMOST everything they have is new.
  
  -New maps, which is great.
  
  -New music and sounds, great.
  
  Overall, great! The Red Alert 2 is saved! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Red Alert Yuri's Revenge is definately in my opinion one of the best expansions that have ever 
 been created. It is stunning as it adds a whole new side with its own units, sadly it doesn't give 
 you a campaign mode for Yuri's side but the other two sides also get their own additional units 
 and their own special campaigns. The game itself has gone to more abstract levels with the addition 
 of Yuri's Mind Control Army, but I would have to say that the game has been given much more depth, 
 along with a lot more new levels that are reminiscent of real locations such as hollywood. The 
 graphics have also been tinkered a bit so that the game. The cut scenes within the game are great 
 just as usual like from Red Alert, but the opening sequence with the use of the harrier jets is 
 just simplly amazing. I don't think Westwood has ever done something this good yet. This is definately 
 a expansion game that I would definately recommend getting if you already have Red Alert 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sontian
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Yuri's Revenge is a underboss of Command and Conquers, it was/is not one of the very popular command 
 and conquers, but it is surely one of the best.
  
  Yuri's revenge single player life span is surely 30 hours or more. This is quite some time on campaigne 
 but once you complete the two choices, you can then move onto skirmish games.
  
  Yuri's Revenge online is a very addictive, thrilling game to play. Teamwork, tactics and skills 
 are all learnt on online play of Yuri's Revenge. 
  
  Over the many years of online gaming on Yuri's Revenge the dedicated players have formed online 
 rules, which are somehow followed by the gamers.
  
  A great game to play, and it will not die for many months to come, maybe even years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Govvy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  
  
  To start with I almost paid nothing for this game so that gives the game value ten out of ten. 
 Bad news it seems, Yuri once again is trying to take over the world with his mind control devices 
 and I am the commander who has to stop him. With all of Yuris technology it seems he cant win 
 because the only two campaigns you can play with are the Allies and Soviets.
  
  So after the very cool intro which is common for Westwood the game begins and I started with the 
 Allies. Einstein very kindly sent me back in time because when the game starts Yuri has already 
 won. Or so he thought! So while the clock was ticking I established the allied base with very strong 
 defences because Yuri is constantly sending his forces at my base all the time. It doesnt seem 
 a very smart strategy but sometimes he catches me off guard.
  
  I quickly realised with all the physic generators that a ground assault against Yuri was going 
 to be hard. So I changed it to air assaults and kept to that strategy which I took into Soviet 
 campaign also. My favourite weapons soon became clear to me and when I had both Soviet and Allies 
 in play. I could unleash awesome destruction with a lightning storm and a nuke right behind it. 
 Soon as I was fully teched out, Yuri would get decimated. 
  
  There where a small collection of new units and tech buildings for the game which enhanced this 
 already impressive series. But to play with all of Yuris forces you either play a skirmish or 
 choose multiplayer. 
  
  The new Soviet hero is also pretty cool, he can call air strikes! And that doesnt even cost you 
 the aircraft! Lastly I got to mention the chicks in the cut-scenes, I can add those to my memory 
 for those later moments! Not forgetting Tanya, you can always kill her off just before you finish 
 the mission just to see her again. :)
  
  See you on the field soilders.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4-SaGohan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, I guess that this is the newest C&C strategy game ever made. I had this game since I was 
 7 years old and now that I'm a member, I'm gonna tell you about how good and bad this game is.
 
  
  This is basically the same as Red Alert 2. But this game contains more stuff, and different missions. 
 This game has a 3D graphic, but it has a very poor 2D gameplay. If you played Red Alert 2, and 
 you have never played Yuri's Revenge, then I suggest you to never buy this game. Here are my following 
 reasons that this game is good or bad:
  
  Gameplay: The levels in this game is fun for the first 10-20 minutes, but after a while, it gets 
 bored. The missions are easy when you play those one's where you start with a base and some engineers. 
 For the one's where you start with only troops, their pretty hard to beat. MP mode is the best. 
 It's better than Skirmish mode and it's a lot harder. The worst thing about the gameplay is the 
 2D gameplay. If you like to capture buildings, then this is the right game for you. Some engineers 
 could teleport! So when you could see the enemy base, then get 4 or more engineers, and let them 
 teleport into the building and that building will be yours! The other good thing is that the building 
 and the troops are very cheap and you harvest 1000-2000 gold!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good, but they could of done a lot more improvements. For one of the 
 things are to make the game more 3D. If you play Warcraft, that kind of graphics are the best to 
 suit Yuri's Revenge. I can't say that the graphics, stink but it is the best part of Yuri's revenge. 
 I hope you guys enjoy the graphics more than I do.
  
  Sound: The sounds are one of the best thing in Yuri's Revenge too. There are more sounds to those 
 troops you could hear than in Red Alert (2) . But the sound of a building's explosion, it's the 
 same. The voices you hear are awesome! When you play missions, if you listen to the theme of it, 
 I bet you'll love it. This is also as good as the graphics but not exactly.
  
  Well that's all I'll say. But for the Value and the Reviewer's Tilt, your figure how you like about 
 this game. Oh ya and is you want to buy this game, I suggest you buy Red Alert 2 first. If you 
 hate that game, then you'll hate Yuri's Revenge even more than Red Alert. But If you really like 
 C&C games, then I suggest you to but Red Alert. Even though it's old, it's the best in the series.
 
  
  Later dudes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  after beating command and conquer red alert, i decided to go ahead and try yuris revenge. the story 
 is very gripping.... anyway, unlike the first where you hav soviet and allies, you now hav a third 
 team. can you guess? no! its yuri! tho a bit too "farfetched" for fans of actual war games, those 
 of you who hav an attraction to the sci-fi war will like this for sure. in multiplayer you will 
 find most people find the yuri team unfair, and will not let you use it. but that cant stop you 
 from making your own server and allowing it. there are new map packs you can download just for 
 yuris revenge like moon levels, or others. if you liked the first command and conquer red alert, 
 you will surly like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolve3308
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  yuris revenge may not be the greatest expansion of all time, yet it was a very good one. would 
 i recommend it to everyone, no, spend your money on something else. but for the hardcore commmand 
 and conquer fans i think it is essential for the collection. it adds a couple more hours to the 
 red alert two excitement with new infantry, buildings, and missions. yuris new special mind controlling 
 army is quite bizzare. it is a very balanced army that can change the tide in the war really quick 
 with his awsome super weapons and dominant infantry and artillery. a good game for a cheap price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ouji-sama
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 3:31 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game in single player mode and finishin all missions at hard. I played a lot 
 of skirmish games. The computer was no match after a while and I started geting bored, cause the 
 computer always came with the same attcks, attackin me almost according to the rythim of the time.
 
  
  One day my friend and I wanted a more fun game, where human minds determin the winner and not your 
 experience against a computer. And it was great!!! I taugt I was good by beating 4-6 bruteal enemy's, 
 but I was no match for the guys playing it on the internet, for a longer time. 
  
  People were using strategies, tactics and using a unit to it's fullest in a way that a computer 
 never could have. 
  
  Finally I climbed the ranking list and became number 400 of the world.
  That's very good by the 
 way. Considering at that time there were thousands of people playing it!
  
  If your looking for a startegy game here you have it... A little olschool now but still good, and 
 I have good news, tehre a still a decent amount of people playing this game online today. (taday 
 is december 15th 2005) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Following the succes of previous C&C games, this is a game, that has a potential of endless action 
 and is therefor highly addictive. The theme of a story is an old school example of a war between 
 Soviet union and USA, which is particulary popular among RTS. There is also another faction now 
 - Yuri, which is a rebel from SU and has intention of controling the whole world with mind control.
 
  As I`ve said before, some parts will make you laught - for instance some units move very funny 
 (and clumsy, which is a bad thing) , when fighting en masses, there will be so much explosions, 
 that you won`t probably guess, who is shooting on who etc.
  The are many units to fight with and alost every unit is essential to your succes (not so much 
 important in Single player, but it really matters in MP) .
  The enviroment is almost robotic and is therefor little boring. One interresting thing is, that 
 you can mix several units, to make deadly and unstoppable army.
  Graphics are are OK, but there is more strees on units than on enviroment. Sounds have really improved 
 over the previous C&C games, which is a big plus.
  My conclusion is, that this game is worth playing, especially for those, who like similar games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Yuri's Revenge is a fun expansion with a whole new well designed faction with some very interesting 
 units and structures. The new camoaigns are short and easy but fun to play anyway. However during 
 multiplayer it must be said that those using Yuri's new faction will have to be very adept commanders 
 as the army functions differently and it is hard to pull off effective attacks with. But still 
 the game is very fun and should be purchased by all Red Alert 2 fans. Some missions were quite 
 tedious however and one or two were frustrating, but not enough to say that this sint a very easy 
 game and probably more worth it for the multiplayer additions than anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homsuplo75
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2005 12:07 am PT
Review:  Red Alert 2 was one of my favorite RTS of all time. When the expansion pack (Yuris Revenge) came 
 out I was amazed at how far the expansion pack went. It was almost an entore game in itself. The 
 solo campaign missions are quite short since it is an expansion pack but the title over all is 
 great. C&C is better played online anyways and that's where the real fun comes in.
  
  Most maps could only support up to 8 teams but I used to play online with one friend every Sunday. 
 We'd spend hours playing online because that is where the beauty of the game comes into play. Yuris 
 forces had some of the best units in the game even though all of the armies were upgraded with 
 the expansion pack.
  
  If you like the RTS genre you'll definitely enjoy C&C Yuris Revenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warp_2567
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Yuri's Revenge, the expansion pack of Command & and Conquer: Red Alert 2 is a really fun RTS game 
 that offers great multiplayer, whether it be online or going against computer players.
  
  Yuri's Revenge takes the ending of Red Alert 2 and shows an even greater threat to the world than 
 what Red Alert 2 did. Yuri, the mastermind of the once powerful Soviet Union has emerged from hiding, 
 and unleashes a huge army and creates the greatest threat the world has ever seen: the Psychic 
 Amplifier. Once the psychic amplifier has been set, it will turn on all the Psychic Beacons deployed 
 all over the world and control the minds of every human being. The Allies, having defeated the 
 Soviet Union, once again group together and stop Yuri's ultimate, mind-cotrolling world domination 
 plan.
  
  Gameplay- Great! You can select and command a huge army with ease, and there are many types of 
 units and weapons that you can build to expand your strategy a little further.
  
  Graphics- Good. It's decent for an RTS game. An 8 sounds ok here.
  
  Sound- So cool! The sound 
 effects, voice acting, and music are on-par.
  
  Value- Great. Even after you beat the game, you will want to play it again at least one more time 
 at a harder difficulty. The multiplayer is where it got a 9.
  
  Tilt- 9
  
  Overall- 9
  
  If you are a hardcore RTS gamer, Yuri's Revenge is a MUST. Go get it!
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2004 12:52 am PT
Review:  This is a really good expansion pack and makes the game much better. It adds a few extra things 
 but makes the gameplay a lot different and the multiplayer lobby system is a lot more advanced. 
 The ra2 lobby was not very good but they have made the multiplayer much better now. If you have 
 ra2 i really recommend getting this expansion for it because you will see the game in a whole new 
 way. This is well worth getting and it is not like most expansions which only change a few things, 
 this changes a lot. The graphics are not very good but it is an old game. If you want good graphics 
 you should get Generals. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
