-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer: Tiberian Sun
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandconquertiberiansun/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  1, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.0, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 3,787 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Aug 24, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tiberian Sun takes few risks, and feels and plays just like the original Command & Conquer. 

 
 Although several expansion packs and the pseudo-sequel Red Alert have been published over the last 
 four years, the Command &amp; Conquer series has never yet surpassed or even matched the level 
 of excellence with which it began. And so there's a lot at stake with Tiberian Sun, Westwood's 
 third major release in the series, especially because it draws directly from the original game 
 for its inspiration by returning once again to the conflict between the Global Defense Initiative 
 and the Brotherhood of Nod. But because Westwood has no intention of risking any more than necessary, 
 Tiberian Sun predictably takes very few risks of its own, and feels and plays just like the original 
 Command &amp; Conquer.  

 Tiberian Sun will look immediately familiar to Command &amp; Conquer players, although a closer 
 inspection reveals that the game's terrain graphics are far more sophisticated than they used to 
 be. Realistic topography and colored lighting effects make Tiberian Sun's terrain look great, and 
 because explosive weapons leave craters or knock down bridges, the terrain provides an important 
 new tactical consideration. You'll notice a few other additions to the battlefield, including a 
 second, more valuable type of the mysterious resource Tiberium and even Tiberian mutants that will 
 attack your forces on sight.  

 Although the game's landscape looks different from previous games in the series, its right-hand 
 interface is identical to how it's always been - one scrolling column is devoted to units and the 
 other is devoted to structures. You can designate hotkeys for faster scrolling, and you can queue 
 up to five units for production from a single facility, though you'll need to build structures 
 one at a time. The interface takes up a fairly large portion of the screen, but that isn't much 
 of a problem because the units themselves are small. That's not to say all the various infantry 
 and vehicles in Tiberian Sun look bland; if anything, a lot of them look bizarre, and it may take 
 you a few hours to get accustomed to the game's new look.  

 While your infantry units are still little animated sprites that look much like the infantry units 
 in every Command &amp; Conquer game, your vehicles are drawn using voxels, which in practice lends 
 them a rough-hewn three-dimensional look. It's not a bad effect, and you'll see its advantages 
 no sooner than when your harvester lumbers up and over the nearest hill. Some of these voxel units 
 do look pretty bad - the Devil's Tongue Flame Tank looks like a giant shoe box, a far cry from 
 Nod's menacing original. Other units, like the GDI Titan, a gigantic walking tank, look fantastic. 
 You'll also notice and appreciate the game's subtle special effects, like the Titan's red laser 
 targeting pointer, damaged units billowing smoke and showering sparks, and Nod cyborgs ripped in 
 half but still alive and shooting.  

 Tiberian Sun's units include a number of throwbacks to Westwood's classic Dune 2, including a Nod 
 buggy, which is a spitting image of the heavy quad, and the GDI Disrupter, which may as well have 
 been called a sonic tank. Likewise, the story involves a breed of mutants indigenous to Tiberium-infested 
 regions, which closely parallel Dune's enigmatic Fremen. Dune 2 fans will enjoy such references; 
 Command &amp; Conquer fans may find them disconcerting. The fact is Tiberian Sun is a science fiction 
 game. The original Command &amp; Conquer, though it took its share of liberties with unit design, 
 was still dominated by readily recognizable tanks and troops. Tiberian Sun, by comparison, offers 
 not even a single mundane unit for either the GDI or the Brotherhood. Even the lowliest infantry 
 are armed with pulse rifles.  

 This emphasis on science fiction wouldn't be so problematic were it not that Tiberian Sun rather 
 shamelessly borrows unit designs from other science fiction real-time strategy games, including 
 Dark Reign's burrowing APC and Starcraft's transforming siege tank. The consequence is that fans 
 expecting trucks, tanks, and planes will be disappointed, while those already acclimated to science 
 fiction real-time strategy will find that most of Tiberian Sun's units are unoriginal. It's also 
 unfortunate that the game maintains the series' convention of sounding completely boring - while 
 gunfire and explosions are right on, your units' spoken acknowledgements become repetitive and 
 tedious within minutes. At least the game contains an excellent soundtrack whose wide variety of 
 intense and catchy techno beats will bring back fond memories of the first game's great musical 
 score.  

 And if the soundtrack doesn't bring back memories of playing Command &amp; Conquer, then everything 
 else about Tiberian Sun assuredly will. Tiberian Sun may look a little different, but it won't 
 feel foreign at all if you're even remotely experienced with the series. Most of Tiberian Sun's 
 construction costs, units, and tactics have counterparts in previous Command &amp; Conquer games, 
 which means veterans of the series will be experts again in no time. Though there are more units 
 per side now, as well as important new tactical considerations like the GDI's ability to upgrade 
 their facilities and the Nod's power to cloak their entire base, you will quickly learn how to 
 compensate for these.  

 That's because the strengths and weaknesses of both sides are pronounced and well developed: The 
 GDI is powerful enough to attack head-on but slow to do so, while the Brotherhood's potent defenses 
 and subversive but vulnerable units make it better suited to sly tactics. But you'll notice that 
 both the GDI and the Nod must rely heavily on particular units and that going for enemy Tiberium 
 harvesters and cutting off his resources is just as simple, just as effective, and just as crucial 
 as before. Engineer units, able to instantly convert enemy structures to your side, are also just 
 as deadly as they were in the original Command &amp; Conquer and are arguably more powerful than 
 ever thanks to Nod's subterranean APC, which can dump five of them right in the heart of an enemy 
 base. And just as in Command &amp; Conquer, should you lose your construction yard, either to an 
 engineer or to a concentrated attack, then chances are you've already lost.  

 But Command &amp; Conquer has never been about long, drawn-out wars of attrition. By the time either 
 the GDI or the Nod reach the top of their technology trees, they have not one but several means 
 of smashing large chunks of their enemies' bases with a single blow. For that reason, Tiberian 
 Sun, like its predecessors, demands that you strike before your opponent, and that necessity makes 
 the game exciting to play. Unit queues, good pathfinding, and an excellently implemented waypoint 
 system (which lets you set guard patrols and travel routes) all let you focus on coordinating complicated 
 attacks instead of micromanaging simple ones.  

 The competent computer AI will keep you on your toes through the two single-player campaigns, whose 
 missions are varied, often interesting, and usually demand that you accomplish not one but several 
 objectives. A few too many missions for both GDI and Nod require trial and error before strategy, 
 but at least the big-budget full-motion video sequences in between scenarios give you good incentive 
 to press on, even if many of the actors' performances are halfhearted.  

 When you're finished with one or both campaigns, you can keep playing against the computer in skirmish 
 mode, which stays interesting thanks to the game's random-map generator that can build a map to 
 your specifications much faster than you ever could with your average map editor. Sooner or later 
 you'll also want to pit your skills against human opponents, and you're guaranteed to find them 
 in droves on Westwood's online multiplayer server, where Tiberian Sun is destined to enjoy a very 
 long life whether you like it or not.  

 And whether you like Tiberian Sun is contingent upon how much you enjoyed the original, since Tiberian 
 Sun is ultimately nothing more than a logical extension of that game. If by chance you didn't warm 
 up to the first game back then, then there's no way you're going to warm up to it now. And even 
 if you enjoyed the formula in its heyday, you may well find yourself enjoying it less so now than 
 you did four years ago, on account of all the other great real-time strategy games that showed 
 up during that time, including Dark Reign, Total Annihilation, and Starcraft. After all, Tiberian 
 Sun is another real-time strategy game with a science fiction theme, just like the rest of them. 
 It's by no means their clear-cut superior, though it's by all means a worthy competitor.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (48 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KadathBird
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  It's common knowledge; Tiberian Sun was a bit of a let down. The story is probably the games strongest 
 asset- the game is much darker than the original, and its a welcome change as it means we get to 
 see lots of strange, creepy, and cool Tiberium Anamolies. If you thought visceroids were scary, 
 wait till your first encounter with a floater. The only real downside to the grim setting is this 
 means that Frank Klepacki's industrial tones are nowhere to be heard, and are instead replaced 
 with depressing ambient tracks.
  
  The gameplay is almost identical to the old games, but the pace has been slowed down a bit and 
 it never seems as frantic. This is another problem TS has, its the slowest CNC game. Missions seem 
 to drag on and there are times the game gets a little boring- something you couldn't say with CNC 
 1 or Red Alert. 
  
  On the plus side, however, when the action does flare up its still satisfying. While these missions 
 are far and few between, there are still some brilliantly designed missions that go beyond the 
 standard "Erect a base, survive, and annihilate the others" style. The factions are also a bit 
 more distinct this time around, soldiers are differentiated by more than just their colour and 
 there are distinct faction specific units, giving a better sense of style. GDI uses advanced walkers 
 and mech suits, whereas NOD relies on hardwired Cyborgs and laser tools. 
  
  At the end of the day, Tiberian Sun is a good game, but not up to par with its predecessors or 
 its successors. It's still a classic and it is still worth playing, but it is the weakest link 
 in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonMaster909
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:41 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of Real-Time-Strategy games, in particular WestWood's Command & Conquer Red Alert 
 series for the PC. Little did I know that Command & Conquer wasn't just a name slapped on to make 
 Red Alert's title a little longer, Command & Conquer is an actual series of it's own. Well, since 
 I liked Red Alert I thought "I'll give Command & Conquer a try." So I bought Command & Conquer 
 Tiberian Sun and slapped it in BIG MISTAKE.
  
  Now I won't say it was necessarily a bad game, because its got its up and downs, let's just say 
 maybe it just wasn't exactly what I had imagined it would be.
  
  THE GOOD: Command & Conquer Tiberian Sun has some catchy techno music, a great terrain map generator 
 and full motion video cut-scenes in the campaign modes starring famous actors such as James Earl 
 Jones (The voice of Darth Vader) Michael Biehn (The Terminator, Aliens) but it just isn't enough 
 to balance out the cons.
  
  THE BAD: Who the heck was in charge of the art direction for this game? Some of the units look 
 alright but other look like bad lego rip-offs put together by children, and everything is so tiny. 
 Sound is okay as well but lacking a ton of creativity for unit responses (why couldn't they have 
 done something cool like Star Craft's units) After the first 10 minutes of gameplay you've heard 
 all the units phrases twice already. And what's with the storyline? I understand it is supposed 
 to be Sci-Fi but what happened to the Russians, Britians, tesla tanks, mammoth tanks, jeeps or 
 just plain rifle infantry? The units in Command & Conquer Tiberian Sun are just a little too weird 
 for my tastes. I also found AI opponents extremely difficult to beat as well; they were always 
 coming in for cheap kills with burrowing APCs filled with  
 to immediately take over my base. 
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE: I won't lie, Command & Conquer Tiberian Sun was the first RTS game I actually 
 found worthwhile to beat the entire campaign mode (because of the full motion video cut-scenes) 
 but ultimately this game will probably end up in my garage sale box sometime in the near future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The Command and Conquer series are well known for its RTS games, like the original Command and 
 Conquer released in 1995 and Red Alert released in 1996. The games instantly became classics for 
 RTS fans for its awesome soundtrack, addicting gameplay, and mind-gripping story. The saga continues 
 in Tiberian Sun, about a few decades after the original Command and Conquer.
  
  The game's story is quite apocalyptic and moody. Tiberium has intoxicated most parts of the globe 
 since its arrival in the 1990s, and very few zones are available for suitable living. The Global 
 Defense Initative attempts to stop its spread and prevent mankind from going extinct from the disaster, 
 while the Brotherhood of Nod hampers their efforts with guerilla warfare tactics, sneak attacks 
 and propaganda. The story continues from there, as the player goes along, depending on which side 
 they choose.
  
  Units have been replaced by new different types. Players will no longer be able to control units 
 like the classic GDI Mammoth Tank or Nod's Flame Tank, instead they have been replaced with futuristic 
 and/or oddities like a walker version of the mammoth tank or the "Devil's Tongue" Flame Tank. However, 
 some classics like Stealth Tanks and Orcas remain.
  
  Music received the biggest change. There is no more heavy metal or industrial music, it has all 
 been replaced by horror-movie like music that fits the atmosphere of the apocalyptic future mankind 
 is facing. The music wasn't that good in my opinion.
  
  Gameplay hasn't changed at all, except players can now build more than one unit in the build queue.
 
  
  Give this game a try if you're a long time C&C fan. If you're a newcomer, give this game a try 
 anyways since you can find this game in the first decade complication pack or the C&C Saga collector 
 pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  sequel of the best game in 1995 command & conquer, with battle between Brotherhood of NOD and GDI 
 (Global Defense Infinity) . lay u to back in classic RTS. but command & conquer tiberian sun have 
 a good kans and raise a best RTS game in 1999.
  
  =gameplay=
  
  like the original command & conquer. u must built structure, create unit and destroy ur enemy. 
 there are two fraction u can choose. GDI with strong units and familiar in close attack, or Brotherhood 
 of NOD who have a high technology and best tactics with stronge defense. in GDI u cab create a 
 strong unit like Titan or the best close attack greenade thrower. in NOD u can choose fastest vehicle 
 like attack buggy, but it's very easy to destroy. but the gameplay isn't different with original 
 Command & Conquer. 
  
  =graphics=
  
  i'm not saying alot with the graphics. much better than the original Command & Conquer. but it's 
 not the best in the year. u can run the game in Windows 95, 98, or NT. but maybe the tiberian sun 
 make a risk to released with the same theme and same gameplay.
  
  =all performance=
  
  the best RTS in the year (1999) . u will enjoy it if u really2 fans of Command & Conquer series. 
 i recommended to track the game to ur collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: privetdan00014
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  From it's cheap graphics and a really slow gameplay at the first use, it looks that it fails for 
 the C&C series. But not quite! The vehicles are really unique, the infantry is just plain unoriginal 
 for both sides. The light infantry is lame and pretty useless, the advanced infantry, such as the 
 Cyborg Commando, are the best things you can get in a skirmish war. They are invulnerable to light 
 tanks and mass infantry. The best vehicle in the war is the Mammoth Mk. II. Unlike Red Alert 2's 
 Apocalypse Tank, it attacks with a laser-like projectile to its enemies, although it can affect 
 the infantry or tank in front of it, whether its friend or foe. The Nod Stealth Tank isn't very 
 stealthy at all, it can only activate its stealth abilities if it's not attacked, or idle, or just 
 roaming around. It's main weapon, rockets, are effective on hovering aircrafts, but not on infantry 
 and some vehicles much. The G. D. I. Disruptor may look like Red Alert 2: Y. R.'s Magnetron, but this 
 is way better; it can- not magnetize a vehicle but it's weird projectile can act like a microwave, 
 it can kill infantry in a matter of seconds, it can also destroy the well known Titan, a large 
 robotic tank-like vehicle. I can also destroy buildings at a long distance, with a power and distance 
 of a Prism Tank's and the projectile and also distance of a Magnetron. For the Graphics; It's not 
 as good as Red Alert 2's, but it's maps look much detailed than RA2. The explosions are pretty 
 weak looking, especially the Chemical Missile's, you might think it's a big explosion like a Nuke', 
 but no! It's just a small "poof" after hitting the target, but the effect is drastic! The Cluster 
 Missile is the best superweapon of them all, although it can be stopped by the deadly wall of "Firestorm"! 
 For the gameplay; It's hard! I can't finish the G. D. I. Mission, it's too impossible! The A. I. is 
 much smarter than you think of! Even an easy enemy can bite the dust off your base! Overall I give 
 this a 7.5 out of 10. (Criteria; 4 for Gameplay, 3 for Graphics, 2 for Sound, 1 for Weaponries 
 and the like) 2.5 for Gameplay, "hard" isn't fun at all, 3 for Graphics, even for a cheap 1999 
 hit can have high pixels too! 1 for sound, kinda boring! 1 for the Miscellaneous, the vehicles 
 are just gooood! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  TS was made in 1999. Think about the graphics tech in 1999. Maybe graphic card TNT hasn't showed 
 up yet in the year, LOL. But actually TS did a great job. TS series gave me lots of good memories. 
 The story is superb. The sound effects for every unit are superb too. The environment of Tiberian 
 world is extremely Godly Superb. LOL, I dont know how to describe how great it is so I use many 
 adjectives,: P. 
  
  There are short movies for every missions no matter you succeed it or FAIL it! And there are human 
 actors in the short movies! Remember it, this game was made in 1999 but it has so high quality in 
 that era! Hopefully Universe at War has some features similar to TS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warcorer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Along the tiberium wars this is the second (so far) in the trilogy , and it does bridge the gap. 
 The game is somewhat easy, but there are those missions that are almost impossible to win even 
 when you play it a lot. As the predecessor to the Greatest game C&amp; C 3, it has good graphics, 
 complexity (but not too much) , and the name that it had for itself, because C&amp; C #1 was the 
 truly, genre setting for all RTS games. It does take some time to beat the story but its worth 
 it to see kane again and to be or beat him. Cut scenes are even better than the ones in the first 
 tiberium war, probably because of the budget. Anyway this is another game you should buy if you 
 have the spare change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  The whole gameplay is way to slow, sometimes boring. When I first started playing it was great 
 after beating a few missions I got bored with it. Just didnt feel new at all.
  The graphic's are not good but what are you expecting from a game of 1999. The gameplay though 
 is really good. The sound is not bad but not great either. The soundeffects are ok but there is 
 no moving sound for the vehicles which makes the whole thing pretty sterilely. Yet the movies between 
 the missions were really well done.
  overall graphics are good for 1999, gameplay is fun, but this game is not superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_j007
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun
  
  Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun is the sequel to Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Dawn, and 
 the predecessor to Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars in the Tiberian series. The game takes 
 place about 30 years after the end of Tiberian Dawn. In the 2030's, when the Global Defense Initiative 
 (GDI) and the Brotherhood of Nod are locked in their second battle for the future of the world.
 
  
  Compared to its predecessor, Tiberian Sun relies heavily on science fiction technologies, and introduces 
 a new isometric game engine featuring varying level terrain to give the impression of a true 3D 
 environment.
  
  Features
  As a highly-anticipated sequel to Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Dawn, Tiberian Sun follows the 
 continuing struggle for world domination between the Global Defense Initiative and the Brotherhood 
 of Nod, and the struggle between humanity and the alien Tiberium substance. The game story is a 
 follow up to the original, in which the Nod leader Kane, resurfaces from death with renewed vigor, 
 funds, and manpower. The game's theme revolves around the matter of origin of Tiberium and its 
 terraforming properties.
  
  The 3D engine featured several new features. The game uses an isometric perspective with varying 
 terrain height. Dynamic lighting allowes for day/night cycles and special effects, such as ion 
 storms. Maps feature cityscapes where units could hide or battle in urban combat. Some buildings 
 and armoured units are rendered with voxels, although infantry is still rendered as sprites. The 
 terrain is fully deformable.
  
  The full motion video is also scripted differently; while the cutscenes of Command &amp; Conquer 
 and Red Alert were filmed from a first-person perspective, Tiberian Sun used traditional cinematic 
 shots for its FMVs featuring well known Hollywood actors such as James Earl Jones, and Michael 
 Biehn of Terminator and Aliens series.
  
  Tiberian Sun was speculated to be a BattleMech-type game, as shown in a teaser video in Command 
 &amp; Conquer, but later proved to follow the real-time strategy formula. However, Mech units were 
 featured in the game, replacing the more conventional tanks that were featured in Tiberian Dawn.
 
  
  The expansion pack, Command &amp; Conquer: Firestorm, took the storyline to new heights of complexity 
 and introduces new missions and new gameplay features. Instead of featuring GDI against Nod as 
 in earlier Command &amp; Conquer games, GDI and Nod were shown as being compelled to join forces 
 in order to overcome Nod's renegade artificial intelligence; CABAL.
  
  Story
  Tiberian Sun departs from the original Command &amp; Conquer real-time strategy games by portraying 
 each army's commander as a character in itself, rather than by referring to the player, who always 
 remained unseen throughout the storylines. Michael Biehn portrayed the GDI Commander Michael McNeil, 
 who takes his orders from James Earl Jones' character General James Solomon. On the side of the 
 Brotherhood of Nod, Frank Zagarino portrayed the infamous character of Anton Slavik, who began 
 the Nod campaign by attempting to, and swiftly succeeding in, reuniting the Brotherhood of Nod 
 after its division into many small and harmless splinter groups after the death of Kane (played 
 by the franchise's director Joseph D. Kucan) at the end of the original Command &amp; Conquer.
 
  
  In 2030 the world has continued to suffer greatly ever since the arrival of Tiberium. The world's 
 former individual nations have effectively ceased to exist due to the spread of the dangerous extraterrestrial 
 substance, and now only pockets of areas remain which are monitored by the Global Defense Initiative, 
 and are the hiding grounds of the regrouping Brotherhood of Nod. Plants and animals in these vast 
 and worldwide wastelands are either dying or mutating into hideous monstrosities, displacing human 
 civilization mostly toward the polar regions where Tiberium grows slowly, or to the ever scarcer 
 growing areas of the world where Tiberium infestation has yet to begin to truly manifest itself.
 
  
  Throughout the course of the GDI campaign, Commander McNeil is tasked with numerous objectives 
 such as the securing and defending of a mysterious alien spacecraft, the Scrin Starship, defending 
 his own ship from Nod forces when it was grounded during an Ion Storm, and finally preventing Nod 
 from destroying the orbital GDI command station Philadelphia in order to make them capable of launching 
 a world-altering Tiberium missile unhindered. However, Vega and his cohorts were able to steal 
 much of the Scrin Starship and apparently the Tacitus, a relic which was delivered to Kane.
  
  In these missions, McNeil encounters the mutants Tratos and Umagon and Ghostalker of The Forgotten 
 who eventually agree to cooperate in assisting with the downfall of Nod. Throughout the campaign, 
 GDI must deal with General Vega, the Brotherhood wrathbringer who attacked Phoenix and executed 
 with Eye Candy, a drug which Vega is both supplier and user of, its base commander Tao. As the 
 Kodiak with McNeil and Chandra tracking down the renegade Nod general, their reconnaissance squadron 
 finds UFO technology that Vega stole and brought before Kane. They encounter Umagon, a shiner, 
 who in exchange for her leader's life will provide support with the GDI. The forces of McNeil track 
 down Vega to his pyramid, but the officer commits suicide (after being abandoned by Nod's dictator 
 Kane) . They fail to stop the Nod leader and in Northern Europe, their headquarters are under attack. 
 With ARG vehicles, they manage to reactivate the Hammerfest base defenses, but Jake McNeil, brother 
 to Michael, is killed. The GDI finds out the Brotherhood will launch aggressive strike with their 
 chemical missiles. After a few battles against the Nod, the Kodiak is shot down and Umagon is caught 
 and tortured by Kane. While the Commander defends the Kodiak, Kane prepares to unleash the fury 
 of the Tacitus to transform Earth. McNeil is contacted by Ghostalker that Umagon was abducted and 
 against Solomon's prime orders, the commander rushes headlong to fight Kane. The dictator was slain 
 however and the Nod Temple razed.
  
  In the Nod campaign, Slavik manages to escape the facility where he is about to be executed as 
 a GDI spy under the authority of Nod's current leader, Hassan, who is secretly allied with General 
 Solomon in order to be able to maintain his position of power. With the assistance of his second-in-command 
 and right-hand woman, Oxanna Kristos, Slavik wages a war against Hassan in the name of Kane, his 
 forces surrounding Hassan's pyramid headquarters very quickly. He succeeds, and much to everyone's 
 surprise Kane's face appears on a wall screen to his loyal subjects just as Hassan is about to 
 be publicly executed on-stage. Hassan's throat is slit by Anton Slavik, the Brotherhood reunited 
 in full for the first time since the end of the First Tiberium War. Not long after this, the war 
 is then turned against GDI. It is then a fight which could mean a total devastation of the world 
 or Peace. After the mission in which you capture the GDI Leader's brother, you have to set three 
 nuclear missiles to destroy the orbiting Philidelphia ... The three ICBMs hit the Philidelphia, 
 annihilating it, much to the dismay of the captured O'Neil. After this event, Kane broadcasts to 
 the brotherhood that A new age is upon us , and subsequently fires a missile, with so much Tiberium 
 aboard that the crystal is able to cover the entire surface of the globe from orbit. As the missile 
 is launched, Kane mysteriously teleports away.
  
  Firestorm
  The Firestorm expansion follows the events as they unfolded in the GDI campaign of Tiberian Sun. 
 With the Brotherhood of Nod seemingly fractured into feuding warlords following Kane's second demise, 
 Anton Slavik is determined to keep the dream alive through the resurrection of CABAL, a highly 
 advanced AI developed by Nod. Unfortunately, CABAL betrays him and suddenly starts to use Nod's 
 Tiberium cyborgs to assassinate most of the Brotherhood's leaders, leaving them in chaos and largely 
 leaderless. CABAL then begins to conquer the world through the systematic assimilation of human 
 populations into its cyborg armies on a massive scale. The Global Defense Initiative, meanwhile, 
 continues its ongoing attempt to stop the spread of Tiberium by retrieving the mysterious Tacitus 
 device; however with the assassination of Tratos by the Brotherhood of Nod, they were left with 
 no alternative than to use CABAL. GDI was later betrayed by the A. I. as soon as they recovered 
 the last component of the Tacitus. The ever-increasing threat of the renegade A. I. eventually forces 
 Slavik to approach the GDI with an alliance against a common foe.
  
  The combined forces of GDI and Nod eventually won the battle against CABAL, but CABAL was apparently 
 not truly destroyed. The final cutscene of the Nod campaign shows CABAL's face on a display, surrounded 
 by fluid-filled cylinders with dormant humans inside, one of whom is seen to be Kane. Kane's face 
 is superimposed over CABAL's onscreen, and then Kane/CABAL says Our directives must be reassessed. 
 .
  
  Unlike other campaigns seen thus far in the Command &amp; Conquer series, the campaigns of the 
 Firestorm expansion are tied together. Playing only one side, one will barely end up understanding 
 the story (for example, the third GDI mission was to stop the quarreling of civilians and mutants, 
 however within the GDI campaign itself a reason as to why this conflict began is never given - 
 only in the Nod campaign. In the same manner, Tratos was said to have been assassinated in the 
 next mission for what at first glance appeared to be no reason either.) , unless one plays the other 
 campaign. What is also different from all former Command &amp; Conquer campaigns is that both the 
 GDI as the Nod campaign in Firestorm will lead to the same battle at the end. If the player examines 
 both the Nod and GDI versions of the final Core of the Problem mission closely, it becomes apparent 
 that the southwestern corner of the map in the Nod campaign and the southeastern corner of the 
 GDI campaign are identical. CABAL's core and all surrounding scenery is also identical in both 
 missions. In both of the briefings concerning this final mission, the player will also hear that 
 the other side is attacking CABAL from another direction. Similarly, in the preceding missions, 
 each side refers in the briefings to missions being attempted by their counterparts in the other 
 campaign to weaken CABAL. Lastly, the endings of the two campaigns in Firestorm co-exist (i. e. 
 both happened at the same time and both are canonical) . Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars 
 is the only other Command &amp; Conquer game to follow the same format.
  
  Reception
  Despite the anticipation surrounding Tiberian Sun, the game was released to mixed reviews. Delays 
 had caused the game to take four and a half years to develop, and as a result, the game featured 
 outdated graphics yet the game performance was sluggish on all but the latest computers.
  
  Many of the touted features such as intelligent, adaptive AI, unit veterancy and real-time lighting 
 were either severely scaled back or completely removed. Game strategy was lacking to the point 
 where a player could complete entire missions with an army of one type of unit (e. g. infantry/ 
 engineer rushes) .
  
  Others disapproved of the soundtrack, which departed from the Industrial music/hip-hop styles of 
 Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Dawn in favor of slow, moody ambient music reflecting the game's 
 apocalyptic setting in a world being ecologically ravaged by Tiberium. Westwood would later successfully 
 eliminate many of the performance and stability problems, and would reuse Tiberian Sun's isometric 
 graphics engine for Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert 2.
  
  Early Development
  There is an early Tiberian Sun trailer, which can be found as one of the Sneak Preview movies within 
 the Gold Edition of Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Dawn [1] . In this trailer it shows a Mech being 
 tested to how well it can deal with damage and doing target practice with a laser. This Mech is 
 similar in design to the GDI's Wolverine , though it fires a green laser instead of bullets. This 
 trailer gives the impression that the game was to be played from a first-person perspective and 
 the gameplay was similar to the MechWarrior video game series.
  
  Several images and references in the Tiberian Sun rules file indicate that more features were planned 
 for release. A former Westwood employee working for Petroglyph Games elaborated upon them in March 
 2007. [1] A loadout screen was to be implemented allowing commanders to pick units to take into 
 battle before missions. Drop pods which later appeared in Firestorm were intended to debut in Tiberian 
 Sun, and be customizable before deployment. The loadout screen was finished in a prototype of Command 
 &amp; Conquer 3, but Westwood was dissolved and Electronic Arts did not revive the concept. [1] 
 Lighting was intended to play a larger role, as units spotted by lamps or guard towers would be 
 susceptible to enemy fire at greater ranges, and in turn would suffer a reduction in their own 
 range ability. Westwood planned the Hunter / Seeker Droid option to support selection of target 
 types, but ultimately the droid was made to attack at random. Developers eschewed creating differences 
 in terrain types to preserve unit balance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 7, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Tiberian Sun came out a bad time for me as my (Pentium 166) pc barely failed the requirements and 
 the next pc I bought can't support it due to Windows XP! I had to let it go unplayed until now 
 thanks to the wonderful C&amp; C First Decade. So... yes, 8 long years since!
  
  First of all, it's still a great game even now due to the familiar C&amp; C universe, including 
 the interface, gameplay and units. Well, unlike the original C&amp; C where tank rush tactics basically 
 solves every Destroy-all-enemies mission, Tiberian Sun took a new turn by introducing some very 
 cool units like GDI Orca bombers and Nod Artillery to vary the typical RTS strategy. Talking about 
 artillery, C&amp; C and Red Alert disappoints me but Westwood finally knew how it's supposed to 
 work in this one. My favorite weapon.
  
  Because of these new stuff, the single-player campaign is fantastic especially in regard to those 
 non-building missions. The developers managed to make them fun and challenging with the limited 
 yet unique units, where you get to fully utilise their abilities.
  
  The story is a little odd for me, maybe too sci-fi, but that's ok cos there's still a great deal 
 of in-between-missions cinematics to appreciate. My biggest complain is that the music is a little 
 weak compared to both its predecessors. Nevertheless, I still had a great time with the campaign 
 and I know, even before C&amp; C3 came out, that Kane can't die.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Command & Conquer. The name rings in mind as a well publicised one. Now, EA will never let their 
 game title to go unpublicised will they. Though I had never played the original game I bought this 
 a little after it's action counterpart C&C Renegade was released. Since I had never played a futuristic 
 RTS I was interested to see how well this one turned out to be.
  
  Taking it's release date which was nearly 8 years ago from now Tiberian Sun does well. In fact, 
 it's graphical sector is quite impressive and detailed. The explosions and missile attacks leave 
 a considerable mark on the terrain in the form of craters at times even fires. Though the view 
 of the basic game might look a little odd to the current-generation strategy buffs, it looked perfectly 
 sane then.
  
  Taking it's roots from the original C&C this game returns to the tiberium conflict between Global 
 Defense Initiative and Brotherhood of Nod. However, this time a unique alien species is involved 
 which is confronted midway through both the campaigns. The campaigns are really lengthy and engaging 
 where unlike the normal skirmishes, various objectives like stealth, brute force, securing area 
 within certain time limit all come into perspective.
  
  During the campaigns are the well orchestrated and cool looking real time videos and cutscenes 
 where actors enact their parts. Obviously Kane, the leader of Nod is the true limelight attracter 
 here but the GDI commander, McNeill and the Nod commander, Slavick do a great job too. The story 
 is of basic global domination where tiberium takes the huge stand. There are certain parts in the 
 campaigns when you will be offered to select from two different scenarios during a particular situation. 
 One of them takes on mostly elimanating reinforcements camp or likewise whereas the other does 
 the straightforward thing. This does indeed make a good choice as the difficulty level then considerably 
 decreases once you complete the secondary mission.
  
  Besides campaign there is the usual multi-player mode where you can battle it out with your friends 
 via LAN or play the Skirmish mode offline which is a good way of becoming perfect with the various 
 multipayer maps. The units and buildings remain much the same from the original C&C though thankfully 
 the game doesn't force you to concentrate muh on your base development unlike other RTS like Age 
 of Empires.
  
  The soundtrack is decent though too jarring at times. The units emit shouts and moans when they 
 are killed or injured during a battle which is good. Another realistic thing is that in certain 
 Tundra maps where the water is frozen if your ground units walk over it a lot it will break and 
 immediately fall and die in the cold water. It is an innovative idea. Another new thing is the 
 vetrancy factor where the units which have lasted for a long time in a battle killing many enemy 
 units become faster and much stronger. A bit like RPG.
  
  So, Tiberian Sun is a great game though people who have played the newer parts might prefer to 
 stay away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  First of all I must say this is the first RTS I played. Of course, that was 7 or 8 years ago, but 
 man it was so cool. As in every RTS when you pass a level you gain something new... and the first 
 question that steps in you mind is what does this do? . And being the first RTS and I think the 
 best at that time I was addicted by this game.
  
  Well about the gameplay then that is in 1999 or 2-3 years later the gameplay suked a little because 
 of the 640x400 resolution. Everything else is ok. But if you would play this game now you could 
 just install a resolutionchanger and adjust it between 640x400 and 1600x1200. I would recomend 
 1024x768. You can also be able to install an 8 player patch so that you can play 8players on a 
 map.
  
  I can't compare the graphics of tiberian sun with the graphics of tiberium wars or generals for 
 example because TS was released 8years ago and these a little more later. But I could compare it 
 with red alert and starcraft and it would be between them though I consider for RTS sake it deserves 
 a high rating.
  
  You can't expect a lot for the sound in a game from that time. I know there is fine music, there 
 are many sounds and voices.
  
  I don't remember exactly how much this game was but it couldn't be too much and it deserves to 
 be played to the end.
  
  I never had that reviewer's tilt for this game because I never bought it... but who cares this game 
 should be high rated by all the RTS fans who played it then. If you play it now for the first time 
 you may not be impresed but I'm sure that all the RTS fans that played this game born in 89' or 
 90' will vote this game with over 9.
  
  And there are also movies with real people at the end of each mission. This stuff makes a good 
 story out of RTS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biohazard112
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  It's really not a bad game. The graphic's are not good but what are you expecting from a game of 
 1999. The gameplay though is really good. But sometimes those super weapons like the ion cannon 
 are getting annoying. The sound is not bad but not great either. I don't really recommend this 
 game because I would buy red alert 2 because it's just way and way better. I don't mean that the 
 graphic's are better but the gameplay is really good in that game. But if you like futuristic more 
 than you should buy this game.
  
  Gameplay: Is good but that from red alert 2 is better
  Graphic's: are not really good even not for a 1999 game
  Sound: Not bad but also not good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicwiza308
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  It's a good game but it's not just finished. You can't save, that's bad because one game is about 
 7 hours to win. It's not easy and you cannot set superweapons off and that's a problem if you have 
 7 enemy's! It's also hard to play, the enemy is very good, that takes a lot of time too. The graphic 
 are also bad but it's 1999. not a game you recommend! i should buy red alert 2, not this game, 
 it's too old and even dune 2 or total annihilation is better not the Comman &amp; Conquer title 
 worth. the rest is to fill the 100 words ;) .  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer is one of the most well known games ever created, while it did not create the 
 RTS genre, it redefined it for the better. Two evenly matched forces, yet both requiring certain 
 tactics to emerge victorius made the first game extremely popular. While the first one is good, 
 this is even better.
  
  The story goes like this, Kane was believed dead at the end of the first Tiberium war, destroyed 
 in his own temple, although his body was never found. Decades after his death, he miraculously 
 reappears, bringing NOD's leadership together and smashing GDI positions across the planet. Despite 
 an Ion Cannon hitting his temple, he appears unharmed and taunts the GDI command space station, 
 the Phiadelphia. Thats where you take over. There are the two armies always remembered in C&amp; C. 
 The Brotherhood stands on one side, believing that humanity should be binded in peace through power. 
 On the other is GDI, basically these guys are the worldwide army, ready to save the world and destroy 
 NOD at any cost. The story of the game is told through cut scenes with real actors. These break 
 up the pace of the game, although help you know the backstory and objectives of each mission.
 
  
  Both armies, whilst having some similar units, play very differently. GDI is based on massed attacks, 
 they have the more powerful units, although also the slowest. As you can imagine NOD is based on 
 speed strikes, thats why they can stealth units and their bases, at a massive power drain. Using 
 each army to its effectiveness is quite difficult, it takes time to get used to playing as one 
 side to the other. Also the campaign is very difficult, even on the easiest setting. It makes modern 
 day RTS's appear easy, especially once you get to the NOD mission where you must sneak past two 
 enemy bases, with three engineers, three light infantry, two buggies and a scout bike. Thats basically 
 impossible, even on easy. I dont want to see what hard is like. It behaves like all strategy games 
 should, on the earlier missions you get all the weak units, then you slowly progress up the tech 
 tree until you reach the destroy bases stuff. The Mammonth MkII. Most powerful weapon ever made. 
 But it takes so much resource to build that you can basically make two of any other unit. NOD in 
 the meanwhile get the Cyborg Commander, a bas ass with a plasma cannon as one of his arms, although 
 he isn't nearly as powerful as the Mammoth.
  
  As you can imagine, the first few campaign levels are almost like tutorials, getting you to learn 
 the basics, before it thrusts you into the difficult missions, which is about from the third mission 
 onwards. The GDI campaign is possibly the easiest, as most of the missions you start of with a 
 base. NOD on the other hand has many missions where you must either steal a base, or go without. 
 Both sides last few missions are truly memerable, the last GDI one is one of the greatest last 
 missions in any RTS ever created. Each side also has a super weapon , although they are no where 
 near as poweful as they are in other C&amp; C games. GDI get the Ion Cannon, instant hit weapon 
 that can destroy all but the most powerful targets. The NOD get two weapons instead, although to 
 make up for this GDI has more powerful vehicles, and the fact that the Ion Cannon is an instant 
 hit weapon, the NOD chemical and Cluster Missle take twenty seconds or so to arrive, and GDI gets 
 a warning telling them that the missile has launched, so even their slow slow vehicles can move 
 out of the way. The chemical varient can turn infantry into tiberium creatures, which can do an 
 awful lot of damage. The cluster version splits up, as you can imagine from the name, and has the 
 potential to destroy any building or unit. Usually the only way to hit an enemy unit is for them 
 to be careless, not move it or to guess where it will be standing when the missile impacts.
  
  WHile being an eight year old game, it is still an amazing experience to play, and if you have 
 yet to play it, I would certainly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  There are loads of RTS games out there but nothing compares to Command and Conquer: Tiberian Sun.
 
  
  I was never much of an RTS fan until I saw my friends having a multi-player battle on this game. 
 From then on a was hooked on the Command and Conquer series.
  
  The graphics on this game were lacking in a few areas this was mainly to do with the fact that 
 it had been in development for quite a while. One of the better things about the graphics is the 
 animation on the units.
  The animation of the units although not perfect added a bit more realism to the game. I think that's 
 what they were trying to do when they got rid of most of the tanks.
  
  The games soundtrack is as immersive as ever and has some really good tunes. The sounds are I would 
 have to say average. The quality of the sound is OK and the explosions are OK, it's just the repetitiveness 
 of the speech that drags it down.
  
  Above all else the game play is truly awesome. It's one of those immersive RTS games that you can 
 lose hours to and not notice. I haven't found any RTS that has managed to beat this game.
  
  Every RTS fan should have this in their collection and anyone looking into RTS games should 
 get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emperor88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  The first C&amp; C went places that other games had only dreamed of. I still remember the day I 
 played the Demo of that game. My jaw dropped just looking at the installation screen. I remember 
 I was about 13 years old and had just been introduced into the RTS genre with Blizzards War craft 
 2. I thought that the game was the bomb. At least until I played Command &amp; Conquer. After playing 
 one demo level of Command &amp; Conquer I was literally walking circles around my room trying to 
 comprehend my experiences. C&amp; C was the best game ever until Red Alert came along which some 
 how managed to improve on perfection and keep it's content original at the same time. Then came 
 a game that would be God like in nature and the word perfection would be an understatement when 
 refereeing to this artwork. A game was made that continued an already epic storyline and brought 
 it up to smash the guts out of ANY Hollywood movie ever made. This game would have an all star 
 Hollywood cast and be the best RTS game if not the BEST game of all time. I find that most of the 
 1% of earths population that criticise this game for it's graphics or any other reason just have 
 no idea what so ever about ANYTHING at all. I think that it's also important to remember that this 
 game was released almost 8 years ago. This game is timeless. Unlike other masterpieces like Doom 
 which get boring and outdated after a few years Tiberian sun is still on the top of most peoples 
 playing pile. Whether it is for its interactive movie experience of its single player or the uncanny 
 RTS multiplayer Tiberian Sun is not from this world. I have never seen an accumulation of creative 
 and pure genius that is portrayed within this epic masterpiece. With all the eye candy involved 
 in this game the producers (Westwood studios the gamming gods) still managed to keep the overall 
 standard in game features totally balanced but different at the same time. The music and sound 
 effects were spot on and so was the interface. I can honestly say that this game was flawless apart 
 from the in game visuals lacking in some areas. This however is just nit picking and like I said 
 before you must remember that the game was released in 99 but had been under construction for a 
 few years before hand. Besides RTS games are not about nice colours and eye candy. It's the game 
 that's most important and the trivial issues with the games graphics were easerly surpassed 500 
 times by Tiberian suns cut scenes, storyline and depth. In total it's hard to put a name to something 
 that is part of your life like this. The theme was Sci-Fi and Westwood drew from many of the Genres 
 best sources. Robocop, Terminator, Independence day, Aliens, the list goes on. However in no way 
 think that the producers of this game ripped anything off. All Westwood did was take the core ideas 
 and bring them to the next level. I must say that I feel Game spots review on this game extremely 
 underrates it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kutmen55
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  this game was balling way back when it came out. I used to live in turkey and was like 10 years 
 old, didnt understand a damn word of it and still loved it. since i couldn't read english back 
 than, loading the game was a **** but was well worth it. The one and only thing i didnt like was 
 the tiberium silos... arrrgh.... took up sooo much space in my base. I hope in Tiberium Wars, the 
 wolverines, titans and cyborgs are still around. The way you used tiberium crytals instead of money 
 was cool. Buying a large amount of regular troops and sending them to a well defended base and 
 still winning is awsome. I used to load up on a lot of troops where you coudnt control them all 
 at one time and the computer would get really slow but i would still play it out to see how badly 
 i had won. ooooohh..... i love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlAY3RKiLL
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  A pretty standard game, like the oldie Red Alert, only much more techy. This hit also actually 
 requires some strategy. Kinda more units, but not much more. Different effects (such as the time 
 of day having affect and the climate) make the game more interesting. Read the guides if you need 
 help (thats why i put hard difficulty. Dont expect to have everything laid out for you, for stage 
 1 in the campaigns are called no-brainers. Start out with GDI, GDI is MUCH easier. Look at the 
 guides. i can't think of anything else to say. i can't think of anything else to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powarmetal
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game got me hooked for at least 2 years. The single player campaigns were just as good as 
 the original tiberian dawn if not better. the return of real actors in in-game cinematics was brilliant.
 
  
  The gameplay was top-notch. various interesting aspects such as subterranean vehicles gave extra 
 depth to the overal gaemplay.
  
  The music composed by Frank Klepacki suits the atmosphere very well. The eerie sound track combined 
 with the exploding meteorites was absolutely amazing.
  
  Multiplayer was possibly the best experience you'll encounter. The game is kept up to date frequently, 
 providing balance, enjoyable and competitive gameplay.
  
  The graphics was magnificent during that era, detailed textured buildings, units and environment 
 showing the extent of damage the tiberium brought on what once were developed cities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  After Red Alert Westwood went back to the original GDI versus Nod conflict, and the final product 
 was Tiberian Sun which received mixed reactions from fans due to its more depressing and sci-fi 
 setting.
  
  Tiberian Sun is set decades after the original C&amp; C (Tiberian Dawn) , and the world is in a worse 
 state than when we last saw it. Tiberium is spreading like wildfire, and most cities and homes 
 are in ruin as civillians retreat to the more habitable parts of the world due to the poisonous 
 nature of the alien life draining mineral. The Earth itself is decaying as Tiberium is slowly leeching 
 the life from it as it spreads. Despite all of this, Nod prepares to make their grand return once 
 again lead by the previously thought dead Kane, and GDI forces lead by General Solomon aboard the 
 space station Philadelphia find themselves plunged into yet another war.
  
  Unlike the other games in the C&amp; C series players take on the role of a particular character 
 in the campaigns. In the GDI Campaign you play as the arrogant, and victory loving Commander Michael 
 McNeil. In the Nod campaign you play as fanatical, and tempermental Commander Antan Slavik. This 
 can give more depth to the main character as unlike the other games where the player themself was 
 the Commander, preset characters with some sort of story are the Commanders. Unfortunately there 
 is little character development in the GDI Campaign, and even less in the Nod one which makes one 
 wonder why they even bothered. Regardless the storyline is solid, and flows well for the most part, 
 and all of the characters are likeable in their own way.
  
  The gameplay is exactly the same as it was in the original C&amp; C, and Red Alert. The poisonous 
 alien mineral Tiberium makes its grand return, along with a newer, and more valuable Blue Tiberium, 
 and Tiberium Veins. There are also new types of Tiberium Lifeforms to be on the lookout for, as 
 they can do a lot of damage to your forces, and your base if you're not careful. GDI Tanks have 
 been replaced with Mech-type units, and the units and buildings overall have a more sci-fi feel 
 to go with the apocalyptic setting of Tiberian Sun.
  
  The graphics are an improvement over the original C&amp; Cs and Red Alerts. Infantry are still small, 
 and cartoony, but the terrain, buildings, vehicles, and colored lighting are a definite improvement 
 over the feel of the original. The world truly does feel as if it is in a depressing state while 
 you're playing the game. The audio adds even more to the atmosphere.
  
  The sound is as you can expect from a C&amp; C game, and the voice acting and acting are better 
 than the first two games' for the most part. The music is once again composed by Frank Klepacki, 
 but it takes on a more gloomy and depressing tone to fit with the like setting. This disappointed 
 many fans, but it improved the immersiveness for me.
  
  Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun is an excellent sequel to C&amp; C, and Red Alert. It places 
 focus back onto the GDI and Nod conflict (which hopefully won't be ruined in the upcoming C&amp; C 
 3) , sees the return of Kane, and has a very immersive (though depressing) setting. It's a must 
 play for fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holland01
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Welcome back commander. This is the first thing you hear when you start this game. Tiberian Sun 
 brings you years later in the future after command and conquer. You can be a commander of The Brotherhood 
 of Nod and of course the GDI (Global Defense Initiative) . Tiberian Sun is a great game it is the 
 first game that make use of weather suchs as night and dusk and day. This game is a 3D to the eye 
 but is it not it is 2D but that makes it not fun to play. The graphics are Great because they have 
 a good eye for detail it is very detailed if you compare it with the other C&C games and the gameplay 
 is good and the AI is much better than in Red Alert it is much harder than al the orther C&C games.
 
  
  If your a a defensive player or the opposite of it an attacker you have good use of the units. 
 For Defence you must use the Nod because they have very strong defense units and buildings such 
 as the atillery tank and the oblisk of light and the GDI has not as strong defense units. The GDI 
 is very good against offensive missions The Titan is very good for buildings and heavy tanks and 
 The Wolverine is very good against infantry and light units and light tanks. The superweapons are 
 very great to use, The GDI have the well known Ion Cannon that is very powerfull and a seeker that 
 is a thing that search and destroy. The NOD have a rocket that exploded above ground and than other 
 rockets are released to destroy. The Nod and GDI have also a special unit the GDI have the Mammoth 
 MK II a super tank and the NOD have the Cyborg Commando an super soldier.
  
  The Animations of the game is nice to see the special effects are also really nice. The world detail 
 is good to see and the scale of the world is big there was one thing i think that they must put 
 by the units, boats, but that is my oppinion.
  
  The Storyline is good but that is not as interesting as the game every RTS game wants to bring 
 Chaos.
  
  This is a Great RTS game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I have played all of the Command and Conquer games especially the latest one (Command and Conquer 
 Generals) , but I still think that Tiberian Sun is much more enjoyable. I know the graphics in this 
 game are now ancient but this game is still highly addictive. The game provides an adequet amount 
 of upgrades for both sides and interesting units. The gameplay AI is okay in this game, on hard 
 settings the AI can be overwhelming just like I expected. One downside or upside (however you look 
 at it) to this game is that the game becomes way too easy when you have an excellent airforce. 
 I would always create at least 20 Orca Bombers and just carpet bomb the crap out of the opposing 
 team and they're pretty much done for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Compared to modern C&C games the graphics suck, the sound is OK, the many video/movie scenes in 
 this game make it good too. However there doesn't seem to be as many unique units on both sides 
 unlike in C&C Generals where each side has many unqiue units which help make balancing and fighting 
 between the armies more fun. My advice would be that unless if this is in a bundle pack with other 
 great C&C games or on sale or if you are a real die-hard C&C fan, to just buy a modern C&C game 
 like C&C Generals. This game ran fine on my Windows XP but I think that it wasn't designed for 
 Windows XP so this is another reason why it is better to buy another modern C&C game which was 
 formatted to be for Windows XP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COLVEN_shadow
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  I think that command and conquer tiberian sun is a good advance in grapichs, the disigners add 
 new units and new bulding this meke more impressive but unfortunaly is a little bored because you 
 have to construct many things before get ready to fight, is impressive the the Nods have air units 
 and have 2 differents missiles the chemical and the normal missile, the style of the bulilt meke 
 more realistic but there aren't many cities, add special creatures like the tiberian fiend and 
 the mutants it demonstrates how the live change around the wars between Nods and GDIs forces, the 
 best was to change the classic mammoth tank to the mammoth mark II add new air units for the GDI 
 like the bomber orca and orca carrier, like the gost stalker and the disrupter, this game has a 
 big advance science C&C Red Alert 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I used to play this game until the point that I got almost no sleep whatsoever. I was failing the 
 6th grade at the time and in order to save my education, I was forced to quit and get my education 
 together. But the addiction stayed in me until as of May 30, 2006 I saw this game on the shelf 
 and I immediaetly bought it without a second thought. I really enjoyed the real time strategy of 
 this game, I love both races equally but In multiplayer games I usually have a slight preference 
 for the Brotherhood of Nod. I really like their stealth tactics and underground movement. The Gdi 
 are good as well, but they seem more defensive to me with the use of the firestorm generator. I 
 have stopped many a missile attack with that generator, and it has saved the day for me many times. 
 The campaigns are fun and challenging to play, and I have wasted a good portion of my life on this 
 game, and as of today I am back for more. This game is so fun to play, even after 5 yrs of not 
 playing it, Im back at it again. Overall, the graphics are good, the soundtracks are great, and 
 the gameplay is the some of the best ive seen. A must have for anyone who is a fan of real time 
 strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theredviola2003
Rating: 6
Date: May 24, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  I love the Command & Conquer series, especially the Tiberiun series. And this game has its dirty 
 aspect, as in the futuristic technology and it has literally a dirty look to it, is great. The 
 one and only complaint that I have is a major one... this game's difficulty is far too hard. I 
 know, suck it up and learn to deal with it. I'd really rather be having fun than learning how to 
 deal with the AI. The one unit specifically that gets on my nerve is the seker. If there was a 
 way to get rid of that and still have super weapons that would be great. And also if the Nod had 
 a way to defend them selves against missile attacks like the Firestorm generator for the GDI. Other 
 than that huge aspect, this game is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Even shakespeare cannot capture the amazing capability of this amazing game. Tiberian Sun is a 
 fast paced and very quick witted game full of sneak attacks and awe inspiring units. This game 
 truly kept the Command and Conquer series going through hard times when they released Renegade 
 and hurt some of their loyal fans by relaesing a game untrue to the games genre and the way that 
 these games are meant to be made. This game brings the love back and is a much neede addition to 
 the world (even though it came out a while ago) . So if you need a PC game and like CNC and have 
 not played it you should or your missing a very valuable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikko123
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Because that is what Command and Conquer turns around, doesnt it? In Tiberian Sun you get a whole 
 renewed experience of the old-school C&C. Medium tanks and MLRSs dont exist anymore. Instead, 
 you get the mighty Titan mech, towering over the battle field with its huge cannon, and the hover 
 MLRS, which has the exact same function as its old version, except for the fact this thing can 
 hover over the water!
  
  All this next-gen stuff sounds hard and all, but the relative simple interface of Tiberian Sun 
 makes it easy to understand after some practicing. The concept still stays the same, though. The 
 GDI tries to battle Tiberium to keep it where it belongs, in the refinery, using brute force. In 
 the meanwhile, the Brotherhood of Nod tries to make use of it and enhance its powers while using 
 high-tech weaponry to keep the GDI at bay.
  
  Although the concept is the same, the storyline most certainly isnt. While in C&C the Tiberium 
 was welcomed, in Tiberian Sun, the people start to realise its a dangerous substance. When the 
 Nod starts to attack freely and more openly, and Kane shows his face, proving he isnt dead, the 
 GDI realizes they will need to wage war against the Nod and anything else that opposes them.
  
  It would be a sad error in judgment to mistake me for a corpse.
  - Kane
  
  With these 
 dangerous and puzzling words, the world gets enveloped in a war known as the Second Tiberium War. 
 We might know it as Command & Conquer: Tiberian Sun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitzza_1301
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Cnc Tiberian Sun is set in the future with the brotherhood of nod in disrepair with kane missing 
 and nods many factions splitting apart and the gdi pressing the attack in the two seperate campaigns.
 
  
  The new tech is great with the two sides recieving cool new additions to their armoury's with the 
 gdi gaining things like the awesome wolverine and titan with nod gaining the tick tank and a few 
 cyborgs. There is also a new addition of air force including the nod banshees and gdi bombers.
 
  
  Its storyline is top notch with a number of very fun missions and ones that more so difficult then 
 fun, though it becomes a continuous strive to complete the level to find out what happens next.
 
  
  It is a satisfying sequal to one of best known rts series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bodboy466
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short and sweet. Tiberian Sun was a very good game for its time and still 
 is now. 
  
  Game play: Strong and entertaining. Good for hours of fun. I truly enjoyed this game so much more 
 than the WarCraft games; I'm not sure why but I just have such better memories of this.
  
  Graphics: not exactly the graphics of the year but they are still pretty nice.
  
  Sound: I 
 don't remember anything about the music or if there really was any but I do know that the sound 
 effects were very nice: especially the sound of a sharp shooter shooting for a one-hit kill (that 
 might have been Firestorm) . Voice acting is present and nice enough. 
  
  Value: The game offered quite a bit of content, was fun, and had a high replay value.
  
  Overall: 
 Just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nss_120
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Westwood has made a game that is worth to play- it's just great to see Daniel Kucan as McNeil in 
 the game, and also what makes this game more worthy to play is it's units, the Ion Cannon in the 
 GDI side, The Missile Silo on the NOD and also most of all- The Obelisk of Light, Playing this 
 game not much difficult, be sure to make the right units at the right time, just because this game 
 is not too poor on graphics, but it is a slight sequel to the Red Alert series. Practicing in this 
 game is not way too hard either compared to Red Alert. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I got this game expecting it to be the next StarCraft. I was wrong. If you're used to playing a 
 game similar to StarCraft and Warcraft, you're going to be disappointed. 
  
  The graphics weren't too bad for it's time, but the game play is what drove me nutz. It took forever 
 to finish just one game. I didn't get much fun out of playing this CnC game. I picked it up mainly 
 because the gaming guild I was in at the time was moving from StarCraft to this.
  
  At present time, there are much better games out than this. Don't expect much out of this game 
 as the units are a bit bleak and the rest is somewhat weak. Nothing really has that umph like some 
 of the other RTS games out there.
  
  I'd wait for this game to come out in a package deal like the new "The First Decade" before I'd 
 buy it.
  
  Just not my cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i think the Red Alert C&C are way better than the Tiberian Sun/Dawn ones. The original 
 C&C was awesome when it was out, but everybody went crazy with Red Alert. The sequels, well look 
 at the Gamespot score - not that great. And no wonder at that time people were all crazy about 
 Total Annihilation and that litle something called Starcraft. Tiberian Sun was nothing special 
 - the same game as before only with a different story. For people that want to try this game now 
 the subject changes completely. If you want to try the RTS formula that dominated the 90s this 
 is your first choice. Although the classic is even more nostalgic, youll tolerate the graphics 
 of this one a little better, and the missions are better structured too. RTS like this arent done 
 anymore, the interface now is always some kind of Blizzard copy or evolution (even C&C Generals) . 
 Try this game and then the pinnacle of the series - Red Alert 2 - and discover why Command & Conquer 
 is the best RTS series ever.
  
  PS: If you must know i consider the Craft series from Blizzard as good as C&C ones, and a little 
 better than the Agess from Ensemble. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Tiberium Sun brings the command and conquer franchise back to its original roots in the tiberium 
 era of fighthing where an unknown mineral known as tiberium has taken over the world. In this game 
 the earth has been terraformed quite a bit as there is much more destruction left in the wake of 
 the tiberium growth. The main gameplay is still the same as you are forced to choose between using 
 the good guys (GDI) or the bad guys (NOD) to fight each other. The Units that both sides possess 
 this time around are much more futiristic and more maneuverable than in the predecessor game. For 
 example the GDI actually have mobile walkers and floating weapons while NOD goes stealth with its 
 stealth tanks and underground Devil's Tongues. The game overall is quite decent although it doesn't 
 really match up with many of the other strategy games today, but it is still quite decent none 
 the less, especially during its time period when it was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  You're going to complain about the graphics when you pick up this game... if you're lucky enough 
 to find it, but don't worry... after the first few missions, you'll feel right at home.
  
  With an impressive tech tree and PLENTY of diffrent styles of units, such as infantry types, tanks 
 and air, even some over war vehicles, you will find yourself making several strategies for diffrent 
 situations, something you don't have to do in other RTS were 10 tanks will win no matter what. 
 You will find your self gathering tiberian, a toxic little plant that can kill and or damage plenty 
 of units, dealing with animals/ creatures that live in it, which will try and kill ya. On some 
 multiplayer maps they will already come with neutral creatures or forces that you should try and 
 avoid unless you want to attrackt them into war. 
  
  Trully a classic RTS to say the LEAST, and one that will pull you in, and will NOT let you out 
 until you've completley finish off its long emmerssive campeign and maybe if your freinds pick 
 it up too, some online skirmishes will be tons of fun. 
  
  Base design has never felt more miletarisic, setting up several kinds of turrets around walls (which 
 really do play a role in this game) and setting up pavement so the nukes dont destroy the ground 
 =D oh and the sounds are actually very well done for such an old game, voices too!
  
  Really pick up this RTS gem! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  Command & Conquer takes a massive twist in storyline and timeline aspects here as we are transported 
 into the future.
  
  Kane is back and his Hand of Nod troops are back with new or updated technology.
  
  The Command 
 and Conquer took a bit of a gamble here trying to make a futuristic sci-fi version of the game. 
 
  
  Gameplay wise its a bit ont he slow side, creating units is kind-of-slow BUT moving them out is 
 even slower. You'll probably end up spending about 3 hours or so on a mission (if your a perfectionist 
 in making armies like me) .
  
  Graphically the graphics were updated massivly for the command and conquer universe. It had a more 
 isometric view and most of the units looked ACTUALLY 3D now, but they animation was still a bit 
 on the stodgy side.
  
  In addition to this, like Red Alert, Tiberian Sun adds some movies with actual real live acting. 
 The acting is actually ok, it reminds me alot like the Dune TV series tyep of acting for some reason.... maybe 
 its the cheap sets and wardrobe they used.
  
  In anycase its a fun game, but the long and sometimes repetitve missions could bore you to hell 
 and back but if your in for the long ride with this game to see its finer points like its new graphics, 
 the new technologies both armies boust and witness the storyline unfold through some half decent 
 live acting movies, then this game will be rewarding in some aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This was my first C&C game, and even though I wasn't hooked, I wasn't turned off either. It offers 
 RTS players a welcome relief to the likes of Starcraft where in single player mode you're shown 
 no mercy, an early rush can take your fun out of the game very quickly especially at the later 
 levels. I find the C&C series to be more towards good RTS fun, not frustrating like Blizzard. You 
 don't have to collect many resources, and you won't be rushed too badly. You just have to concentrate 
 on building up a force and then smash the enemy with it, simple. Sometimes there may be actual 
 strategy involved, but it's not highly stressed. You'll have a good time with this, although it's 
 not as good as Red Alert 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BradW92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  I have lost count to the amount of sequels and prequels to the command and conquer series but still 
 they never cease to amaze me. 
  The stoy line is a bit complicated but i wont go in to that.
  You get to choose to fight in one 
 of two sides GDI (the good guys) or NOD (the hell bent terrorists) each side has there own differnt 
 campaign each with there own ending. THe object of the missions is to build a base (in most missions) 
 and eliminate the other base whilst compleating certain objectives.
  The online play is immense and at the price of a sign up to a westwood account which is FREE and 
 you get amazing fun for this low low price as well. You can play a regular game online, or championship 
 game or clan game, and be ranked to you skill so you can compare your self with hte rest of the 
 gaming world.
  I adivse anybody with a brain who enjoys strategy games to get this game as it takes skill, logic 
 and detrimination to complete this game especially on hard difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretteo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Tiberian sun has two sides the gdi and the nod you can play the missions as each team.
  
  On skirmish there are many maps to play on or you can make your own map, there are also other options 
 like a tech level wich is basicly wot you can build and the enemy difficulty.
  
  At first the game may seem to go slow but that is because the speed is set to normal you can edit 
 that during the game by pressing the escape button and clicking options. 
  
  There is a wide range of units and men to build, you can also make nuclear weapans and veriouse 
 other things to destroy your enemy.
  
  i think this game is great and i think that you should buy it, out of ten i would give it a nine.
 
  
  thanks for reading.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  I'm a C&C fanatic. I love the games, and I've thus far learned to love Tiberian Sun, though the 
 wanning in peroid was a pain. 
  
  Command & Conquer 2 returns you to the semi-timeless conflict of GDI and Nod. The world is now 
 scarred and dieing due to the massive Tiberian growths, and Nod tries to rule the world. This is 
 about it going in, and I won't spoil more. 
  
  The gameplay? Play Red Alert, and you have it. But people who've knocked it for this I believe 
 are missing the point. I've either found a gem of true geneius from Westwood, or I'm reading far, 
 far to much into this game: 
  
  The entire game, from the graphics to the graphics, is purposely retro. 
  
  For us RTS freaks 
 who have, well, evolved over the past 4 years, coming back to C&C can be something of a pain. The 
 graphics are cartoonish, the stratagy is rather non-existant... but it's /fun/. It's hard to pin-point 
 just why, maybe like the first C&C, but the brain-dead mixture works. Westwood was wise not to 
 change it. 
  
  The acting is truly and utterly lame... but purposely. I'll site a example below (note: If you absolutely 
 want no spoilers, avoid next paragraph, but I will only site things from the introductory sequences, 
 so I doubt it's going to hurt much) . 
  
  Watch the GDI scene, and tell me that isn't a parody. Complete with fat general, the insane close 
 up that is obviously a different take, with the weighted voice. Your GDI character is a friggin 
 rip straight from Spaceballs, and damn good with it. This is lame, 70s action-military show lame. 
 Look at Nod. God, where do you begin? Draped in constant dark red light is a nice clue, swathed 
 in russian-style black. You might as well call the oragnization KAOS ("I ment to do that...") . 
 Let's not forget the Execution of the Day, overt propaganda, and the Bobba Fett costume party. 
 This is purposely ultra-villany. 
  
  If you take it as this; Cornball Villians fighting The Posturing Good Guys, this game has a charm 
 to it. To add to the belief that the plot is purposely dumbed down is the times that it shines 
 through. Somebody please confess to me that they wern't impressed by the movie after the 3rd/4th 
 Nod mission. I'd like to think I was simply obsessing. 
  
  Playing C&C2 is like watching one of Webber's early musicals; if you go in expecting something 
 with respect, you're going to be bummed. If you go in with your seriousness left at the door, you'll 
 come out happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessOfFate1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Tiberian sun is a very love hate game You'll love watching your enemy get decimated by loads of 
 infantry and high tech weaponry. You'll hate watching the enemy play basically the same way: cheat 
 their ass off to build up a huge defense and camp while blowing the crap out of you with faster 
 than normal super weapons. The love outweighs the hate though!
  
  That is all the AI does it builds load of impenetrable bas defense, a stealth generator if it is 
 nod and loads of artillery which is completely overpowered and wait for your attack. No matter 
 how many units you have You'll be resoundly crushed and instantly after decimated by a super weapon. 
 I don't care what anyone says! The cheating in the AI IS NOT NEEDED I don't give a rats ass if 
 the inept programmers had to use it since after all their testing the AI couldn't keep up with 
 a human player the amount of cheating that happens during a typical game of tiberian sun is just 
 ridiculous and it makes it rather frustrating to play since its such a great game otherwise.
  
  Graphics wise TS looks a bit like Tiberian Dawn the first C&C. Infantry are just little 2d 
 sprites, but vehicles are 3d. Units are extremely varied with everything from mechs to cyborgs. 
 Even standard infantry use pulse rifles and disc grenades. There are stealth generators and mutants, laser 
 base defenses and jump jet infantry. Tiberium is still poisonous to infantry but when they die 
 from it they can be transformed into a visaroid a tough fast squishy life form that destroys anything 
 it comes into contact with. You name it its probably in TS the variety of units adds up to a load 
 of tactics and lots of fun. Or it would if the AI played fair. What follows is mostly for the skirmish 
 game. The campaign game is a lot of fun and is mostly fair.
  
  Annoyingly the NOD artillery is overpowered. Its a weak armored units that can launch high explosive 
 shells very long distances killing pretty much everything. The thing that unbalances it to an insane 
 degree is that it has perfect accuracy, it never misses. You can send 30 infantry and 5 titans 
 after a single artillery and they will all die. All of them. Fast light units slow tough ones you 
 name it, the artillery will completely crush it. Would it really be so hard to tweak the config 
 files to make it weaker or more inaccurate? The AI also builds faster than a player and repairs 
 faster as well.
  
  This is in contrast to the NOD and GDI campaign with its imaginative units and varied missions 
 its addictive and mostly fair and you'll want to keep playing all the way to the end. KANE LIVES!
 
  
  Sound is decent with good sounding gunfire and ok explosions. Lasers and disruptors also have very 
 fitting sound effects The unit speech is way more limited that other rts games and all are very 
 tame and get repetitive very quickly. There also aren't many death yells or different explosion 
 noises.
  
  All up TS is a great game marred by questionable design decisions and balancing. Even with that 
 its an extremely fun and very imagtive game that breaks the mould of RTS and is definitely worth 
 a look.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Well this game was a great addition to the Command and Conquer world. It followed the highly rated 
 Command and Conquer Red Alert and continued the original C&C storyline. You can play as either 
 GDI or The Brotherhood of NOD. The game brought improved graphics to the series and the gameplay 
 followed the original style. All the different characters and units you could control were perfect 
 for the game. Set in the near future in a world being infested by the space mineral tiberian. Each 
 side has their own advantages like GDI with their fusion beam and mammoth tanks or NOD with their 
 Nukes and Obelisks of Light. Either way, you'll have fun playing as either side in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avpget
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Im a big fan of the command and conquer series but this one is the worst of them all. When I first 
 started playing it was great after beating a few missions I got bored with it. Just didnt feel 
 new at all. It felt that I played it already. The graphics arent that good compared to other games 
 I played during that time. Yet the movies between the missions were really well done. Using a great 
 cast from James Earl Jones and Michael Biehn playing different parts put a good feel to the game 
 making me believe that Im actually in the future. The units could have been more creative; they 
 took the original units and changed their appearance not much new. Overall its an average game 
 that I beat in about 40 hours plus a few skirmish maps. Still I hope they make a sequel for this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienx123
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:43 am PT
Review:  this game's missions are very hard to win it, because i don't come further with it I die always 
 with the missions and i hate that really much!
  
  I lose always the mission with that train (NOD mission)
  
  I lose also always the mission ''rescue 
 tratos'' (GDI mission)
  
  and no.... I am not a beginner. I just don't get the trick for those 2 missions
  i keep losing 
 it. : ( 
  
  but further the game is good to play, skirmish is always easy =D 
  
  the missions is hard.
  
  overall score: 8 ( I love sci-fi games ) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 30, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I find that even today Tiberian Sun remains the best game in the long running Command and Conquer 
 series. The units and strucures are very inique and interesting and the abilities of both sides 
 make skirmishes and multiplayer games tense and fun. The campaign is great with varied missions, 
 great maps, respectable graphics for even today and interesting cinemas between the missions (with 
 James Earl Jones as the GDI commander) . Of all the games in the series this is the one that deserves 
 to be called the best. Not Red Alert 2 which is flashier but less deep. Like always the game can 
 annoy or frustrate when units dont act as youd like them too but the cool new aspects of the game 
 like cloaking, Tiberium mutations, and really cool superweapons, make it worth the purchase moreso 
 than any other C&C game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 16, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  I remember that back in the days before it's release there were so many positive previews and articles 
 about how great this game will be.
  As I finally could get my hands on I was pretty disppointed.
  The game looked and felt very outdated.
 
  The new stuff like destructable terrain, terrain effects and this "huge and danger" Ion storms 
 were so marginal that you just won't notice it.
  The whole gameplay is way to slow, sometimes boring. The soundeffects are ok but there is no moving 
 sound for the vehicles which makes the whole thing pretty sterilely.
  At least the movies are acceptable but they are not directly directive to the player cause there 
 is some kind of hero for every side who takes the main role in the flicks.
  The only real good thing is the soundtrack which has some memorable tracks.
  
  If you a fan 
 of C&C you may give it a try but if thats the case you surely played it back in the days already. 
 For all other rts fans this isn't necessarily a must have.
  I keep my fingers crossed for a C&C 3 which will finally bring some fresh wind in the series.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor_jim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2005 10:17 am PT
Review:  If you're into wartime strategy games, sink your wardog teeth into Command and Conquer: Tiberian 
 Sun. It's the sequel to the award-winning Command and Conquer, and it is a definite improvement 
 over C&C.
  
  If you've never heard of C&C, you'll most likely be confused about the storyline. Kane, the leader 
 of the terrorist organization "The Brotherhood of Nod" is back, obviously changed from a previous 
 wartime encounter, and once again is holding the world hostage with his followers and the benefits 
 his research on Tiberium, a strange crystalline growth that is slowly destroying the Earth and 
 horribly mutating the human population.
  
  You can play either as the commander of the Global Defense Initiative (GDI, the good guys) , or 
 as the commander of Nod forces and bring the world to its knees. Both sides are fun to play as, 
 with different technologies and maps available. Using different types of soldiers and vehicles, 
 you are given a wartime objective to complete by any means possible. Essentially, find a way to 
 kill every enemy without falling yourself. As strategy games go, everything is fought from above, 
 and you command your forces to move and destroy at your bidding.
  
  The interface is easy to use, the graphics are stellar although you're viewing everything from 
 high up, and the action is addictive. The game is indeed challenging, but we all need a game that 
 can stump us every once in a while.
  
  So for those of you who enjoy strategy games, you'll enjoy this as well. C&C is a great action 
 series, and Tiberian Sun is a very good addition to the lineage. And for those who don't play strategy 
 games, you're missing out and should really give this game a try. It can really expand your horizons. 
 And if you're into sci-fi, these games will fit right into your collection. The cutscenes and general 
 storyline fit right into the league of a show you'd see on Sci-Fi Channel, except you control the 
 action.
  
  Overall, two guns way up for this game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
