-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandconquer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 8.4, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 3,085 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Virgin Interactive
Developer: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Aug 31, 1995 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Starting from the load-screens and straight on 'til morning, Command & Conquer is one of the most 
 brilliantly designed computer games I have ever seen. 

 Execution and details are 90 percent of what makes a good game great. When your Command &amp; Conquer 
 commando sprite unexpectedly shouts, "Got a present for ya!" before slapping a wad of C-4 to a 
 SAM site, well, it kinda gives you a warm fuzzy feeling all over. Starting from the load-screens 
 and straight on 'til morning, Command &amp; Conquer is one of the finest, most brilliantly-designed 
 computer games I have ever seen. Focusing on the global conflict between the fictional Global Defense 
 Initiative (read "NATO with a budget problem") and Brotherhood of Nod (read "Illuminati meets Warsaw 
 Pact") organizations, Command &amp; Conquer puts the player in complete charge of fast-paced, squad-level 
 military operations utilizing a wide variety of troops, ground vehicles, base installations, air 
 strikes, and production facilities.   

 Throwing in just enough full-motion video to build the proper mindset between scenarios, C&amp; C's 
 main hook is its battlefield action: real-time, command-based, and simultaneous. Thus, you may 
 send a squad of grenadiers to take out an enemy airfield to stop the influx of reinforcements, 
 and suddenly realize that as you've been doing this, bazookamen have started bashing your one production 
 facility. Of course rerouting a group of tanks to deal with the bazooka menace turns out to be 
 exactly what the enemy wanted you to do, and as 20 minigunners close on your undefended HQ, you 
 anxiously count the seconds to the next friendly air strike that'll make everything nice again. 
 The tension produced by so many multiple layers of real-time interaction is what computer gamers 
 live for, and a number of different high-energy soundtracks keep adrenaline levels maxed out. Playing 
 the entire conflict in the role of the other side makes for twice the gameplay value, and I don't 
 even want to think about what's going to happen when the six-player networkable version comes out. 
 Highly, highly recommended.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (54 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KadathBird
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  When I got my first Windows 95 computer, one of the two games to come with that computer was Command 
 & Conquer. Not knowing what kind of game it was, I went in with skepticism. I lost 15 hours of 
 my young life that night. The story hooked me in, but the gameplay strapped me down and held me 
 captive. I knew that CNC was something special.
  
  So, 14 years later, how does this seminal entry into the RTS genre hold up? Well. Very well. Surprisingly 
 well. It's been over 7 years since I've played this game, but going back in the nostalgia flooded 
 back. That wasn't the only thing that flooded back- so did the fun and the addiction. Sure, it 
 may seem primitive and simple compared to many modern RTS games, the graphics make look like they 
 were drawn with the pencil tool in MS Paint and the videos may seem grainy and hard to make out 
 these days, but at the end, the gameplay is just as fun and satisfying as ever. It still has a 
 fast pace, an intriguing story and brilliant mission design. The music is catchy and only adds 
 more adrenaline as you play. 
  
  The game is very fast paced- its all about keeping the pace. It forces you to work as quickly as 
 possible on creating units and your base, but if you don't have an army ASAP - You will be toast, 
 in many cases quite literally thanks to explosive and dangerous weapons like the infamous flame 
 tank, a toy that any general wants their hands on, but never wants to face. This often means that 
 you will be working on your base while a battle is going on. Don't think all missions revolve around 
 base defense and management- some of the most clever missions wont have a base at all. Some missions 
 are put to a clock, others give you a handful of units to complete the mission, and if they die.. 
 you are doomed, which forces you to examine your surroundings before sending in your squad - or 
 in some cases - your lone trooper. 
  
  The biggest complaint about this game now a days is the fact that the two factions aren't that 
 distinct, especially when compared to later entries in the series. Sure, the buildings are different 
 in look and there are a few faction specific toys - like the Nod flame tank and the GDI Mammoth, 
 but in the end many of the units are the same and the factions play out essentially the same. I 
 guess on the plus side, this means the game is extremely well balanced.
  
  The learning curve isn't very steep, anyone who isn't blind will instantly be able to learn how 
 to play the game within the first 5 seconds of the game. That doesn't mean the game itself is easy 
 though, it will throw many a challenge at you and there will even be times where you might get 
 frustrated. However, this keeps you going. The challenges are doled out perfectly, making it an 
 easy game to play but a tough one to master and it's always satisfying when you overcome a big 
 obstacle.
  
  Even after all these years, Command & Conquer is still a fun game. The game was revolutionary for 
 the genre, and almost every RTS game to come out since has something to owe to Command & Conquer.
 
  
  This is a classic, and if you haven't played it yet, do yourself a favour and download the game- 
 it's now free from EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandakoaladirk
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer is one of the most revolutionary games that still exists today. In my opinion 
 it still remains as one of the greatest RTS games around. It contains a captivating story line 
 that is both believable and easy to follow that is established in a modern appearance sci-fi universe. 
 The game flows flawlessly with missions that transfer easily from one to the other that stay in 
 line with the storyline. The Units are also easy to understand and are easily differentiated between 
 the armies. It is obvious to tell that GDI uses heavier slower units for attack and a lighter defense 
 while the NOD uses a lighter faster attack and a heavier defense. This offers multiple possibilities 
 in unit tactics and combination's which allow for endless possibilities and returned experience 
 in game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonathan_Murray
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time Westwood Studios was the champion of the RTS world, and these glory days can still 
 be revisited through the now free to play, Command and Conquer. While its uneven difficulty and 
 lack of modern features that we expect from our real time strategy games now a days may turn some 
 people off, it is still the pinnacle of balance and gaming fun that has still yet to be replicated 
 in an RTS.
  The game begins by introducing you to the world and its modern events through a series of television 
 channels. While slightly humorous, this sets the serious tone for the rest of the game through 
 its portrayal of terrorist bombings and reports on Tiberium. Tiberium is a newly discovered alien 
 plant that began growing on Earth after a meteor hits, and is one of the main focuses of the plot 
 because of its monetary worth and deadliness to anything living. While it does not answer many 
 questions, the story in Command and Conquer is strong enough to keep the player involved during 
 game play and keep them wondering about it weeks later. When players begin a new game they choose 
 from either the GDI (Global Defense Initiative) , or NOD (Bad guys) . While many may flock to the 
 NOD because hey, who doesn't like to kill civilians with flamethrowers? the "true" storyline is 
 played out through the GDI campaign. This does not mean that one is better than the other, both 
 are equally polished and provide an excellent story in which they tell you why to blow up that 
 base or accomplish that simple objective (For NOD the reason is usually that they hold beliefs 
 that are different from ours) . 
  The GDI faction is much like any western civilization, you help out the needy and stop evil wherever 
 it springs up without being showy or greedy. It doesn't sound like much fun, but the GDIs units 
 are so insanely superior to NODs in a one on one battle that crushing terrorists is always a blast. 
 Their arsenal includes the Humvee and even the Abrams (Medium) tank but further on they control 
 some pretty awe inspiring units like the Mammoth tank and even an Ion cannon. You report to a man 
 named Shepperd during the mission briefings who quickly and effectively lays out your mission objectives 
 while filling you in on events taking place in the world. Although maybe not as interesting as 
 some of the characters NOD has to offer, you definitely spend enough time with the man to feel 
 connected to the organization and plot. Basically you must stop the leader of NOD, Kane, from terrorizing 
 Europe. Although none of the mission are broken and each has its own briefing and objectives, I 
 ran into the most problems in the GDI campaign. The first was balance. Each mission has various 
 options on map choice, making each play through of the game different., but some of the choices 
 were harder than others. This can be vary frustrating after you spent twenty minutes on a balanced 
 map, only to be stuck on the next for hours because of a ridiculously difficult objective. I also 
 had a problem with unit variety, and found that simply rushing the enemy with tanks was the best 
 solutions in just about every mission.
  The NOD campaign is much more thrilling. It plays out in Africa, with the player starting out preforming 
 grunt work and assassinating village leaders. It is not before long however that the real work 
 of a terrorist begins. The player is eventually briefed by Kain himself, in an introduction that 
 tops my chart of the coolest mission briefing of any game ever. While not as offensively strong 
 as GDI, the NOD use guerrilla tactics to sneak around and destroy the enemy where they least expect 
 it. Most of NODs missions begin with you extremely outnumbered and force you to rely on stealth 
 and intellect to eventually break the enemy forces. While this was a nice change to the tank rushes 
 of the GDI I felt like this type of mission was used too often and wondered how we were taking 
 Africa with so little under our command. The campaign is just a blast to play though, with stealth 
 tanks sneaking around, your Obelisk of Light terrorizing the enemy, and nukes decimating any base 
 that might be unfortunate enough to be where they land.
  What am I to do while building up my base and destroying the enemy you might ask? Well, rock out 
 to the soundtrack of course! The music, provided my Frank Klepacki, is good enough that they released 
 the games soundtrack to the public. Some have you head banging and singing along while others give 
 you the right feel for building a base or sneaking around the map. The sound design in general 
 is very good. Tanks fire, units scream, and futuristic technology all make beautiful effects that 
 stand the test of time. The graphics, although showing there age, are surprisingly advanced for 
 their time and still give you that feeling of world domination. Overall the game has lasted the 
 test of time and is still just a blast to play.
  This review is actually a revisit for me. I had played Command and Conquer originally in ninety 
 five, and was amazed by it back then. What surprised me the most is that I was still amazed thirteen 
 years later. If you were reluctant to revisit it, or are a new gamer looking to play the best games 
 of a genre, you can't do better than Command and Conquer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: businessman2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game itself. However looking at all of the others that came after it and doing 
 a comparison obviously it's hard to go back and play it even though it's a classic. I find that 
 it gets boring after awhile now that the new ones are out... it doesn't have enough to keep you 
 playing from the first mission to the last mission without becoming extremely bored and impatient 
 to just hurry and get through the game near the end.
  
  The songs in the game are halfway decent. Some of them sound stupid but some of them are pretty 
 good and the fact that you have a fully customizable sound track area is another good thing about 
 the game that can keep you coming back for more. The troop amount and setup is nice and there is 
 a lot of new things to discover and it'll be well into the game before you realize things you didn't 
 know in the beginning... even after playing it 60+ hours I would take a break and skim some tips 
 on troops on gamefaq walkthroughs and find tons of stuff I didn't previously know.. this happened 
 more than once so there is a decent amount of variety but once you learn all there is to know you 
 realize there is not a lot there to keep you going for very long... and near the end of the game 
 each mission get's so long that it can be annoying with how long it goes from mission to mission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzeram
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer was a revolutionary game that launched the success of one of the most recognized 
 franchises in the history of the gaming industry. Not only was it revolutionary, it was so good 
 that it is credited for defining the RTS genre. The influence, the epic story, and the addictive 
 and challenging gameplay all comes together to make this one of the greatest games ever made.
 
  
  The story involves the two fictional factions; Global Defense Initiative and The Brotherhood of 
 Nod who are at war in a Tiberium-infested world. Without getting too much into the events of the 
 game, Tiberium is a very valuable yet very hazardous alien material that both GDI and Nod are fighting 
 over. Upon the completion of a mission, you are rewarded with a brilliant Full Motion Video that 
 the series is known for.
  
  Here in 2008, Command & Conquer doesn't stand up so well. The game is simply old now, however, 
 this shouldn't turn you off if you would like return to the roots of the Tiberium Universe to discover 
 what happened. This game can be found in Command & Conquer: The First Decade and is worth playing 
 for fans of the series, but may not appeal to newcomers.
  
  Even 13 years later, Command & Conquer is worthy of a perfect rating because of it's legacy and 
 the impact it has had on the gaming industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  This game as we all know is very old but very good. There are a few issues with the game that I 
 have whitch make this game one of them games that you need to play, but not own unless you are 
 a hardcore C&C fan like myself.
  
  The story is excellent and puts you right into the action from mission one. The is of corse the 
 first C&C game ever made and introduces the factions for GDI and NOD and shows us the best video 
 game character of all time, Kane. He is a legend to us all. The live action scenes are well done 
 for its time and enjoyable. It can be funny to see the bad animated videos of some ingame units 
 mixed with the live action, but thats what you get with a really old game.
  
  The graphics are terrible compared to today but thats expected right? For there time they where 
 excellent.
  
  This is 1 big issue with this game that makes it perform under par with any other C&C game in the 
 series and that is "No Skirmish mode" I love skirmish games and this game sadly has nothing in 
 the way of this. I feel this affects the game in the way that there is almost no replay value with 
 it after completing it about 2 or 3 times.
  
  They added an expansion for this game as well with new maps and missions, still no skirmish mode 
 sadly but they set the new missions out in the style of a skirmish allowing you to build everything 
 your army has, this was good but the missions are set out so bad that there is almost no story 
 line to them and quite pointless.
  
  I give this game a solid 8/10 for great gameplay and a great commando unit. But sadly the no Skirmish 
 function and the poor story line for the expansion pack make this classic game fall shorter than 
 it really should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorpion48
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  As I said above this game shaped RTS as we know it today. It introduced all the baisic and recommended 
 things to an RTS game. Now To the game itself, it is about a battle between 2 factions The Brotherhood 
 of Nod And GDI (Global Defence Inicaitive) Nod is a terrorist group which is now a super power 
 due to a crystal like reasource called tiberuim which came to earth from a mertiore. And Global 
 defence inniciative which is a milatarty branch of the UN. These two factions are figthing for this 
 resource. now to the gameplay The graphics seem dated but realy are decent enough to make you want 
 to play it over agian. Great effort with the Reasonably detailed cutscenes the troops might seem 
 to look like stickmen but if you lived through the 90s you would'nt notice them but to gamerswho 
 are young they are not giong to enjoy it as much as other people enjoyed it in the 90s due to the 
 graphics but its the gamplay that makes it so great C&C Is the true Father of RTS, not Dune 2 as 
 some people might think. It also made some basic things to RTS games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine646
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  Nada mais prazeoso na vida do que joga Command and Conquer em qualquer uma das suas versoes, seja 
 em Tiberium Wars, ao classico absoluto C & C, este jogo mudou em tudo que poderia dizer em jogos 
 de estrategia, colocando num patamar alto de como seria a partir dele o formato para todos os jogos 
 baseados rts. com cutscenes inovadoras e viciantes, ja era enquanto jogava nao via a hora de acabar 
 a fase para ve a proxima cena, graficos detalhados para epoca e som contragiante, torna assim impossivel 
 sair de frente do pc ate acaba-lo. A Westwood mesmo tendo feito anterionamente Duna 2, este sendo 
 tambem um excelente RTS, com C & C chegou ao seu apice de inovaao e divertimento. Assim sendo 
 Command e Conquer 1 sempre sera lembrado por todos que tiveram a oportunidade de joga-lo e sempre 
 tera um lugar na prateleira de jogos classicos de cada usario que gosta de verdadeiros jogos RTS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc_ajk29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have always loved the C&C series since I watched my cousin playing Tiberian Sun years ago 
 (which was also my first C&C game) . However, I regret to say that I have never played the game 
 that started it all until just recently, when I downloaded it from C&C's 12th Anniversary celebration. 
 Although Command and Conquer (Tiberian Dawn) has lost its glory to its successors long ago, it's 
 still a great game.
  
  Set in the First Tiberian War in 1995, the Global Defence Initiative (GDI) is at war with the Brotherhood 
 of Nod (Nod) over this green (or sometimes blue) substance called Tiberium. Tiberium is a very 
 valuable substance, but is also quite damaging to the environment, as well as human tissue. Basically, 
 GDI is trying to exterminate both Tiberium and Nod from the face of the Earth, and Nod is trying 
 to spread Tiberium, as well as destroy GDI.
  
  This game is pretty good. While not very graphically pleasing (but then again, the game was released 
 in 1995) , it is still quite enjoyable. THe musical soundtrack is great, and the gameplay is invigorating. 
 If you like C&C, you're going to like this game.
  
  My biggest problem with Tiberian Dawn is the lack of Skirmish mode. While Westwood's Skirmish AI 
 is quite buggy and erratic, this still leaves a gaping hole in the game, as well as significantly 
 reducing the game's replay value.
  In addition, everything is very tiny on the screen, even on the highest graphical settings.
  
 
  But despite these flaws, Tiberian Dawn is definitely worth playing. Enjoy the game that started 
 the Command and Conquer series.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 9
  
  Final score: 8.5\10 (great)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer was an incredible game when it came out. The story, FMV scenes, gameplay, and music 
 were 2nd to none when it came to RTS games.
  
  STORY
  The story is about America and their Allies, also known as the Global Defense Initiative or GDI 
 at war against a facist army of terrorists (who call themselves the Brotherhood of NOD) who have 
 been responsible for a series of bombings around the world and their leader Kane is a mastermind 
 and brainwashing people to join his cult.
  
  A strange new substance called Tiberium has started to grow in certain parts of the world, and Tiberium 
 is very valuable and NOD has access to 45% of the Tiberium around the world giving them an almost 
 limitless supply of cash.
  
  NOD's influence around the world is spreading due to Kane's ideology of a better world and eternal 
 Brotherhood in a world free of suffering and famine etc And people worldwide are becoming convinced 
 America and their allies are responsible for the world's problems.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  There is only one mineral you need to collect (that is Tiberium of course) so resource management 
 isn't as slow as in Warcraft and you can build a large number of units pretty quickly.
  GDI and NOD both have infantry, light vehicles, and tanks. GDI have the heavier armored tanks with 
 more firepower, but NOD's tanks are cheaper to build and can be built more quickly. NOD also has 
 other advantages such as flame tanks that can scorch large numbers of infantry instantly.
  
  GDI has access to bombers and Orcas (attack helicopters) but NOD has nuclear weapons, and lazer 
 towers that instantly kill infantry and do massive damage to any vehicle. The GDI in return has 
 a lazer satelite (Ion Cannon) which can do major damage to any building, so the sides are very diverse 
 but also well balanced.
  
  While winning most base involved missions is just simply building a large force than your enemy 
 and over runing their base, sometimes you need to capture a base first or use a commando to infiltrate 
 a base.
  
  What I like about C&C is the stronger unit doesn't always win, eg you can use a rocket launcher 
 infantry soldier to take on a tank and have him dodge the tank fire and slowly wear down the tank's 
 armor. Unlike in StarCraft where units have a 100% firing accuracy so the strongest unit always 
 wins.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The full motion video scenes were some of the most realistic for any game at the time, and also 
 enjoyable, Kane seemed like the cool. calm mastermind at control of NOD, and I remember a scene when 
 one of his generals was plotting against Kane and planning to attack the U. S (Whitehouse) even though 
 Kane told him not to so Kane snuck up and shot him in the head.
  When the GDI General and the other NOD General and Kane were talking you saw computerized maps 
 and a base of operations in the background.
  
  When you win the campaign with NOD you see them hack into an artificial reality and gain control 
 of GDI's Ion Cannon allowing them to hit anywhere on Earth, and you have a choice out of the Whitehouse, London, Eiffel 
 Tower and another famous landmark to hit, and when you choose your target you see it destroyed and 
 it sends chills down your spine, letting you know Kane really has the world in the grasp of his 
 hands. Seeing the NOD computer hackers controlling spheres in an artificial reality and battling 
 against the computer's defenses in a lazer shootout was great! and seeing how only 1 of the computer 
 hackers survivied (which was enough to give Kane access to the Ion Cannon) while the other computer 
 hackers got their brains fried in the artificial reality showed how loyal and determined they were 
 to Kane.
  
  The game was more than just a war game, it was a battle of intelligence and you saw the genious 
 in Kane's thinking.
  
  SOUND
  The voice acting was superb, Kane always seemed calm and composed and like he always had a plan 
 to outthink his enemy (and he had to since the GDI were so much larger in numbers) while the GDI 
 general became panicy at times.
  The music during missions gave you a sense of bravery or could be chilling at times too.
  When 
 you won the campaign with NOD you heard some cool heavy rock music play.
  
  OVERALL
  The story, gameplay and FMV scenes were the best for an RTS at it's time, and set a standard that 
 all RTS games had to follow.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falcon159
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Probably one of the most revolutionary games we have known. Single handedly this game opened the 
 door to the RTS genre, and it can rightfully be credited with doing so. 
  
  The campaign details a compelling story of a world in conflict, and you jump into the middle trying 
 to turn the tide in favor of GDI or Nod. The mission play out well and are engaged with the story 
 on an exemplary level for a game of this era. 
  
  The interface and control scheme is were CnC made the genre. The side bar and base management is 
 down right perfect. The simplicity is something lost in modern variations. Far too often the game 
 is degraded and cluttered by unit abilities and powers that alot of players ignore. Not having 
 to go back to your base to que things up is key to an action filled and nicely paced fight.
  
  Overall this is a mainstay in any true RTS fan's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _SteelHero_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Well, what can I say, if you haven't heard of or played C&amp; C you have obviously been living 
 in a cave since 1995. Command &amp; Conquer is the game that gave birth to Real Time Strategy and 
 is, in my opinion, one of the greatest games of all time. Yes, im sure some young whipper-snappers 
 may say that the graphics are terrible and the AI isnt that brilliant, but i say to them just remember 
 that this game was released when some of you where still in infants school and the best PCs money 
 could buy where Windows 95 capable with Pentium MMX 233mhz processors and ISA graphics cards. For 
 its time, C&amp; C was a must have game, and i believe still is. C&amp; C has an great storyline 
 featuring the two sides in the game, the Global Defence initiative (GDI) and the Brotherhood of 
 NOD. The GDI are a military wing of the UN G8 that has been created for research purposes and to 
 combat the terrorist threat posed by NOD. The Brotherhood of NOD is a terrorist organisation under 
 the command of a religious fanatic known only as Kane thats goals are the eradication of GDI and 
 control of all of the earths Tiberium. Tiberium is the main resource in C&amp; C and is what the 
 game evolves around. It is a unknown crystalline mineral that can be refined into many different 
 elements making it the greatest mineral resource ever, however, Tiberium is double-edged sword 
 as it is also poisonous to carbon-based life. This means that wherever Tiberium is humans cant 
 live. This is interesting in the game as you can leave units on Tiberium fields for long as they 
 slowly receive damage. Both sides units and structures suit their sides personality perfectly. 
 Where as GDI have larger, move armoured and powerful units and can build up a large, strong attacking 
 force over time, NOD really on stealth and fast attack tactics to win their battles. C&amp; C is 
 also the first game to introduce live-action video to its FMV sequences which makes the story feel 
 much more realistic as well as a great soundtrack.
  
  The graphics on C&amp; C are as you would expect for its time of release, nothing next to your Supreme 
 Commander's. As for the AI, yes, its not all that brilliant, but not bad either. However, C&amp; C 
 is all about the gameplay; fast, fun-filled, action-packed gameplay. I have spent many nights sat 
 up till god knows when playing C&amp; C and its desendent's. C&amp; C does also have a very limited 
 offline/online skirmish multiplayer system you can get via a patch also. Stratagy comes into play 
 throughout C&amp; C, whether on missions or skirmish, you must decide on how you are going to attack 
 and defeat your enemy, either by just swarming them and overwhelming them with numbers or maybe 
 by surgical strikes using smaller numbers, you may want to attack from the air or even by sea or 
 maybe you want to send in your commando to level the enemy base with his C4!
  
  So, to conclude my review on C&amp; C I have only this to say, no games collection is complete without 
 Command &amp; Conquer and no one can call themselves a true gamer without having played Command 
 &amp; Conquer. This is no just a must game for RTS fans, but a must game for every gamer out there. 
 So, if you have been living in a cave for the past 13 years, get down to your local games store 
 and search the bargain bins for C&amp; C. Then come home, grab a beer or a soda, turn on your PC, 
 close the blind or dim the lights and get ready for some all day or all night classic RTS gaming 
 courtesy of Westwood Studio's greatest ever achievement - COMMAND &amp; CONQUER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yellowinja
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  If you havent played any games from the Command and Conquer series, the basic plot is that an 
 unknown substance dubbed, Tiberian lands on Earth, infests the ground it occupies and causes 
 the deaths of millions of people, animals and plants. Two major groups spawn from this Tiberian 
 invasion, the GDI, Global Defense Initiative and the NOD, the Brotherhood of NOD. The GDI want 
 to destroy the Tiberian to safeguard the health of humans, animals and plants. However, the NOD 
 want to extract the Tiberian for technological advancement.
  
  The Command and Conquer series has always been very solid by offering balanced game play. However, 
 I felt that Tiberian Dawn was incredibly frustrating with its slow AI and harsh single player 
 conditions.
  
  Units often dont go where they are ordered to, especially for tanks and slow moving units. Instead 
 units seem to always get stuck in crevices and cracks. Another issue is that the units have no 
 sense of awareness that allies are in danger. If two infantry units are next to each other but 
 only one gets attacked, the other infantry unit just sits there. You literally have to control 
 every single unit and order them to attack before they actually do.
  
  Another problem I frequently met with in the game is the horrible and insane single player missions. 
 The single player missions have ridiculous objectives, such as to kill every single enemy building 
 and UNIT. Although these missions are not impossible to complete, it becomes an annoying time-sink 
 as the few remaining units are hidden somewhere in a corner. Another type of mission objective 
 that has been to my chagrin is the find the package mission objective. In these types of missions 
 the player is given a small band of units to find a special item. Simple right? However, the enemy 
 can build a constant stream of units that SOMEHOW know where all the players units are. In a few 
 occasions I had to complete a mission with a single unit, with the other band of units acting as 
 distractions. In addition the opponents in the single player missions seem to access otherwise 
 impossible abilities that the player herself/himself cannot achieve. Although special abilities 
 would make sense in a single player portion of a game, the abilities that the computers use have 
 nothing to do with the storys plot. When playing as NOD, the GDI opponent seems to have an unlimited 
 number of air strikes even with multiple SAM sites built (on the GDI side, the only way to get 
 an air strike is to destroy all the opponents SAM sites) . When playing on either side, the computer 
 seems to have the ability to build anywhere and build otherwise impossible buildings such as the 
 construction yard (the construction yard is actually a unit that is deployed) . Also in the final 
 missions, the computer possesses an enormous amount of resources and chugs out the most expensive 
 units at you. In these missions, it is impossible to defeat the computer without destroying the 
 harvesters, turtling like crazy and then waiting for about an hour or two until the computers 
 economy finally fails.
  
  Granted C&amp; C was a great game for its time with many of its mechanics used in following C&amp; C 
 games. It was and still is, a joy to watch the cinematic videos with live actors, making the experience 
 feel realistic. C&amp; C Tiberian Dawn takes about 15 hours to complete each side and can be played 
 for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afpabon
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Were this game released somewhere in 1994, it would certainly have been great. It's a natural evolution 
 from Westwood's previous effort, the greatly remembered Dune 2, the father of all RTS games.
  
  Things as they are, however, C&amp; C being released 1 year after Blizzard's great Warcraft 
 II, this feels as nothing but a Dune 2 rehashed with cooler graphics and modern warfare equipment. 
 The fact that the equipment is great, and the graphics are cool is the only reason why this game 
 doesn' get a lower score from me.
  
  Both sides use the same units, but this is no crime (up to Starcraft, all RTS did that) . However, 
 the fact that you can win by building the largest tank army, with no regard to position or any 
 other tactical element, is pathetic. Units have no special abilities (as they did, wonderfully, 
 even in Warcraft I, back in 1993) , and you can mostly forget about most of them anyways because 
 of the tanks.
  
  Would I recommend this one? Absolutely not. If you want to get nostalgic, grab Warcraft II Battle. Net 
 edition at any bargain bin instead. Or watch TV. Or do anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangel_19
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the reasons I got into the RTS Genre of PC games!
  
  I was a bit disappointed with WarCraft 2, but then when I played this game.. it made me more excited 
 in playing an RTs game! This game and Starcraft is one of the best RTS game in that era! Where 
 PII computers with 16MB GPU can play this game at an optimal speed! This is a must have for all 
 RTS lovers out there, especially since they are offering a free download for it. You can download 
 this game and go nostalgic by playing it all over again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: constmar
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  This is the Command &amp; Conquer from 1995 think it represented an evolution in gaming and i think 
 it's one of the first games of this type. It was a real success and it got continued by a lot of 
 other games from it series : Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian, Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert, 
 Command &amp; Conquer: Generals, and now the Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars
  
  In this game the main story is about the fight for power between the GDI (Global Defense Initiative) 
 and the NOD (Brotherhood of Nod) and in the last game of the series the Scrin was added as a new 
 faction
  
  The GDI mainly focuses on research on making Tiberium into useful materials while Nod's position 
 is to embrace Tiberium as the herald of a new age. Nod has done heavy research into Tiberium-based 
 technology and weaponry, and its leader, Kane, appears to have designs to convert the entire world 
 to a Tiberium-based ecosystem.
  
  It's a game that you shouldn't miss... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 8, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I won't get into deep detail what C&amp; C is like as anyone who has ever played RTS games on the 
 PC or console in general should know. For those who have lived under a rock all these years, C&amp; C 
 is one of the classic games of all time. *Ahem*.
  
  Maybe I'm giving too much praise to start, but C&amp; C is what really shoved the RTS genre onto 
 the limelight (as there were similar games before) .
  
  The gameplay was fantastic and highly addictive. The build/destroy and rush strategies were perfected 
 here. It was GDI vs NOD with one of the most original cut scenes as well as in-game movies. Graphics 
 are blatantly outdated today, but the true mark of a classic is how long the gameplay can endure 
 time. C&amp; C executes this without fault even in its very primitive and basic form. It takes a 
 genuine RTS gamer to appreciate what true originals really were and C&amp; C is a prime example, 
 old-skool as it is...
  
  Behold a true classic.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  C+C is one of the early RTS games, and when it was released it went of like a bomb.
  
  The gameplay is fast and fun with a genuinely interesting storyline, which I consider very unsual 
 for RTS games, set in the near future a war between the global terrorist organisation The Brotherhood 
 of Nod and the Global Defence Intiative.
  
  The Brotherhood of NOD seeks to gain dominance over the world and use 'tiberium' a alien substance 
 that crashed into the Earth (named after the Tiber river so claims Dr Mobius or named after Tiberius 
 Caesar by Kane) , this substance rapidly reproduces and alters the ecology and causes death amongst 
 all lifeforms, however it leaves green crystals which are cheap to mine and very profitable.
  NOD controls most of the Tiberium on the planet and wants to spread it throughout the globe, wereas 
 GDI wishes to contain the spread of Tiberium until they learn more.
  
  So sets the scene for one of the greatest games of all time. You can choose which faction to play 
 as, they are unique and have their own seperate campaigns, what was different at the time was that 
 in C+C you could select which mission to undertake to further the game instead of proceeding in 
 a linear fashion from a to b to c, in C+C you might be given the choice of a, b , c choose 1 and 
 it will be slightly different to other choices and then continue.
  
  The missions themselves were varied and some exceedingly difficult and challenging, but each was 
 rewarding to succeed at which was one of the best things about C+C it was a challenge sometimes. 
 Alot of missions would be build up bases, or defend a base, escort or as Im sure everyone will 
 remember, controlling a single character, the commando and infitrate bases, assasinate characters 
 etc.
  
  And after each mission there would be a cut scene something short like say a Scorpion representing 
 NOD being killed by a Eagle (offcourse representing GDI) , and then there were the FMV's with live 
 actors to further the story and they were extremely well done, the heart and soul of the story 
 in the C+C universe.
  
  The sound in Command and Conquer Tiberian Dawn is still the best in the series as far as Im concerned, 
 form the unit sounds (commando is still the best!) , units dying, and finally the music, which was 
 superbly well done by Frank Klepacki, its unusal suits, the atmosphere of the game and is memorable.
 
  
  The game overall is still the best in series, one of the best RTS games and one of the best games 
 ever made in general. It would set the term 'C+C' clone' for some time after its release, and its 
 very memorable which is the sign of a great game, I can still remember specific missions, quotes, 
 the story, the music and how fun the game was.
  The gripe I have with C+C though , ever after all these years is the lack of a offline skirmish 
 mode which is taken for a given with all other RTS games.
  Still a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Mind you, the strategies you can apply in this game is old-school and dated.
  Tank rush basically. But if you haven't played this before and you consider yourself a strategy 
 gamer since 1995, shame on you. Command and Conquer (plus Red Alert) has award winning soundtracks 
 that makes you wanna put them in your mp3 player forever. Very old-school and nostalgic.
  
  One of the best things about the original C&amp; C is the abundant supplies of FMVs which creates 
 the extra incentive in completing every mission and being serious about it. After every mission, 
 you get to see the fruits of your labour every battle you've won (or lost) in terms of short CG 
 clips and live acted videos, which really brings the game an additional step into your real world. 
 Fantastic. No other game did it more naturally, not the Dune series, not even the Warcraft or Starcraft 
 series. That effort raised my sense of commitment to this game.
  
  Also, C&amp; C is one of the best designed games in history. From the installing phase till the 
 credit roll, it immerses you into the world of GDI and Nod where your screen is the only barrier 
 between. You have to play it to believe me.
  
  My only gripe is the lack of offline skirmish play which later is introduced in C&amp; C: Red Alert, 
 but that's no biggie. Play this for it's classic essence. Re-live the glory days of strategy gaming.
 
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youredead007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer is a real-time strategy game that pits forces of Global Defence Initiative 
 and Brotherhood of NOD against eachother.
  
  NOD are the bad guys with the brutal leader, Kane and his right hand, Seth. GDI, the good guys 
 are like NATO or something with good means. Gameplay consists of building large number of units 
 and of course the attack. You can build different buildings that provide technology, units, power, 
 surveillance and so on. The sides differ quite a bit; NOD has rather powerful units with the cost 
 of armor, while GDI has more protective units but not as powerful as NOD's. You really want to 
 blast those Artillery and Flame Tank units of NOD's before they wreak some serious havok.
  
  The sounds and voice acting are perfect in this game along with amazing soundtrack (composed 
 by the master Frank Klepacki himself) .
  
  Even nowadays this game is very good and i think many have played this game already so i don't 
 even have to hear them out to realize this game is a must try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dograzor
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  This game is the game that started it all, made by goodie ol' westwood, and has always been my 
 favourite game ever. I started playing it when i was 10 or so... and nowadays its atmosphere isnt 
 beaten by anything else, since this game has something that games nowaday lack, the ability to 
 suck a player up in the storyline. Even Tiberian Sun couldn't beat this game, this is simply the 
 mother of all RTS games... give some respect for the westwood crew boys.... Altough the directx 
 3.0 graphics might scare of younger games who look drooling at dx10 images.... I just have one 
 message: this game is unbeaten and a legend worth playing!! Do NOT consider yourself worh to call 
 yourself a C&amp; C fan when you only have played Generals... (it doesnt deserve to be called C&amp; C 
 btw) No lil kids... Even when Tiberium Wars will be out.... you shouldn't play it if you didnt 
 finish this game... And for all members of NOD out there:
  
  Kane lives in death! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhole45
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer was the first game I ever played for the PC over 10 years ago and boy was it 
 something. There are two different sides to choose from in the campaign mode. The Global Defense 
 Initiative (GDI) , who are the good guys and the Brotherhood of Nod (NOD) the bad guys. The game is 
 great because both sides are well balanced and play rather different styles. GDI has stronger ground 
 units such as the Mammoth Tank and Medium Tank while NOD has the Stealth Tank which isn't very 
 durable but is nonetheless incredibly useful for reconnaissance purposes. Granted, the differences 
 in playing style are not as significant as many modern strategy games like Warcraft and Starcraft 
 but Westwood did a pretty darn good job of unit design when this game was released in 1995. The 
 full motion videos were cool and fun to watch although I wish there could have been more of them. 
 The single player missions were well designed and interesting although most of them simply involved 
 blowing up the enemy base (or bases) and destroying all their units. While the graphics are considered 
 dated by modern standards, it was impressive for its era. The music tracks featured in C&amp; C 
 are an eclectic mix of techno and rock and are of generally good quality. The one major gripe that 
 I have about this game is that it did not feature a skirmish mode. I did not have internet access 
 when I first played this game and was practically starved of multiplayer action. I still play this 
 game occasionally as I am a big fan of old-school games. I would really recommend this to anyone 
 who likes strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  After Dune II, I was craving more RTS at the time. Out came Command &amp; Conquer. The developers 
 made a great game for their first try at the (at the time) a new genre. The game play although 
 more advanced weapons of the day were not too futuristic as Dune. I love the units on both sides. 
 In the campaign mode had an interesting storyline that was believable yet fun. All the missions 
 were relatively simple if you think of where there threats are coming from. The quick missions 
 and multi players scenarios are fun yet too easy with the predictable AI. This is a classic game, 
 a true Hall of Famer. If you can probable find this very cheap and it will bring you great value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomyoda12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  This game does not even have any cheats. it is great. I will play this game until it does not work 
 on the pc of the day. Huzza. play it play it play it play it. I love it. i play it even if i beat 
 it. i love it love it play it play it play it play it. play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grootelaar
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  I think this game was the best game ever until Red alert came.
  But i still think that command and conquer is the best.
  because the battle between Nod (Brotherhood 
 of Nod)
  and mij favourite Gdi (Global Defence Initiative) .
  Ok at the beginning you start white 2 teams Gdi and Nod
  Nod and his leader Kane wants to turn 
 in de planet in to Tiberium
  and Gdi wants to stop it. For those dat not no what Tiberium is its some kine of alien plant. Wel 
 i have 1 think to say and that is BUY THIS GAME AND HAVE FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bladecutter56
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good that it practically put RTS gaming on the map. It may not measure up to today's 
 standards in graphics and such, but hell, it was made in 1995! So without further ado...
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  As I said before, its unbelievably enjoyable to play. You can play as two 
 factions, the Global Defense Initiative (GDI) or the Brotherhood of NOD (NOD) . You then start out 
 on a little campaign to either take over the world as NOD or eliminate the NOD threat as GDI. You 
 start with low building options, but as you progress in the game more things become available, 
 creating an interesting twist in the game. The story is well made also, featuring REAL people as 
 the characters. Its pretty much based in modern-day settings with just a few more advanced weapons 
 and a Sci-fi feeling to it.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The graphics are excellent for 1995, though it got a 9 due to just the base pixelatedness of it 
 all. Its not hard on the eyes, but I'm pretty sure they could have done tons better, however.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The sound could have been done better as well but it isn't that bad, and features many real-world 
 songs that fit settings quite well, and the gun sounds are well-made.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Theres replay value, sure, since you get two different campaigns and would want to play them 
 all over again to get better, not to mention multiplayer. Though nowadays the multiplayer won't 
 really work, since its over a dial-up Modem or a LAN connection.
  
  Overall, I absolutely reccomend this game, it is a near required addition to any gamer's collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TempleTrio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer was for me, the first love I had with a videogame. Back when it was released, 
 RTS (Real Time Strategy) games hadn't flooded the market yet. I was new to the RTS market, and 
 I found my niche... I couldnt get enough... I wanted more. I play RTS games these days and wish I 
 could get the same feeling for them that I had for C&amp; C back in the days of old. The graphics 
 were good for the time, I would suggest the windows95 version over the DOS version however, it 
 adds something to the element of gameplay. The music fits the game perfectly, you couldnt ask for 
 a better pairing. The game has decent replay value, as you can play either the GDI (good) or the 
 Brotherhood of NOD (bad) . After that however, it really depends on how much you liked the game 
 that will determine exactly how much value you can get out of C&amp; C. For me, I have gotten above 
 and beyond the value that I could have wished for, it seems when I havent played this game for 
 a while I get a hunger to play it again, even though I have beaten it around 8 times (1 just days 
 before this review) . If you are new to videogames however, you probably wont have a lot of fun 
 with this one, because by now, naturally, there are many other RTS games out there that far exceed 
 C&amp; C. But for guys like me that grew up with it..... keep the memories alive, its all we have 
 to get us through the drudgery of todays games sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frasierfreak666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Well where can you start reviewing a game like C&C. This review is 11 years after the original 
 release of the game, and it still gets more or less full marks. The moment you pop the GDI disk 
 in, and the first cut-scene comes up, you know you're in for a hell of a ride. In terms of gameplay, 
 C&C cannot be beat even today (closet in my opinion is Act Of War which is excellent from what 
 i've played) The units at your disposal are what wil stick in your memory the most. From the time 
 you roll out your first medium tank, to the time you first construct an obelisk, every moment will 
 stay with you. The gameplay is really very simple, no garrisoning troops or micro-ing here, this 
 is like the "Doom" of rts, but don't be put off, there's is still skill required and plenty of 
 fun to be had. The storyline to C&C is my favorite to any game so far, i won't give to much away 
 but basically GDI (Global Defense Initiative, the good guys) are out to stop Nod (the bad guys) 
 from continuing there terrorist activities. The game revolves around a mysterious substance named 
 "tiberian" which will also double as your main resource in the game. Apart from the graphics looking 
 dated (which can't be helped now) this game is still one of the greatest games created. (Also has 
 a killer soundtrack!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smasher24
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Back in the day I first saw this game being played in MS-DOS. It seemed like a high-paced strategic 
 adventure that required brain power. Strategy can be used in different ways throughout each campaign. 
 Click and drag the box over mini-gunners and medium tanks and send them in for the kill. Protect 
 your base, collect the tiberium for cash, search the terrain. The two campaign's you can play through 
 are the GDI and NOD campaigns. GDI are the good guys and NOD are the bad guys. Each team has its 
 own unique field units, guard towers, and tanks. NOD has unique units such as the flame tank, obelisk 
 of light, and the flame trooper. GDI has mammoth tanks, advanced guard towers, and grenadiers. 
 There are many units to use in a strategic way. What makes this game so much fun is the ability 
 to play the game the way you want to. Whether you plan on using mainly ground units or tanks, every 
 campaign plays out differently. Oh yea and the soundtrack to this game is the best ever. Great 
 tunes mix with strategic warfare to equal a great game. This game did have online play but it has 
 died out. For the short time I played this game online I had a blast. It had a ranking system which 
 I think I had a 5 and 8 record. One player I faced built gun turrets around the tiberium, therefore 
 blocking my harvesters. My strategy was rushing about 6 recon bikes to take out their harvesters. 
 So much FUN! This game should be revived with little changes to the AI, graphics, and online functions. 
 I say this because I would like the online community to comeback and play it online. Instant classic! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advo02
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer, the original in what has become one of the greatest strategy game series of 
 all time, is truly a game that is worthy of praise and respect. Although when compared to the complex 
 storylines and graphically stunning games of today's strategy genre it may not be so special, C&C 
 was a one of a kind game in its time. The graphics, as I've said, were not breathtaking, but the 
 simplicity of the units and buildings is what made it so fun to play. It wasn't confusing to figure 
 out, which I think is very appealing to someone who doesn't want to spend hours of their time every 
 day trying to master the game. And believe me, you could still have a lot of fun building up a 
 base and amassing a small army to prepare for combat.
  
  What also added to the gameplay experience was the music, which was done by the great Frank Klepacki. 
 The music itself was enough for me to love the game, and Frank really did a great job throughout 
 the series. The cutscenes in the game were sometimes cheesy but you really got into the characters, 
 Kane especially. I thought he really embodied the NOD faction, and I'm glad to hear he'll be back 
 for the third installment of the series. The only drawback to the game, in my opinion, is that 
 it is very slow-paced. It usually takes a very long time to build up cash, construct a base, and 
 recruit units, sometimes causing missions to last for hours at a time. However, if you love the 
 game anywhere near as much as I do then you'll be plenty willing to spend the time to enjoy this 
 fantastic Westwood creation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braidenvl
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  
  When I was 8, my cousin came to my house with Red Alert. I heard Hellmarch and have remembered 
 it ever since. Anyway, he had to call his 
  friend for some gamrplay help, and told me to take over for a second. It was absoluteley amazing!!! 
 2 or so years later, I bought Red Alert, and for a long time, it was absolute favorite game. About 
 3 years ago, I bought Tiberian Dawn (C&C 1's now official name) . I was absolutely amazed that it 
 surpassed RA1 in every way.
  
  Before I bought TD, I already had all the other C&C games (including Generals) , so I understood 
 the Tiberian storyline. It was a masterpiece, even better than that of Halo. Kane is awesome (and 
 he looks like my dad) .
  I was amazed by the games excellent story execution and presentation from both the GDI and Nod. I 
 especially get into my role as a Nod field commander slaughtering GDI dogs (or vice versa) .
  
  The gameplay is the same as that of Red Alert, so I was right at home. Left-cick to select units 
 or structures, left to give orders, and right- click to deselect them. Ireally love how you create 
 up to ten groups by clicking control and then a number in order to instantly select all your Orcas 
 at once!! (Though that is a standard feeature of every RTS since.) The A. I. is great for its time, 
 though the pathfinding is slightly annoying on rare occasions.
  
  As for graphics and sound, both are perfect. The graphics are incredibly simplistic by modern standards, but 
 with a sharp eye you'll find they're really detailed. The sound is excellent, though on a modern 
 computer, you can expect it to be choppy. However, the cutscene sounds and voices and music should 
 work normally. Aaahhh, the music is PERFECT!!!!!
  My favorite songs in the world are from the C&C series, and Act on Instinct, Tiberian Dawn's theme 
 song, is always my favorite song, regardless of my mood, with Red Alert's theme song, Hellmarch, of 
 equal quality though C&C's soundtrack is a mostly techno wonderfulnessything of exellence and Red 
 Alert's being a heavier, metal and funk combo. Frank Klepacki outdid himself with the whole series, and 
 especially Tiberian Dawn.
  
  If you are a fan of classic RTSs (I mean Starcraft) , or enjoy other games in the series, pick this 
 up right now. It has a perfect story, music, gameplay, and well, everything! You know you want to, and 
 Kane will kill you in front of everyone, then put your body in a glass tube as a trophy. It's only 
 ten bucks anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Back in the day when the only real fans Westwood had were their rabid Dune 2 players, the company 
 was pretty silent, until they came out with a game that would probably change Strategy games forever.
 
  
  C&C (Command & Conquer) was immediatly picked off the shelves by any type of gamer, hungry for 
 the piece of meat that surrounded the bones of the hype, many found that this game, -nay, piece 
 of art- was one the most excellent experiences they've ever had.
  
  C&C provivdes a great interface and a simple learning curve. To build structures/units all you 
 have to do is to click upon a icon that represents a certain unit, a countdown would appear and 
 your funds would be slowly removed from your overall amount. So far, every game in the series has 
 used that interface.
  
  The graphics are none too special, not even for when the game first appeared, although there were 
 very nice effects, explosions, and overall lighting, you could gaze at the scenery then return 
 to your destructive duties. Where this game really shines is the phenomenal sound, everything from 
 the massive explosions as tanks are torn apart by gunfire, to the screams of your men as they die 
 on the battlefield, the game has done it all so well, it sets a true feeling of atmosphere to the 
 post-apocalyptic setting. The music is also a gem, the techno soundtrack mixes well with the ties 
 of war.
  
  Commanding units is easy, left clicking gives commands, moving, attacking, etc. while right clicking 
 would cancel selection of the unit. All this was brought together by a slick campaign that didn't 
 have much of a real story, but provided some engaging FMV movies that were actually quite well 
 acted. The missions were varied, everything ranging from starting out with a small squad of units, 
 carefully planning your way through the war torn landscape, or starting off with a fully fledged 
 base that you had to defend within a certain time limit.
  
  Besides that, there are balancing issues, two sides are presented the NOD (Generic Evil Doer) and 
 the GDI (Generic Goody Two-Shoes) . Many times the Nod's defense buildings could wipe out entire 
 groups of powerful GDI units, (Obelisks of Light anyone?) . Although the gold version doesn't present 
 much new, a few tweaks and improvements there provides a definate experience for those that haven't 
 already been entrenched in C&C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fun_Size
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This was the first PC game I owned i had the three level demo before-hand and played it over and 
 over even though i could never do the third mission. When I first got the game I was so excited 
 by the box and the huge book that i almost forgot about the game. This game is always good to play 
 and i always have at least one C&C game installed on my computer just incanse im bored. The FMVs 
 were very well done especially the NOD ones, The missions may get a bit repitive towards the end 
 but you cant stop playing you want that Ion Cannon. Even the music was inspired its just a pity 
 Hell March only came into the Red Alert universe. I can play any C&C game (even Generals) and still 
 be entertained.
  
  Its the one game I hate to lend to my friends because the second its gone I want it back.
  
 
  CLASSIC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikko123
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 4, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Can you spell Greatest game ever!? Well, then spelling C&C wont be much of a problem for you, 
 since the two basically mean the same. C&C is the greatest game ever. Of course, this comes out 
 of the mouth of a die-hard RTS player. But guess which game got me hooked to the game? Hehey! Good 
 guess!
  
  From the very beginning till the very end, the storyline alone is enough to keep you on the edge 
 of your seat, and then you havent even played the game. Whatever you might think, the C&C tiberian 
 storyline is one of the most confusing and deep storylines in existence.
  
  When you play as the GDI, you ally yourself with the good guys, the yellow, the brute force! Stealth? 
 Who needs it? Power and numbers are good enough to rampage straight through any Nod forces!
  But then again, the high-tech sneaky guys of the Brotherhood of Nod are able to easily disrupt 
 and dismantle your army of Mammoth tanks while it ploughs through the forest with their stealth 
 tanks which suddenly appear behind them
  
  Both sides are completely different, but better balanced sides still need to be created. Where 
 the Nod lacks in firepower, they almost always have the element of surprise behind them. And the 
 fact that the media - and thus the people - behind them helps them a lot
  
  The people believe what the media tells them to believe, and I tell the media what to believe. 
 Its really quite simple, commander!
  - Kane
  
  And of course, who wouldnt want to battle with or against good ol Kane, the main villain of the 
 story, who sees the Tiberium as a gift, not as a curse. Hero or madman? For you to decide! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Command & Conquer features a unique RTS engine, focusing on the production of military units and 
 buildings to essentially command and conquer territory within a given map.
  
  The game offers a campaign set around the Cold War era, where there is a conflict of interest between 
 fictional coalitions, though it is clear what's going on.
  
  The graphics in this game, despite GameSpot's view, was damn good for it's time. The game doesn't 
 even look so bad by today's standards, so long as you keep in mind it's a little outdated.
  
  You can tell a lot of effort was put into the music and sound of this game from the beginning 
 of the game. The soundtrack that will accompany you as you fight for missions is unbeatable by 
 other RTS of it's era.
  
  Generally, C&C is just a great game and it is easy to see why newer games came out with the same 
 idea and name. I never got a chance to play them, but I heard they were pretty fun.
  
  If you're ever bored and looking for a second hand game and you're thinking "I want something old-school", 
 well my friend, I must recommend one of the most classic Real Time Strategy Games... Command & 
 Conquer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K03NTJ3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  C&C is maybe one of the first games i played in my life, first played the 2,5 mb demo on a little 
 collection cd, it featured one map with some units, and from the start on, i was sold.
  
  i played the demo over and over again, and then the cd broke... I CRIED!! so my dad and me went 
 to the shop. and saw the full version was in it! so we bought it! Grait gameplay, graphics not 
 To crappy.. sounds wonderfull, nice music that keeps you going.
  
  the only little thing is that there was no skrimish in this game. the multiplayer options werent 
 that good, but still the singleplayer rocked your ass, also becouse you could choose which side 
 you wanted to be. 
  
  Overall? the game owns!
  its a bummer i cant play it on my current pc becouse of the low graphical reqruiement. thats why 
 i want to buy the first decade!
  
  Nice Game, High Rating
  
  Greetings,
  Koen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanehunter24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I ever played, since I was a little kid (I'm 13) .
  I thought this was the best game ever, and I still do. Modern combat with a futuristic twist. I 
 LIKE it. It pits the GDI against The Brotherhood of Nod, sometime around the turn of the century. 
 Ironic, isn't it? The GDI focus more on heavy weapons, like tanks. And Nod relies on stealth and 
 speed, but unfortunatley, armor just isn't one of their factors. The negatives: well, the graphics 
 are semi-poor compared to today's standards, but they are still decent. If I were you, I would 
 go on Ebay and look for this classic game. Happy hunting/gaming/whatever else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mand_450
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  The game is more than 10 years old now. Im surprised to see that so many still like it. Im surprised 
 that i still like it. It was the game which started the whole series. 
  
  Gameplay. Very cool when you get your vihecles. You can build awesome bases, and also a massive 
 army. There should have been a skimish though, but the campaign is both catcing and interactive.
 
  
  i love the story. I also like the cinematics. You not always talking with the general but also 
 see the news sending repports of whats going on, and sometimes get a message on your EVA.
  
  Sound of the units sound a bit primitive today but i like hearing the units say the things 
 anyway. Cool soundtracks, i simply love them.
  
  Of cause if you are to new rts games you shouldn't buy this game, but if you want to try an old 
 school rts or just wanna see how the old rts games was. This is a good game for you to choose. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitzza_1301
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  On a fateful day a few yrs ago i played my first round of cnc on the n64 now i own it and play 
 it regularly
  
  The missions are difficult and interesting trailing a storyline which is unfortunately being replicated 
 regularly but ive found it so much more fun to play it at its basic form and enjoy the original 
 expirience
  
  The sound overall was great and keeps u side tracked from the reality of homework and assignments 
 as well as properly depicting the screams of ppl a scream i think has never been done so well.
 
  
  The graphics whilst ugly for this day and age dont detract from the story and still portray it 
 the way its meant to be.
  
  Last but by far the best part of the game is the storyline when completing the mission is only 
 a byproduct to pull u further and further in to the storyline.
  
  Overall i feel this game rocked the rts industry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avpget
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Whats not to like in Command and Conquer? Its challenging, engaging, and addictive. You play 
 either as GDI (which has all the heavy weaponry) or NOD (which has all the fun stuff.) The graphics 
 for its time were excellent compared to other games. It sounded like real people were actually 
 talking to you when you click on them. Yet what really got me into this game is the challenge, 
 not the challenge that frustrates you because you cant beat one level. Yeah I lost a few missions 
 because some were extremely tough but with time and patience Ive finally beat all of them. My 
 favorite parts were the videos stating the mission briefing. In all this game revolutionized the 
 real time strategy games. Its more then building a big army a fighting another army you have to 
 build defenses and get resources to build an army. You also need to build the right units. This 
 is why Command and Conquer for the time stood alone as the dominant RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crumbly_b
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I was playing this game when i was 5, and i thought it was so colorful, and fun and kool and it 
 reminded me of play-doh. NOW, i still think its colorful and fun and kool and reminds me of play-doh. 
 This is probly the best of the C & C series. Tiberian Sun comes very close. This is the kind of 
 game that you can stay up all night playing, instead of staying on MSN and talking about how much 
 you love the sweet scent of vinegar and how great your new microwave is. It's addicting and hard. 
 Which is good. Because every one likes a little bit of that. NOD has some fun weapons and toys, 
 but GDI has some pretty strong stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frontball
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:51 am PT
Review:  Ok, back when I was a wee lad of 10, I had the best christmas there ever bin (i know it's spelled 
 wrong, go with it) , i opened the game, computer was lame, but my heart this game did win! 
  
  Hehe, yep, started this game on a computer that didn't meet the requirements and loved the 
 game in its slow, stuttering glory! 
  
  The game had to be the revolution in war strategy games. If it wasn't, it certainly took off with 
 a new style! The mouse selecting and ordering, the wicked cutscenes, the base building and economy 
 system, the story... it all rocked! 
  
  The graphics were AWESOME for this DOS based strategy! The movies in between each level were great! 
 It was like TV on your computer! Hehe. The awesome explosions and building set ups, everything 
 was perfect!
  
  The units responding, the gunfire, the voices... it was enough to blow a first-time retail game 
 player away! To hell with crummy freeware! Hehe, though the cries of dying soldiers and very repetitive 
 responses got on my nerves, but following games taught me, "That's the way it is". 
  
  If you've played a C&C but never touched this one, FOR SHAME! Okay, hehe, I played metroid 2 before 
 the first one and then never liked the first one... hypocracy is my way of sharing my opinions!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:10 am PT
Review:  When i think of any Real time Strategy Game out right now The very first Command and conquer pops 
 in to my head and for very good reasons. let me say That this game C&c for short Started the RTS 
 Games so any RTS you have now on your pc would be cos of this game. Its a true classic from start 
 to finish. and im Reviewing game Based on this Time period 2005 not 1996. 
  
  Graphics are what Makes games good today Like Zero hour and Age of empires. Graphics are no Big 
 leap forward Here Very simple 2d Units and Buildings. plane and simple truns out so good and thats 
 a fact. 
  
  Sound In this game Is Techno well the music. Units sounds are Like "yes sir" when you click on 
 them. Every sound Is done well and even match up to todays Top notch Music.
  
  This game is Very fun Hard but fun. Theres a lot of Gameplay Between the two Sides Although With 
 each having its own buildings and Units GDI and Nod Are the to Most Well Known Fractions In The 
 world of C&c. The two sides Have some of the Same Buildings like the Tiberian Ref. Theres still 
 Are very different.
  
  I woul By this Game Depending what pc you have I have a Win 2000 And unfortunly i cant play the 
 game since it needs a 95 or 98. But im sure you can Get somthing From internet To make it work 
 on any Other Computer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chasgn1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 13, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The original CnC, or Tiberian Dawn, as it is known in the community, is one of the godfathers to 
 what all of us know now as the RTS genre. Without Westwood and CnC, there would be no recognizing 
 what RTSs look like today.
  
  Tiberian Dawn is a modern day set RTS game which sets you in command of GDI (Global Defense Initiative) 
 funded by the U. N. (in other words mostly by the U. S., made obvious by the American accents/weapons) 
 to keep peace on a global scale, or the Brotherhood of Nod, a deeply mysterious organization dating 
 back to allegedly biblical times, led by a frighteningly intelligent and charismatic man, Kane. 
 Their goal is for all intents and purposes, world domination, and GDI is bent on stopping them. 
 
  
  An array of vehicles and soldiers are at your command under either faction, both with unique styles 
 of play and innovative balance, unlike certain other games where the exact same unit is given to 
 multiple factions with a different name/model. GDI emphasizes heavy armor and raw power, whereas 
 Nod relies and subtlety and sneaky attacks. Though Nod's flame tanks and flamethrower infantry 
 tend to overule that latter statement.
  
  The graphics are a solid blend of oldschool pixel models and the sound is some of the most outstanding 
 work you will EVER hear in a game. Frank Klepacki is synonymous with CnC. CnC and its sequels in 
 the franchise remain one of the very few games where the music was so popular it had demand OUTSIDE 
 of the game.
  
  To sum it up, Command and Conquer (Tiberian Dawn) is an extremely immersive game with excellent 
 gameplay, a highly addictive storyline that will leave you dying to play the following games in 
 the series, and great music. It will be available once again along with its brothers as part of 
 the Command and Conquer: The First Decade package due out in not too long from EA, who currently 
 owns the Command and Conquer franchise.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aklrd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 10, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, many older games are better than the newer ones. Sure, they don't have as pretty 
 graphics, but the important thing is the gameplay. You could have a game that looks so realistic 
 you couldn't tell the difference between the game and real life and still have a horrible story 
 and playability. Command & Conquer set the standards for our modern RTS'. It is still a wonderful 
 game, and very fun to play. With this game, you have to think about what you're doing, and how 
 you can beat your opponent. A head-on attack rush in this game will. Not. Work. You must find other 
 means to soften up your enemy. You can be sure they'll be doing the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerEcho
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what has prompted me to write a review about thie game after all these years. It's 
 not as there are many out there who visit this site haven't heard of this game or understand its 
 place in the Pantheon of the great classics of all time. But just in case you've been living in 
 a cave under the ocean on another planet all this time, the following is my attempt to articulate 
 the incalculable greatness, that is Command & Conquer.
  
  This game had personality. Not just style, but personality. People tend to 
  confuse the two. 
 Lots of games have their own style, some of which are very unique but it's not necessarily a good 
 thing. Personality on the other hand, is more subtle in execution but vastly more profound in impact. 
 It separates the classics from the merely great; and C&C had personality coming out its ears. From 
 the lowliest technician to the sturdiest mammoth tank, every unit, structure and mechanic of the 
 game brims with a sensation and flavor of its own that is unique, original, yet familiar. Little 
 details like the soldiers doing pushups, the commando lighting one up when idled, 
  the cinch of a flamethrower and the shrill of a decloaking stealth tank breathe that extra dimension 
 of life into the game. As insignificant as they might seem, these little characteristics help create 
 the moments which define, and ultimately immortalize the game -- moments that the player stil remembers 
 to this day.
  
  Ever recall the time you got your first mammoth tank and had it roll up next to a hum-vee? What 
 about the first time you got nuked by the Temple? Remember how badass it felt when the commando 
 said "That was left-handed"? First time you fired the ion cannon into the middle of that convention 
 gathered outside the Hand of Nod? How 'bout crippling the enemy base with just a single well-placed 
 airstrike? And discovering just what that huge obelisk is all about? The sandbags against the computer? 
 The list goes on and on, but I'd wager good money that fans of the game in its heyday still have 
 at least some of those images imprinted on their minds. One of my personal favorites was ransacking 
 that African village in the first level of Nod. It really felt like I was working for the bad guys. 
 
  
  The graphics in the game were incredibly good for its time. While some may prefer the cartoonish 
 cleaniness of Warcraft II, C&C had the perfect blend of realism and over-the-top goofiness to go 
 with a storyline of the same mold, which was told in lavish style with live cinematics and cgi 
 animation. As far as video games go, the performances were way above average, and if nothing else 
 always memorable. Joe Kucan's Kane was especially outstanding. As mentioned before, the little 
 graphical touches (e. g. trees burning, sprawling tiberium) make it all the more endearing.
  
  The sound here is equally sublime, and a big part of that, isn't even the effects but the music. 
 Tell me that wasn't the best and the largest selection of music for any PC game up to its time. 
 I've still yet to see it completely surpassed. Dune II had pretty good music, as did the Warcraft 
 series, but the music of Command & Conquer imbues the gameplay with a jolt of that same personality 
 that I mentioned earlier. The only thing that's better than stalking that unwary Nod bazooka dude 
 with your commando is doing it to the beat of Take 'Em Out or Demolition. Launching that 50-tank 
 final offensive against the enemy stronghold? Prepare For Battle and Warfare will set the mood 
 perfectly. That aside, all the sound effects in the game suit their graphical counterparts capably. 
 Guns, cannons, explosions rock the battles and gives that Soundblaster 16 or Gravis/Roland device 
 a good workout. 
  
  The sidebar on the right side of the screen was a holdover from Dune II, but C&C pioneered a lot 
 of dynamics which revolutionized the way the RTS genre would be approached after it, such as box-selection 
 and status display of selected units (health, capacity) directly on the unit itself. 
  
  The bottom line? This isn't so much a review as it is a stroll down memory lane and reliving some 
 of the pleasantries this game has provided me. If you haven't played it, you certainly should, 
 and the Gold version can be had for a bargain price if you can still find it (I think you'd need 
 a patch to play it under WinXp) . That it is one of the best of all time needs no nod (no pun intended, 
 really) on my part; but it gets one anyway, and always will.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krishmaj
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Westwood Games real time strategy game Command and Conquer (known to some people as Tiberian 
 Dawn) is the game that has probably influenced the genre more than any other. First released in 
 1995, Command and Conquer combines the thrill of epic storylines, the excitement of unpredictable 
 real time strategy, and the best gameplay of its time, to produce an instant classic that will 
 be played by gamers for years to come.
  
  Command and Conquer is set in an alternate future  a world divided into two groups vying for power 
 over of Europe and Africa. In the early 2000s, the 2 major powers: the GDI (Global Defence Initiative) 
 and NOD (full name: The Brotherhood of Nod) , are fighting across the 2 continents, struggling to 
 control the peoples and resources of the world, as well as the mysterious substance called Tiberium, 
 that could be the key to the Earths future  or its destruction.
  
  Command and Conquer was unique at the time of release, in that it allows you to play as either 
 side in the war: GDI or NOD. Each one has their own style of fighting, from GDIs technological 
 superiority to the brute force of the NOD war-machine. In each case, the player can use their sides 
 strengths (and weaknesses) to their own advantage: you are not restricted simply by your units 
 and structures, only by how you use them. But even so, both sides have a huge arsenal of weapons 
 at their disposal: from the lowly but vital Rifle Infantry, to hordes of Tanks rolling across the 
 battlefield, to the massively-fun-to-watch A-10 napalm Air-Strikes, and even Nuclear Missiles. 
 The only part missing from the battlefield is full control of naval powers (although boats do make 
 an odd appearance from time to time, you can never actually control them. Thankfully, this was 
 remedied in the next C&C - Red Alert) .
  Whichever side the player picks, Command and Conquer features an absorbing 13-15 mission (thats 
 about 15 to 20 hours gameplay) single-player campaign for both GDI and NOD, centred on control 
 of an entire continent (as GDI, you fight in Europe, and as NOD, in Africa) . Missions take place 
 on a variety of different maps (although these are slightly restricted by the mildly out-of-date 
 graphics) . But you get a sense of the different areas of battle: from the green meadows of central 
 Europe to the burning deserts of Africa.
  
  The game is seemingly basic at first - you build buildings and troops while gathering funds for 
 your war-effort, and then proceed to wipe the enemy off the map. The learning curve is comparatively 
 short compared to some games: the controls are simple enough to use: mouse for moving and attacking 
 units, and for building and placing structures, and the keyboard for the small number of hotkeys 
 and control-groups. By the time you get to the 4th or 5th mission, you should have done learning 
  and can then really enjoy the game without worrying about pressing the wrong key or moving the 
 wrong man. Along the way as you play more missions, you are introduced first to your basic units 
 and structures - rifle infantry, the Construction Yard, Power Plants and Barracks  but will soon 
 receive better and more powerful units and structures - the Mammoth Tank and the Temple of Nod. 
 But don't rush through the campaign just to get those better units - the early skirmishes and gameplay 
 are invaluable unless you want to spend months on end trying to beat the AI on the later levels.
 
  
  However, there are a few small and at first, unnoticeable problems that the experienced player 
 will pick up on - most notably the sheer dumbness of the AI on some levels compared to recent-day 
 games. But what it lacks in intelligence, it makes up for during the course of the whole campaign 
 - the depth of the gameplay is astounding. At first, you may think that the AI is leaving you alone 
 to build up and take the fight to it, but before long you will be fighting 3 or 4 completely unconnected 
 battles on 3 or 4 different fronts, and just one of these battles could turn the mission in the 
 enemy's favour. And unlike many other real-time strategy games, what you do in one battle will 
 affect the whole war - this is shown clearly in black and white (or rather, red and gold) on the 
 world strategy map at the end of each mission - what you win or lose in one battle affects where 
 you fight next, who you fight against, and what your mission objectives are. This produces a huge 
 array of missions that range from a lone commando unit being hunted by the entire Nod army, up 
 to vast battles on the ground, with sprawling bases at your - and the enemy's - disposal.
  
  New players of Command and Conquer will immediately see that the graphics in the game are seemingly 
 obsolete, thanks to the advent of fully-rendered 3D graphics. (In 1995 when C&C was first released, 
 the graphics were state-of-the-art. But don't be fooled by its dated look - surprisingly few people 
 have a problem with the early-generation graphics; such is the game's overall popularity. And its 
 not just the in-game graphics: one of the best aspects of Command and Conquer is the use of cut-scenes 
 between the missions to keep you going through the storyline  which actually makes sense, considering 
 it is a war-game. This feature was still in its early stages at the time of C&C  there are few 
 cutscenes that are more than a talking head detailing your next mission, but all the same, it makes 
 the fight seem more personal  you are actually a part of it. (The cutscenes were once again improved 
 greatly for C&C Red Alert) . 
  
  The sound in the original Command and Conquer is awesome - some incredible soundtracks play while 
 you batter your opponent, and they all add to the war-game feel by, if you like, "encouraging you" 
 to kill, maim and generally beat the enemy until their end. Particularly, Id recommend the track 
 called Warfare  speaks for itself really!
  
  This game almost single-handedly brought the Real Time Strategy genre into the limelight, and although 
 it lacks such things as reliable multiplayer and skirmish / random map gameplay that are the staple 
 gameplay in more recent games, this game paved the way for others such as Dawn of War, Rise of 
 Nations, and of course the rest of the C&C Universe. But if you want to feel the classic action, 
 and be part of the birth of Real Time Strategy, buy this game and get your money's worth out of 
 it (it isn't hard!) .
  
  The moment your man fires the first bullet, you'll be drawn into the world of brutal fighting that 
 is the Tiberian Dawn.
  The world will be yours to Command and Conquer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 29, 2005 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Rarely does it happen that a game is capable of becomming legendary. This would be one of those 
 titles. 
  
  Whatever strategy games were before this game, I would almost say there were nothing like Command 
 and Conquer. This game brought the genre onto a completely new level. As I may not play this game 
 anymore, it brings back memories of hours on end play. Along with Red Alert 2 which continued what 
 C&C started. After that, people were hooked, and developers opened their eyes to something completely 
 new.
  
  I hold high respect for companeis that dare to try something different. When you start developing 
 something that has never been done before - you need a round of applause because it doesnt happen 
 every day. As a company you are going into the unknown and hope for the best. 
  
  Supperb job Westwood - even today a decade later.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 30, 2005 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer is now a very old, very dated game in a genre that has evolved tremendously 
 since its release. Despite all this it has to be said though that it is still one of the most fun 
 to play and it definitely needs a re-release for newer systems. For anybody who has played strategy 
 games the game is basic. You collect a resource to gain funds, to build units and structures that 
 you use to kill off the opposing team which is trying to do the same. The game still holds up better 
 in my opinion then later titles in the franchise, from the Red Alert series. The graphics are simplistic 
 which is to be expected but it is not a detriment to the game. The briefing video is entertaining 
 and both factions are unique enough to garuntee a second playthrough. Hopefully this can be released 
 again with all of the older titles sort of like they did for the newer ones. It also should be 
 mentioned that this title isnt a cakewalk like the newer ones in the series and it will take a 
 lot of committment and quite a good gamer to beat this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rage_Of_Crow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2005 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best RTS games, It open a lot of doors for this genre. You can play as 
 GDI or NOD each of them with diferent units and buildings. Each time you will begin a mission a 
 cut scene will give the briefing you need to complete the mission, also you'll have a cut scene 
 when you acomplish the mission and they are great considering that this game was released on 1995.
 
  
  I played this game for the first time on 1997 and still enjoy playing it, is not like the RTS games 
 out there right now, this game doesn't need you to build troops as fast as you can in order to 
 whip out your enemy, In here you have to make a good strategy in order to out run them. 
  
  I won't go deep on my review, because I don't want to make Spoilers but I can tell you that the 
 game is awesome, If you find it buy it, you won't regret it. This game is a must have for all the 
 RTS fans and Pc Owners
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrialRevluc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 1, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a keeper of a game. The gameplay is absolutely addictive and the graphics are outstanding. 
 The cut scenes pertain to the gameplay and are nicely developed. Anyone having anything bad to 
 say about Westwood's cutting edge game would have to be placed into confinement and given a sanity 
 check. If you can find this game and you have never played it before, you should buy it and lose 
 hours of your life in C&C stasis. The multiplayer option is fantastic and just playing against 
 your neighbor down the street can be highly addictive. Remember to turn your spouse's volume down 
 as you wouldn't want them to distract you from playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that started it all, it is the game that got me playing it from 8 am to 8 pm the 
 next day this is the game that made me miss out a few day's of work. Even now i still play this 
 game when i get bored.
  
  Now that the rant iam in love with this game part is over i can start my review. This game is a 
 great RTS game, It is one of if not the best RTS game around (if you look at my games collection 
 i have played many RTS) only a few games can beat it for what it dose.
  
  If you can still find this game in the shops or buy it on ebay and have a pc that can run it then 
 you are in for a treat. The sounds of this game are cool the music is great. The only downside 
 is the graphics.
  
  Go on give it a go you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arathin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer is a masterpiece. The game revolutionized the role of strategic games to this 
 day. Never has a strategy game grasped so many fans and caused such an awesome appeal for the public. 
 The public were almost crying for the new installment to be released.
  
  Over the course of the game you play as your chosen side; the GDI (Global Defense Initiative) or 
 the Brotherhood of Nod. Both sides claim they are fighting for a just cause, but in this circumstance, 
 Nod are the enemy. Your chosen army offers unique units to their side and an amazing range of buildings 
 to construct your base.
  
  Command and Conquer isn't called a strategy game for nothing. There are so many ways to defeat 
 your opponent whether it be a full-scale invasion or an undercover mission. This game keeps you 
 gripping the edge of your seat to the very end.
  
  Between each mission you are given a briefing by your head in command. These short movies aren't 
 animated, they are proper footage that was added to the game to give it a sense of reality. 
  
  The game holds a magnificent soundtrack that sets the mood of the game. It features several 
 tracks that are of high value and are enough to satisfy the music aspect of the game. Also, when 
 you select a unit, it greets you in an appropriate fashion and when you send them into battle they 
 yell a warcry.
  
  Could this be any better? Well, the game features an amazing multi-player system that can keep 
 you occupied for hours, discovering new ways of defeating live opponents.
  
  Command and Conquer is a brilliant game and well worth the money. If you want a decent classic, 
 this is the one to get. It's hard to find it in the shop now, it had it's time. Now it's remembered 
 as one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 28, 2004 12:57 am PT
Review:  Well since i am reviewing this game when i allready have all the other games in the series this 
 game is really bad compared to them. This was a good game when it first come out and it set off 
 the rest in the series but if you are looking for a game now dont get this one because there are 
 lots better in the series. This game has very bad graphics and very limited gameplay. It only has 
 a single player mode and you cant do a skirmish and no multiplayer. This game is not worth getting 
 and just a waste of money. I see some places still sell it and there is not much point. My score 
 is based on todays games but if i was rating it when it first come out im sure my score would be 
 different. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
