-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandconquer3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exciting campaign features a ton of quality full-motion video.
 Fast-paced gameplay is fun and exhilarating.
 Scrin race is a fantastic, balanced addition to the C&C universe.
 BattleCast turns the thrilling multiplayer into a spectator sport.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game is picky with structure placement.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.6, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 11,239 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 26, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tiberium Wars is Command & Conquer at its best, and an absolute blast for series fans and newcomers 
 alike. 

  If you're a fan of the Command &amp; Conquer series, three small words are bound to get you excited: 
 Kane is back. Indeed, so are a good number of beloved series hallmarks, like a huge amount of full-motion 
 video and intense strategic combat. But Tiberium Wars is a lot more than just lip service to franchise 
 enthusiasts, and you don't need the rose-hued glasses of nostalgia to appreciate its polish and 
 intensity. It's simply a superb game that's fun and exciting to play both online and off.  

          Bald is beautiful.     

  No matter which of the two main campaigns you start off 
 with, you're rewarded with a whole lot of live-action video in between missions, featuring familiar 
 actors getting hammy in near-future command centers. There's never been anything subtle about C&amp; C's 
 full-motion video, and, true to form, the campaigns are loaded with wonderfully overblown sequences 
 filled with intrigue and suspense. Yes, Joe Kucan has returned as Nod figurehead Kane, and he's 
 as irresistibly creepy as ever. He and other familiar actors serve up a heap of extravagant solemnity 
 against a backdrop of flashing lights and important-looking video screens.  

  If you think it sounds over the top, you'd be right -- but it's cheesy in the good way, and it won't 
 take you long to get involved in the story and the characters that drive it. The narrative is structured 
 well, with the Global Defense Initiative and Brotherhood of Nod campaigns telling the same story 
 from opposing viewpoints. There's also a new player in the mix: the alien Scrin race. At this stage 
 in the series, the mineral tiberium has propagated over most of the Earth, but it's more than just 
 an environmental plight -- it's a key to future technology. It'll take you a couple dozen hours to 
 get through the campaigns, and just when you think you've finished, there are a few surprise missions 
 in store, and they are well worth the time it takes to unlock them. There are also plenty of reasons 
 to return to the campaign once you're done, since the game rewards you with medals based on your 
 performance and tracks a good number of statistics for you to chew on.  

  The missions themselves are incredibly varied and involve a lot more than destroying an enemy base 
 or defending a particular structure. You'll have to do these things, of course, but you have both 
 primary and secondary objectives to complete, which include using engineers to capture certain 
 buildings, amassing beam cannons to take out defenses, or teaming up with your sworn enemy to defend 
 against alien attack. You'll be doing it all in a variety of real-world theaters, such as Washington, 
 DC, downtown Sydney, and the eerily dry Amazon basin. The near-future take on familiar locales 
 makes the intense battles feel even more thrilling, because the settings are recognizable and meaningful. 

          These Firehawks are delivering more than pizza to Nod's door.     

  That's not to say the combat isn't gripping on its own. If you're usually content to turtle up 
 in real-time strategy games, you're in for a surprise: Battles are intense and focused, and they 
 give you little time to prepare. Like any RTS, you still need to build up resources, but it's a 
 quick process of plopping down a bunch of tiberium refineries and power generators and finding 
 the action, because if you don't, the action will quickly find you. Once you get past the first 
 two acts of each campaign, you'll discover that Tiberium Wars' artificial intelligence is aggressive 
 and resourceful, and it will take advantage of your strategic flaws. Don't expect to put your trust 
 in one or two favored units, because even the most powerful units have noticeable weaknesses.  
 

  It's a rusher's paradise, but you shouldn't take it to mean that technological advancement and 
 thoughtful strategy don't have their places. You won't need to deal with long, complex tech trees, 
 and it makes Tiberium Wars feel somewhat limited in this aspect next to advancement-focused strategy 
 games like Supreme Commander. However, you do have multiple powers and upgrades to earn by building 
 various structures. The powers run the gamut from GDI's powerful ion strike to Nod's vapor bomb, 
 and they fit each faction perfectly. As you use units they level up, making them more effective 
 in battle, and in some cases you improve units by more unconventional means. For example, you can 
 use a Nod warmech to destroy your own flame tank, and the mech will then spew fire in addition 
 to its own native attack.     

  How differently each faction plays is impressive, especially with the new Scrin faction added to 
 the mix. GDI units tend to be straightforward and powerful, and a huge force of mammoth tanks and 
 juggernauts is a challenge to counter. Nod relies on sneakiness and smart use of unique abilities, 
 and a small force of stealth tanks and viper bombers can cripple an enemy's economy. But playing 
 as the Scrin is Tiberium Wars' greatest delight and challenge, since the alien faction is so different 
 from the others. Your first encounters with the Scrin in the campaign are breathtaking, since even 
 low-level units like buzzers look interesting and intimidating. In fact, the most threatening sight 
 within the game is a fleet of Scrin assault carriers and their accompanying fighters. Yet while 
 the Scrin have some potent units and other advantages, such as the ability to collect endless tiberium 
 without building silos, they require a lot of micromanagement and intimate knowledge of each unit 
 and structure.  

          Expect lots of explosions. And fire. And lasers. Definitely lasers.     

  Series fans 
 will take to the new interface quickly, though others may need to make a few adjustments. In a 
 departure from 2003's Command &amp; Conquer: Generals, Tiberium Wars uses a throwback C&C interface 
 with a few modern tweaks. The side bar has returned, along with the ability to queue up units and 
 structures no matter where you are focused on the battlefield. At first you can build only a single 
 structure at a time in the production tab, but that can be quickly upgraded. Unlike with most RTS 
 games, including Generals, you never need worry about creating worker units, and once a structure 
 is created, you can place it immediately at your base. Placing structures is often a pain, though, 
 since the game is picky about where you can put them. Positioning something as simple as a turret 
 or a power plant can take multiple tries, and it's never clear exactly why you can't put certain 
 buildings in certain places, particularly when the terrain is smooth and the area is totally free 
 of nearby obstructions.  

  C&C3 continues to shine in its excellent multiplayer mode, and it's obvious that Electronic Arts 
 has devoted a lot of attention to it. There aren't a whole lot of options when you host an online 
 game, aside from game speed and whether you want to scatter random crates on the battlefield. But 
 no strategy game in recent memory has been more tailored to competitive play, thanks to fully featured 
 leaderboards and clan support, as well as an original feature called BattleCast. You may broadcast 
 your game in real time to anyone who downloads the free BattleCast client, and a commentator can 
 provide real-time commentary while using the built-in telestrator. But if you're just in it to 
 play, you'll find that skirmishing with others is even more fun than it is against the AI. There 
 are close to two dozen maps for up to eight players, and the pitch-perfect placement of garrison-friendly 
 buildings and central tiberium nodes will get you right into the action.  

  It helps that Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is terrific to look at, and the unit design 
 is the most impressive part of its visuals. Scrin annihilator tripods lumber about with a commanding 
 attitude, GDI orca bombers circle in believable formations, and Nod avatar warmechs advance with 
 heft. Their stature and fantastical nature fit perfectly with the over-the-top nature of the action, 
 as do the titanic nuclear explosions and lightning strikes. In the most extreme battles, your screen 
 will fill with mighty blasts and streams of lasers, as if you were the main player in a sci-fi 
 action film. Amazingly, the game's performance never suffers, with few noticeable drops in frame 
 rate and brief loading times. Some of the maps and textures are somewhat bland, but you aren't 
 bound to care for long.  

          Scrin vs. Scrin. It looks awesome, and kinda creepy, too.     

  Bad unit voice-overs 
 are a common annoyance in strategy games, but they're all done well in Tiberium Wars. Again, EA 
 pinpointed just the right amount of extravagance to lavish on the sound design, from mission voice-overs 
 to the eclectic soundtrack, which is alternately tinged with orchestral fanfare and heavy metal 
 grinding. While many of the sound effects are what you would expect from standard artillery and 
 tanks, others, particularly those of the Scrin units, are ominous and appropriately alien.  

  Regardless of your history with Kane and his cohorts, Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars 
 is one of the finest real-time strategy games in years. It's also a triumphant return to form for 
 the series, because it's more than just a graphical update -- it's an exciting, well-tuned experience 
 with enough that's old and enough that's new to thrill old-timers and newcomers alike. Suffice 
 it to say, you should play this game, and expect to be playing it for a long time to come.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (552 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sadocka
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  To cut to the chase, c&c is a really good game and the entire franchise has been a success. what 
 is notably alot better in this game is the graphics, the story, and the gameplay. the story develops 
 in the third tiberium war where you are chosen (as usual) as a commander of a few armies to kill 
 nod, you being gdi. the main thing about the story are the cutscenes, they're real, which adds 
 alot of feeling to it. also the twist with the scrin in the middle of the game is also amazing. 
 the graphic portion of the game is really good. although shadows look like **** , the textures 
 and effects look really good. also most computers should be able to handle it pretty nicely. just 
 dont try it on a laptop. it just doesnt work as good as you would expect. gameplay wise the game 
 is really really awesome. its got a nice difficulty with some impossible timed missions that you 
 keep pressing restart on. for example the beginning mission in Sarajevo where you have to defend 
 a base for like 10 minutes and go get an mcv took me 16 hours to complete. without reloading checkpoints. 
 and the most amazing thins is that i couldn't stop trying. normally you give up on a game when 
 it gets really hard but command and conquer is kind of enchanting and will keep you playing, even 
 if you get **** the three so called races in the game are actually really good. the gdi got its 
 so called zone troopers that actually suck balls if you drop a tank on em, the nod is got avatars 
 but they cant attack air and the scrin is got the... umm... super duper intergalactic ultra spaceships 
 with shields, ion storms and 20 dirty ships to do their business. they are virtually invincible 
 and they are air units which makes them even more uber/1337. and to add some spice into the mix 
 they can also make wormholes and create some kind of mothership that can blast anything to hell. 
 think of it like a portable ion cannon. you'd like that wouldnt you. also the campaign of the scrin 
 is also extremely hard. you have to be very good with using **** units because you dont get the 
 super ships until the end of the campaign which of course sucks sweaty balls. to conclude this 
 review i just have to say this game is a must-buy if youve good a strong computer, good attitude 
 and a habit of breaking things when you lose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 9, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  What's supposed to be a sequel to Tiberium Sun, one of the old school classics is a total fail, 
 injustice to the original game and just an uninspired game. 
  
  Starting from the gameplay, this looks like C&C generals mod, rather than what was supposed to 
 be a great sequel to a great game. The campaign is weak and the missions are boring, the story 
 seems unoriginal, borrowing from many previous RTS games and just does not hold strong compared 
 to the original story.
  
  It's obvious that the team that made the original game has not worked on this game or at least 
 very few from that team worked on this one. There is a huge presence of various RTS flavors mixed 
 in the whole game and that's just bad. 
  Playing Red Alert 2, C&C 3 Generals, then Zero Hour and now Tiberium Wars is like playing a different 
 mod of the same game, few new units, same gameplay, same style, similar style campaigns and then 
 on top of this you also got various flavors mixed up from other RTS games interfering with the 
 story. The acting itself in the cinematic is pretty bad, even though there are 2 big actors there. 
 
  
  The dialog is also bad, maybe that's why I have the feeling the acting is bad. The whole time it's 
 like oh crap we are under attack go kill all enemies, oh we are attack again, go kill all enemies 
 and the same and the same and more of the same for the first faction. Then on the second faction 
 it's a bit more interesting but essentially also uninspired and a pretty weak story. Really who 
 is buying this crap? The story and dialog is just awful. 
  
  Now let's return to the gameplay. I've never really liked C&C gameplay generally since it has such 
 hard counters, in this game let's say you have 10 mammoth tanks against 20 rocket launchers, the 
 rocket launchers which are way cheaper and faster to build than a mammoth tank barely receive any 
 damage from the tanks while they can keep pounding on the tanks for minutes if you do not retreat. 
 And so you have like rock, paper scissors thing. The enemy has 10 rocket launchers, bring 10 infantry 
 gunned units to counter; the enemy now has tanks, bring rocket launchers to counter. 
  
  This just reduces strategy to meaningless counters every time. The unit build time is way too fast 
 and unbalanced. There is never need or any gain to build say 2 barracks, since the average spawn 
 time is so short; furthermore the actual tiberium is harvested so fast, that it's impossible to 
 make units more than 5 minutes from the starting tiberium near your base. 
  
  The units are ones that you've seen in previous C&C games or other RTS games, with different names 
 for each faction, but essentially doing the same thing. You have the basic marines, grenadier, 
 rocket launcher, sniper, advanced unit good against tanks and a special unit. Then you have transport, 
 tank, anti-air vehicle and a bigger tank. The new race is actually better than the GDI and NOD 
 in terms of units and they are generally better looking, they seem inspired and unique, but the 
 problem is the gameplay style in which they attack is same as other races, it's the same rock, 
 paper and scissors thing. Another thing I really dislike is the turning points for units, it can 
 be good to maybe have short turning points for units in this type of game, but this is exaggerated. 
 Having your tank turn for 5 seconds is not fun and especially when you are controlling a big chunk 
 of units and give them an order to move, it seems forever until they finally start moving and even 
 more until they get to the desired location. Attack-move function seems to not be working good 
 half the time and you can see units just moving and not attacking the enemy, this is especially 
 when you are controlling bigger armies. 
  
  Overall from start to finish this game just feels wrong, feels uninspired, feels rushed and it 
 gets boring really fast. I recommend anyone who does not really like C&C to pass on this game.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Alright if you guys loved Supreme Commander, C&C Generals or Empire Earth then this is a game for 
 you guys! C&C Tiberuim Wars is the first C&C that to me felt like it had the best gameplay, graphics 
 and storyline of all the C&C's, and you get three factions in this one: GDI: Who is trying to stop 
 the spread of tiberuim, NOD: Who wants to accelerate the spread of tiberuim, but soon humanity 
 is about to discover that they're not alone in the universe when SCRIN arrives. There is a lot 
 of units in this C&C like: Juggernaut, Mammoth tank, Flame tank, Avatar and a whole lot more! In 
 C&C Tiberuim Wars you've got two resources that you need to have: tiberuim and energy, the energy 
 is easy to collect but the tiberuim is hard because if you play a mission too long then you run 
 out of tiberuim which is bad because you've got to send your harvester's outside the base where 
 all the enemies are waiting. I found the GDI campaign easy but the NOD campaign is was kind of 
 hard to beat because when you're playing a mission the map is crowded with GDI and every time you've 
 got to go through them to get to your objective and this game is buggy but if you just ignore it 
 then you will love this game!
  
  Have fun gaming.
  Venom192 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  
  It doesn't get much more unfortunate than this. The Command and Conquer strategy series was once 
 at the forefront of strategic gaming on any gamer's mind. PC's across the globe were once littered 
 with Command and Conquer software, from the original, to the Red Alert series. Indeed, the Command 
 and Conquer series once carried the flag of the RTS genre and waved it proudly for all to see. 
 
  
  Those were great times. But these statements are also all in the past-test, because the fact of 
 the matter-the ugly, unfortunate, and undeniable fact of the matter- is that the Command and Conquer 
 Franchise is a shell of its former self. 
  
  Well, actually, that wouldn't be entirely true, because the franchise essentially IS its former 
 self, to a T. For some, this may be a good thing, but on the heels of wonderful games like Dawn 
 of War, Company of Heroes, and others like World in Conflict, it is very hard to imagine how. In 
 fact, Command and Conquer 3 sticks so hard to its old pair of dusty revolvers that it isn't surprising 
 that it can barely manage to hit its target with any sort of punch. To break down that silly analogy, 
 the truth is that Command and Conquer just isn't exciting.
  
  The list of things that Command and Conquer does that are still the same as its past self are frankly 
 exhausting:
  
  Collect Tiberium 
  Build structures off-screen 
  Build and worry about super-weapons constantly 
  Mass up the most powerful units 
 
  Protect Harvesters 
  Crush enemy 
  
  For some of you, this may all be fine, but for most of us, I suspect not, because the fundamental 
 flaw of Command and Conquer 3, one even worse than the fact that the unit models are uninteresting, 
 and that they relate so truly to the old games, and that the FMV's and Campaigns all have a sense 
 of been-there-done-that The worst offense of the C&C franchise now, more than all of this, is 
 that there is no REAL strategy.
  
  For a strategy game, this is its largest failure. In this game, most games come down to who has 
 the best and fastest build order, to who manages the most tiberium, or who defended their base 
 the best, but there is really no on-field strategy whatsoever, really. If you have the better units, 
 you should win. If you have the most money, you should win, but there is really no hope, of interesting 
 strategy, where ambushes, or well placed grenades, or well commanded troops, can change the tide 
 of a war. 
  
  In fact, when you play a game like Company of Heroes, which has men taking cover, lobbing grenades, 
 going prone, getting pinned down, issuing full-scale retreats, capturing and using enemy heavy 
 weapons, and so on, and so forth, the rock-paper-scissors formula that is the lifeblood of Command 
 and Conquer is truly a pitiful excuse for a strategy game.
  
  You cannot equip your units on the fly, you cannot reinforce them, they do not go prone, take cover, 
 or do anything remotely strategic, other than shoot, use a special ability or two, and that's all. 
 
  
  Again, this is just so, so outdated that it isn't even worth playing I cannot express this enough.
 
  
  If you want a real strategy game, that isn't so dull and unstimulated, go somewhere else, because 
 at best, this game is an arcade strategy game, if ever there was one. 
  
  Indeed, to my mind, the game, (and it's expansion too) bring absolutely nothing new to the table, 
 and nothing interesting. What's worse, the half-hearted Scrin race (which is so underdeveloped, 
 narratively, that it hurts) acts as an ear-mark to how poor the developers sense of improving the 
 series is. 
  
  A lame, hardly explained, and poorly modeled raceof insect-machine-spirit things, does not constitute 
 a huge development for the franchise. 
  With a poor campaign that features the same base building over and over, along with unimpressive 
 FMV acting sequences, poor unit models, underwhelming concepts and a laughable excuse for in-the-field 
 strategy, Command and Conquer 3 is well, and I mean WELL behind its comepetion in proving a real 
 strategic experience.
  
  This one is for the kids, at best, and a huge disappointment for die-hard strategists.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: breadheadian
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I thought the game was decent before I played it online. The skirmish is fun but not terrific, 
 the campaign had a decent story line that was entertaining, and the new cartoonish graphics were 
 interesting to watch. All of that wore off very fast. The skirmish gets boring, the campaign gets 
 old half way through, and the graphics just get to be annoying. At this point I decided to try 
 the online play to see if it could keep me playing the game as long as the other C&C games like 
 Generals, Red Alert, and Red Alert 2 had done. Instead I played about 2 or 3 hours online and then 
 totally gave up the whole charade. EA has done a terrific job of removing all concious strategic 
 thinking from this "Real Time STRATEGY" game. Nobody online plays with any forethought as there 
 is absolutely no incentive to do so. The only viable "ahem Strategy" is spamming tanks (or tripods 
 if your the alien race) . This all got REALLY old REALLY fast and now the game just sits underneath 
 the stack of games that I actually play. 
  
  Bottom Line, unless your a spammer, dont waste the 30 bucks it will probably cost you to get it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretagent013
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun to play in general. The campaigns are fun, the skirmishes are fun. The graphics 
 are amazing. Game play and re-playability is very high. There are lots of bugs. Bonus objectives 
 sometimes don't work. There is no real reward for completing bonus objectives. There are some minor 
 glitches, some times when a building is destroyed, a stream of symbols flow from the rubble.
  
  The game generally has the same look, feel and controls of the previous C&C games. There is 
 a great new feature that allows you to group units into an organized, pretty formation. GDI and 
 NOD campaign is very satisfying. There is a Scrin bonus campaign which is short.
  
  If you computer is old and does not have a fast graphics card, you cold be deprived of the graphic 
 potential.
  
  This game was probably a lot more polished for XBOX 360. Unfortunately. The developers should focus 
 more on PC rather than the crappy XBOX. Who plays C&C on XBOX 360, seriously? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CliX098
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Command and Coquer is only goood for the pc bcuz stragety games are not good for the xbox 360. 
 This has a wider variety of vehicles and infantry. every different unit is good for their very 
 own thing. infantry is good versus infantry and vehicles are good versus vehicles and structures. 
 Command and Conquer is one of the best stragety games along side age of empires. you can create 
 your own little or big realm (base) . There are very interesting defense structures to hwlp you when 
 you dont have any units. You are able to build your own big army and lay siege to the enemy. the 
 superweapon lays just pure destruction to anything in its way. The ion cannon is one of the best 
 bcuz it circles a ton of lasers and when they all meet they make a big BOOM!!! After its over you 
 see nothing but fire where it blew. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jegan234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Since this was my second C&C game, I thought that it was amazing!!!! Try all the factions first 
 for a while and then you will know which one is yours. One of the funnest things about all C&C 
 games is that you can play a game without fighting anyone, or you can fight your allies. I tried 
 it one time when I was GDI, when I built a Ion cannon and just tried to kill them all! But when 
 you are just by yourself fighting no one, just make a huge base and huge defenses and a huge army, 
 your living large baby! And after a while, and you really like GDI, start playing Nod and you'll 
 just hate being  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nazarimous
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  One thing I love about this game's series is that there is no limit to how much you can build. 
 You dont need to build housing for you units, theres no overall limit you can have, just build 
 a this, build that, attack, and destroy!
  
  Ive been a fan of the series for a while, started with the original red alert, and worked my way 
 up. Although staying true to the nature of all the game mechanics is good, the cinematics are probably 
 the part I least like about this game. Crappy/cheesy actings, with unrealistic characters is just 
 boring, I realize that its like that on purpose, and that its part of the C&C theme, but I would 
 like them to try to explode new areas a bit more.
  
  It did everything right in the areas they put into the game, but didnt do enough to expand it's 
 gameplay.
  
  But I still love it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triacona
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  It is a sturdy piece of programming and is created for all levels of gamers from novice to "I can 
 build a million things at once duel of death"! No problems or bugs so far! The NOD GDI and SCRIN 
 are quite well balanced against each other, not quite perfect, but hey is anything in life!
  
  Great super weapons, vortex of death! Hehe! The graphics aren't that bad either and my three 
 year old PC (AMDX2 4000 with 3GB RAM and Geforce 7800 on board sound 7200RPM HDD (40GB) ) can run 
 it at quite a high graphics setting!
  The game play is really quite well thought out and enables you do to do the maximum with your frantically 
 moving paws as possible! 
  On the whole the game really is worth your cash as long as you don't spend more than 18 on it! 
 As far as playability goes it will keep you glued to your screen for eons!
  So quite an awesome game all round!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimyseixo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Game starts... nice graphics, clasic tutorial; as you progress through the game is obvious that 
 is the same old story (I guess thats why they call it Command and Conquer) , is just that this time 
 the end doesn't reach a purpouse, neither save or destroy the planet. I decided to play the game 
 online and see if there is more fun on it but up to this time I still waiting for EA support to 
 answer to the problem I have loging in to play online; I did have a quick response at first but 
 never given a solution and after the second request for help no more answers (at this time) . To 
 kill some free time the game is ok but the thrill and enjoiment of the first titles are totally 
 missing. I miss the days of the Star Trek Star Bridge Commander as well as the Armada, GOOD GAMES 
 WITH GOOD STORY LINES. i'm going to have to try World in Conflict the problem is that I'm not sure 
 if I will have the time needed to play that one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyman365
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  First I should start by saying that I am a huge fan of the whole series and that I have everyone 
 of the Command and Conquer RTS games since the mid 90s. With that said this game will not disapoint, 
 it has great detail, gameplay and the units are fun too. Although the AI can be a little easy to 
 beat nothing beats playing online/lanning with friends. This game is not exactly revolutionary 
 but it keeps a lot of the successful details of past games which makes it really enjoyable.
  
  The units are futuristic yet seem somewhat realistic. Graphics are great but not spectacular. 
 This game reminds me a lot of the orginal Red Alert and I wish that Red Alert 3 had been designed 
 like this (it sucks) . Right now this is the best RTS on the market. And all of the international 
 gaming competitions are using it as their RTS component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fenix0-7
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I found the game enjoyable, addictive and the story lines are all good. The only bad thing i found 
 is that combat is often repeditive. Everytime you are fighting in campaign or even against AI in 
 skirmish, once your defences are up and running they will constantly hit you the exact same way 
 and in the exact same spot. A good thing about the combat is that you cant win with just one unit 
 like in most games. You need to attack your enemy with an army housing a variety of units, each 
 with unique strengths and weaknesses. Game dificulty is well designed, the easy level is easy but 
 not so much a push over, medium is challenging yet not too fustrating and hard is dificult and 
 a welcome challenge to the more advanced gamers. The storylines co exist quite well and each answers 
 a question you ask yourself while following another storyline. It is also nicely achieved in the 
 fact that each faction has a reason for believing they are doing the right thing and the opposing 
 is evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rizli
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  the graphic display is very good therefore you will need a higher VGA than command and conquer 
 generals ZERO : HOUR
  nothing special in campaign mode, it soon make you bored with only 2 campaign and 3 faction available
 
  but, if you miss the old command and conquer red alert in a new style and technology, this is 
 the right choice it still use the same way of playing with the construction tab and the building 
 just pop out of nowhere in the battle field. there is no need for a worker to build it. just order 
 and you got your delivery.
  
  and also you can only able to build one super weapon, we know you could build dozens of those in 
 command and conquer generals as long as the fund are enough. although the super weapon in this 
 game is very powerful you can not hide it because the enemy will get a clear sight of it. just 
 make sure you guard it well other wise you won't have a chance to use it.
  
  also the new addition you can select how the AI will play it rather interesting when you see they 
 just attack without concerning defense if you select the rusher. 
  
  i suggest wait for the expansion hopefully it will be better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dude3506
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  This is the first Command & Conquer game I have played, and I was amazed. It has everything from 
 good story to fantastic multi player. The game mechanics are also good, the only drawback with 
 controls is the sensitive building placement, but it is easy to work around.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are great for a game from 2007, I'm still impressed, but you might get some 
 lag here and there from the 30 rail-guns firing at the same time. So you can lower the graphics 
 to a very poor to a high-textured game. Whatever works better for your computer. (also I like to 
 add a touch of lower-brightness)
  
  Game-play: I don't think the contorls could be better for a RTS. You can make them incredibly simple 
 that all you have to do is use your mouse, or you can get everything done in seconds. The faster 
 way is complex and has a steep learning-curve, but it is well worth it in Multi-player. Every team 
 has a different strategy and game-play. You may want to try all three and play them all, or master 
 one. Every team can be fun, and they are pretty well balanced surprisingly.
  
  Story: Single-player will be fun for a while, and it has a sort of intriguing story. You may lose 
 interest fairly quickly, but if you are new (like me) , you may be a little frustrated from some 
 of the missions. The worst thing that can happen is to change the difficulty, or rethink your strategy.
 
  
  Multi-Player: I haven't done a lot of this, but what I have done; was very fun. I can't comment 
 too much because I was horrible, and didn't do it enough...
  
  AI: It isn't that great, when you are new, you'll find them challenging, maybe, but after you find 
 some good strategy, you'll have an easy time with Hard or Extreme even. On easier difficulties, 
 you'll find that the enemy commander will forget to tell their units to fire back, which is humorous, 
 but you don't get the full fight. 
  
  Total: This game is a must for any RTS fan, and is simple enough for newbies too. I would give 
 it a 9.0, but no more. A perfect game is hard to find, but you'll come pretty close with this one. 
 Get it ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  Playing Command and Conquer 3 is like a trip down memory lane. The NOD is back on the attack and 
 it's megalomanic leader and religion-freak Kane has risen from the ashes of it's temple.
  In no time you are building barracks, recruting soldiers and throwing them into battle. The single 
 player has you busy for some 15 to 20 hours and these hours fly by. The gameplay is fast. I recommend 
 saving a lot, because often things go dramatically wrong and you don't want to start the whole 
 level over again. During missions you get video-updates on your mission and there are movies between 
 missions. The acting is fun to watch.
  The multiplayer is also tons of fun. Especially as you employ nuclear missiles against your adversary's 
 structures and troops. You can also use air-units or commando's, whatever you like. 
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanDmAN9001
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Growing up on Red Alert 2, I thought I've seen it all. Graphics, compatibility, styles, etc. But 
 playing Command & Conquer 3 has opened my eyes to an entirely new world that just completes the 
 perfect RTS. The wide range of levels, vehicles, units, and structures are all impressively and 
 inclusively detailed and elaborate withing the game's interface. Although the AI difficulty was 
 a little overpowering, it challenged me to become a better player and strategist. The singleplayer 
 mode had a great story line, with actors that I thought disappeared from TV or movies. The multiplayer 
 functionality is very well made, hardly any glitches or lag. Overall, the game's playability, options, 
 and strategies are near perfect and I hope the franchise continues like this for a long time to 
 come. This game deserves and EPIC WIN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRAEEee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Kane back for war with GDI and this time kane was very equip with more vehicle than before and 
 come for destroy GDI.
  such as more time in strategic game you can choose two group you can choose Kane or GDI. Those 
 group in 7 or 8 grade war with himself but after this time, a self replicating alien substance 
 has infected the Earth and is spearding fast. This real time strategic epic is looking property 
 next generation with improved visuals and game play.
  But the GDI and Kane war with himself and alien the alien come for exploitation earth but kane 
 or GDI concern to your choice gravel the alien but not destroy and then gravel to himself. 
  The game play of this game such as the other strategic game example General or Red alert with low 
 different. 
  the different this game is the war rush for Tiberium. Tiberium is gold in our mind because the 
 price of wrought unitage Tiberium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanz774
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  This game is !AWSOME! Because it has the right difficulty level and puts you on the edge of your 
 seat just waiting for more action. This game will not disappoint you it is a game that deserves 
 a perfect 10. This game also has 3 campaigns 1 which you must unlock by completing the other 2 
 so if you haven't had enough. IF u still need more action be sure to also play the other command 
 and conquer games. Half way though the NOD and GDI campaigns their is an unexpected twist which 
 will suprise you and will give you even more action. If you're looking to rent or even buy this 
 game you shouldn't be disappointed at all but when you finished the game you will want more. This 
 game is awesome and it's the best game in the command and conquer series. Although the official 
 gamespot score is 9.0 it is an excellent game which would satisfy your need for action. Again is 
 the best game i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Cultist
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:28 am PT
Review:  EA with this one blew me away ,and I can tell I've been playing C&C since '96. For starters ,enigne 
 that's running the game is indeed old (It was developed for C&C: Gen;03') but the graphics are still 
 impressive. (Can be easily runned on GF7th ser.) 
  Every single unit in the game has a purpose and everything is balanced very good. The best thing 
 is that every faction is different from other so when you get used to one its very hard to go back 
 on the other one.. The atmosfere in game is really greatly adjusted to "the story" since everything 
 has to feel infected and heck ,it does feel like that. The bad thing for me is that there isnt 
 that big number of units ,just standard armor+ground units and I'm talking about 10-15 units or 
 so.. Just the last two maps are BIG ,I mean really big that you can enjoy in (red alert 2 style..) , so 
 that's one downside too but World Builder was released so If you want to play god ,go ahead.. :)
 
  Overall ,this is the best RTS in some years and it will still be a great one until new Tiberium 
 game comes out :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phileosophos
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Graphically, it's beautiful. Aurally, it's just as sweet. And the focus is clearly on action and, 
 more to the point, doing fun stuff. You'll get to defend the pentagon, make things go boom, put 
 commandos to incredible use, etc.
  
  But man is the campaign just ridiculous at times. I breezed through acts one and two in the GDI 
 campaign and then got hammered in the third act. You get stuck with an underpowered base, you can't 
 build anything, and somehow you're supposed to repel the constant attacks to build up a force (with 
 practically no economy to speak of) to go rescue some friendly forces. And then once you rescue 
 them, it gets worse!
  
  Seriously, I thought the game was great until I hit act three. Then it went straight into the toilet. 
 Even on the easiest setting after reading the guides, I never made it past the first couple of 
 missions. And after hours of trying, dying, and growing frustration, I said to hell with it. 
 
  
  Games are supposed to be fun. C&C3 is for a while, but then it gets unnecessarily punishing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optiplex523
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Command and conquer Tiberium Wars is a real time strategy game that doesnt use builders but only 
 central queue buildings for construction (a drawback is tat u cant queue more than one of a type 
 of building at a time) . Its got the classic training, mining and upgrade queues and one real plus-plus 
 in this game is that it doesnt have that horribly annoying unit limit (so far i havent seen any 
 limit) , so you can build hundreds and hundreds of units if you wish- as far as i know (now, if 
 your computer will be able to handle all those units is another story) . Unfortunately, setting 
 an orderly formation for your units is not much emphasized here, which would have been nice. But 
 you can set waypoints for troops movement. 
  Its got very nice music and very nice graphics that almost looks like if you are looking into a 
 real landscape. 
  You can expect a lot of action and strategy that can last more than an hour or slick maneuvers 
 that can end the game in a couple of minutes (like an enemy engineer taking over your construction 
 yard) . 
  Also, this game has a couple of more goodies: you can talk to your game buddies in game with voice 
 chat (toggle between everyone or just allies too) and its got an interface where you can set pretty 
 much all the hotkeys you want. 
  So you can go about playing like if playing the piano.
  Have fun playing CandC!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hot909guy69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Lets see, so this game grew on me very quick, even with the training mission. I usually skip those 
 as I've played every game in the series. I just kind of use it as a chance to check out the graphics 
 up close and take my time. Let me tell you, its worth it.... this is easily one of the prettiest 
 RTS games ever. Its artistic style and scope are much different than say world in conflict but 
 still very pretty.
  
  the game play seems to have been very will ironed out before the game came out, Mammoth tanks still 
 rule, it was nice to see NOD come up with a nice counter unit, this has always been missing. The 
 missions are varied and it doesn't get repetitive. I'm an old hand at RTSs so I play all the missions 
 on hard, and every once in a while Ill have to play a mission 2 or 3 times to get it. to the balance 
 seems to be right on.
  
  The scrin faction (while cool) could of been cooler, they are very insect like machines... but 
 i still think they could been designed to be more... well... bad @$$
  
  the FMV is still awesome and over the top, and Kane , who still looks the same as in the first 
 command and conquer like 15 year ago (I know its a bit scary) .
  
  overall its an awesome game not to be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prex11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  It's a cool game. I like this game because it's awsome. It's cool to play and I only get to play 
 it at other peoples house, but I tried to download the demo on my computer and it didn't work. 
 Boo-hoo! A way to descripe the game is awsome, sweet, fantastic, cool, awsomer, sweeter, fantasticer, 
 cooler, awsomest, sweetist, fantasticist, coolest stragie game I've ever ever ever ever ever ever 
 ever played. p. s. Age of Empires 3 is a cool game too. la la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
 la la la la la la la la la la la la la yo! peace out to all the ppl who read this!!! if ur readin 
 this ur a total freak!!!! hi to all ppl that read this if ur still readin to this point ur a stupid 
 idiot! fuu fuu foolin! fuu fuu foolin! good bye to u and hi to me this is really borin!!!! eat 
 pizza every day to grow strong! boom boom boom! boomin oomin sterererio! ooh ahh ahh boogity boogity 
 ahh ahh ahh ahh! If u readin this u probably don't have stylin moves! but u probably do hav sucky 
 moves!!! haha! losers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claudron_Born
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 9, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  I only played 4 hours at best, and I already knew what the rest of the game will be like.
  
  I myself am a very big fan of C&C and of Westwood, but this game just made me lose all of my 
 interest in them in a matter of minutes.
  
  No classical robots units, as was suppose to be after Tiberian Sun,
  Instead of classical unit, 
 there are squads, the Unit graphics changed for the worse except for the harvester. The units were 
 far too small, and the whole game had the feeling as if the units and buildings were just unfitting 
 with the ground and debris.
  Tanks, tanks and tank-like vehicles. I thought that the mammoth MK2 was suppose to bring a lot 
 more research into robot, and humanoid war machines, but no- everyone suddenly took the tanks.
 
  The classical Fast-forward style of constructing a building was replaced by
  structures that came out of the ground,
  The cutscenes were the only normal thing in the game, 
 and I saw some good actors there.
  The music was not even half as good as Tiberian sun, or Renegade, and
  The units looked like 
 soldiers from the first tiberium war.
  If EA or Westwood forgot, by this time the tiberium was suppose to grow and take over at least 
 50% of the earth, so everyoen should wear a gas mask and anti radiation suits or anti-radiation 
 outfitted armour.
  Also, Tiberium did not grow! it just stood there, in what looked like tiberium zones.
  No tiberium 
 creatures, as far as I have seen at least.
  Where are the mutated animals, and weird creatures? and the visceroid?!
  
  I'm feelning like 
 I am playing C&C 1, only with bigger structures and graphics that make everything look a bit more 
 3D.
  
  For the last part, I don't understand why peope appreciate C&C 3 so much to give it 10/10, while 
 the only things worth spending time on were the cutscenes and Kane!
  Any real C&C fan would realise that this game is not just a waste of money, but a waste of time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugbear
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  i've got a pretty snappy computer that processes things pretty quickly compared to most.... but 
 while playing the game it took really long to load.... and i couldnt run the graphics high at all. 
 i had to keep all the graphic settings on low because the graphics took too much processing time.
 
  
  also, for some reason, i kept getting a clicking and cracking sound through the speakers whenever 
 the music played or someone talked through the game. it wasnt my speakers cause it came through 
 my headphones too.
  
  but as for the gameplay.... very nice story so far... as hard as the levels are. once i got about 
 halfway through the gdi and nod gameplay.... i had to keep restarting as it the dificulty was becoming 
 increasingly harder. but i do like the futuristic setting with some high tech weapons, cars, jets, 
 even the mobile bases was a nice feature. 
  
  over all.... liked the game itself.... but it just really swamped my computer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deshields538
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I was very hopeful about this game. I've been a Command and Conquer fan since the first game in 
 1995. I loved that game and played it for years. I loved the sequel, Tiberian Sun, and still play 
 it occasionally to this day. With Tiberium Wars, I played it for 2 weeks and then just left it 
 on the shelf to gather dust.
  
  This really is a pitiful RTS by today's standards when you have the likes of Company of Heroes, 
 Dawn of War and Supreme Commander out there. This game would have been great 5 years ago but now 
 looks just like a throwback to a past era of RTS gaming.
  
  Let's examine just why this is the case. Firstly EA decided to use the same 7 year old engine as 
 Emperor: Battle for Dune and C&C: Generals. Why? The new textures they've put in look good but 
 the animations are horrible, the explosions are unconvincing and tanks feel very underpowered in 
 oh so many ways. Everything seems like its bursting to be placed in a new modern engine instead 
 of the patched up SAGE one it they have to do with.
  
  Speaking of tanks, the unit design is a huge step back from Tiberian Sun. Actually, EA have pretty 
 much ignored Tiberian Sun with its titan and wolverine mechs, tick tanks, Hover MLRS's, banshees 
 and subterranean vehicles. Instead they've given the factions their generic tanks and units from 
 C&C1 back and tried to pass them off as new by changing how they looked. EA even admitted that 
 the engine didn't support subterranean units. See EA? This is why you build your own engine instead 
 of trying to save yourself money by using an old one!
  
  This game looks like it took place before Tiberian Sun. At the end of Sun's expansion pack the 
 world was in the crapper and GDI said they had around a year before the Earth's atmosphere became 
 100% toxic. The situation was very grim and this combined with the futuristic unit design created 
 a very believable and enjoyable post-apocalyptic setting. Ion storms would go off in battles grounding 
 air traffic, Tiberium fields spread across the map if left unchecked and there were ferocious Tiberium 
 creatures and mutants everywhere. But now everything seems pretty fine, no Tiberium creatures, 
 no Tiberium veins or spreading across the map, no Ion storms, just some green crystal that stays 
 in its field all day, not spreading past a certain point. Tiberium Wars has successfully screwed 
 with the lore so completely that if it weren't for a few key units like the Juggernaut and a few 
 intel entries, you could safely say that Tiberian Sun existed in a completely separate universe 
 from Tiberium Wars. Instead of advancing the story EA has tried to turn back the clock to C&C 1. 
 No post-apocalyptic setting here. Nobody has the same fear of Tiberium that was present in TS. 
 To them it just seems like a minor inconvenience/source of money while they fight those Nod dudes. 
 And that's exactly how EA likes it. If the story doesn't advance they can keep churning out game 
 after game for maximum profit. 
  
  Like almost everything else, the gameplay has been recycled from Tiberian Dawn and Generals. You 
 have your war factories and your barracks and all you do is spam mammoth tanks and zone troopers 
 all day. Actually no, it's just the mammoths tanks you need to win. That's pretty much the case 
 in most games, you pray that your mammoth spam is better than his avatar or tripod spam. They really 
 haven't added anything at all to the gameplay that wasn't already present in older games in the 
 series. There are garrison able buildings from Red Alert 2, there's the aircraft from Generals. 
 Quite a lot of it dates back to C&C 1 actually. I'm not expecting EA to reinvent to wheel but fresh 
 gameplay would have made this a whole lot better. Instead they have played it safe and some places 
 made the game worse. 
  
  The live action video sequences are also poorly acted with the exception of Joe Kucan and Michael 
 Ironside.
  
  This is a sad excuse for an RTS game and just terrible for a C&C game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pale_rider87
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This is my first ever game review and i hope u like it.
  
  This is one of the best C&C games i have ever played. The graphics are awesome for a game of it's 
 kind. For those who are used to playing the red alert series or tib sun will find that the controls 
 are slightly different eg clicking the other mouse button to apply the command. I am fearing that 
 the franchise might be getting a little silly by adding alien forces. For me the game is about 
 good urban warfare and not some alien invasion. I like the new superweapons and the fact that units 
 (the ones on foot) are now being built as squads and not singles. All the bad things aside (not 
 that there are many) this is a truly awesome game and recommended to all C&C and other strategy 
 game fans out there.
  
  Ps: If anyone can give me any advice on how to write a good review please contact me pale_rider87@hotmail. com 
 
  Many thanks to the developers at westwood studios and EA games for a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineruler
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  This is the best game i have ever played.
  I was already a big fan of Command and Conquer when this game came out, i liked Command and Conquer 
 Red Alert 2 and Command and Conquer Generals.
  But those games came from Westwood studios and C&c3 came from Ea games but still its a great game.
 
  First of all the Campaign there are 15 missions each for the Gdi and Nod campaign and a bonus 
 campaign for the scrin with 5 missions, so a total of 35 missions that a lot. also a lot of full-motion 
 video with great actors.
  When you complete mission objectives you will have new information in your infodatabase, you can 
 play any mission that has been cleared and you can watch any full-mution video that has been cleared.
 
  There is a Lan mode a offline skirmish mode and online, the A. I. is great and smart he will surprise 
 you and you can select up to 4 different difficulty settings and also his playstyle, but online 
 is the best, it has a level systym and you can put your matches on the website and save them on 
 your computer it is easy to use you can add voice and draw things, The online is fun, the 3 sides 
 play out completely different and they all have unique abillities like:
  GDI has the most heavy units and the best scouts.
  Nod with their hit and run units that are 
 really fast and great for rushing they also have the best stealth.
  Scrin the high-tech alien race with a lot off teleporting abilities and best aircraft .
  there 
 is also a map-editor that is easy to use.
  The graphics are fantastic and it can run smoothly on older computers the sound is also great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booboobradley
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Top of the line RTS. The storyline is amazing and the way you progress through it reveals the story 
 in a great way. Out of all the RTS's I have played its combat system is one of the best, it has 
 the advanced targeting options, attack move, different combat modes to set for units, the super 
 weapons, the unit balance, the building capturing system, the different races all add up together 
 for a really great RTS. The real cut scene actors adds to the games unique quality of the game. 
 The third campaign although short is fun and gives more insight into the story. The online play 
 is great, everything about the game is great cant wait for the next one. The ending is great and 
 leaves it open to future titles in the series. Top of the line RTS that I highly suggest buying 
 for hours of fun and online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrynarits
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  This was the first C&C game what i played, i had heard of Red Alert 2 and others and more but never 
 picked up any and played. I were a big fan of Empire Earth and Age of Empire series but after this, 
 i "moved on" and haven't played those games for long long time. At the moment i have played almost 
 all C&C games and they all have been perfect but i'm reviewing this one because i have enjoyed 
 and played this one the most.
  
  This game is so easy to play, there isn't no hard resource gathering there is only 1 thing, tiberium, 
 and getting that is easy. The battles are amazing and nice to watch how big armys hit each other 
 and the game runs stable without any slowdowns. I have tried to play this game with older computers 
 and with everything low it worked same as good as it would work with a new computer only graphic 
 isn't so good :P
  
  The missions were nice, u got to play The 3 Tiberium war from 2 sides: Gdi and Nod, if u finished 
 both of them u got a extra campagain, it wasnt so long as the first two but it was rewarding and 
 harder 
  
  The new faction "Scrin" was something what was needed, i think if this game wouldn't not have it 
 it would be a bit boring, my first skirmish battle were as Scrin and they looked cool, everything 
 is alive, planes, tanks buildings and it gave that feeling to. Many people say that Scrin is a 
 bit overpowered but i think the game is very nicely balanced and every faction got its + and - 
 and if u don't use them u will have some problems.
  
  Multiplayer is nice and it will keep u busy for more many many hours, like most of C&C games, and 
 the clan support and leader board give some bonuses. EA is still making a good show what helps 
 new players and even give new tactics to pro players
  
  The only problems/ things what i didn't like were that sometimes building a base was hard, small 
 map and the base building system isn't perfect, expansion didn't fix it either, and the other problem 
 what i didn't like is some missions in the campaign what were to boring or were just "waste of 
 time" and u wanted to finish this game faster. If u play the campaign start with GDI , u get a 
 better experience 
  
  This game is great and i recommend buying it to everyone who hasn't played it. The money to buy 
 it is worth this game. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This is good old C&C with all that implies, plus better graphics. Just like Tiberian Sun, it has 
 an engaging plot that is unfolded via cinematic sequences. Joe Kucan once again brings Kane to 
 life, and the other actors do a decent job as well. The game looks great, although I was somewaht 
 disappointed by the fact that the camera is fixed, and you can only zoom in or out (a feature that 
 allows you to appreciate the fine job the artists did on the models, but serves no practical purpose) . 
 The gameplay hasn't changed since Tiberian Sun, and that, too, is rather disappointing. You'd have 
 thought they'd introduce some new features (I mean, fundamentally new, not just new units/structures) . 
 Some missions downright encourage cheating; in those missions, you have to defeat a smaller force 
 first, and then another portion of the map is revealed, with a stronger enemy. Nothing prevents 
 you from clearing out the smaller area, but leaving one enemy building standing, so that the second 
 part of the mission is not triggered, and then raising a huge army without interference. This is 
 an obvious miscalculation on the part of the mission designers. Some missions are pretty challenging, 
 but the game actually gets easier toward the end (I'm speaking about the Nod campaign, because 
 I didn't finish the GDI campaign) . The AI, it seems, has undergone no fundamental improvement, 
 either: once again your enemy sends out small raiding parties instead of attacking with its full 
 force which would crush you in a minute, like any human who is not a complete idiot would do. All 
 this detracts from the experience, but don't get me wrong: the game is still absolutely worth playing, 
 and a must if you're a C&C fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iloneforcombat
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  C&C 3 Tiberium Wars benefited from an addition of a third race. It also featured a universal tiberium 
 growth, (which wasn't always the case for C&C1 and C&C2) Another genuine feature was a squad system 
 for infantry where most infantry are trained in troops. This also made it easier to use infantry 
 as cannon fodder and to increase their firepower (at the cost of individual hit points) and their 
 value in suppression.
  
  PROS
  Universal tiberium growth: :D now the players are no longer forced to look for new site if resources 
 run out (although it is recommended)
  
  Faster unit production: multiple war production facilities can now work individually to spit out 
 units :D
  
  Tech Structures: Now tech structures are available in tiberian series :D
  
  Graphics: Owns if you have a great graphic card
  
  Infantry Squad System: Infantry are now 
 trained in squads, increasing their value in some degree in terms of suppression and psychological 
 impact (When massing)
  
  Cons
  Difficulty rotating buildings
  
  NOTHING ELSE :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HufflePuff-TLH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars is amazing, this RTS is imo the best in the CNC series and 
 it deliveres gameplay wise.
  
  The dev team realy did a lovely nice job on the grafiks side of the game, everything is well rounded 
 and the colours work for the game, the enviroment has all sort of cool effects attached to it like 
 colored water like clouds moving over the ground and such. The units look nice and there is nice 
 shadows on everything.
  
  The gameplay is not realy new, why fix something thats not broken right? the good old CNC gamestyle 
 is still there and it still works wonderful in the new game aswell, ofc there has been added a 
 lot of new aspeckts aswell. 
  
  The Single player campaign is oki good, the missions are balanced and they try for you to have 
 alot to do, with oppitional quests and such, you can play as Nod or GDI to start with and after 
 compleating that you can move on the the new alien race in the game, Scrin. after compleating a 
 mission comes the well know actor cutscenes, and though i am not a big fan of thoughes they are 
 oki and can be skiped if you wish.
  
  As for the multiplayer part for the game, it is realy fun, and now after some patches oki balanced 
 among the races, it ill take a while before you get tired of kicking your friends asses at Lan 
 or such.
  
  Overall, a realy realy solid game that is gonna last a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzeram
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is an example of a perfect game, because as far as the RTS genre 
 goes, it doesn't get better then this.
  
  The story in Tiberium Wars takes place after the events of Tiberian Sun, although, there is not 
 much direct relation to be found between the two. Tiberium Wars has it's own story complete with 
 the cut scenes that we all know and love.
  
  What really makes Tiberium Wars stand out are the graphics. Needless to say, this is the best Command 
 & Conquer has ever looked, the new engine is clear and vibrant, and it shows the Tiberium infested 
 war-torn world for the horrible place that it is. The best part is, this game will run at maximum 
 settings on a midrange laptop, which is good news because it means that more people can get the 
 full experience out of the graphics.
  
  Another aspect of the game that makes it so great is the gameplay. The action is fast and fluid, 
 and when you set off your first super weapon, a feeling of victory will empower you. The way the 
 interface is set up makes training new units, building structures, or using your many support powers 
 very easy and pain-free. Thankfully, the sidebar is back for the first time since Red Alert 2, 
 and it has been much improved.
  
  The campaign is very long has it's challenging moments for both GDI and NOD. There is a bonus campaign 
 for you to unlock once you beat the GDI and NOD campaigns. Once you get through the stories, there 
 is endless possibilities in skirmish. Almost every Command & Conquer game has had a skirmish mode, 
 and it is a open battle between you and enemy AI. Skirmishes are always fun, and they can also 
 help you prepare for multiplayer. The multiplayer works like skirmish, except you fight a human 
 controlled army instead of an AI.
  
  Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is one of the greatest RTS games form one of the greatest franchises. 
 This game is absolutely the Best RTS I have ever played, I cannot find any bad points to put against 
 it, so any Command & Conquer or RTS fan should give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielr2k7
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  i have been playing command and conquer games since red alert 2 i have had a lot of experience 
 with the series. so when i started playing this game i had high expectations, and i wasnt let down. 
 so the GDI and NOD return to this iteration of the series, as well as the new Scrin race. all 3 
 of the races are extremely different and require quite different game styles and tactics to control 
 meaningfully. the scrin race is extremely different to any other class in any previous c&c game. 
 and despite the differences the classes seem very well balanced. the cut scenes are as cheesy as 
 can be expected, but not terribly so. the story was never the main attraction to a game of this 
 type anyway. what really matters is that the nuclear explosions look good, and that the game makes 
 you feel powerful
  all in all this is an excellent game, and well worth the investment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RilesCole
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Your controlling your Scorpions and driving them across the desert bare. As you keep going, you 
 pass by wrecks of vehicles and dead infantry everywhere. Tiberium growing on every side of the 
 path. You put your tanks to the left and continue. A concentrated beam of energy fires and your 
 tank is nothing but smoldering metal. So, how do you plan on destroying the defences? Well, you 
 could send in the Orcas! C&C3 lives up to what it is worth. Want to crush the GDI showing Tiberium 
 is best? Or be the GDI and steady your attacks against the ever growing Nod. The campaign gives 
 you a choice to choose which side you want to be on. Perhaps you may want to beat both and, well, 
 maybe you just might unlock something special. Beat the whole entire campaign like a snap? Well 
 challange yourself in skirmishes or online matches! Test your true skill against legendary players 
 or put yourself up against the hardest oppenants. Not satisified there? Well pick how the computers 
 react or choose their personality to show how they battle. It's a great game, perhaps the best 
 in the series. I'd get it now if I were you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RegisBrett
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Being a Command and Conquer fan for most of my life I was simply amazed of how well they made it, 
 I mean this game is one of the best Real Time Strategy's (RTS) their is. This is because of how 
 little they strayed from previous games and I'm not saying that's a bad thing. From the beginning 
 you can start one of the two available campaigns as either the Global Defense Initiative or the 
 Brotherhood of Nod, but the hook to this is the cheesy Full Motion Video's (FMV's starring such 
 actors as Michael Ironside, Josh Holloway, Jennifer Morrison, and Billy Dee Williams to name a 
 few) which give you views of the two totally different factions and the ability to unlock a third 
 secret campaign. From the story to the game play this game is a perfect example of how to apply 
 old school to new school.
  
  Peace Through Power! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I wanted more out of this game than it could deliver. The cut scenes were tremendous and the only 
 real reason to buy this game. If you decide to rent the Xbox version, play a couple of missions, 
 but turn up the volume for the cut scenes between. You'll find yourself rushing through different 
 missions to get to the story.
  
  I didn't really feel immersed in the story until I was directed by Cain. He is the true impetus 
 of this game. He is the sole reason to play after all. I don't know if its the over the top Soap 
 Opera Acting or the intense storytelling, but I found myself caring a little about what was happening 
 in the war. 
  
  The graphics were uninspiring and the gameplay was clumsy and played too much like the other Command 
 and Conquer games from ages ago. The balance was always off kilter and unit spam is too common 
 place. There was very little need for strategy or forethought when I played. I could pretty much 
 lose my eyes and produce one type of unit repeatedly. Point towards enemy... rinse repeat. 
  
  In the age of Supreme Commander, I was hoping for more and got a movie with a sad little game 
 attached. Movie was worth an 8. Game was worth a 5.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play3r_One
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  I still remember how good where those old C&C games under Westwood's hand. But many people said 
 they are gonna suck when EA took over C&C, well they where wrong when it comes to good old Generals, 
 but now with the next game in the series (this one) EA is slowly but certainly starting to walk 
 its well known path.
  
  Tiberium Wars improves some small things compared to previous games (mostly graphics) but overall 
 it's bad. This game is actually nothing more but going all over again with the same old formula, 
 and btw only good things in Tiberium Wars where ripped of from C&C Generals. This game is not worth 
 playing, it has so many bugs, and the worst ballance of teams I have ever seen in any strategy 
 game, also it is missing so many good things previous games had, and it has the worst campagin 
 ever in C&C series. Multiplayer is unplayable due to some major failures, that I wont even bother 
 to mention.
  
  Tiberium Wars is a total letdown !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This game was totally awesome. The graphics were really good for a Strategy game. I loved the animation 
 in every thing you do. Even dying units are fun to look at.
  
  With Kain set on exposing the world to Tiberium, you have to either fight to keep that from happening, 
 or join NOD to spread the Way of Tiberium to the world. Both campaigns have you battling to the 
 death in really well designed Scenario's. No one stage looks the same or has exactly the same objective. 
 It's awesome.
  
  The HD movies are great as well and add a lot to the story line. Usually you get some CG generated 
 person telling you what to do at the end of and beginning of missions, but this actually had a 
 story.
  
  I think (after the patches) the factions are well balanced with their own strengths and weaknesses. 
 No 2 games I think will go the same. 
  
  Awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Maajka
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I remember the times when I was still young and perspective. One day I went to local software shop 
 and bought Tiberian Sun. I believe it was back in '99. For the whole 8 years it remained installed 
 on my rig and survived all other C&C titles, Supreme Commanders, Homeworlds and Civilizations. 
 
  
  Fast forward. The new Tiberium universe title. And what it is? The crowd got wrapped in the cloak 
 of hype and commercials, giving this game high ratings of 10s and such. But did it deserved it?
 
  Tiberium Wars is a bad title. It runs on old, God forgotten engine of C&C Generals. C'mon, if 
 EA's so stingy they don't give those developers some extra bucks to make the new graphics, than 
 it's better for them to make shoes. Animations are unfinished. Soldiers slide across the ground, 
 aircrafts behave stiff and unrealistic. Textures get 5/10, but geometry and details could be a 
 lot better. Explosions appear old and unimpressive, except for some superweapons, like the Ion 
 Cannon or Scrin's Rift weapon.
  It doesn't bring anything new to the RTS genre. The thing is to build a bunch of units and send 
 them near the enemy base and let them win the day. Nothing challenging, nothing new or refreshing. 
 Gameplay is dull and repetitive, campaign missions unchallenging and just miss the whole point.
 
  And unit's design... I just can't find the right words. Tiberian Sun had such a great designs, 
 giving the game that unique, futuristic and postapocalyptic feel, just like Tiberian universe should 
 be. Tiberium Wars, on the other hand, looks like a bad episode of Star Trek.
  Why is this game so bad? Because it takes everything that was cool in Tiberian Sun, blends it in 
 a Blendtek blender and says: Tiberium smoke, don't breathe this!
  Designers were uninspired, giving a Generals-rip-off look to once cool units. NOD soldiers used 
 to look kinda Nazi, with black suits and helmets, ultracool if you ask me. Now they look like a 
 bunch of angry rednecks with double-barreled RPGs. And what happened to Titans, those huge mech 
 tanks, hovercrafts, subterenian APCs and Flame tanks, Disruptors, old amphibious APCs, Orca bombers, 
 Banshees, Tick Tanks, Cyborgs, Firestorm defense, hunter-seekers and everything else they replaced 
 with some ridiculously designed units that could serve as a combat vehicles just like a chair could 
 be used instead of a swimming pool. And where are the walls!!!??? I can see them in game, why can't 
 I build them???
  Oh yes, they brought the live actors to the game once again. Hell, they act like my dead grandmother, 
 their lines are dull and badly written. No matter how experienced the actors may be, they can't 
 pull it off to make it look good, and locations narrow down to Philadelphia, GDI's command, NOD's 
 Temple and mobile command post in yellow zone 6. What happened to those different, action packed 
 animations we were rewarded with after every completed mission, giving us insight into tiberium 
 infested world?
  Oh yes, the tiberium. It used to be the plague, it used to be toxic and dangerous. But what happened 
 to tiberium in Tiberium Wars? First, it doesn't spread. It was particulary cool in Tiberian Sun 
 to infect the entire map with those crystals. But now it can't spread further than it's field. 
 Sadly. Blue Tiberium isn't explosive anymore, and if you destroy the harvester carrying the blue, 
 it will leave a pack green one on the ground. Soldiers lose health walking through the field, but 
 if they die they don't transform into Visceroids. And the atmosphere in Tiberian Sun used to be 
 toxic to all life, so everyone had to use the masks all the time. Now it seems like the air is 
 much cleaner...
  Mutants? Perhaps they died off. Civilians exist only as a par of the map. You can't kill them, 
 they don't react on the events around them and cars drive around like it's calm Saturday morning. 
 
  
  If we take all of this in account, this game doesn't deserve the "Tiberium" in it's title. It's 
 just a cheap rip-off that doesn't bring anything new to the universe or the genre, but takes a 
 lot away.
  I'm giving it 1.5 because of Joe Kucan, Kane never gets old or balder... And Scrin appear as a 
 nice add on to the franchise, but too many aliens here.
  
  Advice for the next title: Leave the aliens out, bring back the good old stuff from TS!!! And for 
 crying out loud, Machines are not alive! Juggernauts shouldn't behave like a flea-infested puppy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_Lost
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  I remember the first C&C when it came out; revolutionary and highly addictive. It was the first 
 game that I played online. When I say online, it was at 28kbps, frightening.
  
  In the interim there have been many incarnations of C&C, and you can now buy the 10 year anniversary 
 edition with all those games in it. I enjoyed a some of them, and not others, but there is no denying 
 that they were mostly very successful and addictive.
  
  C&C 3 carries on that success story. The comparison that I would make is with Starcraft, with several 
 years of developement. The three factions are very different and each have their strengths and 
 weaknesses. As usual the GDI is the powerful head-on combat faction, the NOD forces are guerrillas 
 with some later powerful pieces and the Scrin are completely different.
  
  The balance is good, the storyline video parts has good actors (Love Jennifer Morrison (House) as 
 Lt. Kirce James) .
  
  I will write more at a later stage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game from the Tiberium based, Nod vs GDI games that Ive played, and I have to 
 say, it was a lot of fun. It through me back to my first introduction to RTS gaming, with Dune 
 2, and brought back a lot of great memories.
  
  I don't really have much to say about the game. It wasn't original by any stretch of the imagination, 
 but it was rock solid and had a lot of cool features. One thing I did have a bit of an issue with, 
 was the fact that the Nod power that has a bomber come in and drop a bomb (i forget what it is 
 called) absolutely flattened my base playing as GDI, but when I played as Nod, it did literally 
 bugger all damage. I digress.
  
  Perhaps its just me, and I might be crazy, but playing the Nod campaign, I was drawn in to the 
 extent that I had legitimate feelings of unquestioning loyalty to Kane, and that was after I played 
 the GDI campaign with them saying "we're so righteous and they're so evil" the whole time. It grew 
 to the extent that as soon as the advisor, who had been an avid Kane supporter the whole time made 
 the suggestion that Kane was not right in the head during the last mission intro, my feelings for 
 him swung from "I like that guy" to "I hope that traitor gets killed."
  
  Like I said, I might be crazy. But the between mission cinematics in Tiberum Wars were the most 
 immersive (and immersion is a VERY important thing in gaming) that I have ever seen in a video 
 game, more than the past C&C games that Ive played by far (and they were good) . For that reason, 
 and having it backed up by a strong, solid, but average gameplay and units, I give it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armaan8014
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  I was never a strategy game fan, but when i ran out of games some months ago, i borrowed this from 
 a friend out of desperation for a game.
  I hadn't expected it, but it turned out to be good. 
  Since i am not a fan of this genre, i couldn't 
 believe that this game held me for hours together. 
  There is a lot of thinking to be done in this game, and each objective can be done differently. 
 You will be completely satisfied with yourself after you complete an objective, and this is what 
 makes this game so addictive, you don't feel like stopping.
  Even for non-rts fans, the action of the zone troopers, tanks etc. is good enough to make you feel 
 as if you are playing an action filled fps.
  Just watching your army take on another one is great.
  I had halfway completed the game when 
 some more new games came out, and so I left this one. Anyway, I was stuck in one escorting mission 
 so i had to quit.
  The story is good and it never gets too difficult. So try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Tiberium wars is a fast paced strategy game that delivers in all areas. The combat is non-stop 
 and the economy is very easy to manage. The gameplay sucks you in until the only way out is obliterating 
 your enemy. 
  
  In a competitive category like RTS you have CoH and SupCom which seem to be the favourite. CnC 
 3 easily tops these with simple to understand controls and brilliant graphics that just look amazing. 
 
  
  This game delivers in all areas with a solid and tense campaign that unfolds beautifully and every 
 mission completed makes you want to move onto the next despite what time of day it is.
  
  One of my favourte aspects of the game is the great multiplayer which is highly competitive and 
 is actually a sport. You can commentate your own replays and post them to the CnC websites to get 
 tips on how to play better.
  
  The only reason that I gave it 9.5 and not a 10 is because of the scrin. I never personally play 
 with this race beacuse even though they are very well balanced in game, the alien feel just does 
 not fit in for me. Nevertheless the GDI and Nod play very differently but are balanced perfectly. 
 GDIs power can be countered by Nod's stealth and sabotage and visa versa.
  
  Overall, CnC3: Tiberium Wars is one of my all time favourites and I highly reccommend it to newcomers 
 to RTS and hardcore strategists alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  lay on the best series of Command & Conquer series. with amazingly dynamic light and very unique 
 units can u create. such as war between alien & human i guess, but very impessively.
  
  =gameplay=
  
  back to two fraction in conflict to take off the tiberium energy. Brotherhood 
 of NOD back to the earth to take the tiberium, and he must face to face with GDI which defense 
 it. with the same gameplay with older series, but there are innovation gameplay u can find. at 
 first u must build structure, collect energy from tiberium. and create units to destroy enemy. 
 and also full of motion video who starring with holywood artists. gameplay very variety with amazing 
 units. u will not bored spent ur time to play it. 
  
  =graphics=
  
  amazingly graphics on there, details of vehicle is very good, but infantry to small and i almost 
 not recognized them. the beautiful number dynamic light with best explosion effect. make u will 
 stay for a few days to play it. and motion video with high definition make the game will be realistic. 
 
  
  =all performance=
  
  i recommended, and very recommended to u, u, and u to play this game. u will not dissapointed to 
 buy it and take it to ur collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_over_mars
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  All , i can say, after watching the poor reality abilites in C&C red alet 3 ,,,
  that ,, Tiberium wars & kane wrath are the best strategic games all over the world..
  perfect 
 story line,,,, excellent graphics ,,,, good control,, and over all the multiplayer system is very 
 very interesting....
  I think ea games will not be able in the near future to produce another game with these features 
 even if high graghics........
  
  Many thanks to the great ea for its gift to the strategy games lovers ,, and they must go in in 
 this "Super series" = C&C command and conquer,,...
  
  Many thanks ea....
  Many thanks ea....
  Many thanks ea....
  Many thanks ea....
  Many thanks ea....
  Many thanks 
 ea....
  Many thanks ea....
  Many thanks ea....
  Many thanks ea....
  Many thanks ea....
  Many thanks ea....
  Many thanks ea.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamat0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  I was always looking forward for the third chapter of the tiberium universe, though I feared that 
 they might mess it up the first day when I've heard about its development. However, I was wrong!
 
  
  Tiberium Wars retains many of its previous traditions of interface, full motion videos, gameplay 
 styles..... etc. It's more of a combination between the traditions of old Command and Conquer games 
 and any gameplay element that made C&C Generals a success. Which I believe is one of the main reasons 
 why it is considered as the best C&C in the series by many players.
  
  
  
  The good:
  
  - The return of the old tradition of building up your base, upgrading your units and defenses 
 and finally crush your enemy is back, and not just that, but there are many stuffs added at some 
 maps that can make the battle look more than just a matter of who crushes the enemy first.
  
  - The story continues after the events of Tiberian Sun and Firestorm. The plot is large and 
 the story is much bigger and exciting than it was in the previous Tiberium universe. The return 
 of Kane is enough to make you wonder what next he has in store for you!
  
  - The 2 old and traditional factions, GDI and NOD, are back and are more powerful and unique than 
 they ever were. Plus the rise of the third faction, Scrin, is a great addition to the story, gameplay, 
 as well as offers the player a deeper choice of which side to choose.
  
  - The campaign is long enough to keep you entertained for as long as it lasts. Plus it has the 
 same tradition as of Tiberian Sun where you get to choose of which part you would like to strike 
 first. There are many different types of missions that are more than just destroy the enemy base, 
 plus the availability of "Optional missions" makes the campaign more interesting and entertaining.
 
  
  - The campaign is filled with live action clips, and it's not like generals where there is a guy 
 with a microphone just standing and giving you your mission, but you will get to see some "action" 
 within these clips from time to time and it also includes some popular actors, as well!
  
  - The dangerous Tiberium material is once again used as the resource for all 3 factions. The blue 
 tiberium still exists to offer a variety of strategies. You can also capture tiberium spikes for 
 constant flow of income, capture specific buildings to hire mutants, and not to mention some tiberium-related 
 upgrades and powers.
  
  - The right-side interface bar is back and you don't need a bulldozer or a worker to construct 
 your buildings, nor you need to click on the building to train your units. The traditional right-side 
 interface can do the whole job for you. In other words, you can construct buildings, train units, 
 repair or power-down buildings by just using this interface alone.
  
  - The new "Analyzes" feature is a great way to keep you involved in the story and keep you up to 
 date with full information about each unit and character. Some entries are considered as "Secret" 
 entries and you need to do specific things to unlock them, such as accomplishing optional missions. 
 A great way to keep the player more open minded than just focused on the primary objective alone.
 
  
  - Like Generals, when you beat any skirmish map, a star will appear next to that map to help you 
 know what maps have been done, as well as encourage the player to participate in more challenging 
 difficulties, as the color of the star differs depending on what difficulty you have finished that 
 map.
  
  - You have the opportunity to upgrade your units and structures in specific ways, as well as unlock 
 some powers by constructing a building. This makes the player think twice before spending resources 
 on anything. The most exciting of these powers, other than that you can summon reinforcements anywhere 
 around the map, is the return of the super weapons! Nod's nuclear missile is more devastating than 
 it ever was, Scrin's Rift generator is powerful enough to "Vacuum" anything in its path, and GDI's 
 improved "Ion Cannon" is now finally a "Fearful" super weapon, you get "WOW!" the first time you 
 use it and notice how different it is than the old Ion Cannon strikes.
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  - While the graphics are really impressive, it requires you to have a strong graphic card to 
 enjoy the game at its full performance. You do have the option to lower the quality of the game's 
 graphics to suit yours. However, with weaker graphic cards you may not enjoy it as much as people 
 with good cards can, such as a slow gameplay (Even if it was at the lowest quality) .
  
  - The factions aren't THAT unique from each other. The GDI and Scrin have similar firepower and 
 defensive levels, whereas Nod is the only faction that seems to count on stealth, speed and long 
 range than firepower, which has made some people think that Nod is not well balanced with the other 
 2 factions. You CAN make Nod a deadly faction on the battlefield with some focus, however, this 
 can limit the number of players who play with them and they might prefer to go for GDI or Scrin 
 instead.
  
  
  
  So as you can see, the Command and Conquer series seems to be at its best with the Tiberium Wars 
 chapter, with the exception of the 2 minor problems that I have mentioned, this can be a great 
 RTS for you to enjoy, even if you never played any Command and Conquer games before, the level 
 design and difficulty of the game is well suited for both newbies and hardcore players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  C&C3 rules, simple as really.
  
  Dont worry thats not going to be all my review im just warming up.
  
  As we all know EA mess 
 some games up, some are good some are just bad anyway, but I am so happy that they never messed 
 this game up, well not till patch 1.09.
  
  The game has an awesome story and even better HD live action movies. Every mission in this game 
 is simpleto follow fairly easy and fits with the story perfectly. 
  
  You may be wondering why I said EA ruined this game in patch 1.09. All I can say is fire, the flame 
 tank and black hand are super overpowered and really does take out the fun in the game when your 
 enermy mass builds them. Other from this annoying feature the game is perfect.
  
  Sadly though in this game the Scrin are introduced, I hate the Scrin they are mega overpowered. 
 It may be a shame that they had to be in the game but on the other hand its a great idea how they 
 did it for the story, bringing them to earth so NOD can learn the secrets of Tiberium.
  
  Overall this game is awesome and gets a well deserved 10/10 for being Command and Conquer and kicking 
 so much butt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  I used to play RTS a lot but stopped 6 years ago. Since then I have been addicted to RPGs and I 
 haven't bought even one RTS game. I received Warcraft 3, Rise of Legends and Rise of Legends from 
 friends of mine and my family as presents on different occasions. I completed all the game but 
 that was all. I've never played online. I guess I've been busy with the RPGs. 
  One year ago I decided to find myself a RTS that I can play as much as I play my favourite RPGs 
 and I think I've found it. Command and Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars is just an awesome RTS. It's my 
 favourite. I really like that when you make a unit it comes out of the building like the real thing. 
 I like that a lot because in most RTS the units just pop out of nowhere near their building. I 
 watched some Starcraft 2 videos and I can't believe the units still do that. I hope they fix this 
 lame animation. In my opinion the sound in C&C 3 TW is the best of all RTS games I'VE EVER PLAYED. 
 The graphics of the game is just awesome even though the shadows suck at settings below High ( 
 including high ) . But you can set the shadows to max and leave the rest setting at high if your 
 GPU is not that good. Good thing I have high-end PC with excellent GPU and I can play the game 
 at Ultra High settings even with anti-aliasing at 9 but the game looks great even at medium settings 
 (excluding the shadows) . And that's a good thing because the recent games have so high requirements 
 especially the RPGs so I had to buy a new PC which I needed anyways. My old one was too old ^_^. 
 C&C 3 will run smoothly on most PCs.
  The campaign is great with enough missions to get you excited. The battles are just awesome. The 
 explosions are mind blowing. You can garrison units in buildings and vehicles.
  Other thing I like is that when you want to build something you don't need all the required credits 
 for a particular building or unit to start building it. You can put on hold or cancel the production 
 of structures and units. The buildings, the units and the maps look excellent. Of course there 
 isn't a perfect game and will never be. It has a few bugs but they are hardly noticeable. This 
 is what a RTS game should look like. I will be playing this game for a long time. At least until 
 the release of Starcraft 2 and who knows maybe even after that. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: champhf
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  i have been searching a good RTS game for a long time so i could retire my Rise of Nations classic 
 video game. command and conquer 3 has got me hooked. i feel like i am late to a party due to me 
 not buying it sooner but im so glad i did. i am running it on a pentium 4 machine with 2gig of 
 ddr memory. my video card is an AGP pny quatro 6200 with 256ram onboard. mother board is an asus 
 ps800 478 chipset with windows XP pro and this thing runs smooth at my highest resolution setting. 
 i did not buy sooner because when the game first came out it stated i needed windows vista but 
 this is not true. i now have a new RTS game and it has keept me entertained for days now. it will 
 entertain me for a long time since it's relativly new and gave me a reason not to upgrade my computer 
 for a nother year. i can only imagin how much this will look once i do get a new computer. if you 
 like staying up late untill your eyes bleed and giving up all your free time then this is the game 
 for you. in my opinion ther is only ne way to play a RTS game ad that is on a computer. .... BTW 
 make sure to update all the ptchs after your install this will resolve any lagging or slowness 
 you might have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_rock_74
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is a great RTS game for the PC. The game reaches out to most 
 RTS fans, because of its fast-paced gaming. People who loved Supreme Commander, may not like this 
 as much, or not like it at all, because of the fast-paced gameplay.
  
  The graphics in this game is amazing. Beautiful water, smoke and textures. During an intense battle, 
 lasers, and missiles look like they are lighting up the Hong Kong sky. The Nod nuclear missile, 
 in my opinion, looks the best because of the spectacular smoke effects. The mission cut-scenes 
 that made the C&C franchise so famous are back, and with an great cast. There are also a bunch 
 of them, which is a very good thing. The sound is pretty good, especially when the lasers fire. 
 The game looks and sounds very pretty.
  
  Now, on to what gamers find most important, gameplay. Before we start, I want to say that the game 
 has been fixed greatly due to patches. The units are more balanced, and the multiplayer is not 
 very buggy anymore. Again the game is very fast-paced, so matches, and missions go faster than 
 usual. I find this makes the game intense, and more strategical. For those that say that this game 
 has little strategy is very wrong. There are many different strategies, like a MCV rush or many 
 others. Those who say that haven't played the game extensively. A very high point in the game is 
 the new playable faction, Scrin. They are insect-like aliens trying to take over Earth. This makes 
 for some very interesting, and new strategies. It adds a new dimension to the old GDI-Nod rivalry. 
 The "strat bar" is back to the side, like all the previous C&C games (except Generals) . This makes 
 it easy build things from anywhere on the map, which is suitable for this fast-paced game. The 
 missions are very interesting, but you will probably spend most of your time playing the great 
 multiplayer. The multiplayer system has many features like Battlecast (broadcast your game online) , 
 VoIP, ranking system, and many more. The matches itself are very intense and again fast-paced. 
 I could only wish for more custom maps like defenses, and bloods. I'm sure there will be much more 
 in the future. A minor low point in the game is that all 3 factions play about the same in terms 
 of infantry and structures. Vehicles and aircraft are different, but I would have hoped for more 
 different infantry, and structures.
  
  The game is a steal at $45 CAD, and $50 CAD (for C&C Saga, which includes First Decade, and C&C3) .
 
  
  Overall, this game is amazing. Graphics and sound are top notch. The singleplayer campaigns, and 
 multiplayer matches are very fun and intense. I can't stress enough, that this game is fast-paced. 
 I would recommend this game to everyone who has an interest in RTS games, except those who don't 
 like the fast-paced gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geniustiong
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Finally Electronic Arts does something good to C&C. What more can you expect in C&C3? Yep, some 
 units were ditched including the Mammoth MKII, the Tick Tank which was replaced by the Scorpion 
 Tank and the Cyborg Commando. We thought that tiberium inhabitants were extinct but no, a new side 
 called Scrin has arrived, the sidebar has returned with some modern tweaks which means easier base 
 managing for us. Graphics are good and gameplay is both addicting and fun. Personally i like the 
 concept of Tiberium Wars. Don't expect the AI to be easy. I dare you to try it on medium and you'll 
 see that it's completely noob proof compared to previous games. If that wasn't enough, the free 
 BattleCast allows real time commentating for multiplayer games as if you're playing on WCG.
  
  
  
  THE BAD:
  
  What happened to all of our replays? I wanted to save my first medium 
 AI skirmish but it didn't have the function! : ( But i'm sure most of you can give that up. Building 
 deplyoing glitches are also present. Even if the terrain is smooth and flat and has no obstacles 
 to disturb your building from deploying there, it just dosen't wanna let you deploy there. We hope 
 that RA3 will also be like that.
  
  
  
  Bryan Tiong
  Director for Sibu's Youtube Community 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viperboy2025
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  A really good refresh in the C&C series. I played the previous games which at this point have really 
 aging graphics. This game really incorporates the latest in graphics for RTS games and nicely presents 
 itself. The graphics are superb, everything is smooth and great looking. The game and campagn is 
 action packed. Effects are very realistic and amazing, explosions, fire power are all nicely done. 
 Everything is smooth and not blocky. The cinematics as is the tradition of previous C&C games are 
 awesome. Have I mentioned the music and sound effects? You really feel like a commander in with 
 the sound effects and cinematics. You feel you are being debriefed and your missions are extremely 
 high priority, you really feel your heart pump as you play this game. This game is not easy, I 
 play this on Hard difficulty level, I got through first act with not too much trouble, but the 
 second act really took a while to beat. I'm currently in the thir act, and it is impossible to 
 win at all on Hard. Not sure if it matters which difficulty you play on, but I figure you get more 
 enjoyment on the hardest.
  
  Great game. if you are a fan of the series, don't miss out on this game. Its the same yet different. 
 The game is a beauty. No doubt about that. if you are new to the series, don't worry you aren't 
 missing much of the story line, as it is retold anyway. Its a really good game to play the campagn 
 and when you are done, try to master them and kick ass online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaVILiOn_010
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer has always been the Apple of RTS games, because every game pushes another innovation 
 forward with absolute success. As you may know, Kane is back and is more evil than ever. The story 
 and acting are excellent, especially because it takes such a big risk with real-life cutscenes. 
 The effects in the scenes are also very well done. Unlike most RTS's, C&C 3 has only one resource, 
 and that alone makes you like it even a little bit. The Dawn of War-esque infantry system is very 
 organized, and even though the opposite can also be good (Rise of Nations) , this method makes it 
 a lot easier to see what's going on around you. Now, for the bad. The graphics are excellent, but 
 using superweapons on Very High settings can cripple almost any computer in seconds. Also, very 
 rarely, the sound can cut out off and on for a few seconds during cutscenes. Any way you look at 
 it, C&C 3 can now proudly stand beside Rise of Nations as one of the RTS kings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 itself is amazing. The graphics are great, so are the sounds, the gameplay 
 is balanced and will keep you busy for a very long time. It has a fast pace style of gaming, so 
 you should be in the middle of the action at all times.
  
  Really, there are no words to describe C&C3. When comparing it to other RTS's out there you just 
 feel there's something different about it. The game is so easy to learn, but you take a little 
 bit of time to master it.
  
  Multiplayer is also great, I've experienced lag spikes here and there, but nothing bad about it.
 
  
  The factions have different strenghts and weaknesses. The Scrin (Alien) faction has aircraft power, 
 while GDI has strong land armies and NOD is balanced, which in my opinion is the weakest faction.
 
  
  Command and Conquer 3 is a traditional, yet innovating RTS. The game is action packed, full great 
 graphics and sound, and a nice story. The gameplay is incredibly fun and I assure you, if you buy 
 this game, you'll not regret it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazen_24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  Nothing can be said about this other than amazing and exciting ,great gameplay, graphics, it is all 
 about competition .. the good in the game is the style of fighting and destruction specially the 
 laser beams and missles they really give a great theme to the game when they appear together.... there 
 is only one bad mistakes in the game which is the patch of the game and its mods where each mod 
 needs a different version and thing will end in giving errors and the mod will not work, hope they 
 will make a patch that will be standard to any update for the game... one more thing which is really 
 good is the music in the game it really suits the game and the actions taken in the game, so i advise 
 all to play the game and see the result by your own eyes. at last last anyone who like strategies 
 should play this game cuz he will be a loser if he dont play it cuz it is hell of a game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2194,0. html
  
  The Command and Conquer series was one of the premiere RTS franchises of the late 1990s. In recent 
 years, however, it quickly dropped out of memory and fame with its past few releases: Generals. 
 Abandoning much of what made C&C unique: such as Kane, Tiberium, and live FMV cutscenes; fans of 
 the series feared that they would never see another Tiberium War again. Fortunately, in early 2006, 
 EA announced its work on Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars. And yes, surprisingly, it does what 
 it came to do and brings the series back to its glory days.
  
  Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars at the onset of yet another Tiberium War. While the conflict 
 between the Global Defense Initiative and the Brotherhood of Nod appears to have subsided substantially 
 ever since, Tiberium infestation has begun to reach critical levels and continues to destroy the 
 Earth's ecosystems at an alarming rate, dividing the world into three vastly different geographical 
 zones based on levels of infestation: Red (Zones that can no longer support life) , Yellow (Contain 
 majority of Earth's population, are populated by Brotherhood of Nod) , and Blue (Last traces of 
 civilization protected by the GDI) . The Brotherhood of Nod fires a nuclear missile at GDI's orbiting 
 command station: the Philadelphia, destroying the majority of GDI's government in one, well-planned 
 assault. Nod then begins a full scale assault against Blue Zones all over the world, with you playing 
 the role of a commander on either side. As the conflict unfolds however, alien forces known as 
 the Scrin later enter the battle, and alter the nature of the Third Tiberium War entirely.
  
  While the story is a notch above the rest, especially in the RTS space, the way it is presented 
 is what truly stands out here. With live action FMV cutscenes featuring actors such as Billy Dee 
 Williams, Michael Ironside, and Joseph D. Kucan as the legendary Kane, C&C 3 harkens back to its 
 previous installments, interlacing mission briefings and news reports with some B movie cheese 
 that make them surprisingly entertaining to watch after the massive outpour of stale, in-engine 
 cutscenes found in nearly all games nowadays. The performances are all equally strong and entertaining, 
 and half the fun in C&C 3 is merely watching them.
  
  The other half of the fun, thankfully, resides in the gameplay. Again, EA took the "if its broke, 
 don't fix it" approach, perserving what has made the C&C series fun and unique. Back are the: Tiberium 
 substance as the game's sole and hazardous resource, the classic two factions of the C&C series; 
 the GDI and Nod, and the "right-sidebar" user interface, and forward-base construction through 
 "mobile construction vehicles", and "construction yard" buildings. Many units return in an upgraded 
 form, including ones such as the Orca attack craft and Elephant heavy tanks. The gameplay focuses 
 on constructing a base and acquiring resources to build up a player's war machine. All available 
 structures of the faction chosen by the player are constructed on-site at "construction yards" 
 - which typically begin as large-sized vehicles or aircraft capable of deploying themselves into 
 the aforementioned construction yards or drone platforms - or alternatively at the supporting "crane" 
 and "foundry" structures. When a construction yard, drone platform, crane or foundry has finished 
 building a new structure, the player can select a spot near to a pre-existing structure in order 
 to place it, where the building will then rapidly unfold. Additional units, structures and special 
 abilities will become available as new structures are built. Base defenses can be built through 
 the use of special defense towers, and they also become more powerful the further you go into a 
 multiplayer match or campaign.
  
  Command and Conquer 3's multiplayer, just like its predecessors, is extremely fun. It consists 
 of the same gameplay elements found in the campaign and skirmishes. Matches are extremely fast, 
 most taking an average of 5-10 minutes to reveal the winner. Its really a race against time, so 
 that you can build up more and better units faster than your enemy. What results is usually a massive 
 clash with both sides blasting away at each other until one breaches another's defenses and lays 
 waste to their base. While this style of gameplay might seem archaic when compared to games like 
 Company of Heroes and World in Conflict, C&C 3 is not a game that tries to innovate. It preserves 
 the aspects of gameplay and presentation that make it a unique series.
  
  Graphically, the game is quite good looking for an RTS, with the advantage that it can run on nearly 
 6 year old computers, an obvious advantage over other RTS titles released this year. Every unique 
 is unique and all three factions are marked by distinctly different art styles. The sounds should 
 also bring back memories of previous games and the voice acting is excellent.
  
  Command and Conquer 3 is not a game that tries to turn the RTS genre upside down, as many other 
 titles have this year. Instead, it brings us back to the good old days of Kane's nearly daily rebirths 
 and constant use of cheesy, but unique live-action cutscenes. It harkens back to the series' glory 
 days and should appeal to most RTS fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perilslayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The part that I like best about this game is the multiplayer. It's fun to fight it out with a brutal 
 computer as long as you can seriously multi-task. I just wish the maps were bigger and could handle 
 more computers. The nod have great defense and I love to hide behind all of my defense turrets 
 and mass build air units. The scrin have REALLY tough air units in my opinion. 
  
  If your looking for a good RTS to LAN or just for an RTS I reccommend getting this game. At times 
 the AI can be a pain and persistent when attacking your base but it depends on what difficulty 
 your playing on.
  
  The only reason I didn't give this game a ten is because the editor for the game isn't the greatest, 
 and I'd really like to be able to quickly make up a couple of maps.
  
  A couple more special abilities would be nice, just to add a little more strategy to the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Having played the Command and Conquer games since i was young, right up until today i started this 
 game with a lot of anticipation. One thing about the Command and Conquer games is that they have 
 thier own kind of charm, they are tacky but they embrace this as they have always done, and this 
 game certainly retains this feeling. This helps you to feel instantly familarised, as it feels 
 similar to its predecessors. 
  
  Gameplay : I found the gameplay to be largely good, but with some problems. Some of the units (especially 
 tanks) get stuck and dont move around each other feely enough. There are also problems with unit 
 movement, some just stop instead of moving around a unit in its way, and you can move your units 
 in a formation, as you would sometimes like to
  
  Sound : All good, great explosions, unit sounds and menu sounds. It retains some of the original 
 sound bytes when certain units are killed which is a nice touch.
  
  Graphics : Very good, i am running it on high for every graphics option and it looks great, the 
 scenery is good and the explosion and war effects are good. However the buildings and units still 
 look a little blocky and not as modernised as some other strategy games. You are also zoomed quite 
 far out and cant go in very far, sometimes you can lose units because you can find them!
  
  User friendliness : Good, the tutorial helps ease you in, however the missions pregress from easy 
 to very hard indeed far too quickly. The menu system is very easy to use and is designed in a way 
 that you are able to add units and buildings to the constructions que from anywhere.
  
  Longevity : Good, has good length missions for each faction, there are plenty of multiplayer maps, 
 and more available to download, and as always with C&C, a massive online community.
  
  Issues : Strategy. In certain areas of the game strategy is important, however more often than 
 not, you just simply build up a force and burst through the front door to blow thier base to bits, 
 but i dont mind this because i love the C&C series. Now off to buy the expansion!
  
  Overall : 8/10 (9/10 for long time C&C players) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordon_freman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  let me think it is a game or it is a real war .do you can realize it ? well i shoud say i could 
 not do this. is any one in the world who did not hear the electeronic arts company name? i believe 
 all of the people know the ea and this game whether good whether bad had the good purchasing from 
 the gamers . i think the ea name is how big that force the gamers to buy the ea games. i dont want 
 to say that the command and conquer 3 tiberium wars is a bad game no, i want to say the ea name 
 is good reason to purchase it game. this is a game with a fantastic story and the unbelievablegame 
 play . the game play absorb you in itself and whether you want whether not you shoud buy and play 
 this game until you end it and thae game wont let you to go away from your pc. i play it yet for 
 two hours for a day and i enjoy i hope you guys enjoy too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I always like playing the previous part but C&C Tiberian sun but i did`t liked it at all it has 
 pretty good graphics but the game play is to bad it`s not encouraging me to play this game so i 
 will consider not to play this game anymore. I am a fan of Tiberian Sun so I am very disappointed 
 at Tiberium Wars. In fact, Tiberium Wars doesn't offer many features Tiberian Sun has. So, Tiberium 
 Wars should not be named "Tiberium". It should be named Generals. It's a sad thing you can't get 
 the feelings of Tiberian world in Tiberium Wars. I bought this game with the hope of a NEW C&C Tiberium 
 Sun and got just another strategy game.
  Though I am very disappointed at Tiberium Wars, it is not a bad game. At least graphics is good 
 though the game engine is improved from the old Sage engine. I think the biggest problem with this 
 title is that it just feels a few year's old, if it would have been released in say 2003 it probably 
 would have been more well received.
  For the single player missions you will be guided through the game by cinematic cut scenes by some 
 highly recognizable actors such as Michael Ironside, Billy Dee Williams, House MD's Jennifer Morrison 
 and a few from the TV Show Battlestar Gallactica.
  you have a little amount of units each one good against one type of unit. So if you put your huge 
 tank against some "bomb" throwers you will be wiped out... but if your super "useless" tank have 
 the help of the little "vs infantry" car, you are safe... Now, if your huge tank fire at a building, 
 the building will disappear. You will say: "of course, its hard to aim a cannon at a soldier, but 
 it's easy to aim it at the building". Come on, go play Comp of Heroes and you will see this happening 
 realistically. In this game, if the tank hit the soldiers, they are history. And a troop with a 
 RPG/Panzer can destroy a tank if they can flank it. 
  overall: Nothing new here at all, RTS games have had the same features for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyzhaze
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  In my personal opinion CnC 3 is a great game that just missed the mark that the legacy has stapled 
 so hard and fast unto the RTS legion.
  
  My reason for giving this glamour house a 6/10 is as follows.
  (Taking into account the excellent 
 graphics and gameplay read below) .
  
  CnC 3 sets the pace for a great story, character, and eye candy fest. However, after playing for 
 an hour or so, you start to pick up on the trigger points that the developers have made out for 
 the AI to defend or attack at certain times, locations or intervals. Even more so than the previous 
 installments. Thus the player can very easily bypass any challenge that awaits, as well as, this 
 makes the enemy less believable as an advanced AI you are trying your heart out to beat. The game 
 steers you in this direction, because at certain intervals you will find some missions near impossible 
 without bypassing and making use of these flaws. Even with the 1.9 update, these are still present 
 and any plee to the developers have clearly been ignored.
  
  The mulitplayer experience is great but very short lived, (still on update 1.9) . RTS is supposed 
 to be for the gamer that expects and hour battle against friends and foes, not 10 minutes of click-as-fast-you-can 
 formula which also take away the strategy in RTS. This is a such a pitty, I hope they fix this 
 in RA3.
  
  Still fun to play for short bursts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamespotCruiser
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  C&C3 was the first Tiberium game to be released in eight years. This alone was enough to drive 
 many fans crazy wondering what EA would think up next. It turns out that for the most part they 
 were all out of ideas and not only decided to remove implementations from previous installments 
 as seen in Tiberian Sun but also decided to reinvent the Tiberium univers entirely. For older C&C 
 players this was a shock but was eventually accepted as EA assured fans that they knew best/ The 
 gameplay is basic like Tiberian Dawn, encouraging players to build up quickly and build massive 
 armies to throw at their opponents which is totally backwards in relation to C&C2's play style. 
 It seems that they are 'perfecting' C&C rather than trying to advance it. As usual, this can severely 
 dull gameplay by trying to over balance the factions so that they all play the same way. For example, 
 hover units can't go over water, C&C3 was designed to be lacking from the start. This may have 
 gave the developers more time to focus on polishing which they did pretty well with C&C3 graphically. 
 The game had many bugs though on release that are for the most part now patched. The game feels 
 very polished when updated to the latest version but still lacks anything that would stick out 
 from the RTS genre in this day in age. The single player campaign is low budget when compared to 
 Tiberian Sun and plays out more like a TV series rather than a big budget movie.
  
  C&C3 is like the Halo of RTS. It has simple plug-n-play gameplay that many gamers are looking for. If 
 you are looking for a more advanced game for experienced players I would look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WilberWonka
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  If you're new to the RTS genre, you can pick this game up, play it and have a great time. Unfortunately, 
 if you're a hard-core RTS player, you may have difficulty enjoying C&C3, and even more difficulty 
 understanding why it deserved 9 out of 10. It's not that it's a bad game: it's just that apart 
 from new, improved graphics and a few new widgets here and there this is more or less the same 
 game as every other RTS that's ever been made, obeying the formula set down by Warcraft and the 
 original Command and Conquer, and those who played Battle for Middle-Earth 2 will find that it 
 feels especially familiar.
  
  The story is okay, but fairly predictable, featuring characters (with a few exceptions) about as 
 convincing as scientology, though I must admit it's cool to get to play the Scrin campaign when 
 you finish the other two, and of course Kane is his usual, awesome self, as usual leaving you questioning 
 your sexuality as well as your spirituality.
  
  In conclusion C&C3 is a fairly standard RTS game: there's nothing particularly new or different, 
 which isn't necessarily a bad thing, except that when you compare it to games like Supreme Commander 
 and Company of Heroes, which take the genre in a new and interesting direction, you can't help 
 but feel disappointed by this return to the tired old formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roarzz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I love this game more so than Maelstrom (at this point it's kinda kinda something I play with my 
 friends) but C&C3 just BLEW MY MIND I can't wait till I buy Kane's Wrath, which I hope will be 
 just as great. Personaly the Scrin are my favourite, with their badass Tripod's, however their 
 superweapon kinda made me angrily compared to the Ion Cannon =P. So, I know not very long but this 
 is still a very great game so, I personaly believe you might want to buy this if you enjoy RTS's. 
 Oh, also, only ONE resource... well two if you count the having to build power generators. Let's 
 see what else can I say about it? Ooooooooh man... Uhhh, Black Hand units are very awesome, espexially 
 when teamed up with a good ol' Flame Tank  =) . But... if you really do like the GDI (which are 
 very awesome but not my personal fav) you get Zone Troopers, which are lazar firin' soldiers, and 
 also the Mammoth Tanks which can be upgraded with more lazars, which eventualy will have you saying 
 outloud, possibly even screaming "IMA FIRIN MAH LAZAR!"  _  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rperez69
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  At first I was very excited to play the game and was knee deep into the missions and multi-player 
 mode. After a while though I found that the sides were not very even and that the Scrin had too 
 much of an advantage as opposed to the Nod which had nothing to offer. (Don't take my word for 
 it ... play it on-line and see what everyone else is choosing) After some time though I became 
 rather disenchanted with the game as the positioning of structures became a headache as it was 
 not tile based and that there everything was land based so essentially the mass building / rush 
 tactic always seems in the end to be the strategy that it evolves into in order to win. 
  
  With that said I quickly found myself thinking that this is essentially General's with a new coat 
 of paint. Without any measure of navy this RTS becomes a really narrow strategy game that I just 
 can't get myself to play anymore. I guess I'll just wait until RA3 which really has all the things 
 which I'm hoping for. Don't get me wrong I'm still a huge fan of C&C, its just I was hoping for 
 a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  For those of you not familiar with the Command & Conquer series, it is one of the oldest rts series 
 and the original pretty much kicked off the genre. The setting of the story is near future, there 
 is these green crystals called tiberium growing out of the ground, and they seem to be from another 
 planet. They keep spreading and threatening to cover the whole earth, which is bad, because they 
 are poisonous. It is also the resource of the game, unless you consider power a resource. Anyways, 
 there are 2 sides in this epic, world spanning conflict, the Global Defensive Initiative (GDI) and 
 the Brotherhood of NOD, and they both meet up with unexpected extraterrestrial visitors.
  
  The singleplayer component is definitely one of its strongest points, with well-crafted missions 
 and 90 minutes of real-life cutscenes, featuring some of the biggest sci-fi stars in television, 
 a great incentive to keep going through the campaign all day. Although most of the missions are 
 traditional build your base and destroy the enemy missions, the objectives and conditions you are 
 put under are uniqe. You can expect to constantly have trouble with enemy AI attacks. The conditions 
 can range from destroying certain buildings to clearing out a certain part of a map from garrisoned 
 infantry, to capturing the pentagon back from the NOD. The story is also pretty good. If you are 
 looking for a good singleplayer rts game to buy, look no further, you have found it right here.
 
  
  The biggest flaws of this game become very noticeable in multiplayer. If you play for a while you 
 will notice the ridiculous unbalancing, and, even after several patches, EA has still not managed 
 to get it right (will they ever get anything right) . One particularly annoying thing is the ludicrously 
 priced reinforcement drops. If i recall correctly, the GDI sniper drop costs $2500 and you only 
 get like 6 snipers. I'm pretty sure you could make a lot more with that money in about the same 
 amount of time at a barracks. Not to say snipers are important, they rarely get used and arent 
 good for much at all. This is the biggest flaw in this games multiplayer, few units are good, and 
 barely any units will stay good throughout an entire matchup. This reduces the game to spamming 
 out a just the best units, and matches can be very repetitive. The multiplayer, however, survives 
 this and still manages to be an enjoyable experience, with built in voice chat and a great multiplayer 
 browser system, making it easy to find a game.
  
  Difficulty: Just right: The GUI make it easy to get into, and the campaigns will give you a perfect 
 fight. Multiplayer not included in this rating.
  
  Gameplay: 9: A great user interface makes this game play really really well.
  
  Graphics: 9: 
 Battles are really fluid and intense, and the game will run on a variety of systems.
  
  Sound: 9: The sound adds to the fluidity of the battles, with great sound effects and a awesome 
 sound track.
  
  Value: 8: This games multiplayer will most likely last you a while, but doesnt quite stand up to 
 the value of games such as warcraft 3 or starcraft, games people have been playing since they came 
 out. With CnC, players are doomed to constantly buying sequels and expansions. Not like that is 
 bad, and the expansions and sequels will hopefully be good. Lets hope Kane's Wrath helps balance 
 out.
  
  Tilt: 8
  
  Overall Score: 8.5 (supossed to be 8.6, stupid new gamespot player review system) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Templar45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I am one of the ones less fortunate enough to have the privlage of owning such a fine game. While 
 the story is rather modivating (so i've read) there's nothing better than a regular skirmish every 
 now and then.
  
  Personally, i would rather prefer a game of such epicness such as Supreme Commander. However; a 
 game of that magnitude requires a pretty sterdy computer. C&C 3 is often compared to a that inpreticular 
 game. Supreme Commander with it's Massive scale ratios and Epic stretigic and tactial references, 
 lacks the modivatrion to complete even one Level. In Sup Com there is little more then just preparing 
 for and attack and conmensing it. It simply lacks a more, interaction. Even a game such as Starcraft 
 has something as simple as interaction. An example, it you click on the same unit a bunch of times 
 then begin to communicate with you, saying different things each time, In Sup Com all the units 
 are Robots (minus the ACU) so there it little attitude to the game.
  
  Back on topic, Along with the attitude that most games have, C&C 3 only has one flaw in my book. 
 The camera. In Sup Com the camera can be zommed out althe way to a global veiw. In C&C 3 There's 
 that constant need to keep an eye on more things, resouses, upgrades, building of units and structures, 
 and more. it's just not enought to fit on a screen to close to the battle. If the combined the 
 Camera of Sup Com to many RST games, they would be much popular.
  
  For those that prefer Attitude over Strategy, but still love Atrategy, this a highly advised game 
 for such an erdge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battlefront21
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  So you wanna by a game for ur pc, but there is so much stuff to get, then wat do u get? Command 
 and Conquer 3, this game has an amazing storyline right from the introduction of Killian, to the 
 ion cannon blast on temple prime, to the tower. for online play this game has some decent maps 
 but wat i would have liked to see is online campaign were u could take control of blue zones and 
 stuff, but sadly they dont have that and that is my only real complaint. for old fans of the series 
 u will be happy to see that there is sill tanks and units from the original games, such as the 
 mammoth tank and the stealth tank. But now there is a whole new faction fighting and the story 
 about this faction and wat they want is amazing and everything just goes along great so overall 
 this is my second favorite game ever so i give it a 10/10 its the perfect RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Best command and conquer yet with a amazing campaign and fast paced skirmishes. If you're running 
 windows xp its a safe bet that you're computer can run it because the games scales well and runs 
 at only 30 fps for low end computers. command and conquer has always had great stories (apart from 
 generals) and this one isint different involving the conflict with GDI against NOD but then aliens 
 come and its everyone for themselves
  
  You can play through three campaigns both are amazing but when you unlock the scrin campaign is 
 disipointingly short but still good.
  
  The graphics are good because their ver well scaled sp they an run on old cards like geforce 4's 
 but the game does look horrific on low settings. 
  
  All in all a great rts with few problems and can be reccomeded to any rts or sci fi fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macwho
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  Command & Conquer Tiberium Wars (C&C Tiberium Wars) takes us to 2047 where the third Tiberium War 
 is about to start. As the player you assume the role of a battlefield commander whose goal is to 
 defeat opposing armies and destroy their bases by overpowering, outsmarthing and overmanoeuvring 
 their military forces with your own forces.
  
  There are 3 different factions that you can chose from in C&C Tiberium Wars involving the GDI, 
 Nod or Scrin. GDI forces have only one mission in the game, to save the world from the spread of 
 Tiberium. GDI dont have the strongest devices but millitary units are quite strong with various 
 squads with rifles, missiles, grenades, snipers and Zone Troopers. The elite GDI Unit in the game 
 is the Commando.
  
  The Brotherhood of Nod believe that Tiberium is a thing of the future and that everyone in the 
 world should support it. There armies are quite strong in C&C Tiberium Wars but are no match with 
 GDI when on foot. But when it comes to vehicles they can pack a punch.
  
  Finally there is the Scrin who came to the earth and commenced there attack on the world. They 
 are the strongest team in the game and dominate all aspects of the game.
  
  C&C Tiberium Wars offers Strategy gamers a great challenge and I recommend this game to any serious 
 Strategy gamer. Sci-Fi gamers will also love this game and almost any one will enjoy this game 
 because I only brought it thinking the old Red Alert game was good and had to try this and see 
 what the hype was about and I understand now why the hype was so big.
  
  What I will say is I dont recommend this game to people who dont like a challenge as playing on 
 Easy can be pretty hard at times. You can't just build up a massive army and go on the attack like 
 some games as Tiberium patches run out pretty quick and the computer does attack you quite abit 
 so you cannot build up to big. Mind you the computer team never really goes in for the kill and 
 can allow you to build up a good defence.
  
  C&C Tiberium Wars is an all around good game and cannot wait for the EP Kanes Revenge!!! Thanks 
 for taking the time to read my review on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatbigmouth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I still remember the first C&C game I played back in 1999 - Tiberium Sun. It was a smash hit in 
 its days, and one of the best RTS games available at that time. C&C3: Tiberium Wars, basically 
 turns that game into an updated, reborn 2007 version. Once again, it's the Global Defense Initiative 
 (GDI) forces who struggle to keep the peace against the infamous NOD army. The bottom line is, 
 if you enjoyed Tiberium Sun, you will probably consider Tiberium Wars a masterpiece. 
  
  The full-HD cut scenes between missions are a bit overkill, but add to the realism and overall 
 greatness of the game. You feel as though you are really a commander, and really there in the heart 
 of the GDI Headquarters when the general and InOPS brief you on your next mission. 
  
  There are three levels in which you can play campaign missions. Easy, normal and hard. I played 
 it on easy to finish the game quickly. Even on this easy level, certain missions still had me failing 
 once or twice. Don't expect a walk-over. 
  
  I found the GDI campaign thrilling. The storyline is well written, and the Scrin race is incorporated 
 into this game in a terrific fashion. Controls are easy to memorize and there are a lot of building 
 options for each force. 
  
  The graphics aren't spectacular, but look good and meets with today's standards. One thing that 
 disappointed me was the fact the you can't zoom in very far. Overall however, the graphics (especially 
 the explosions and weapons) look pretty nice. 
  
  C&C3: Tiberium Wars is certainly a must-have for any RTS player, and C&C fans will love it even 
 more. Gameplay is very addictive, and you'll often find yourself at 3am in the morning still trying 
 to destroy that damn NOD structure.
  
  Solid gameplay, good graphics, well-written storyline and terrific campaigns make Tiberium Wars 
 worth playing. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJDav
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  An RTS allows you to make stratigic moves like move around a base, attack at different angles and 
 use a variety of units to do so.
  BUT this NEW, RUBBISH so called RTS game C&C 3 does NOT do any of those. All that happens is you 
 build a few units (No sea, why?? Boats dont exist in the future??) in your base march them to he 
 enemy which is like 2 FEET away from you then they die. I mean even if the map was bigger you would 
 not be able to have stratigic battles as it is impossible to see whats going on. WHY WONT IT ZOOM 
 OUT!!!!!
  There is only one upside and that is nice graphics, but that seems to be all EA does now, make 
 nice graphics. It does not really matter anyway because all games have nice graphics nowadays. 
 This is the reason it would be a 3 because it got something right, but its an basic expectation 
 and all games have now so its a 2. Looking at nice graphics, where is the fun in that ?!
  DONT GET IT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaldan85
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Now the history on this i must say is impressive, well until EA got hold of it, C&C generals, that 
 almost killed C&C, luckly C&C T Wars made up for it sort of, though that wasent a bad game, abit 
 to much like generals, but with some imporvements . the game wasent bad, the story was cool though 
 the missions do get boreing but the skirmish kicks ass going against the computer and/or other 
 people online or on LAN, very fun game for muiltiplayer or just a mess around on, you could even 
 go serious on it if you wanted its the type of game where you have total control to do what you 
 want, and if somone gets in your way, wipe them out, but if they have a bigger and tougher army, 
 well your **** and guess your either going to have a hell of a job defending your base, or just 
 going to be very annoyed watching your base be wiped out. but hey its the way of the game , kill 
 or be killed. now i highly reccomend this game and suggest getting the exspansion , but what i 
 also suggest is you get C&C red alert 3, any of you played red alert 2 then you know what am talking 
 about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  C & C needs no introduction, the guys have always made awesome games with the right amount of flash 
 to keep us interested, and another thing, its the third game in the series of Kane's saga. If anything 
 else you might wanna check this game out just to complete the epic.
  
  The story is just awesome, and the campaign is fun to play (As all 3 factions) , the Live Action 
 Movies are a nice touch, that makes it feel more "real"
  
  So far as the graphics go they are pretty old school with some new age sparkle, so if you remember 
 that old pc you used to smash people online with on General's and BF 1942 you might wanna wipe 
 off the dust and get it working again cause its possible to run.
  
  Gameplay is pretty good, its got three factions, all with their unique units, and abilities. The 
 A. I is good with different difficulties to suit the players, but be warned if you play the highest 
 difficulty, you are gonna be biting your tongue in the next few minutes cause they got double the 
 resources than you start with.
  
  The game is EXTREMELY stable, and virtually bug-free. And will provide you with hours of fun gaming 
 experience.
  
  This game is a must have for all C & C fans, just don't forget to get the Kane edition, got some 
 extras that are quite cool, including a new look for your army online, and behind the scene footage 
 of the live-action films, (which is interesting) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richardj692000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, the p**s poor acting, the cheese, the famous name, the GDI, NOD, everything is 
 excellent about it. It reminds me of the good old Nuclear Strike (PS1) with the live action scenes 
 and it has to be said, there is a definate place for it in future games.
  
  I'm not goin to bore you with the pros so i'll get on with the Cons. Umm, lets see... Cons... Cons, 
 umm kains tash is a bit.... umm, thinned out. 
  
  As usual it carries on the genre with the familiar build a power station, yes now build a war factory, 
 now the GDI scum show up, they gonna f**k up my nicely planned out base thats tried and tested, 
 restart the game, now try harder, fail again, restart but on easy mode.... I'm joking, well i did 
 that to begin with. Anyway, the game has good replay value with its online play with online ranking 
 which is always good if u can get a game, but if your brothers hogging the net there is skirmish 
 mode which if you remember on generals you get stars and sheilds depending on how hard the AI is. 
 As always the AI always seems to identify your weak spots without even acting your base first which 
 is annoying, but still when on the offensive is still very challenging.
  
  As for gameplay not much has changed from the tried and tested outing of generals and even some 
 of the tactics i used in generals worked of CnC3 which is kinda repitive from the franchise, but 
 its still just as fun as blowing the brains out of an enemy commando with a cheap sniper. Therefore 
 theres not much to say for the gameplay, theres no need to change an already great system.
  
  For the game as a whole its nice to see some variety in the factions, especially with the addition 
 of an alien race to stir things up, the only reservation i have is the complexity of the alien 
 war engines, yet another tripod? They seem very underpowered too. Its difficult to imagine an advanced 
 alien civilisation that spanned the gulf of space to be defeated by a madman with a goatie with 
 more advanced knowledge of tiberium than the race that lives of the damn stuff. As a result the're 
 not as fun to play with as the other factions.
  
  The only other bad thing is that the cut scenes suffer greatly on some computers (yes they are 
 up to spec) The sync is minutes off and from what i've researched its because of a clash with most 
 of Geforce graphics card which to be honest is stupid. Having had the game a while now there still 
 isn't a patch to fix it. 
  
  EA is at it again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nexus_Master_X
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Hell yeah! This game has it all: guns, tanks, ion cannons and unpredictable AI.
  The learnin' curve was a tad rough-edged, but to be expected. The maps are good, graphics or otherwise, 
 no matter what settings. I give it a solid 12/10! :)
  Furthermore, for those with GDI against the world... Mammoths and Juggernaughts people! Mammoths 
 cover ground and air, while the Juggernaughts pummel from a distance... though I've used 10 Juggernaughts 
 to pummel an enemy from a distance without support, it ain't recommended. Said 10 Juggernaughts 
 were pummeled from the air by Venoms. Shortly afterwards, I rolled over the base with around 50 
 Predators and 20 Pitbulls. Hope your troops aren't allergic to Tiberium, NOD's boys got lots of 
 it! The Scrin... heh, alien chumps with big lasers... but, a perimeter of Storm Columns, combined 
 with Planetary Assault Carriers and Plasma Disc Batteries makes for a hard kill without superweapons 
 (kept EMPing them) . So crank up the factories, start your barracks, and let the bullets fly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sturym
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is set around 45 years in the future. Following the second 
 Tiberium War, Earth's surface has sucummed to 80% tiberium infestation... leaving much of the world 
 un-inhabitable. What is left of the habitable regions is known as the "Blue Zone" and is controlled 
 by the well known Global Defense Initiative. The Yellow Zones, or areas with tiberium infestations 
 that are still habitable, are predominately controlled by the Brotherhood of Nod. Though Nod appears 
 to be on the downfall following the death of their leader, Kane, they still fight to spread tiberium 
 around the world. Not much is known of the Red Zones; The area in which most of all life is extinct 
 due to large levels of tiberium in the area. The only thing known to be living in the Red Zones 
 are the Mutants, who were changed by the tiberium's effect on people, and the visceroids. Your 
 story begins quickly, where you learn that Nod has been planning a huge attack against GDI, despite 
 the GDI's assumption that Nod was a dying faction. After efforts to hold them at bay fail, GDI 
 is overrun by Nod, and a nuclear missile takes out the global space station known as the Philidelphia. 
 From there, the rest of the world lays in your hands to protect it as the GDI, or destroy the non-believers 
 as the Brotherhood of Nod. This game has many great features that completely engulf it's players. 
 Returning fans of the C&C series will not be disappointed, while newcomers to the series get a 
 quick less in what has happened over the past hundred or so years. The graphics are similar to 
 those that were used in C&C: Generals, however with a few enhancements, it's easy to see why Tiberium 
 Wars is a game to rival all previous games in the series. The cut-scenes are wonderful, and really 
 help you appreciate the needs for Live Action Video sequences... a trick that has been around since 
 the series began many years ago. The sound quality and graphics are visually stunning, but not 
 physically demanding on many computers. My laptop runs this game just fine, and it's almost 3 years 
 old. One of the greatest things about this game in particular, is the ability to complete both 
 factions of GDI and Nod. After completion of both factions, an additional campaign opens, which 
 helps you understand the events that happen in the game. It also makes a blatant lead into the 
 future of C&C3, with the expansion pack, Kane's Wrath (not yet released.) Bottom line: If you like 
 RTS games, visually stunning graphics and sound, and a great storyline with a Sci-Fi twist, C&C: Tiberium 
 Wars is one that you won't want to miss. Should you buy it? Indeed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostermw
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  A have waited a while before buying and playing this one. It much resembles the first series of 
 C&C which I all loved to play. The big difference is the smoothness and pace. I have fallen in 
 love with this game again. I think I would not even have a problem with it if the graphics were 
 more or less duplicated from the old series. I even liked them a bit more. This version tends to 
 be just a bit too futuristic. Played a few missions now, but it's as addictive as ever. The best 
 maps (for me) are the ones where you are able to keep your opponent (the AI) under your thumb, 
 and gradually become the one that's controlling the battlefield. Have not seen all the maps yet 
 but it seems the urban maps are most frequent. A minor drawback if you prefer the open land with 
 hills and trees and rivers. 
  
  So if your an old fan; buy it! It's worth the money. New to this game? (Where have you been hiding) . 
 Buy it too, because this is the benchmark for all the other games in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fecing
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  When i first bought the origonal Command and Conquer, i wasnt very impressed. i quickly got bored 
 with constantly being beaten by the campaign, so it stayed in its box.
  
  I then bought the decade pack as i heard that this CnC Generals was a good idea.
  
  THey weren't 
 wrong, generals was a solid game, and with its expansion pack (Zero Hour) bringing the addition 
 of sub factions into the fray improved the tactics across the board.
  
  Then i had the great forsight to buy CnC3. Obviously using the same engine as BFMEII, and probably 
 developed by the same team, the graphics are excellent, but still won't destroy your PC.
  
  The Campaing has a great story and some great cast, but is let down by some poor acting. If it 
 were improved (especially on the GDI side) it would have generated a better atmosphere, but as 
 it is, i am usually dissapointed when i get an FMV.
  
  I now hear that a 'Zero Hour' is going to be done to CnC3, in the form of the Kains Wrath expansion, 
 but with the added bonus of completely new units instead of just modded old ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadhouse
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Overall it was to easy for me and this was on hardest difficulty. I found it to easy to build a 
 defense and mount one big charge and the map was cleared. I don't play on-line so if that contributes 
 to the higher ranking then it would be understandable. Looking forward to giving it another chance. 
 Downloaded some of the mods and maps will play it again with these new mods. The mods seem to make 
 games better if only the people who make these mods made the games, that would be worth buying. 
 I bought C&C Generals before I had a pc to play it on that's how much I love the C&C title. I to 
 this day still play Yuri's revenge all my other C&C's set on the shelf gathering dust. Will buy 
 the expansion when it comes out I just got to have the C&C's, like Mel Gibson in Conspiracy Theory, 
 Catcher in the Rye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ab_neo_007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  I wanted to play the game a long time back but my pc config was not upto the mark. It has a good 
 storyline . after fighting a good deal with the terrorists I found myself fighting against an alien 
 invasion. It was a real twist. The machines have a good deal to offer..... with the juggernauts 
 and the aircrafts. The resource collecting was innovative since the reserves replenished themselves 
 slowly. Graphics is good and enjoyable. Concept is good. The time while I played the game it did 
 not seem like a waste of time. construction assembly system was new........ and AI was nice too 
 all the attacks and the enemy defense system. Terrain was shown nicely. The missions were good 
 too since they had to offer something new in every mission...... The invasion forces units were 
 futuristic and the base that was shown was quite realistic. The news and everything was well presented....... over 
 all it was a good strategy game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari2001
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This great game in what is obviously set in the future of earth. The surface is covered with a 
 green substance that makes 80% of the earth surface unihabitable called tiberium. Because of the 
 chaos of having very little place to live rebel group led by Kain emerges, he believe the Tiberium 
 to be the next step in human evolution. You can play as both the Global defense initiative or as 
 the rebel led by Kain.
  
  Graphics: For an RTS game the graphics are amazing and protrey the life in a ruined and destroyed 
 society. Buildings crumble and fighting in the street. Cut scenes in the game are with real characters 
 as characterisic of Command and Conquer games. This adds that much more realism to the combat experience 
 and leaves you thinking you live in this desolate world.
  
  Audio: the audio really brings out the warfare whether in the game or during the cut scenes it 
 makes it almost seem realistic. There are some quiet parts of the game that leave you yearning 
 for some music and sounds but it can be handled as you play through the game
  
  Game Play: It handles like most RTS you have a view of the battlefield and you command troops to 
 follow order and move around the battlefield while building structures, and gathering tiberium 
 for processing. The gameplay contains intense battle sequences in which your skills in gaming will 
 be tested as you must think on your feet and be able to defend and attack from multiple sides while 
 building and gathering. 
  
  Overview: The game is very fun and worth buying. It really makes a world believable and makes you 
 yearning to play it when your at home. Many good things could be said about this game and it deserves 
 all the praise and worship the fans have given it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlantisasv
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  The year is 2003. The United States of America is bunkering down in Afghanistan and Iraq looks 
 like it's on the menu. It has been three years since Red Alert 2, and it's time for the next Command 
 and Conquer. Will it be Red Alert 3? Will it be the much rumoured "Tiberian Twilight?"
  
  No... It's Generals, and the first mission? The invasion of Baghdad.
  
  2003 was the year C&C 
 as we knew it died, doomed to be replaced by the words "Zero Hour" in the same way that "Brood 
 War" brought new life to Starcraft (in an entirely positive way) . If ever there was a way to demonstrate 
 how a venerable series can be turned in to a cash cow, surely EA, there is no better way than to 
 release a game themed on Middle Eastern terrorists at the height of US tensions with Iraq. 
  
  To be fair, Generals was an excellent game in its own right, made only better by the Zero Hour 
 expansion, but let's get this sorted out right now - it was not Command and Conquer, despite all 
 titles to the contrary. Unless the game contains a bald, charismatic genius against GI-Joe heroes, 
 or campy 50's communists against the combined might of an alternate reality NATO, I don't want 
 to know about it.
  
  For a C&C Romantic raised on Mammoth Tanks and Tesla Coils, 2003 was a sad year indeed. Nearly 
 ten years after the first Command and Conquer, my beloved series was now representing everything 
 that I played games to avoid. Yet still, like an addict searching for more, I played, modded and 
 enjoyed Generals for the merits it presented, pretending all the while that this was not the way 
 C&C was going.
  
  Then in 2004, my hopes of a sequel to Tiberian Sun were further dashed when EA employee Mark Skaggs 
 announced that "Red Alert 3" was in development. 
  
  Mark Skaggs then left EA, and I heard nothing more of this until 2006... 
  
  Sure enough, like 
 a Phoenix rising from the ashes, C&C 3: Tiberium Wars was announced to the jubilant cries of the 
 Command and Conquer faithful. Redemption was at hand, Kane was returning, and things were again 
 bright for the future. We will probably never know what happened to Mark Skaggs, nor will I care. 
 Like rekindling my love for an old flame, the epic struggle between GDI and the Brotherhood is 
 back, and it's never been so good.
  
  C&C 3 is, in short, a return to form that has been desperately wanted by the Tiberium universe 
 since Tiberian Sun, marking a return of the campy Full Motion Video sequences we all hate to love, 
 and all the tassels and trimmings that we know and adore from the first games. It far from reinvents 
 the series, and for Command and Conquer, let's face it; we probably don't want it to.
  
  The RTS genre has grown significantly since the days of Dune 2 and the original C&C. Games like 
 Blizzard's venerable Starcraft, and Relic's Homeworld, Dawn of War and Company of Heroes have evolved 
 and developed the genre in new ways that improve and re-define benchmarks for the genre as a whole, 
 and while many would love to see C&C go this same path, the simple fact remains that if it did 
 so, it would cease being Command and Conquer.
  
  Our reasons for coming back to the series are many and varied, be it the story, the old-school 
 tactics and gameplay, or simple adoration of Joe Kucan in his definitive, infamous role of Kane. 
 No, C&C remains the same as always - a simple, tried and true resourcing system that encourages 
 expansion, the building of a base and the relentless pursuit of crushing your opponent beneath 
 the treads of a hundred tanks. 
  
  It's to be noted and recognised then that while it doesn't redefine, it improves. The side-bar 
 returns, offering a swag of new options and developments which aid the management of your base 
 and unit construction. The addition of construction cranes to one's base allows multiple buildings 
 to be queued up, and this is repeated with war factories, airfields and barracks, which will also 
 open new construction queues for each one you put on the field.
  
  Of these however, the crane is the most significant, as the addition of even one or two of these 
 removes the all-important pressure of keeping the previously mission-critical Construction Yard 
 intact. While an inconvenience if destroyed, losing the construction yard no longer means the imminent 
 doom of your forces, and may only prove a temporary setback to your plans.
  
  The key word in C&C 3's gameplay more than ever is expansion. Tiberium fields will run dry fast 
 when multiple harvesters are tasked to them, and you will be constantly searching for more sources 
 of funds across the battlefield. Needless to say, Tiberium Wars is not a game which rewards turtlers. 
 Your first online experiences will be shocking and brutal as your base is quickly overwhelmed and 
 crushed under a weight of tanks, artillery and infantry, and you begin to realise just how far 
 your opponent has expanded, and how many resources he has at his command.
  
  The three sides of Tiberium Wars feel solid and well thought-out. Unlike some previous games of 
 the series, there is a unit or structure for virtually task you can think of, no matter what side 
 you choose to play. Joining the traditional ranks of GDI's Rifle Infantry, Engineers, Grenadiers 
 and Rocket troops are Sniper teams, battle-suited Zone Troopers, and for the first time since the 
 original C&C, the Commando.
  
  This kind of variety is common to all three sides, but each plays differently and it's virtually 
 assured that there is a unit combination for every kind of player and their different types of 
 tactics. More often than not, online games will frequently boil down to who can build the most 
 Mammoth tanks the fastest, but it's nice to know you are not restricted to this 'tactic' alone. 
 While GDI's units are powerful and shrug off large amounts of firepower, they are slow and cumbersome, 
 and will have difficulty across an extended front where mobility might be a deciding factor. As 
 could be expected, Nod is the antithesis of this doctrine, with the bulk of their forces being 
 made up of fast, lightly armoured units which are highly specialized in their roles. The new Alien 
 Scrin forces are an eclectic mix of lightly armoured units and powerful air forces which reward 
 rapid expansion and control of resources.
  At the highest technology tier however (assuming the battle lasts this long) , these lines are blurred 
 as each of the sides bring to bear their most powerful (and evenly matched) units, the GDI Mammoth 
 Tank, Nod Avatar and Scrin Annihilator Tripod.
  
  Superweapons at this tier are similarly powerful and satisfying, and when used in combination with 
 many of the other secondary powers, can quickly spell the beginning of the end. For the first time 
 since C&C 95, Nod sees a return of its nuclear weapons, which, when used in conjunction with their 
 other powers like the Fuel Air Bomb and Catalyst Missile give them the most potent arsenal of support 
 powers. GDI counters with its traditional Ion Cannon (which is guaranteed to leave a lasting impression 
 the first time it is used) while the Scrin offer up the single most destructive superweapon in 
 the game, the Rift Generator, which essentially opens a black hole that sucks in everything for 
 a considerable radius. Often, you might find that while completely capable of crushing the opposition 
 before your superweapons are even ready, you'll wait that extra five minutes purely for the satisfaction 
 of detonating a nuke, and following it up with a wave of Avatar war mechs to overwhelm and finish 
 the enemy.
  
  The campaign, spanning all three sides, is lengthy and satisfying, although the end may well leave 
 people wondering what EA has in store as far as sequels are concerned. Locales as diverse and varied 
 as Washington D. C, Sydney, London and the former-Amazon Basin are but a few of the places your 
 army will roll over in the course of the game's single player campaign, and fans of the story will 
 appreciate the bonus objectives which unlock "intelligence data" that offers insight in to the 
 game's back story, and the events that occurred after Tiberian Sun (including an in-universe explanation 
 on why Tiberian Sun's AT-AT-like Mammoth Mark 2 is nowhere to be seen.)
  
  The campaign's story is filled out between missions by live action cut scenes provided by the likes 
 of Michael Ironsides (Starship Troopers, Sam Fisher from Splinter Cell) , Josh Holloway (Lost) , 
 Battlestar Galactica gals Grace Park and Tricia Helfer, and of course, the actor who plays Kane 
 himself, Joe Kucan. It should be no surprise to series fans that despite the on-going list of TV 
 celebrities in the game, Kane is the one who steals the show with virtually every appearance.
 
  
  Former Westwood composer Frank Klepacki did not compose C&C 3's musical score, and Transformers-composer 
 Steve Jablonski, provided a soundtrack that follows in the style of 2003's Generals, offering an 
 ambient music score that is, at best, mood-setting, and at worst, uninspired. Far from "bad", series 
 fans will be nonetheless disappointed to miss the electronic-rock sounds of Klepacki's previous 
 works (who's C&C masterpiece is widely considered to be Red Alert's infamous "Hell March") 
  Voice overs and sound effects are well-produced, and the units respond with different moods and 
 styles depending on their battlefield role that range from amusingly macabre (GDI's Mammoth Tank) 
 to outright frighteningly fanatical. (Nod's Harvester)
  
  While it is hard to recommend Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars to RTS purists that are looking 
 for constant innovation and improvement, fans of the series will welcome a return to form.
  
  Westwood might be dead, but their legacy is alive and well.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvgeoster
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  How do you talk about Command & Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars. Um perfect is a good start. This game 
 is oozing with greatness, a high quality cast backed up with a great script keeps the game enjoyable. 
 Command & Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars realy is the best game in the series, and its a great series.
 
  Anyway an easy to start and learn game, Command & Conquer 3 quickly throws you in and you are 
 stugling right next to your best. Again the graphics in game and the sets in the cut scenes are 
 amazing with great actors giving a great performance.
  One cool game, a must get.
  Sorry but the 800 character limit just makes me want to say this
  If you want a great game, get 
 this one! If you want a great game, get this one! If you want a great game, get this one! If you want 
 a great game, get this one! If you want a great game, get this one! If you want a great game, get 
 this one! If you want a great game, get this one! If you want a great game, get this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryDaBeardON
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  
  Command and Conquer 3 is set in a universe where Kevin Spacey succeeds, and the whole planet becomes 
 infected with kryptonite called tiberium. There's so much of the stuff that people decide, "Heck, 
 it's green, let's make it into money" And as will all money, prolonged exposure to tiberium is 
 harmful for your health, so the richest areas of the planet are also the least habitable. 
  
  In general, Earth seems to be in a pretty bad shape. I'm not really sure how life can survive 
 after the oceans have dried out, but GDI faction seems to be doing pretty well for itself, carrying 
 on the democratic traditions of the free world in the least-infested Blue Zones. Of course, in 
 order to do that, they have to build Mammoth tanks to keep the obnoxious poor people out. For the 
 sake of realism, wise folks at EA LA made it so the obnoxious poor people comprise the majority 
 of the population. This unhappy majority lives in semi-habitable Yellow Zones and provides fodder 
 for CnC's second faction, the paramilitareligious Brotherhood of NOD. The alien Scrin, who seem 
 to simply have come to pick up their crunchy green groceries, comprise the third side of the conflict.
 
  
  The story of this conflict, as everyone knows by now, is told through live-action movie sequences, 
 with a bunch of good television actors lending their services. This, I thought, was fresh and worked 
 very well, although the performances were a bit uneven. NOD campaign, led by the now iconic Joseph 
 Kucan as Kane, aided by Tricia Helfer as General Killian Qatar and a very convincing Josh Holloway 
 as Ajay, comes across as the more spirited one.
  
  The single player campaign, spanning all three factions and consisting of some thirty-odd missions, 
 is the main attraction here. Although the units and gameplay mechanics are pretty standard RTS 
 stuff, providing plenty of fuel for people who like to complain about lack of innovation, the fast 
 pace, smoothness and presentation of the game go a long way towards creating the most important 
 gameplay effect: fun. The main complaint here is that there is just not enough difference between 
 the factions in terms of units beyond the cosmetic one. You have your infantry that's good against 
 infantry but bad against vehicles, you got infantry that's good against vehicles but bad against 
 infantry, you got vehicles that are good against infantry but bad against vehicles and so on and 
 so forth, all pretty uninspired stuff. The only real variety appears when you build superweapons, 
 but you won't be doing that too often. Still, as I said, the single player campaign makes up for 
 these shortcomings with fun factor.
  
  Now, multiplayer is another story. Those who are, like me, spoiled by Battle. net, will find CnC's 
 online setup thoroughly annoying. It's almost impossible  at least at low level  to find a random 
 ladder match, so the newcomers are forced to look for games in the "custom" section, where the 
 appropriate servers, to their credit, are marked with the helpful "noobs only" or "noobs welcome" 
 signs. More often than not, though, even in those you end up facing a more experienced player, 
 who welcomes "noobs" so that he could own them with a Scrin mothership chain reaction. Aside from 
 the wacky "unlimited whatever" maps, there seem to be only three or four maps in operation here, 
 and even though the gameplay is exciting, they get old pretty fast. All in all, I felt there was 
 much strategic potential beyond the few standard tactical choices, but was never compelled to put 
 the time into exploring them.
  
  It also needs to be mentioned that the game runs extremely well on my modest set-up (AMD64-3000, 
 1.5 G RAM, 6800 GS 256) , although the lag shows up in online matches on occasion, especially when 
 there are fifty mammoth tanks battling fifty tripods on the same screen.
  
  Verdict: More than purchase worthy, for the single-player alone, if you're old-fashioned like me 
 and don't consider multiplayer the most important part of a game. If you DO, however, consider 
 multiplayer the most important part of a game, then try it anyway, you may find enjoyment where 
 I wasn't able to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niroth5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Ah, CnC.
  Its past games are still some of the best gaming I've seen.
  However, what happens when the tiberium-side of things hits 3-D?
  If you have played Generals, 
 you would know what CnC3 kind of feels like without playing it, as they run off of the same engine.
 
  Almost all past CnC games are 2-D and either have used voxels, or something of the like. Tiberian 
 Dawn was amazing, with classic sounds and game-play.
  Tiberian Sun is more slow-paced but still offers some really good gameplay and story.
  CnC3 is 
 more fast paced and less stradegy like Tiberian Sun. Stradegy still plays a major part, but in 
 fast paced games like Tiberium Wars, the stradegies often include the terms "Tanks" and "Lots of 
 em' ".
  The game's graphics are some of the best I've seen yet, and it has amazing gameplay.
  HOWEVER, 
 the teams seem to alike in my eyes, and I know Kane's Wrath will fix that.
  So to cut to the chase, this game had amazing graffix (intentional mis-spell) , really good game-play, 
 and a good story. It's worth your money.
  
  Ups and Downs:
  +Uber graphics
  +great gameplay
  +good selection of teams
  +CnC
  -teams are too alike
  -too fast-paced
 
  -music is lacking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason1995
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  a remake of the original with different campaign and WAY BETTER graphics and introduces and alien 
 race "scrin". Ok now ill get to the main point the reason i thought this was a great game was because 
 i loved the 1st one and it totally old school. and I played the original with my father when i 
 was little and at the age of four my favorite character was Kain. and this was the first RTS ive 
 ever played. But it came out for the Xbox 360... lame RTS's are for the PC!!! thats the way the 
 RTS's were made to be played with a keyboard and mouse. witch is why the new Halo RTS only for 
 Xbox 360 will not sell as many copys as they would if i came out for the PC as well. In the campaign 
 attacking the white house is just a bounus. and the tiberium corrupted maps or known as Red zones 
 are an awesome new addition to command and conquer 3 tiberium wars. and i cant wight for Kain's 
 wrath to come out on march 24 for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokyou
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 1, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Command & Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars is just hyped and not really that good. The game gives you stupid 
 structure placement and even though theres the addition of the Scrin, personally, i feel generals 
 is better.. Who likes amassing millions of units at base only to let someone superweapon them do 
 death?+ the quotes from the units are dam irritating.. Units in masses cannot maneouvre through 
 the terrain and all of them keep getting stuck between each other.. Tanks move slowly and get stuck 
 and takes another precious 10 seconds to get moving... Overall this game is not what it is cracked 
 up to be... Even though the graphics are nice, the sucky gameplay and interface spoils it. EA shoulda 
 replace the building interface with something easier and not waiting for the dam thing to finish 
 and clicking it and clicking it again on the terrain to build it.. thats stupid imo... how does one 
 build finish a building and click on somewhere to make it appear there? what sense does that make? aircraft 
 are also hard to control as they won; t stay still on that spot but circle around it making it hard 
 to target only the aircraft.. all these contribute to making the game suck so hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gramanam
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Overall, the game is very well made. The graphics are very nice. Not as nice a Crysis, but they 
 are very nice for a DX 9 game released nearly a year ago. Another nice thing is that the game scales 
 well. I don't have the supercomputers that some other users have, but I am still able to run the 
 game at high settings. 
  
  The single player campaign is very well done. No one side is evil or good, and they are all fighting 
 for their own reasons. The movies are top notch and are a little bit over the top, but this is 
 good and makes them funny.
  
  The background and menus are very nice. Nothing is hard to find or get to and the background is 
 very interesting. It really fits with the game. The music is also pretty good. Its not to subtle 
 or over the top and it is not as good as games like Halo, but it will suffice.
  
  Skirmish and Multiplayer are also nice. Quick game makes it easy to find a suitable opponent and 
 start playing. Or you can find your own game and start playing. The ranking system lets you know 
 exactly what you are facing. The skirmish is also nice and allows you to train a little offline. 
 However, I have had some problems linking up with people when they host their own server on their 
 (slow) computer. I would advise you to stick to dedicated servers. The multiple difficulties and 
 personalities is a great idea.
  
  Pros:
  Nice Graphics
  Great single player
  Great Multiplayer
  Nice Skirmish
  Very good graphical design.
  
  Cons:
  Some problems 
 with multiplayer
  Music could be better
  Skirmish opponents should be affected like humans (ex. loss of radar is no hindrance) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koal_Jadian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 is the 3rd installment in the main Command and Conquer universe, bring back 
 the infamous factions of the good GDI and evil Brotherhood of NOD... as well as a third new faction 
 hinted upon in the game's predecessor, Command and Conquer 2: Tiberian Sun.
  
  This game takes storytelling to the next level, bringing an amazing cast of actors from very well 
 known TV shows such as the character Cameron from the hit-series House, and everybody's favourite 
 badass (and hopefully the actor to play Gambit in X-men 4) , Josh Holloway from the best show on 
 TV, Lost. Also included is Michael Ironside from movies such as The Machinist, Starship Troopers 
 and Top Gun, and two favourite characters from Battlestar Gallactica. On top of the incredible 
 cutscenes in between missions and the briefings, the game provides an intelligence database that 
 you gain entries to by completeing bonus and secondary objectives throughout all the missions of 
 the game. These are very well-written, and for hardcore fans; bring back alot of history of the 
 previous games of this decade and last as well as bringing alot of depth into the true mythology 
 of the conflict the game is about as well as history of Tiberium and what it is. The game also 
 hints at the religous, mysterious and perhaps supernatural history of Kane and the brotherhood 
 of NOD... how does that guy never age and why does he never die... hmmm...
  
  Down to the Nitty Gritty, this game brings the main Command and Conquer series to the 3D world 
 first shown to us with Command and Conquer: Generals and does and excellent job of doing so with 
 awesome new units and effects. The only weak point is that every climate has the same atmosphere 
 and daylight... there are no night lighting effects or morning hues, etc. that we saw in the 2D 
 Tiberian Sun.
  
  The Single player game brings a TON of missions to both the GDI and NOD campaigns and as an added 
 bonus if you complete those two compaigns, the next time you're at the main menu and hit the campaign 
 button you see a little animation of the buttons and BLAMMO! you now have access to a Scrin (C&C 
 versoin of Protoss) campaign that gives you 4 more missions of crazy gameplay as the invading Aliens 
 with their crazy technology. These missions are well done and are very interactive, often changing 
 as you progress through each one. this game like its predecessor's is extremely linear and the 
 missions are not that unique from what you've seen in previous games but are still very fun and 
 challenging.
  
  The one thing that does bother me with this game is the lack of building options. You cannot build 
 walls, cement ground, there are no personnel carriers in the entire game except for ONE GDI ground 
 unit, you cannot build bunkers themselves or gates or many other similar things that you could 
 in previous games. The one thing I hate about next-gen games is less-features than predecessors 
 and this is why this game CANNOT get higher than 9.0 rating.
  
  Multiplayer is where it's at with unlimited gameplay by the free-downloading of new maps... but... uh 
 oh.... not again.... you have NO options in multiplayer... you can't create or generate your own map 
 like you could in Tiberian sun.... you can't choose Tech Level... you can't turn off Super Weapons... no 
 noooo!!! Why is this happening.... Why am I so restricted.... uh no this rating just fell to 8.5.
 
  
  In any case, the game is still fun especially playing LAN with some buddies against the incredibly 
 difficult 'Hard' and 'Brutal' level computer players. 
  
  Definately check this game out, it was an excellent experience and does complete honour to the 
 series... and the best part is there is no retardedness like found in Red Alert 2 and its terrible 
 expansion... those games are a disgrace.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TodoBond7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I really expected more from this game but I guess i was just optimistic. I think the game play 
 is great and the game doesn't disappoint the fans but aliens?! Come on...
  I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw the alien spaceships invading... I think that the alien race 
 was done in a rush and has some major strategic flaws in the game that really don't that it up 
 a notch, it's just plain ridiculous.
  The reality in which the game series are founded (i mean pure science) just crumbled when they 
 decided to explain the tiberium with some mediocre alien race that planted it for some reason and 
 now decided to collect.. Also the GDI and NOD campaigns could be a little more interesting, I used 
 to like to hear the story but this one just wasn't that good.
  Nonetheless it's a good game and worth playing for dedicate fans like me :)
  who just want to 
 play a good old strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most enjoyable rts games I have played for a long time. Lets start with 
 the cut scenes, yes they may have real humans but EA definitely pulled it off and didn't make it 
 look too ridiculous. Since im mostly a newcomer to this series and have only played generals in 
 the past I didn't really know what to expect game play wise. I have found some small similarities 
 between generals and tiberium wars but command and conquer 3 is its own, great game. The 3 campaigns 
 you play are pretty lengthy and challenging but being fun at the same time. The races you can play 
 in this game are GDI (pretty much the equivalent of us marines) Brotherhood Of Nod (the bad dudes 
 that like tiberium) and the alien race: the Scrin (my favorite) . The only resource you need in 
 this game is tiberium. The crystal is a green alien looking, radioactive substance that you harvest 
 and sell for money. This game does require base building and management but is not as focused on 
 that as most other strategy games. You do get the usual unit and tech tree crap but it fits the 
 game. One feature i particularly like is the multi player. It has voice chat support, spectating 
 games and many maps to choose from. Overall, this short review only gives a little piece of the 
 game there are many other great things putting Command And Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars on my list 
 of favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulsterdr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This would have been one of the best RTS games had it not been for the designers making all the 
 maps so symetrical. That and the lack of devastation due to tiberium. The actors in the FMV sequences 
 were given some pretty cheesy lines. Though, It wouldn't really be C&C without them :) Sound effects 
 are pretty good, unit responses arent as good as they could have been. Some of them dont meld with 
 the nature of the game. They sound too light-hearted and happy.
  
  Im rating this game an 8.5/10 because it is a good RTS. It's just not as good as it could have 
 been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is another notch in the belt of the people who originally 
 started the Command and Conquer series. The game plays like its predecessors, but is different 
 enough that it has its own unique feel of it. The campaign has the brilliant cut scenes that the 
 series is known for. It also has those brilliant missions that Command and Conquer are renowned 
 for. The campaign is long enough to give you a suitable play time for your money, and the skirmishes 
 will keep you going for many months after playing the game. The Scrin are a great new addition 
 to the C&C family, with their own great weaponry and troops. The super weapons still pack the punch 
 that they are known for. The Nod get their nuclear missile, while the GDI stick to their clean 
 Particle Cannon. The Scrin get the Black Hole Inducer, which is hellishly powerful, sucking buildings, 
 vehicles and troops into the nothingness of the void. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Having played Supreme Commander just before starting this game, I just wanted to ignore all new 
 RTS because of the very slow progress in Supreme Commander, but I took a chance and started playing 
 C&C 3-Tiberium Wars and it was amazing just the type of RTS I wanted. you are in the center of 
 the action, managing your troops having super weapons and also a new race appears, SCAIN. I think 
 this new race is added for older players to prevent the boreness. New weapons and new units have 
 been added to both GDI and NOD. The script is very good for both NOD and GDI campaign, however 
 the SCAIN campaign was so short t was good. One of the amazing features which was missing in C&C 
 Generals is the difficulty level. In C&C 3 Tiberium Wars the difficulty is just as it says. The 
 hard is really hard but in Generals this feature missed and if you are a good player you won't 
 be satisfied with the hardest difficulty. Truly I could only win one Skirmish map with the hard 
 difficulty with only on Hard AI but the rest I couldn't do because it is really hard! There is 
 also a pathfinding problem some time which is common in all of the RTS games. You may find your 
 units turning around each other, or giving a command for 12 units of bomber to attack but you find 
 that only 2 of them went and the rest is still in their position! Besides these problems, I strongly 
 suggest it, it is one of the best RTS games I played so far 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I was never a big fan of this series so I waited for the price to drop a bit and made the move. 
 I was glad I did, but I hope that the next game addresses a few issues that I personally had.
 
  
  Graphics - Well done, clean, and smooth. Nothing groundbreaking, but definitely above average. 
 I ran the game nearly maxed out at 1920X1080 and only had to tune down a few things to make the 
 game stutter free. It managed to crash on me 4-5 times, which by todays standards isnt that bad.
 
  
  Gameplay - A little to fast paced for me personally... I am more of a build up your units and go 
 in for the big blow kinda guy... call it "turtleing" or whever you want, its just the way I like 
 it. This game was a little to fast paced for my liking but thats not to say it wouldnt be the opposite 
 for some. It sure would have been nice to pause the game and think it out for a while, or pause 
 and make my moves, but that was not the case. I played the Nod portion second and I would rate 
 that half of the game much better than GDI. 
  
  Storyline - Not a big follower of the series so I cant comment on that. But the acting was fun 
 at best... it was no World in Conflict, but the BSG aspect added a nice touch. Grace Park's acting 
 seemed a little under the weather, and didnt do much for me, aside from the looks... But I think 
 Trisha Helfer did a fantastic job and made the storyline much more believable when playing the 
 Nod. 
  
  Overall - A good solid game for fans of the genre. And if you are a follower of the series then 
 I am probably not telling you anything that you dont already know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The control scheme is a bit different with the right click now being used, but once you 
 get used to it, its no deal at all. The fast-paced action in this game is a huge step forward form 
 the sometimes dragging pace of Generals. In most levels, no matter what, you're building troops 
 and fighting off enemy attacks at every moment. The game gets more fast-paced the higher you go 
 in difficulty, though it never gets too terribly difficult. There are more units in this game, 
 and just as much strategy involved with them. The third faction of Scrin makes this game much better, 
 and fighting as them is thrilling. The strategy involved is about the same as always, in both campaign 
 and skirmishes. You can over-run your opponent with wave upon wave of devastating attacks, build 
 a huge defense and pelt them with nukes and other devastating weaponry, penetrate and take over 
 key buildings and use them to your advantage, etc. The campaign has a few newer and older objectives 
 you can do with commandos and the like and is a great experience by itself. The online battles 
 still have it, and are arguably the best since Red Alert 2. I've fought in battles where hundreds 
 of units are blasting each other, and they were memorable gaming moments. One of the biggest problems 
 are the glitches. There are many like "the indestructible unit glitch" and they can severely hamper 
 the fun, especially if your opponent knows how to do it and uses it to his advantage. This can 
 also happen in the campaign, which can literally make a level unbeatable. This came from updates, 
 which EA has done little to fix (those asses!) . Along with up and coming hackers, the online can 
 become quite dull. Overall, the gameplay and level design is just amazing, and great moments come 
 by often.
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are completely stunning to say the least. Anybody that's played 
 Generals will see the enormous difference as soon as they turn this on. The textures on every part 
 of the game are terrific, and the ground, buildings, units, and everything else are highly detailed. 
 The animations are well down, and troops seem fairly real when fighting (compared to many RTS games) 
 and things blow up and shoot realistically. Buildings more or less just appear when you make them, 
 instead of being built on-screen like in Generals, but it looks good anyway. There are cutscenes 
 like in many C&Cs, and many of them are as stupid as you would expect, but don't detract from the 
 game. The amount of action on-screen can be massive, and sometimes online battles can have you 
 fighting against hundreds of enemy units with hundreds of your own with little to no lag. With 
 all that said, it's the shadowing, shaders, and lighting effects that really give Tiberium Wars 
 its graphical life. Tiberium glows with an eerie light... major battles light up the screen with 
 various colors... alien attacks darken the screen to an epic level while flashes of light are your 
 biggest help in guiding your squad... alien environments growing on earth gives maps a completely 
 awe-inspiring look... Sure, there are plenty of games with better textures, even RTS games, but 
 there are few (if any) that give you the same combination of great textures and stunning environment.
 
  
  Sound- The sound is what you would expect for the most part. Shooting and buildings collapsing 
 all sound fairly realistic and are well done. The voice acting is all right and the other sound 
 effects are about the same as always. The music is again about the same as always, with some good 
 C&C themes, which is sometimes a bad thing since they can get repetitive and drag on.
  
  Story- It follows the Tiberium games, and is set a time after you supposedly kill Kane in C&C Tiberian 
 Sun (or the expansion Firestorm, I can't remember lol) . It's well thought out and decent even though 
 the cutscenes are laughable. It's not good for anyone who knows good stories well, but good for 
 a war game I suppose. Just the fact that it's a Kane game should be good enough for anyone.
  
  Overall- C&C3 is flat-out another stunning game in the brilliant C&C series. Fast-paced gameplay 
 both online and offline and some of the most intimidating environments shown on any game to date 
 combine with the great villain Kane to make an all-timer out of this RTS. EA has brought back C&C 
 and done exactly what anyone could hope for: give it some life after all these years that us fans 
 have missed it and not **** it up. A must-buy for any strategy-lov... scratch that.... a must-buy 
 for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TakuyaSan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  When i herd about new game from command and conquer series i went to buy it immediately.....
  
  there are many new stuff since the last game in this series:
  
  -new army: Scrin
  -new 
 abilities: Combining units (example: Screen Swarm)
  
  GRAFIX: Have not much to say here because..... well..... the grafix are
  realy good, but all 
 the new games are on the same level
  -Still good ^^
  
  Sound: Almost same as grafix - but the sounds are kinda basic.....
  I meen, if there is no background 
 music, the game will not 
  have such a good sound because all sound FX are short
  and you cant hear fire burns or Explotions well.
  
  Gameplay: Multiplayer: THE REASON THIS 
 GAME HAS MADE FOR
  multiplay give the game an entire new 
  direction.
  Abilities in multiplayer: - Record a game
  - Observe a game
  - Friend list
  - Chat/TeamChat
 
  Singleplayer-Missions: GOOD missions, even for 
  expirienced players it will be a
  challange.....
  Singleplayer-Custom: as good as any other RTS from
  command and conquer or 
 red alert
  series.....
  there is only one new thing that 
  change the game direction - 
  the enemy's way of playing
  Abilities: - Turtle (defensive)
 
  - Rusher (offensive)
  - Balanced (Normal)
  - Guerilla (Tricky)
  - and one other option
  that make the computer
  attack you with 1 strong 
  force, without 
 tricky stuff
  
  I 100% recommend this game for every RTS gamer GO AND BUY ^^..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Maybe the fact that I played Company of Heroes right before C&C 3 biased me. Heroes was challenging 
 and fun. C &C is neither challenging nor all that fun. 90% of all missions are basically the same. 
 Destroy building X by one of 3 methods: 1) superweapon (when available) 2) tank rush 3) sorties.
 
  The maps are small and missions are short, with the exception of the final few in each campaign. 
 Graphics, musics, and sound effects are unimpressive. 
  Hm, so what does this gave have going for it? The cut-scenes are corny and melodramatic... BUT, 
 you can't help but love the cast, and so, you do look forward to completing missions to see the 
 story evolve. 
  Remember the original C&C? Sigh. If only C&C 3 had 1/3 the thrills. 
  Bottom line: if you are a fan of C&C, how can you not buy it? I simply suggest waiting for price 
 cuts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Foxcono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  What's not to love -I'll just outline the major +'s of this game, since the decision is unanimous 
 that it ROCKS!
  
  - Live Action HD cutscenes: makes everything seem more real and pulls you into the story a lot 
 more.
  
  - Instantly intruguing story: What is tiberium? And why is this Kane guy getting people to worship 
 it?
  
  - Throws you right into the action - no waiting around to build up and then 45 mins later the fighting 
 starts.
  
  - "City" System - Mobile construction units make it possible to "set up camp" right outside an 
 enemy base.
  
  - Garrisoning Units - This innovative feature is really what sold me on this game - I've never 
 seen it before and i can't imagine playing without it now.
  
  - Jennifer Morrison makes me think I'm watching House.
  
  Thank you - now I can finally move 
 on from Rise of Nations =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArCHAN6EL
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  It's back, its big, and its here. Command and Conquer Tiberium Wars, once again pits two of gaming 
 history's most beloved strategy forces The G.. D. I and The Brotherhood of Nod against each other 
 in an epic battle to determine the survival of the planet Earth. This time around however, humanity's 
 constant use of Tiberium has drawn an enigmatic and very violent alien race to earth, known as 
 the Scrin. From here on in, you take the fight to your enemies in Singleplayer in various future 
 locations around the globe, or pit your itchy hot keyed fingers and mouse hand against the myriads 
 of opponents online. Either way, the return of the Mammoth (hahaha) of strategy games means big 
 expectations, and not to worry, Tiberium Wars delivers the goods in aces and spades. 
  
  
  SINGLEPLAYER:
  What would a Command and Conquer game be without an epic sci-fi story of good 
 versus evil, massive global battles, alien invasion and double-crossing second in commands? Don't 
 answer that: instead gaze at the glorious return of full-motion capture video: that's right you 
 thought it died in the 90's, but EA have proved that nostalgia is always a treat by resurrecting 
 the glorious Hollywood-lit mugs of stars like Michael Ironside, Billy Dee Williams (pirate, scoundrel) , 
 Tricia Helfer and of course The Original supervillain himself Joe Kucan a. k. a Kane. 
  The Singleplayer pits you in an epic conflict against either the GDI or the Brotherhood of Nod, 
 and follows the perspective of an unknown commander as he rises through the ranks of either faction. 
 Each campaign is about 15 missions in length, and each mission is basically one of four types: 
 Attack an enemy base with a large force, defend with a small force, sabotage with a commando, or 
 build up a base and super weapon the s#$! out of your enemies. 
  While the variety is huge, the execution and the sheer amount of furious action in each mission 
 is enough to keep you coming back for more, and ensure your continued interest. The story while 
 not earth-shattering is a good motivator for your continued play and features one or two surprising 
 twists that will impress you suitably. The game's difficulty is well balanced on all three difficulty 
 levels, and the briefings you receive en-route to your next mission always leave you with a clear 
 understanding of your next objective, and get you into the vibe. 
  By far the stand out appeal factor of the Singleplayer campaign is the full-motion video sequences; 
 they are sometimes so bad, and so reluctantly performed that they seem funny and enjoyable. At 
 most other times they are performed well, and the resounding fact that most of these actors could 
 get a more 'professional' gig somewhere else, will make any gamer proud. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 
  
  In multiplayer, players face off against each other in a variety of team, 
 free for all matches. It should be as easy as jumping into a game and choosing a suitable server; 
 but unfortunately it isn't. 
  The server system glitches frequently and sometimes even restricts access ability making it imperative 
 that any budding online C&C 3 gamer get the patch immediately. 
  However, technical issues aside, the multiplayer is a fast and furious match-up with multiple opponents 
 launching savage attacks at each other regularly. As such, build time and resource management are 
 not emphasized as much as combat is, and so on a basic level the strategy of 'rushing with high 
 tech units' works in most occasion. This doesn't mean that C&C 3 Tiberium Wars is not fun, but 
 the focus is more on combat, big-ass explosions and furious pace. Due to this, fans of slower squad 
 based strategies such as Company of Heroes may not enjoy it as much. 
  
  
  VISUAL/AUDIO
  
  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars like any other blockbuster title from 
 EA has wonderful graphics, buildings are well-detailed, explosions are satisfying and the super 
 weapons inspire a 'whoa' or evil chuckle the first time round that you use them. Although the game 
 does run on lower-end systems you're missing out on a ton by doing so. At its highest resolution, 
 the combat in Tiberium Wars looks like a beautiful chaotic mess, and the aftermath inspires a certain 
 amount of hilarity as well. Environments are well detailed, and elements such as water have a nice, 
 impressive appearance about them. With a stellar musical line-up that screams epic, and tracks 
 suitably dedicated to Scrin, Nod and GDI the music while not the most impressive or widely advertised 
 feature of C&C 3 provides enough support to keep your focus on the fast paced furious gameplay.
 
  
  VERDICT
  
  Overall C&C 3 Tiberium Wars is a classic strategy game resurrected for the new generation of gamers, 
 at heart the mechanics that applied still apply to this very day, and though there have been expansions, 
 improvements and improvisation, it is still the same classic, fast spaced strategy title that is 
 was 10 years ago. And as such, it's still a timeless, excellent classic. / 9 out 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: b4card
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo yesterday and liked the improvements since the last C&C game I played (maybe 
 red alert 2) . I did not like the zoom. It always felt like I needed to zoom out just a little bit 
 more. The series has always presented a strong sense of good versus evil, blue versus red, however 
 you want to look at it. It is vivid and clean with more than enough eye candy to please anyone 
 with enough sense to know it is about the game play in the first place. 
  
  I recall seeing the original C&C for the first time at work in Troy, MI. The excitement I had for 
 trying the game then still lingers today and I can feel it for this installation.
  
  Looking forward to playing the full game. Yeah I know I am late to the game. I never buy games 
 when they are new. Too dawgone expensive for my bank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  I must admit, once I played the demo on the PC I was thrilled. It looked terrific, sounded terrific 
 and just ran like a dream and had a very interesting concept for online play and the campaign seemed 
 decent and the high-quality cutscenes were also very promising, if it wasn't for the female commanders 
 just there to show off their bodies without any ability to act what so ever. Waiting was a pain 
 and once I got a hold on the game on launchday in Europe I thought this game was gonna rock, and 
 I enjoyed it even if it cost a fortune, The online multilplayer was all rubbish, unfinished and 
 kept disconnecting, running bad and failed all the time. EA wasn't even feeling bad at having to 
 throw out three emergency patches first 48-hours to get the multiplayer at all working - and then 
 it was three months before the first true patch arrived that made the game playable, as for balance. 
 Anyways - that was my experiences in the start and I'll continoue that patch as soon as I got the 
 basic covered. This is a Command &amp; Conquer game in the Tiberium fanschise which has a focus 
 on the two main factions in a conteminated world; GDI, the Global Defence Iniative, known as the 
 usual capitalists and we have the evil Brotherhood of NOD that spans more than half of the worlds 
 population. What these factions are fighting about is in this part of the story the land to survive 
 upon as more of the world is getting criticaly conteminated by the Tiberium radiation, which is 
 also well-used for both weapons and energy. Since the end of Tiberian Sun and Firestorm there's 
 been quite some time since there was any conflict between NOD and GDI as Kane was suspected to 
 be dead and NOD has been acting discrete while massing up. The first moments of the story takes 
 part when the NOD attack the GDI space station philodelphia which is consider something like Pentagon 
 and the White House combined in a huge space-station which handles most of GDI: s global communications 
 and tactical commands. When Philodelphia was attacked GDI crippled and they instantly increased 
 alert to Defcon-Zero. As the story proceeds in the old-fashioned Command &amp; Conquer style there's 
 very little to resemble anything from Tiberium Sun. As a matter of fact things seems to be better 
 now than they were in the earlier Tiberium installations and technology has also been going backwards. 
 Going from huge walkers with characterism and disc-throwing infantry to basic tanks and rocket-launcher 
 infantry, along with the old Mammoth Tank from the first Tiberium game, while there's no sight 
 of the Mammoth MK II but its Rail-technology. NOD has less stealth capabilities and their forces 
 has lost alot of characterism and has increased rate of standard terrorist resembelance along with 
 state-of-the-art technology lasers which has no chance against GDI: s old main canons or Railguns. 
 The only thing that makes the story interesting is the alien invasion. We saw a couple of alien 
 vehicles and so on during the Tiberian Sun and quite alot of Tiberium creatures in Firestorm but 
 now the aliens, called Scrin, invades Earth in the hunt for Tiberium after a huge shockwave of 
 liquid tiberium was detonated in the middle of an attack against NOD. This brings the story to 
 an interesting level and there's some quite excellent moments during this part of the campaign 
 when the Scrins first attack - but later on the campaign gets both boring and awfully hard. Scrin 
 lacks characterism or orginality and doesn't stay at all true to what we expected from Tiberian 
 Sun. Blue things with cracking voices and lots of tantacles and floating flat things aren't really 
 appealing or at all interesting in any way and ruins everything and makes it all a huge cartooon 
 with the original bad guy, good guy and the things that doesn't really fit in. EA Games should 
 feel ashamed for launching this game for many reasons, I'll recap: - Little resemblance to Tiberian 
 Sun or the previous Tiberium games. - Technology has been going backwards, all interesting vehicles 
 and units are replaced with boring, clich&eacute; and uninspired units. - Multiplayer blows, not 
 only does it perform poorly, but unit balancing has always been awful and faction balance is terrible. 
 Not even all functions works, such as VoIP. Rarely any updates from the developers and the function 
 to see all online games on the website is a stupid add as nobody really cares or does host any 
 function more than looking cool. - All online modes are only found on the X360 version of the game 
 when the PC users have to accept beeing ripped off all potential of the game,
  
  All in all, the only thing that is good with the game is the visuals. While it isn't the most detailed 
 game ever, it still updates the Generals-engine in such a signifcant way everything actually looks 
 good and animations are just plain art for most part, there's alot of effort putting into the animations 
 which should have been put into making a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterman4312
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars in one of the best RTS games I have played in a long time. The 
 Graphics that are in this game are great, as long as you have a good computer that can max out 
 the settings. 
  Overall, the game has good gameplay. Each faction is unique. I would recommend this game to those 
 who love great RTS's. 
  The three factions, I would say, are not perfectly balanced. One faction being more powerful than 
 the other. I've yet to try the game on the Xbox 360 but it'll probably be good on that too. 
  I would easily recommend this to everyone that plays games on this computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightningrealms
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the first Command and Conquer came out way back in 1997, I was fascinated by this concept 
 of commanding an army built from scratch or very little to become a powerful force to be reckoned 
 with. It is an empowering feeling, and, since then, many games have embraced the genre of RTS such 
 as Age of Empires and Total War, ranging from the past to the far future.
  
  As we can see, C&C has had a truckload of talennt to contend with, but despite the best efforts 
 of rival game designers, it manages to remain on top of them all.
  
  GAMEPLAY - C&C is a series with similar gameplay throughout all of the games within it. You play 
 as a nameless commander, known by all who converse with you as 'commander'. Your mission is to 
 lead your faction, whether it be the traditional GDI (Global Defense Initiative) , the Brotherhood 
 of Nod, or the recent mysterious alien invaders known only as Scrin. At your disposal is an arsenal 
 of various upgradable weapons, soldiers and vehicles to annihilate your foes. 
  
  There is two main modes available for battle; Campaign and skirmish. The Campaign mode places you 
 in the role of either a bright young Nod General itching to prove his worth to the sinister Kane, 
 or a new GDI commander who has been assigned to work with Gen. Jack Granger, a tough veteran from 
 the everlasting struggle with Nod. Rumours have it of a Scrin campaign also...
  
  Both story paths are playable, and each briefing is in full HD with 90 minutes of video briefing, 
 continuing the tradition of C&C.
  
  Skirmish mode is the standard battle mode as in all RTS games, where the computer pits you against 
 a foe of varying difficulty depending on your skill level and lets you battle it out to see who 
 is victorious. There is also an online option for skirmish, and you may progress in rank and status 
 to scale the ladders of the games leaders.
  
  GRAPHICS - This game is a vast improvement on C&C Generals, which had frankly appaling detail and 
 textures for something of that standard. The detail in C&C 3 however combined with smooth framerates 
 (despite a cap of 30) and excellent motion, such as GDI Zone Troopers doing one armed push ups 
 on the ground while idle. As with most games there are a variety of settings to be tweaked fro 
 optimum performance.
  
  SOUND - The sound is excellent, and the corny one liners from soldiers and vehicles alike upon 
 clicking on them is reminiscent of previous games, and comes standard these days. Explosions sound 
 excellent and you it helps to immerse you into the combat and the role of commander.
  
  OVERALL - 9/10 - An excellent addition to your gaming shelf that will keep you busy, frustrated, 
 and thirsting for more long after the sun goes down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: graphics are generally solid. game play is very retro. game is fast paced, controls are 
 responsive (mostly) . interesting campaign story. good campy videos and surprisingly good polished 
 game for EA.
  
  THE BAD: Art style and visuals (camera animations clipping, canned explosions for buildings) are 
 all frustrating. despite the diversity of the play styles from respective sides the game the game 
 play feels to retro, to much about the rush not as much about strategy. it's retro when we don't 
 need retro. so much of the design of this title feels about playing it safe after the criticisms 
 that generals got. like say horrible AI and path finding, to much micro management.
  
  THE RANT (skip to break down if you don't like unedited blog style rants)
  Ok it isn't that this 
 is a bad game its just when it came out. strategy gamers may know we are finally getting the strategy 
 renaissance we needed for a decade. the only major strategy leap after starcraft has been 3D, only 
 a few titles pushed any boundaries with this, homeworld, homeworld 2, dawn of war (relic, he he) 
 well after many star craft war craft and C&C clones/sequels we have in the last year gotten company 
 of heroes (presentation visual/tactical benchmark) supreme commander (strategic and scale and camera 
 benchmark) World in Conflict (everything else) between these three titles i'm getting what i wanted 
 since starcraft/ total annihilation and that is something new. if you love strategy you know that 
 age of empires 3 and age of mythology and rise of nations, and rise of legends are all good games, 
 just not totally fresh ones. part of the delay in our renaissance may be that technology is more 
 important for our mathematically intense games, so they couldn't push much more. but as i said 
 relic has been pushing in different directions since homeworld 1. basically this year us strategy 
 gamers have what we've wanted for more than a decade. between the interface and command revolutions 
 that are happening games like world in conflict look better than most shooters on the market. in 
 the middle of all this comes the first good thing EA ever did for the Command and Conquer license, 
 a solid game. some of the EA cheapness shows through in things like the choice of the generals 
 engine again!!! it's been through three other games and they still haven't fixed many of the inherent 
 glitches with it. like units animations seizing up yeah it's been like six or seven years and they 
 haven't fixed that stupid glitch in their own engine. we still have limited (darn horrible) pathfinding 
 you may not find this to be as annoying as in other titles cause not only is base building very 
 limited but everything clips through everything else. basically this game looks very good till 
 you look at games like company of heroes, and world in conflict. then it looks sad. the camera 
 is annoyingly close to the battlefield at all times, another choice that us gamers are still scratching 
 our heads over, unlike in titles such as warcraft and starcraft where the limited camera was a 
 design decision where buy the size of respective you units onscreen played out into a deeper tactical 
 consideration (you can't tank rush cause you can't fit enough tanks onscreen to easily control them) 
 tanks are so much larger than infantry to add balance, to the combat. well infantry squads are 
 the same size as most vehicles so they can't hide behind that gibberish. i guess it's frustrating 
 to me that some of EA's laziness/cheapness is passed of as RETRO throwbacks, i know that the game 
 is retro but some of the choices are just due to corporate frugalness. the story is good and very 
 campy, if you don't like campy you'll hate this games single player. the missions are of the annoying 
 variety remember all the missions in star craft and war craft campaigns you hated, well they make 
 a return here. yes they bring back bad gameplay for nostalgic effect. combat is furiously fast, 
 the games are almost as fast as world in conflict but the game has base management, so at the end 
 of the day it feels like each match is 90 percent economy reliant, 10 percent rush soon as you 
 can. despite so many annoyances this isn't a bad game it's very good just week agianst the current 
 lineup, if it came out in another year it would be a great throw back with starcraft 2 hitting 
 simultaneously. but alas it hit just after we had moved on from the same old. i have many more 
 complaints but seeing as i don't play this game that much i feel stupid, like i might be speaking 
 from ignorance to the lovers of command and conquer.
  
  THE BREAKDOWN
  GAMEPLAY: Classic, with a new side. it's very fast paced, not my style, not enough new here.
  
 8
  GRAPHICS: Good till you look at another leading title this year.
  8
  SOUND: a mix of fantastic and generic, perhaps the generic is a retro throw back, or just EAism.
 
  8
  VALUE: It is a fully feature singleplayer and multiplayer game.
  9
  TILT: While i do think it's a good game it's nothing more than that, it isn't a benchmark, this 
 is one we won't be remembering in a year or two.
  7
  
  SCORE:8
  Nostalgia requires something to be missed. i missed command and conquer as much as the next person, 
 i'm tired of the gameplay formula it's been done to death. if you want something more than a HD 
 version of tiberium sun you won't find it here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  Command & Conquer has been a legendary serious franchisor in the RTS industry. In Tiberium Wars, 
 it tries to repeat the legend once more. I remember when my uncle firstly introduced me to C&C: 
 Retaliation (in PS1) several years ago.
  Tiberium Wars packs quite an interesting gameplay, yes, especially with all the Scrin guys hype. 
 These unindentified lifeforms do add a new interesting sensation for those who have bored with 
 the GDI-Nod conflict. As for the general gameplay, well, can't say it's revolutionary, but it feels 
 rather newer. This is where my Review Deck continues. Why the GDI only have two tanks and a strange-looking 
 siege engine? Come on, give'em more. The Pitbulls and friends are just not enough to annihilate 
 the Nod once and for all. Look at the USA (Generals) . They've got Drones, Avengers, Drone-Equippable 
 Tanks, and more. What more could a Commander ask? The same goes for Nod with their lame Scorpion, 
 Stealth, and Flame Tanks. They do pack some punch but why not make them pack some strike instead? 
 The GLA (Generals) even have the horrifying Bomb Trucks, the horrendous Mobile SCUD Launchers, 
 and the guile interchangeable Combat Cycles. A whole country would fall to them. The Scrins' vehicles 
 are weird-looking but they have their sigantures. Well cool.
  EA should have added more air forces rather than just the Orcas, Venoms, and friends.
  Base Defenses 
 are a bit bothersome. Can't we combine Watchtowers and AA Batteries into one structure, like, say, 
 the Chinese Gatling Gun (Generals) ? That'll save times rather than building them one by one.
  I shouldn't complain for the graphics. Awesome. The shaders, reflections, destructions, environments, 
 blurs, blasts, burns, dusts, and all. And what's more, are the FMVs. They're just cool. Although 
 such feature may not be now, but the directing is impressive. It's like we're playing a movie.
 
  Sound effects are also well-designed. Individual units' responses are variative, they're well-astounding. 
 The voices are also quite differentiable, try to listen from the men-with-guts GDI Riflemen Squad, 
 the confident and sriff Mammoth Tanks, the sly-seeming Militant Riflemen, to the enigmatic Scrin 
 Infantry units.
  This game is worth to play, however, an expansion or two will make it even more worthy.
  Gameplay: 
 7 Graphics: 10 Sound: 8
  Overall Score: 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrique_am
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game cause i really like C&C series, and this one turned out to be a very good sequence 
 to it, didn't let me down. It improved what it could be improved like graphics, units, and kept 
 the good stuff, like high quality video sequences in campaign. It will keep you busy for a while 
 for you that likes to play through campaigns, and for those who like multi-player this game is 
 also either. Its a must have/play for fan of the series and strategic gender.
  aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migsbro
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  If you are new to this type of game it would prolly be fun, but I found it boring same old stuff 
 from duno how many years ago  . 
  
  Well the first few missions were ok ill give it that just sussing out the new gears n upgrades 
 but meh MEH
  
  I thought the graphics were annoying to look at the screen seemed cluttered, I dont know if they 
 were trying to impress with graphics but it backfired to me big time.
  
  IF YOUR LOOKING FOR A NEW TYPE OF GAME THIS ISNT IT...
  SAME STUFF DIFFERENT DEVS LOL.
  C&C 
 generals was much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalesofEmo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  *smashes computer as it crashes, screams*
  It took me 10 tries to get Command and Conquer 3 running, as my graphics card and RAM didn't meet 
 the requirements for C&C3 (T. T)
  But I found it was worth the wait to play C&C3. It's the best C&C yet. NOD & GDI are back, and 
 so is Scrin, an alien race seeking Tiberium. The graphics are very good, though on my old computer, 
 it lags sometimes when someone uses a superweapon. The Tiberium is looking greener than ever, and 
 EA also added some new units. I've yet to try the multiplayer, but skirmish mode is as good as 
 ever. Overall, C&C3 is well worth the money spent on it. (plus the time waiting in line in Black 
 Friday to get it =P) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brood_aliance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is a great RTS game for the PC. The game reaches out to most 
 RTS fans, because of its fast-paced gaming. People who loved Supreme Commander, may not like this 
 as much, or not like it at all, because of the fast-paced gameplay.
  
  The graphics in this game is amazing. Beautiful water, smoke and textures. During an intense battle, 
 lasers, and missiles look like they are lighting up the Hong Kong sky. The Nod nuclear missile, 
 in my opinion, looks the best because of the spectacular smoke effects. The mission cut-scenes 
 that made the C&C franchise so famous are back, and with an great cast. There are also a bunch 
 of them, which is a very good thing. The sound is pretty good, especially when the lasers fire. 
 The game looks and sounds very pretty.
  
  Now, on to what gamers find most important, gameplay. Before we start, I want to say that the game 
 has been fixed greatly due to patches. The units are more balanced, and the multiplayer is not 
 very buggy anymore. Again the game is very fast-paced, so matches, and missions go faster than 
 usual. I find this makes the game intense, and more strategical. For those that say that this game 
 has little strategy is very wrong. There are many different strategies, like a MCV rush or many 
 others. Those who say that haven't played the game extensively. A very high point in the game is 
 the new playable faction, Scrin. They are insect-like aliens trying to take over Earth. This makes 
 for some very interesting, and new strategies. It adds a new dimension to the old GDI-Nod rivalry. 
 The "strat bar" is back to the side, like all the previous C&C games (except Generals) . This makes 
 it easy build things from anywhere on the map, which is suitable for this fast-paced game. The 
 missions are very interesting, but you will probably spend most of your time playing the great 
 multiplayer. The multiplayer system has many features like Battlecast (broadcast your game online) , 
 VoIP, ranking system, and many more. The matches itself are very intense and again fast-paced. 
 I could only wish for more custom maps like defenses, and bloods. I'm sure there will be much more 
 in the future. A minor low point in the game is that all 3 factions play about the same in terms 
 of infantry and structures. Vehicles and aircraft are different, but I would have hoped for more 
 different infantry, and structures.
  
  The game is a steal at $45 CAD, and $50 CAD (for C&C Saga, which includes First Decade, and C&C3) . 
 
  
  Overall, this game is amazing. Graphics and sound are top notch. The singleplayer campaigns, and 
 multiplayer matches are very fun and intense. I can't stress enough, that this game is fast-paced. 
 I would recommend this game to everyone who has an interest in RTS games, except those who don't 
 like the fast-paced gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  C&C 3 came out. It's been a long time since the generals series. The first reaction to this game 
 is that this one looks really nice. The way the game render water, smoke and explosion, it makes 
 you to say, "Wow, that's nice." 
  
  Now you play the game. As the developers from EA has mentioned, it's a very fast paced game. Yes, 
 it is. You'll be building factories and pumping out Mammoth tanks in no time. It's got the fairly 
 interesting story line, even though not as good as I expected, and lots of cut scenes. They weren't 
 the 5 stars, top of the class cut scenes, but they were reasonably well done, and there were a 
 lot of them, which I liked. Its new interface was also very nice, letting me to build almost everything 
 I want to build without having to leave the battle screen. It is enjoyable and I still play the 
 game from time to time.
  
  Having said that, people saying this is the best RTS game ever kind of bothers me. This is not 
 the best RTS game ever. In fact, to my standards, there is no RTS better than the Starcraft ever 
 period. Well, maybe Warcraft, but not this one. The game seems to have a bit of balancing issues. 
 It's not significant, but each faction has some unit which can just dominate entire game if you 
 just make above 20 to 30 of them. For instance, about 30 GDI's Mammoth tanks with the rail gun 
 upgrade can almost destroying every thing if not everything. I personally beat every single mission 
 by doing this: build up my defense, build 30 Mammoth tanks with the upgrade, then win.
  
  When you can do this with your game, not only it's not that fun anymore, but it also implies it's 
 not perfectly balanced. I appreciate all the efforts and thoughts from EA, and it is a nice game 
 indeed, but it's not the best. This is kind of game that I would play for a while and kind of just 
 forget about it. I would go back to it from time to time but it's not the best game ever.
  
  I would not mind buying this game, however, because it is not a bad game. I did enjoy it very 
 much for the first couple of few hours, so I am sure it will do the same for a lot of other people. 
 Just keep in mind that you will get bored more quickly than you expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  Seeing as command and conquer one was the first ever game i ever played on a pc ever (except maybe 
 doom 1 or perhaps lomax, possibly the coolest lemming game of all time) I have maximum respect 
 points for it. It was originally developed by a British company that brings a pang of patriotism 
 to my heart whenever I hear about it (even though everyone after it has a sever case of the yank 
 past red alert no thanks to EA) and so the first thing I did when I heard it's release was go out 
 and try to buy it. But I had no money, so I went home and 2 months later I found I had enough money 
 in Mr Bank to buy the game so I instantaneously went out, bought it and sat in rather a fair bit 
 of shock and disgust when I played it.
  
  In the first game it was a plain and simple conversation between you and general shepard, nice 
 and simple. Now of course, Mr Shepard is a tad dead due to old age and the game has fast forwaded 
 to 2042 because no I didn't play C&C 2. I didn't know it exsisted till about two weeks ago and 
 I decided not to buy it becasue aparantly it is just an all white American adventure which bars 
 no relevance on real life because as we all know every American is currently 20 million stone and 
 would not be able to take more than one step without having a heart atack. Oh well onto the game.
 
  
  (note if you didn't play the oriiginal C&C you should probably skip this bit) .The game sees you 
 having a chat with 7 or 8 other people and watching alot more news where as the old game would 
 develop the story from every angle the new one just seems to tell you the bare basics and uses 
 the cunning stratergy of telling you bugger all and watching you struggle through the levels. The 
 old game would focus in a nice Eurpean zone where a fight would last till game end. The new sees 
 you in America (surprise surprise) Egypt, and dotted parts of Europe. Unlike the old game you don't 
 see the map which shows power struggles which I kind of liked.
  
  However the game does have very good points (as you may have noticed with the score) . Even if it 
 is as patriotic as the american flag, the game is well built and the graohics are a dream to look 
 at, so long as you have a good enough pc to see them. The game also has a unique ability for every 
 character and no two are perfectly the same, and some help others, like snipers and juggernauts. 
 This is very useful to obtaining victory on the battle field where you will need to be able to 
 use all of the units abilities in order to gain victory. Which means on some levels it will be 
 a walk in the palk with mummy dearest and others a walk in the park with a rapist, a murderer, 
 satan and a man who should really be in a straight jacket. The former being harder and the latter 
 the more fun and easier. The abilites such as the stratofighter command on GDI jet planes means 
 the entire game becomes 300% harder if you play someone who can use them. Or 800% easier if you 
 can.
  
  The main thing you need to do in this game though is collect tiberium. Without it and you will 
 fall faster than you thought possible. I would recomend this game to anyone but say only buy it 
 if you think you can do the challenge becasue at times even easy gets a little bit pricky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of "Command and Conquer" series and I've to say that's just one GREAT game, an excellent 
 strategy... The graphics and the sound are just crushing and the gameplay-DIVINE... When I started 
 playing the game, I became addicted, because that game makes the virtual battle very real. I enjoyed 
 crushing the forces of GDI (I play with Nod) on Hard, or in a multiplayer battle... I've also played 
 with Scrin, but they are very slow and since I like the action and I'm a rusher a enjoyed rushing 
 with Nod (Scorpion Tanks and Rocket squad should do the trick) ... Nod's units are so amazing. I think 
 that GDI are just the trivial human race, that fights for the greater good (I'm getting sick of 
 that) . That's one of the most dynamic games ever created. I think everyone should play it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  First of all, I am a big fan of Tiberian Sun so I am very disappointed at Tiberium Wars. In fact, Tiberium 
 Wars doesn't offer many features Tiberian Sun has. So, Tiberium Wars should not be named "Tiberium". 
 It should be named Generals 2, LOL. (Generals shouldn't be titled C&C series either) 
  
  Though I am very disappointed at Tiberium Wars, it is not a bad game. At least graphics is good 
 though the game engine is improved from the old Sage engine. The multiplayer of Tiberium Wars is 
 ok and playable. In addition, there is a map editor helping lots for multiplayer. Mod maps are funner! 
 
  
  It's a sad thing you can't get the feelings of Tiberian world in Tiberium Wars. If you are a fan 
 of Tiberian Sun or good player, you should understand what I said. Tiberium Wars has a map editor. 
 I think the map editor helps it lots get higher score 7 from me. Or it only gets a 5, LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Again, a stunning production from the insane amounts of well-produced live action videos, thoughtful 
 unit designs and visually stunning in-game effects, C&C 3 is a tribute to long time fans of the 
 series. This time round, I really love the unit designs from the sinister-looking stealth tank 
 to the macho-looking mammoth tank. I can appreciate the layers of thoughts that went behind the 
 look of every unit, structure and vehicle because they are so detailed and nicely animated. The 
 explosions are cooler than ever accompanied by a larger-than-life sound design that hypes up the 
 whole C&C experience.
  
  There are so many good things to say about C&C 3 and you can see that a lot of effort is spent 
 creating an exciting and refreshing RTS gameplay with the help of stuff like completing bonus objectives 
 and unlocking hidden information to spice up the fun, so there's no reason to dislike this game.
 
  
  However, even with the abundant live action movies, there is a lack of CG cinematics to match up 
 the authentic C&C feel. The music ain't as memorable as the first C&C and Red Alert but the overall 
 sound design is still superb given that there is a unique sound for every unit available in the 
 game, even the structures! I got the Kane edition for this and it was well worth the money, with 
 a key-chain and t-shirt as a kind of bonus. Long-live Kane.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kovacz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  I really am not much of RTS gamer myself, but had to give this game a chance since it gotten itself 
 nice reviews and all. And to my relief, it was all true! Game is brilliant at displaying story-line 
 throughout all the levels, with nice HD video, which is something you really must respect in this 
 day of quick profit making and beta-releasing crap they're pushing to market. 
  
  The gameplay itself is not overly complicated, I'd say just right for a nice fix of pure fun and 
 is enjoyable to play, with not over-demanding graphics which, however, still blows you away with 
 detail and excellence, so everyone can play the game not feeling let-down and left behind, unlike 
 some other new titles which are not scaled so good, but this is good point of RTS games in general 
 i believe. 
  
  Unit variety is always a good thing, and there's plenty of that here, and what makes it better, 
 every unit is worthwile in some sense. User interface is done very well, maybe one of best I came 
 up to, but since I'm not inot RTS that much, can't say for sure. It is, however, very clear and 
 easy to use.
  
  To shorten this, for final thoughts I'd say that if you're after some good looking, fun and quick 
 combat with great voice-acting and story behind it, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Regular RTS game play. Collect this build that wait some more then kill and do the same 
 thing over and over again. But makes its fun with the awesome cut scenes and story.
  
  Graphics- Pretty graphics. Amazingly detailed enviroments and units. The infantry looks a little 
 bland.
  
  Sound- Good sound and amazing voice acting from some well know hollywood actors.
  
  Story- 
 Kane returns and attacks GDI town and destory their main space station. War ensues and Tiberium 
 starts to infect the blue zones.
  
  Rent Or Buy- Buy definatley for PC. Rent for 360 version
  
  Cool Points- Adds a new race to 
 the C&C universe. Awesome voice acting
  The Bad: Lots Of Glitches
  The Ugly- The Scrin
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  While there's no doubt that THQ's Supreme Commander delivers some of the most imaginative, epic 
 and downright gripping battles in recent memory, the game's po-faced approach to the RTS genre 
 will leave many players yearning for some light relief amongst the carnage. And for intense military 
 strategy that never fails to entertain, the latest Command & Conquer is a charismatic treasure.
 
  
  Like earlier incarnations, the futuristic skirmishes are punctuated by live-action clips that bring 
 the story to life, introducing the people behind the battles and showing the story unfold from 
 different perspectives. 
  But while these movies bring personality to the chaos, they also inject a little humour to the 
 proceedings, the hammy actors and cheesy soundbites helping to undermine the traditionally austere 
 atmosphere that pervades most RTS titles. (Of course, the humour in these clips is probably unintentional, 
 the developers instead believing they were creating a great work of digital drama. But they're 
 hysterical nonetheless.)
  
  C&C's entertainment value also applies to the explosive action; although players must constantly 
 keep an eye on all corners of the battlefield to emerge victorious, the warfare is tightly focused 
 and lends itself to more straightforward rucks than Supreme Commander, allowing you to send legion 
 after legion into the fray and sit back and watch the fireworks. The single-player missions are 
 also varied  constantly shifting objectives and challenging players to evolve their gameplan  
 and with some of the toughest, most aggressive enemy AI around, Tiberium Wars will pose a challenge 
 for even experienced armchair generals.
  
  Also boasting superb presentation, a fearsome new alien faction, a tweaked interface that makes 
 it easy to implement complex moves and a superb multiplayer mode with clan and leaderboard support, 
 Tiberium Wars is a welcome return for the franchise and an ideal choice for RTS fans who want a 
 serious game, but don't want to take things too seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbose22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  This game, although not very well advertised, is definitely worth buying.
  
  For all of those familiar with Tiberium Sun, this game provides a great new storyline, and brings 
 back Kane.
  
  The new units are quite astounding, and the addition of the intelligence button, allows you to 
 see the background of units and how they have changed from previous models.
  
  Some players will be disappointed at the removal of the Mammoth Walker, GDI Hover technology, and 
 the cyborgs, but in Kane's Wrath , these are promised to come back. A dissapointing aspect of the 
 game is the lack of Naval units. The maps provide water, and naval combat seems enticing, yet you 
 cannot make any units that move on water. The campaign allows you to control cruisers, yet these 
 cannot be built anywhere else. The new approach to stealth technology was satisfying, and a good 
 NOD player can now utilize a HUGE amount of new tactics with its large array of units. The new 
 commando for GDI is very micro-manageable. It adds a fun aspect of gameplay, and its very satisfying 
 to control this unit throughout the game. The NOD Commando is slightly dissapointing. I expected 
 for it to have a unique set of abilities and specialties, but it merely lacks a jetpack and has 
 (nearly) useless stealth, with practically every base and army having some stealth-detection. The 
 new support powers are very fun, with each faction having abilities which seem to fit what they 
 should be able to do. Tiberium Wars introduced super-weapon based gameplay in some multiplayer 
 matches, where players will often end up trying to build an ion cannon, nuke, or rift generator, 
 or keep their opponent from making one while they get their army into place. A great new addition 
 for skirmishes is the ability to pick the AI of the computer. Brutal is very difficult, giving 
 it double resources, and the different personalties allow players to train their weaknesses, or 
 exploit their strengths.
  
  All in all, Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars, provides and enjoyable gameplay experience, whether 
 playing the well-thought out storyline, or duking it out in an intense online match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asuka25
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer, the very first RTS game and the very BEST since its time. Warhammer 40k is 
 also a favorite of mine but I just have to go with Command and Conquer, its more realistic, its 
 closer to Earth and home, has amazing graphics that can be run by most computers nowadays, and 
 has more then 35 LONG Missions! How can it get any better?
  
  It does. Command and Conquer 3 refines everything you've seen, its also coming out with an expansion, 
 Kanes Wrath, I'll be sure to buy and review that in the future.
  
  In Command and Conquer 3 you take the role of a GDI Commander or a Nod Brother, it is recommended 
 that you start with the GDI as it refines everything you learn in the tutorial and gets you ready 
 to game.
  
  Command and Conquer 3 is vastly fun, it has great animations, awesome weaponry, its just cool to 
 see 3 APC's filled with riflemen go into an area and they can actually shoot out of the APC. The 
 story of Command and Conquer 3 takes place after the first one, where Kane is supposedly dead, 
 but you soon learn he isn't and he blows up a landmark of space, the Philadelphia, with a nuke. 
 Your job is to take down the Brotherhood of Nod yet again as a GDI commander. But what is Kane's 
 true motive? What is he referring to as Look to the sky ? All can be found out if you pick up this 
 game. You wont be disappointed.
  
  I give this game a 10, its very challenging, most amazing RTS graphics, and it is the longest one 
 since Warhammer 40k Dark Crusade. Trust me buy this game its a must-have! If possible go get the 
 Kane Edition, which is a fancy term for the Special Edition of Command and Conquer 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkin_parker92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was totally awesome just like the previous titles of Command and Conquer series. Each 
 faction: GDI, Scrin, and Nod has it individualities. GDI and Nod have similar characterisitcs that 
 they are human beings while Scrin is completely different from the humans. In order to collect 
 resource, players must deploy a harvester and a refinery whose jobs are to collect tiberium which 
 will be the resource. That is bascailly all you need. Graphic-wise, the details were excellent 
 and extraodrinary at the high-max settings. You could see the wavy air that the planes emit while 
 their flight, the glowing tiberium, and the tiberium smokes of the refinery and silos and etc. 
 Some of the story mode missions were freakishly hard, but if you plan out a very intelligent tactics, 
 you'll be able to go through it. Anyways this game was one of the best RTS i played and had the 
 smartest AI in the RTS genre. It is definite must-buy product to your gaming list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warsun
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  After playing C&amp; C Generals and Tiberium sun and enjoying them very much I was extremely looking 
 forward to boot up this game and get into the thick of it, due to the crappy graphics card on my 
 PC loading times and lag were a problem but overall I was deeply impressed with every aspect of 
 the game. With the dramatic cut scenes, impressive story line and supreme acting from every one 
 of the cast Tiberium wars has to be one of the best games I have played from the command and conquer 
 series. I found it was really exciting and fun to play with difficulty increasing as you progress 
 through the game and with a twist in the middle adding an extra bite to the story that will keep 
 you stuck in your seat wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oceanred
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  C &amp; C the new installment! i have been wanting them to do it for i long time now it's like 
 the good games make us wait for a reason before they let the next one out of the box! the makers 
 of C &amp; C have gone over and above this time with a good soild Kick A$$ game!! Thanks i have 
 very much injoyed!! red alert rocked and tiberum sun was wicked as all the rest but the new on 
 is out of this world the game controls are better the looks are a lot better and the story is very 
 good to that is key anymore to keep me playing bad story no glory thats what i say anyway!! if 
 your thinking about it Just Do It you will want to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FortuneWheel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  I was quite skeptic when I started playing this game, just because I played other games from the 
 series. But after I played the first few missions for GDI it got me HOOKED and I couldn't resist 
 just playing another 10 mins to get to the next step...
  
  One of amazing discoveries is the game is VERY FORGIVING to player's mistakes and you don't have 
 to save&amp; load in order to get through. So you can experiment various strategies not being afraid 
 to lose much time (if defeated) as you now in advance that you win:-)
  
  I'd classify this game as casual RTS - relaxing, rewarding and really fun.
  
  Looking back 
 I don't regret any single minutes I spent (may be just a few when they didn't let me accomplish 
 bonus objectives just because of mistakes in level design) .
  
  The overall performance is really great for PC with just one geforce 8600gt graphics card - I had 
 no lugs even when there were about a hundred of various units on the screen. Thanks to EA developers 
 for this GREAT product!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EE2lemmonhead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  For those of you not familiar with the Command &amp; Conquer series, it is one of the oldest rts 
 series and the original pretty much kicked off the genre. The setting of the story is near future, 
 there is these green crystals called tiberium growing out of the ground, and they seem to be from 
 another planet. They keep spreading and threatening to cover the whole earth, which is bad, because 
 they are poisonous. It is also the resource of the game, unless you consider power a resource. 
 Anyways, there are 2 sides in this epic, world spanning conflict, the Global Defensive Initiative (GDI) 
 and the Brotherhood of NOD, and they both meet up with unexpected extraterrestrial visitors.
  
  The singleplayer component is definitely one of its strongest points, with well-crafted missions 
 and 90 minutes of real-life cutscenes, featuring some of the biggest sci-fi stars in television, 
 a great incentive to keep going through the campaign all day. Although most of the missions are 
 traditional build your base and destroy the enemy missions, the objectives and conditions you are 
 put under are uniqe. You can expect to constantly have trouble with enemy AI attacks. The conditions 
 can range from destroying certain buildings to clearing out a certain part of a map from garrisoned 
 infantry, to capturing the pentagon back from the NOD. The story is also pretty good. If you are 
 looking for a good singleplayer rts game to buy, look no further, you have found it right here.
 
  
  The biggest flaws of this game become very noticeable in multiplayer. If you play for a while you 
 will notice the ridiculous unbalancing, and, even after several patches, EA has still not managed 
 to get it right (will they ever get anything right) . One particularly annoying thing is the ludicrously 
 priced reinforcement drops. If i recall correctly, the GDI sniper drop costs $2500 and you only 
 get like 6 snipers. I'm pretty sure you could make a lot more with that money in about the same 
 amount of time at a barracks. Not to say snipers are important, they rarely get used and arent 
 good for much at all. This is the biggest flaw in this games multiplayer, few units are good, and 
 barely any units will stay good throughout an entire matchup. This reduces the game to spamming 
 out a just the best units, and matches can be very repetitive. The multiplayer, however, survives 
 this and still manages to be an enjoyable experience, with built in voice chat and a great multiplayer 
 browser system, making it easy to find a game.
  
  Difficulty: Just right: The GUI make it easy to get into, and the campaigns will give you a perfect 
 fight. Multiplayer not included in this rating.
  
  Gameplay: 9: A great user interface makes this game play really really well.
  
  Graphics: 9: 
 Battles are really fluid and intense, and the game will run on a variety of systems.
  
  Sound: 9: The sound adds to the fluidity of the battles, with great sound effects and a awesome 
 sound track.
  
  Value: 8: This games multiplayer will most likely last you a while, but doesnt quite stand up to 
 the value of games such as warcraft 3 or starcraft, games people have been playing since they came 
 out. With CnC, players are doomed to constantly buying sequels and expansions. Not like that is 
 bad, and the expansions and sequels will hopefully be good. Lets hope Kane's Wrath helps balance 
 out.
  
  Tilt: 8
  
  Overall Score: 8.5 (supossed to be 8.6, stupid new gamespot player review system) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xX-RatcheT-Xx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer has been one of my favorite series' for a long time because it is a blast to 
 play. There are 3 factions you can pick from, GDI, NOD, and Scrin. Scrin is the new faction, the 
 annoying aliens... lol. GDI has a lot of powerful machines and weapons such as Juggernauts, Mammoth 
 Tanks, grenadier squads, etc. These units can be a real pain simply because they are hard to take 
 down and they put a real dent in your side.
  
  Nod on the other hand has some fast destructive weapons. In my opinion, these weapons can be taken 
 down easily. These weapons include, the Black Hands, Flame Tanks, Beam Cannons, etc. Those beam 
 cannons can really take down a base quickly, especially if they are skilled. There's nothing worse 
 then seeing the enemy have all these advanced skilled units because you know damn well you will 
 have a hard time stopping them.
  
  There are plenty of strategies to pick from, you can either rush the bastards or sit back and work 
 at them slowly. Nod is pretty good for rushing but GDI is like, well a slow moving powerful force. 
 You can experience these on the Hard difficulty because that's where the real challenge comes in 
 and I won't even start in on Brutal. = ( Overall, this is an addicting game that shouldn't be missed 
 by anyone because it rocks! =D Go ahead and get this baby! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Welcome back Kane, its been a while since your previous endeavours... C&amp; C fans should rejoice 
 to see Kane return, but that's not the only reason C&amp; C3 is great. C&amp; C 3 makes great use 
 of the basic C&amp; C formula, and is definitely worth any rts gamer's time.
  
  The premise in C&amp; C 3 is that the second tiberium war is over. GDI has fortified itself into 
 the blue zones on the planet, i. e., areas with no tiberium (Tiberium is very hazardous to human 
 health after all...) . All the while however, Kane has returned, and Nod is preparing to strike 
 once more at the GDI and commence a third tiberium war. But things aren't quite what they seem 
 this time, as things get thoroughly messed up for both sides when the alien Scrin suddenly show 
 up and attack the planet (The Scrin are feasibly the guys who sent tiberium to Earth in the first 
 place) .
  
  The single player campaign in C&amp; C 3 is quite lengthy in that it includes a campaign for all 
 three factions. At first, you can only choose to do the GDI or Nod campaigns. Complete those and 
 you'll gain access to the Scrin campaign, which is unfortunately very short in comparison to the 
 other two campaigns however. The campaigns have a hefty share of cut-scenes that use real actors. 
 These cut-scenes are cheesy, but in a good way (As everyone says...) . Notably, instead of seperate 
 storylines for each campaign, all the campaigns roughly share the same time periods. That doesn't 
 mean you go to the exact same places however, as all the campaigns are very different from each 
 other.
  
  When your done with the lengthy campaign mode, you can move on to the multiplayer or skirmish modes. 
 The gameplay in a basic skirmish is extremely hectic and fast-paced. You'll find yourself fully 
 teched up within several minutes after a game has started if you know what your doing. And if you 
 don't want to go online, you'll still have a great time thanks to the game's excellent AI. The 
 only complaint against the skirmish mode is that you don't have that many options available to 
 you. So there's not much difference from match to match, other than the map you play on.
  
  Graphically, C&amp; C 3 is gorgeous in motion, for the most part... The units are highly detailed 
 and the combat all looks great. But a few of the game's walker units, especially the scrin's walker 
 units such as the annihilator tripod and disintigrators, suffer from poor movement animations that 
 make them seem to slide instead of walk. But other than these minor blemishes, C&amp; C 3 is a great 
 looking game. The game is even better in the sound department however, with excellent voice acting 
 from all of the units (and excellent sounds from the scrin units) , under-played yet decent music, 
 and then the excellent sounds that efficiently capture the game's combat.
  
  C&amp; C 3 is not just a great C&amp; C game, its unquestionably a great rts. This is not an rts 
 you should miss if you like fast-paced and nonstop action.
  
  Pros: Fast-paced and ruthless gameplay. Great graphics. Excellent sound and voice acting. Lengthy 
 and enjoyable campaigns. Excellent AI.
  
  Cons: Game is fussy with building placement. Some walker units have poor movement animation. Not 
 enough options for skirmishes.
  
  Recommendable for: This game isn't just for C&amp; C veterans, its a game that any rts gamer who 
 likes fast-paced gameplay should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckyLavs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely for you. Because there is nothing more exciting than rolling out 10 mammoth 
 tanks and crushing an entire Nod city. You will be walking around all day saying with your chest 
 out, saying: Unstoppable. 
  
  Nod's flame tanks are pretty fun to play with too. But mammoth tanks win the prize for butt kicking.
 
  
  WMD's (such as the GDI Ion Cannon) also bring a new element. I shouldn't say NEW -- I have this 
 kind of thing in other games, such as Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri. But it's pretty cool here also.
 
  
  There are so many different kinds of attacks going on during the battle, the game is just replete 
 with action. Units have their own strengths and weaknesses too, which brings in a real strategy 
 element. Like a game of chess. The AI on single player is reasonably intelligent. Only found a 
 few quirks with the AI in the whole game. Don't let that bother you.
  
  As for challenge. The objective ribbons will keep you wanting to play this game. Often times you 
 have to really plan your strategy from the beginning to get the ribbon. It takes some patience, 
 but if you have that -- this game is very rewarding.
  
  The only one objective ribbon that I found frustrating was a GDI -- rescue mission where you started 
 with a base with no power, and had to get a slow moving vehicle to your base without taking any 
 damage from the enemy. That took me forever!!! But other than that... challenge is set very well. 
 Criticisms about the game:
  
  Frankly, it's hard to criticize this masterpiece.
  
  But here it is:
  
  First. The cut scenes are very melodramatic. Kind of corny story/corny acting. 
 It's actually more the story than the acting. But -- forget the cut scenes. This game is all about 
 the -actual gameplay.- And the gameplay is there. Second. I never could figure out from the in-game 
 tutorial how to set and call groups. Might have made my life slightly easier. Didn't seem to bother 
 me that much though. Because I beat GDI and half of the nod campaighn w/o the groups. Third. I 
 once thought GDI air units were underpowered, too easily shot out of the sky. In retrospect, it 
 keeps the game more balanced. You will come to realize that in the end. It's actually a strength, 
 not a weakness. Conclusion: If you have an X360, buy this game! Don't wait another minute.
  
  This and Kameo are my two favorite games on X360. Of course they are completely different types 
 of games. You should check that other one out too though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  From the opening logo of EA to the smallest detail within the game it. s perfect. From the first 
 moment you get the impression that your really within tiberium fields. The main manu is brilliant/ 
 I can't explain it but I enjoyed having it on screen even if I wasn't doing anything on the pc.
 
  Firstly I played some skirmishes to check that it was really C&amp; C, And it was! I love those 
 Mammoth tanks. The story expands nicely and the in game videos are brilliant. It reminded me the 
 first one about 12 years ago when I saw Cane again.
  The campaigns are good. Not very difficult apart from some mission that need a fair amount of restarting 
 and saving. Apart from that , as it has always been, the GDI campaign is easier than the NOD.
 
  The units are brilliant for both factions. They all have special abilities that can turn the course 
 of any battle. The Scrin are interesting, mostly due to their defensive capabilities and air superiority, 
 the latter though can be countered with good air defence from ground to air batteries or air units.
 
  The graphics of the game are awesome and they manage to provide the game with a mysterious atmosphere. 
 It is indeed like being in the twilight zone. Somewhere between extinction and the dawn of mankind 
 once again.
  A brilliant game and worthy succesor of the previous. Well Done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  Great graphics and performance; excellent full motion video and voice acting; varied objectives 
 and missions; three campaigns play differently; reward system for the hardcore
  
  NAYS
  Micromanagement often required; limited area to place structures; having to manage resources is 
 essential to story but seems retro next to Supreme Commander
  
  I have always been a fan of C&amp; C games so it is an understatement to say I was pretty excited 
 when I learned that GDI and NOD are at it again and that Kane is back. The original games hold 
 fond memories and I am glad to say that C&amp; C3 is not in the least bit disappointing.
  
  You start of the game by choosing your faction, GDI or NOD, both of which tell the same story from 
 their own perspective. The story is a continuation of the series but it is not necessary that you 
 have deep knowledge of the previous Tiberium Wars to appreciate this edition. Tiberium on Earth 
 has covered most of its surface and the world has now been divided into zones depending on the 
 Tiberium exposure level and how inhabitable the zone is. The GDI are aiming to control the Tiberium 
 while the NOD are interested in using it for technological advancement and as a new way of life. 
 So you would expect that both are not only opposing in ideologies but also play differently.
  
  Which is precisely the case. Playing as GDI gives you the option to build up an army of powerful 
 tanks and advanced offensive technology, while NOD relies more on defensive and tactics to win 
 the battles. This is not to say that you don't have technologically advanced arsenal in NOD - indeed, 
 in later missions you get an generous amount of expensive yet powerful NOD artillery and technology 
 to crumble your opponents.
  
  The unit diversity in both factions is both impressive and tactical, so as not to give the impression 
 that one faction is stronger than the other. GDI air base for instance can hold up to four air 
 crafts in a combination of two different types, while the NOD air base can hold up to 4 stealth 
 jets and infinitely many rail-gun helis. The trade off with the limits is that the NOD air craft 
 are less powerful. The same can apply to terrestrial vehicles, so in the end both factions even 
 out. It is ultimately though up to you to utilize the different units which all have both strengths 
 and weaknesses in your strategy. Most importantly though, the old notion of having a lot of one 
 type of units to raid and destroy the enemy base is long gone. It simply won't work here and effective 
 combination of units is key.
  
  Building structures is the same as always, although there is a problem in that you have limited 
 space to put your structures in - typically inside a specific radius set by the main construction 
 yard. You can expand your base perimeter by deploying outposts but they all ultimately have a radius 
 as well. This in effect congregates all your structures into one clump, which makes it awkward 
 if you have a lot of units to move in and out of a base as well as it poses a great vulnerability 
 against mass weapons like the Ion Canon and Nuclear missile - both of which can wipe out a good 
 chunk of your cluttered base. If you have played Supreme Commander, you would also find that having 
 to manage resources can be quite a pain and distracts you from plotting against the enemy. But 
 since the scale of battle and story requirements for C&amp; C require Tiberium, it seems plausible 
 and you'd quickly get over it.
  
  Missions are varied and are the highlight of the game. Some missions require you to remove the 
 enemy base, others require you to escort or defend or hold your ground for a limited time. Most 
 missions though require a good combination of all of the above as well as extra bonus objectives 
 within a mission, which are challenging to pull off but rewarding in that they make the main objectives 
 easier. You would be spending a good deal of time figuring out the best combination of units and 
 tactics for each objective, and, as always, the timed defend your base missions are always challenging 
 and nerve wrecking. Not all missions require you to have a base. Indeed, a good amount of missions 
 only give you a small number of units to complete your task. They're incredibly fun and can get 
 challenging, especially if the bonus objective is to finish the whole mission using only your commando. 
 In return, you are rewarded with medals depending on your performance as well as difficulty setting 
 for that mission - which is a good thing since you can set the difficulty per mission and not for 
 the whole campaign. During missions you are also informed with bits and pieces of the story and 
 units and weapons through intelligence reports, which are well written and informative to read.
 
  
  As if all that isn't enough, finishing both campaigns opens up an additional Scrin campaign - the 
 alien force you engage against later in the game. They're an interesting bunch because their weapons 
 and structures are unorthodox and will definitely be challenging even for veterans.
  
  Missions are intercepted by a good deal of well acted and well voiced full motion videos, which 
 you will come to appreciate extensively, as they are all acted by real people. Kane in specific 
 is a fan favorite and certainly gets a good deal of attention.
  
  In terms of graphics, the game is superb, technically and otherwise. The effects are nice and grand, 
 and the explosions are interesting to watch. Attention to details like flames, decals, debris, 
 clouds and the like are all well rendered and run flawlessly smooth - until you have an incredibly 
 enormous base with an equivalently grand army, it is only then you'd notice a drop in frame rate. 
 But this happens in maybe 2 missions out of the whole lot and are negligible. The music is well 
 done and is in perfect tempo with the carnage. As stated, the voice acting is also superb along 
 with the actual physical acting, bar an odd performance here and there.
  
  All in all, C&amp; C3 definitely lives up to its predecessors name and is a great addition to the 
 beloved series. It is accessible to everyone, and, with its short missions (20 minutes to an hour) 
 it certainly feels like a break from the mammoth Supreme Commander. Whether you are a fan of the 
 series or not, C&amp; C3 is a worthy addition to your RTS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  If youre a fan of the C&amp; C series you may or may not be disappointed at the latest addition 
 to the series doesnt d much to get you exited, but nor does it do too little.
  
  With all great strategy games the multi player to Command and Conquer 3 is very Deep and very fun 
 to play, also unlike previous instalments the player has the option to choose weather to be aided 
 by AI controlled team Mates in either online or if your playing single player on skirmish.
  However with the good there is always the bad which is plainly obvious to see when you first play 
 multiplayer and that would be if your not a champ/Pro at this game your going to almost certainly 
 loose, as with any good online game there will always be a number of people that play it until 
 there computer crashes, C&amp; C is no exception to this.
  
  When you find this out, if you havent already youll then think  I need some practise  so 
 then youll go onto single player skirmish or youll play the story mode which is a great treat 
 on the ears as well as the eyes, thanks to the amazing lights and sound effects that are present 
 here.
  C&amp; C fans will also be happy to see some well known characters from previous games such as Kane, 
 as well as some not so much C&amp; C fans happy to see well known actors joining in the fun such 
 as:
  
  Michael Ironside: Well known for roles in Starship troopers and Stargate SG-1
  
  Billy Dee Williams: Well known for roles in Batman and the Ladies Man
  
  Grace Park: Well known 
 for roles in Battlestar Galactica Jennifer Morrison: Well known for roles in House and Mr and Mrs 
 Smith
  
  Joe Kucan: Kane in C&amp; C speaks for itself Tricia Helfer: Well known for roles in Battlestar 
 Galatica
  
  Josh Holloway: Well known for roles in Lost. The actors and cut scenes are great, but what about 
 the game play you ask?  Well its 50/50 its good to see that C&amp; C has gone into a new era with 
 adding so much lights and lasers into the tanks and robots but also this doesnt work so well as 
 it differs from Red Alert 2 or Yuris revenge so much it almost as first sight doesnt seem familiar.
 
  
  Another bad thing about this game would be the decrease in variety in which to choose from as there 
 are less maps compared to other C&amp; C games as well as sides or countries to choose from, as 
 in C&amp; C 3 instead of countries they have put three sides to choose from:
  
  GDI: Classed in the game as the Good side.
  
  NOD: Classed as the Evil side.
  
  Scrin (Aliens) : 
 a bit pointless.
  
  All in all C&amp; C 3 although isnt a masterpiece proves to be really enjoyable and a game in which 
 RTS fans should defently play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Kane is back and oh-boy is he pissed! Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars continues the story 
 of GDI and the Brotherhood of Nod and their struggle to gain control of the world. The game picks 
 up a few years after the end of Tiberium Sun and presents a new world, were the mysterious green 
 tiberium crystal has consumed all but a few areas of the planet. Nod, now an undercover superpower, 
 have returned into hiding and GDI has assumed control of the world, dividing it up into three different 
 zones, namely the red, yellow and blue zones. The game starts with Nod launching an all out assault 
 on all blue zones and bringing GDI to its knees. Depending on which faction the player chooses 
 to align with, the story will branch into two parallel stories of epic proportions. The single 
 player story can only be described as amazing. It grabs the players attention and makes it very 
 hard for the player to stop. It advances well and displays great variation in the mission types. 
 To go into any story details would be down right mean but a special mention to the third race, 
 the Scrin, is a must. These alien invaders, or visitors, depending on how you look at it, are a 
 fierce foe. They have fast units and are amazingly efficient rushers. Any mission against them 
 is a rather tricky affair, and a more patient approach is required. The game is very well presented 
 and a great deal of effort and detail has been put into making this game and it is so clearly evident 
 in the final product. The game is very slick and the use of full motion videos with live actors 
 brings back great memories of the days gone by. The production of these videos are top notch, if 
 not a bit too cheesy but this adds to the overall effect of the story and increasing the enjoyment 
 of the game. With so many great real time strategy games being released of late, supreme commander 
 and company of heroes come to mind, it will be very hard for CnC3 to impress but lucky EA have 
 done a great job and released an exciting game that not only updates a classic, but introduces 
 new components to the RTS genre. CnC3 comes with a special multiplayer client that allows anyone 
 to view any online games. This client is free for anyone to download and enjoy and has brought 
 about the concept of RTS as a competitive sport. The client and multiplayer allows for commentators 
 to, well commentate on games currently being played online. This adds to the fun of watching a 
 match and more players tend to want to watch skirmishes rather than play in them. But then again 
 CnC3s multiplayer is truly addictive! Once youve had your first session the words, Just one 
 more round guys, just one more seems to be the only thing you brain will allow you to say. Next 
 thing you know, its Monday morning and your boss is calling, asking why youre late and you have 
 no memory of what happened over the past weekend, but for some reason you feel happy in the knowledge 
 that what ever it was, it was awesome!
  
  As mentioned above, CnC3 includes three factions. Each has a good mix of infantry, tanks and air. 
 GDI have the strongest infantry but also have the most amazing tank we have ever seen in a game. 
 The Mammoth Tank is a beast of note. Forget the fact that it has two powerful main canons, forget 
 the fact that they can get upgraded to rail canons, dont worry about the fact that it has anti-air 
 missiles, its real advantage is its amazing strength. These bad boys can take a huge amount of 
 damage and when fully leveled, can heal themselves in no time. Ten of these monsters are almost 
 impossible to stop and must be the scariest thing any defending commander will have to face well 
 not really.
  
  As mentioned above, the Scrin are insane group of tiberium harvesting aliens. They have the fastest 
 units you could ever image and a hand full of tripods and a few buzzers will rip any army to pieces. 
 Nod on the other hand are rather weaker side. They rely on hit and run tactics and their advanced 
 tiberium weaponry always tip the scales in their favor. Overall, the unit count is nice and high 
 but one feels that a few extra units to each faction would have made for a fuller experience.
 
  
  Finally a special note to the amazing graphics is a must. The games engine is very detailed and 
 is a major jump forward for the CnC universe. The reintroduction of the old sidebar is a sight 
 for sore eyes and makes for much more efficient building and unit ordering. Sound wise, the sound 
 track is lively and keeps the tension nice and high throughout the game and complements the ambient 
 sound of a future war very well.
  
  CnC3 is finally here and what a game it is. It might not be revolutionary but boy is it fun. The 
 multiplayer is everything you could every want it to be; fast, fluid and a real joy to play. The 
 single player is nothing short of brilliant and brings back memories of epic battles of the second 
 tiberium war. The return of live motion action videos adds to the story well and the introduction 
 of a new race to the CnC universe is welcome addition to an already great game. If you havent 
 already gotten it, go forth my son, and spread the gospel of the little green crystal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhabazatknis
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  This game requires alot of tactical knowledge. Many campaign missions are hard to beat the first 
 time. You need to learn your enemy's tactic when you are playing a campaign mission or a skirmish 
 against a computer. What is good about the skirmish mode is that you can choose the behaviour of 
 the AI but most of them arent very diffrent from each other. The only major diffrence in tactics 
 I noticed between the agressive and the ( uhhh whats it called again pacific? or something like 
 that ) .
  Another thing is when you play... lets say two vs two or three vs three and so on ( only you and 
 AI ) your ally ( especially if they are skrinns ( or whatever those aliens are called ) ) will have 
 a weaker tactic than your enemy.
  The game is not THAT fun as many people are saying. I mean I play it sometimes if I got nothing 
 to do. But I dont think someone might get addictied to it. Its just a regular game. Nothing special. 
 Ofcourse it has good graphics like all modern games and thats nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron3i
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  Good always be good. C&amp; C is the best game series of the whole gaming world and C&amp; C3 is 
 on the top of this series. This is a pure RTS game with lots of highly interesting things. Since 
 1995 to right now C&amp; C getting upgrade day by day in all side. After a long time waiting KANE 
 is back again. There is not only GDI &amp; NOD problems, a new evil alien family is also added 
 here. So lots of actions, fun, emotion is available. Take a look-
  
  GOOD: First of all KANE is back. HD quality FMV (Unbelievable) . Story beat some of the greatest 
 SCi-Fi books (Impressive) . New units added. Old C&amp; C style is back. Graphics is excellent. Runs 
 very smooth with minimum system requirement (Add some RAM for best) .
  
  BAD: NOD structures are not so cool than GDI. There is no installation movie which are available 
 in previews C&amp; C (Except Generals and Zero Hour) .
  
  This is a highly highly recomended game for all RTS fans. No need to be a old C&amp; C fans, just 
 play. This is a super success of this series where it started its journey from 1995 by WESTWOOD 
 STUDIOS. You have to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zythyl
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Lives up to the hype and deffinately delivers an impressive multiplayer feature called Battlecast 
 .
  
  The game is easy to begin with as long as you harvest tiberium early and build up base defences 
 fast, but it gradually becomes close to impossible once the player finishes the GDI and Nod campaigns 
 then steps into the alien world of the Scrin. The online multiplayer packs a punch with very fast 
 RTS action and quick key commands to set even the beginner players off. Coupled with the online 
 Battlecast features, even spectators are thrown into the chaotic and explosive-riddled world that 
 is Tiberium Wars.
  
  Overall, it's a fun title to add to the C&amp; C series and is visually satisfying. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I am not very intrested in strategy games. I can say that in my life i didn't try more that 10 or 
 12 strategy games, but this game is a real fantastic strategy. one of the greatest factors of this 
 game is the speed of gameplay which means that u didn't have to wait a long time for a building 
 constraction or squad production. when u play as GDI (my favorite race in this game) and u deploy 
 some Mammoth tanks with some extra Juggernauts into the battlefield, you make a real damn hell. You 
 will face some trouble in this game such as lack of Old Mammoth tanks (which where appeared in C&amp; C 
 Tiberian Sun) but take it easy and enjoy this game. Testing this game is a real enjoyment from god 
 himself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AccessApproved
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Presenting you CNC3. EA's latest CNC game. I see a lot of good stuff here so let me go through 
 some stuff.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look great. Water texture is good, but lags a bit on GPU. Kick ass explosions! 
 Units look very lifelike. I like good graphics because it gives the person something to look at 
 rather than focus on gameplay too much.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is mostly build order. If you know a good solid build order then you might 
 be considered a very good player. However, newcomers might not know these things and lose easily. 
 There is not much strategy involved because of this bad build order thing. There needs to be something 
 else the player can do beside making the all-time build order. That just ruins the strategy part 
 in my opinion. Sound: I like the sound. Lots of consideration was put in this. The music is awesome. 
 Learning curve: Takes a long time trust me. You THINK you might have got the best build order, 
 but there is always one special player out there that can beat that build order like lightning. 
 CNC is one game you can never master. Even if that's CNC RED ALERT 2 or CNC Yuri's Revenge. There 
 is never mastering CNC games. Always new things to learn.
  
  Summary: Good game. Not what I expected but it's still a pretty neat game. If you go play online 
 you might find it a little bit hard getting good at this game since the players are absolutely 
 elite. Good sound and graphics nevertheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inverted720
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong there is tons of fun to be had in the multiplayer portion of this game... However 
 this game just lacks what made the first perfect. The story line for instance lacks the awe and 
 amazement you would get each time that you got a new unit to control. I also felt the default game 
 speed was a little too fast. Also the use of power seemed unbalanced and almost a sidenote. There 
 is a good degree of replayability multiplayer and vrs CPU but the single player is excruciatingly 
 boring at points. This game is fun, but it just doesn't compare it to the original in its day. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardfloyd69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Excellent muliplayer game. Difficult to master, but you keep coming back for more. The multiplayer 
 mode is excellent! The campaign is very impressive, high budget game with actors and good story 
 line. Online is best, as you try to built up your world ranking, there really are some whizkids 
 out there playing this. Excellent muliplayer game. Difficult to master, but you keep coming back 
 for more. The multiplayer mode is excellent! The campaign is very impressive, high budget game 
 with actors and good story line. Online is best, as you try to built up your world ranking, there 
 really are some whizkids out there playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majicebe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  Upside: The game will run on almost any system anyone owns as of Summer 2004 or later. The storyline 
 is interesting, albeit predictable. Fun missions. The acting is great (Michael Ironside ftw) . Graphics 
 look pretty nice. Very fun overall.
  
  Downside: Didn't I play this earlier when it was called Generals? No? Oh, sorry, must be my mistake. 
 Gameplay is the exact opposite of innovation; this really isn't anything new in the genre, and 
 compared to other RTS's recently, it's a step backwards. The graphics look nice, but rely heavily 
 on DX9 shaders for cool factor (Westwood: how much can use the diffraction shaders before people 
 get sick of it? I don't know either, so let's use more!) . No battlefield zoom (as used in Supreme 
 Commander) , but to be fair not all that necessary in this game either. Controls feel clunkier than 
 other modern RTS games (play Supreme Commander or even Warcraft 3, then this and you'll know what 
 I mean) . AI as smart as a tower defense map a lot of the time, and other times sharper than your 
 mom in stiletto heels.
  
  Overall: To be completely honest, this is a really good game. My problem with it is that I'm comparing 
 it to other modern games of the genre. The story in CnC3 is fun, and the missions are fantastic 
 -- I really do mean this, they're great missions. You've gotta love the Commando missions (even 
 though we've seen it before, and it smacks of Starcraft hero missions, they're still a ton of fun!) , 
 and the low-power, limited resources, protect all four entrances to a square outpost mission is 
 just a freaking modern classic. The graphics do the game just, although markedly behind the times. 
 The learning curve isn't nearly as steep as the game would like you to think. The storyline is 
 fun, intriguing, and totally predictable as they've set it up. The game does exactly what it was 
 trying to do.
  
  Bottom-line: This game is nothing revolutionary, but it's still a helluva lot of fun to play. I 
 don't know if I agree with the best RTS of the year title, but I'm not saying it shouldn't have 
 that either. A good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BambooStudios
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game a lot better than I thought I would and found myself playing through the entire 
 game right away - something that usually doesn't happen with a new game for me. I haven't gotten 
 into multiplayer for this yet so I can really only speak for the single player game here. This 
 game sucked me in and I found the gameplay was a bit like a modern version of Starcraft. I can't 
 help but compare a Sc-fi RTS to Starcraft because in my mind it is the best. C&amp; C3 comes close, 
 but the creative design elements are not there. The 3 races all feel pretty similar, even if they 
 look very different. The whole feel of the sci-fi elements is very derivative as are the cinematics.
 
  
  Personally I felt the cinematics are where the single player game falls apart - I thought they 
 were awful. I'm sure these are good actors, and some of the moments are almost believable, but 
 for the most part these video interludes feel painfully contrived - they feel fake. The game boasts 
 that they are HD quality too, but they don't look like it. Worse, all that time spent making these 
 videos and there really is nothing special to show for it when you finish the game. The end cinematic 
 just isn't rewarding enough. They should have kept the cinematics between each mission a lot shorter 
 and focused that video content on a few key cinematics - ie: end GDI campaign, end NOD campaign, 
 and then another at the end of the Scrin campaign - the end of the game.
  
  As much as I disliked the cinematics the overall polish of the game is undeniable. It runs extremely 
 well and looks damn good. The interface, controls and menus all have a very complete and solid 
 feel to them. Nothing about the total package feels flaky - it feels like a solid effort to make 
 a great game, even if the story cinematics are not great. Technically the game works well, performs 
 well, and looks great, the only complaint I have about the quality of the graphics is that the 
 edges of shadows look really bad - even with the game at it's highest settings and high end hardware. 
 No matter what I do the shadows look pixelated around the edges; what gives? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike1010
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  thats the reason i didnt like general that much ,,, no navy ,,,, We NEED Navy,,, and more factions 
 would also be nice ,,, come on guys get it right , it would of been killer with more factions and 
 with navy.. the red alert game had it all , lets get it right boys , , please get it right,, or im 
 not spending my hard earned money on that again, Navy Navy Navy Navy Navy Navy Navy Navy Navy, Navy 
 Navy Navy NavyWhy no Navy navy navy navy nVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVYnAVY NAVY 
 NAVY NAVY ANVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY NAVY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMaximus
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars certainly brings back the feel of the original game albeit 
 with better graphics, but not mind blowing or revolutionary graphics all in all the game feels 
 very starcraft ish for the most part and is not a far departure from C&amp; C Generals. The game 
 does add a 3rd faction to the mix, an alien race called the Scrin.
  
  For the single player missions you will be guided through the game by cinematic cut scenes by some 
 highly recognizable actors such as Michael Ironside, Billy Dee Williams, House MDs Jennifer Morrison 
 and a few from the TV Show Battlestar Gallactica.
  
  The cinematics are a little cheesy, but for the most part are well done. The single player campaigns 
 play out much as you would expect in a RTS title, nothing new here with missions that range from 
 limited units to a single unit having to do various tasks to complete the mission. The single player 
 can be challenging depending on which difficulty setting you choose and is a fun play through. 
 Building placement can be very picky and irritating at times.
  
  In Command and Conquer 3 EA made a great effort to make multiplayer online a big focus to the game 
 and once you beat the single player campaigns you will not doubt want to venture online to try 
 out the built in auto-matching and ladder system. EA also included a battlecast feature which allows 
 for play by play commentary and replay of your battles much as an NFL game might have.
  
  Like most I was excited by all the hype of the MP game possibilities and this was a big reason 
 I purchased this game, this is also however where the biggest let down comes to play. To me the 
 MP maps seems very small and although EA seems to be releasing patches fairly quickly for the game, 
 cheating online is running the show and is reminiscent of C&amp; C Generals which for the most part 
 has ruined replay potential for this game, as fast as EA releases a patch, a new trainer update 
 is released this kills online gaming as you never know if the other player is truly a good player 
 or simply pressed one of the F keys to amass a huge fully upgraded army in less time than it takes 
 to build a barracks, this single draw back ruined the game for me personally as I have found about 
 50% of the online matches have cheating in some form or another, from people disconnecting to avoid 
 a negative mark on their ladder score to money cheats, instant build, invulnerability cheats as 
 well as map hacks the cheaters as of the time of this review (patch 1.8) run the show and you 
 can view the forums to confirm this it is killing the game for a ton of people. Another huge fault 
 of the game is the lack of walls, why RTS games continue to be released without this feature is 
 beyond me, from the beginning of time mans 1st strategy adopted was building walls to protect assets 
 and continues to this day. RTS games without this will never get a 10 from me, I usually do play 
 more of a rush game, but it is nice to have the option to turtle or steamroll on occasion this 
 makes the game a rushers dream and when you do get into a fair fight online, expect the game to 
 last a couple minutes and to only feature the most basic units, this to me is another huge draw 
 back in the game as there is not real strategy to this title most of the time because of this and 
 you will just build a bunch of cheap units, send them at your enemy and hope for the best most 
 of the time.
  
  If you are fortunate enough to have a lan at home and a couple friends to play the game with, the 
 game can be very fun to play so the elements are there, but unfortunately this is the only way 
 MP is worth it with this game.
  
  In MP mode with the 3 factions there are major balance issues. Keep in mind I consider balance 
 issues to be anything that forces you to have to play a certain way. Here is the current balance 
 situation as of the writing of this review.
  
  Scrin:
  If the game goes any length of time and you are facing the scrin, you might as well pack it in 
 because the game is so heavily balanced in their favor the other factions cannot build anything 
 that can stop their units and they can quickly regenerate the only resource in the game which the 
 other factions cannot do, leaving the game so unbalanced that playability becomes 0. In fact the 
 game is so heavily favored in a match against the scrin in a match that goes beyond a certain point 
 that you can throw masses of your best upgraded units against a modestly defended scrin base without 
 even denting them enough to slow down their offensive capabilities, leaving you hanging. If the 
 scrin manage to build a few tripods they will be pretty much unstoppable against well defended 
 bases of the other factions, throw in the incredibly powerful air units and nothing will stop you. 
 The end result is you have to rush them, forcing you to play a certain way and limiting your choices 
 in the game or you will loose even against poor to moderate players, this is not good at all in 
 a RTS game and an unbelievable oversite by the developers that they seem unwilling to fix. NOD:
 
  Rushing favors the NOD team the most with their weaker, but cheaper units NOD can put the hurt 
 on you in a hurry, and although NOD have a decent air attack; games that go for any length begin 
 to weaken the NOD advantage as the longer the game lasts it makes it more difficult to win a game 
 using the NOD faction once again limiting you to a scripted type of play.
  
  GDI:
  GDI offers a fairly balanced team, although terribly inadequate with air units, they have the second 
 best ground unit in the game with the Mammoth Tank, which even fully upgraded falls short of the 
 scrin tripods when upgraded. If you time your attack just right you can overwhelm any enemy mid 
 way through a game with a ton of upgraded predator tanks When playing NOD you can use the Mammoth 
 in longer games, however as stated above if you wait that long against the scrin you can almost 
 certainly throw in the towel because there will be nothing you can do regardless of army size or 
 type.
  
  EA does seem interested in patching these balance issues, but as of the time of this review it 
 has in my opinion been woefully inadequate at it, as you can see above you are really limited 
 in strategy by the faction you choose, some may argue this is part of the game, however to me a 
 good RTS does not limit you, but opens possibilities, good RTS games should have a solid rock, 
 paper, scissors scenario for all player types regardless of faction or how long a game lasts and 
 C&amp; C 3 simply does not have the type of game play that lets you feel freedom in strategy, you 
 wind up feeling limited and scripted into set scenarios based on the faction you choose and this 
 is not a good thing at all, in fact it kills the type of game it is meant to be by taking the choices 
 out of your hands.
  
  In the end C&amp; C3 is a average to below average game, that could've been a great game but falls 
 well short of all the hype it received particularly in the online arena which is not only a joke, 
 but ridiculous. Lack of decent cheat busting, balance issue's with the factions is horrible, limiting 
 options and bringing nothing new to the table make this title disappointing. Extremely scripted 
 game play if you want to compete online, you will have to follow a rigid script at all times, which 
 is totally against stradegy, spaceinvaders was less scripted. I personally find it a sad day reviewing 
 this game as gamespot gave this game a 9, if this game is a 9 then it is truly a sad time in the 
 gaming world as there is nothing here that was not in RTS games years ago and is not worth the 
 40 to 50 bucks it currently is going for. As for me I have uninstalled this terd of a game.
  
  Pros:
  Fun to play in a Lan with friends.
  Single player mode is good for run through.
 
  Decent graphics and sound.
  Extremely easy to non existent learning curve.
  
  Cons:
  Nothing new here at all, RTS games have had the same features for years.
  Online play is a joke 
 due to cheating.
  Building placement way to picky.
  Huge balance issues limit the games potential.
  Extremely scripted gameplay, if you do not like 
 options this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  This game live up the hype after the series went missing for several years, and it didn't disappoint 
 the fans of C&amp; C and RTS. This game offers a lot of things that we certainly like it.
  
  First of all, the gameplay. Command &amp; Conquer 3's gameplay haven't change much from the previous 
 game, but it was much more refined. The controls are easier. The base building are much better, 
 not like the other RTS that has limited units and populations to the battlefield, this game can 
 deploy unlimited units to the field.
  
  Now, the graphics and sounds. Even though I've played the game on the XP, I still think the graphics 
 is one of the best we've found on XP, I cannot imagine how good will that be on the 360 or the 
 Vista. The sound effect for the game is also astonishing.
  
  Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is a very good game. I cannot wait for the expansion, Kanes 
 Wrath. I recommend every one to buy this game.
  
  Pros: Good gameplay, graphics, controls, everything...
  Cons: Kane live from the First to the 
 Third Tiberium Wars, a bit out of range for that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaz-420
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Wow,
  
  I usually do a Good and a Bad, but damn, there is just nothing bad about this game. Graphics rock, 
 Sound Rocks, Gameplay Rocks, Story Rocks, and the high quality actors. On most games, I find myself 
 skipping the cut-movies, but this game makes you want to watch it. It is almost like playing a 
 friggin' movie. Epic Game!!!
  
  Very immersive, and not hard to play either. Awesome game for the C&amp; C veteran, or anyone new 
 to the series, or even first time RTS players. Get this game, you will not be dissapointed. Especially 
 when you blow the crap out of your enemy with the ION cannon!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodyhugger79
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  From all the C&amp; C game, this one got a major heap from all series. Engine based on C&amp; C: 
 Generals technology yet an improved graphics, physics effects, and gameplay.
  
  Tried the DEMO first before I get the full version. For you to decide if this game satisfy you, 
 download the DEMO first and conclude. If you are a fan of BATTLE FOR MIDDLE-EARTH game (which is 
 Electronic Arts is also the provider) , the soldiers are built in groups not by unit. It makes more 
 realistic than the old C&amp; C series.
  
  My Machine:
  AMD Athlon XP 2000+, 1GB RAM, GeForce 6600GT 256MB AGP8X, 80GB HDD
  
  Got no trouble running 
 with my machine. The only limitation on my hardware is the resolution (more than 1024x768) and 
 the details (maximum) for the game won't get lag.
  
  Nobody can tell you this game is IMPRESSIVE unless you tried it. If you like C&amp; C: Generals 
 gameplay, surely same impression (or better) with C&amp; C3: Tiberium Wars. Remember, TIBERIUM WARS 
 is based on futuristic technologies. Do not compare units with C&amp; C: GENERALS..
  
  I haven't tried C&amp; C3: Tiberium Wars for multiplayer. Let the others opinion regarding this 
 matter. But I do believe this is one of the best RTS available.
  
  Patches are updated online so if you have trouble with the game, you can download the latest patches 
 available. But for me, I haven't encountered any problems with the game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E-Man45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  It is an amazing installment of the cnc series and can hold it's own against any RTS out there. 
 With Amazing graphics, good singleplayer and mulitiplayer, and the addition of the scrin, how can 
 you go wrong? You will be playing this game for a long time because the single-player skirmishes 
 will be hard even when you are a cnc3 ace. Just set your opponents to to hard or brutal. The online 
 features will also keep you hooked. The live-action cutscenes are kind of cheesy, though. Other 
 than that, this game is a good one. Buy it. Now. Do it. Really 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blonderambo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  I have never played a C &amp; C game before but now that I have I love it! This was the first one 
 I ever obtained and I was hooked after the first few minutes. There are few to no major flaws in 
 the game overall. I absolutely love that there is no command limit I could build as big or as small 
 of an army as I want and it is just so much less restricting. The acting in the mission cutscenes 
 are cheesy but I believe they are supposed to be and they have friggin Billy Dee Williams (hehe 
 he stooped alittle low) but still wow! The units and structures are very well textured and very 
 innovative just like the units. The sound and music just plain awesome! There is just one very 
 minor flaw (I'm not contradicting myself, i said LITTLE to no flaws) placement, it gets a bit annoying 
 sometimes with placing enough power plants to supply your structures with energy also turrets are 
 a bit anoying to place in strategic points for maximum security but hey that was very minor and 
 doesn't at all spoil the game. In conclusion an excellent RTS very innovative, very fun, very well 
 done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gav_wolf
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars brings Kane, and the GDI/NOD conflict back to life, and it's 
 a pleasure to have them back. With excellent graphics and plenty of eyecandy, solid gameplay and 
 a great story, Tiberium Wars is well worth buying. When I first heard about it, I was filled with 
 both joy and dread, and expectations for the game has certainly been high. What if EA messed up 
 big time? Well, they didn't. C&amp; C 3 delivers the goods in nearly every way, but there are a 
 few things that pulls it down slightly. I'll start with the big bad one - C&amp; C 3, although a 
 great game, is horribly unoriginal. The construction system is slightly interesting, being similar 
 to the old C&amp; C construction systems but with the possibility of having multible build queues, 
 but that's where the originality stops. You've seen it all before. That does not make it a bad 
 game, but it seems most of EA's more recent games suffer from a lack of fresh concepts. The music, 
 although good, is not really audible enough. About 70% of the time I'm having a hard time telling 
 whether there is music or not. And then there is the matter of the juggernaut. It's a great model, 
 but some of the idle animations too fast! Sometimes I wonder if I've built an artillery unit or 
 a puppy, which detracts from the overall mood of the game. But these bad sides drown in the solid 
 work that permeats the entire game. Many newer games have fantastic graphics, but the actual content 
 is at best so-so. When I play a story-driven game, I want to feel like I'm not just blowing up 
 stuff and shooting aliens, I want to feel like I'm the main character in a movie. This usually 
 doesn't work too well with RTS games, due to the distance from the actual events, but Tiberium 
 Wars actually manage to pull it off. I sat up all night because I wanted to know how the story 
 ended. The excellent graphics and the quality of the sound effects helps set the mood, and the 
 cutscenes provide that personal touch that makes it so much more alive. As for the gameplay, it's 
 solid. Same old, but it's solid nonetheless. With three factions to pick from and a wide selection 
 of units and structures from each, there is plenty of gametime to be had to get familiar with the 
 it all. The interface is easy to navigate, although it does occasionally get in the way. The hotkeys 
 are mapped not to specific abilities, but to specific slots in the unit/structure status window. 
 Although unfamiliar to start with, once you've got it in your fingers it allows for much faster 
 managing of your units and you're less likely to hit the wrong key simply because there are fewer 
 keys to press. Not much more to say really, it's RTS as it's always been. In conclusion, I have 
 to say that with the expectations people had, it was obvious that some people would be very disappointed. 
 A lot of people say that Westwood would have done it much better, but to be honest I think EA has 
 done an excellent job, especially considering the shoes they had to fill. I doubt Westwood would 
 have been able to make a that much better game Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is all in all 
 a classic RTS in a new outfit - the gameplay is esentially the same, but it looks different.
  
  Rating:
  
  Gameplay: Excellent
  Story: Fantastic
  Graphics: Excellent
  Sound/Music: 
 Fair
  Overall: Excellent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  I had real problems getting this game to run. The troubles I had running this game will result 
 in me never buying another EA made game, whether it be on a console or on PC. It's just a spit 
 in the face to buyers... when you get a game you spend a lot of money on, it should work. It shouldn't 
 have protection on a copy you pay for, you own it. For everyone who didn't have problems, fine, 
 but next time you may run into some.... so don't look down on those who did.
  
  Before I mention what I thought of the game, I'll just quickly say what problems I had. The game 
 installed just fine, asked for key, I entered it, than all was done. But the problem came when 
 I tried to run the game, it popped up a message Emulation Error . So not knowing what this was, 
 I checked the support pages. It told me to uninstall all virtual drives, or disable them. I did 
 that, but still nothing. Long story short, after a couple emails from Securom (the protection company 
 that was the source of my problems I was having) , I finally got it to work. Mind you, I had to 
 reinstall Vista. Securom said I had Blindwrite virtual drive installed, it wasn't, and I couldn't 
 disable it no matter what I tried, reinstalling came down to the last option.
  
  This crap took me about 3 days to finally work out. This isn't right. I was tempted to return the 
 game, but like all games, you can't since they claim its against copy protection so on or whatever.
 
  
  Any future game with Securom, or any other troublesome protection, I just won't buy.
  
  On to the game. There isn't much to say. I liked it much more than C&amp; C 2. And almost as 
 much as the original C&amp; C. Only thing that lacked was the music. The music was about as non-existent 
 as you could imagine... if compared to the previous C&amp; C games.
  
  The game ran well on my PC when it finally did bootup. At 1600x1200, I had everything on max, except 
 for shadows, and framerate usually high 20's. I think the game forced V-sync since it never got 
 above 30 fps with ingame gameplay. My video card is a decent agp 7800GS, nothing epic, but I was 
 happy with this games performance and no slowdowns that effected anything much.
  
  Some people think the cutscenes were poor, but they were as good as ever. I guess you need to be 
 used to the C&amp; C style they have used over the years, which fit the game as much as rendered 
 CGI would. The storyline was interesting to watch and read through as well. If you just never played 
 C&amp; C, it would seem sorta cheap looking, but I liked it.
  
  The game is quite lengthy really. Playing GDI and NOD probably gives at least 10-20 hours each, 
 depending on how aggressive you play... with a total of up to 40 hours easily. The alien campaign 
 is only a few levels long, and isn't very fun to play... but was nice to see their story.
  
  One thing that has always bugged me in every C&amp; C game has been WMD's. I hate playing a 
 level, and having half my units and base be destroyed, than having to rebuild it just to have it 
 happen again 5-10 minutes later. C&amp; C 3 isn't so bad as previous C&amp; C's, but sometimes an 
 enemy will use them on you and nearly wipe out your entire base, and just keep doing it over and 
 over.
  
  I still haven't played online, I may play through GDI again, than try it online. I know and have 
 read about a lot of unbalance online, so I'm hesitant. I played the x360 demo, and really had trouble 
 with the controls. I'm glad the game made it to PC in good shape. So far this is the best RTS I've 
 played, everything I wanted was available. I still find it strange people would play this on xbox, 
 it was painful to do the simplest commands in the game.
  
  The only sore spot in my mind that will tarnish this game is the securom problems that wasted days 
 of my life. Nice job EA in turning a loyal die hard C&amp; C fan permanently against you, and probably 
 anyone else who had to go through problems that you caused.
  
  With the headache I went through I can still give this game a 8.5. If it had run like it should 
 have without me formating an entire windows drive, than I could have given it 9.5... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geocide666
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Not even close to worth the money spent for it. Same old C&amp; C, factions are unbalanced and the 
 NOD campaign is just simply not fun to play after playing the GDI campaign. Mostly because they 
 made NOD the weakest faction by far in this C&amp; C. The scrins are ridiculously overpowered. I 
 am able to take out 5 bases in skirmish with 10 devastators (not 10 each base, i mean just the 
 same 10 for each base) , this is set on medium difficulty with the ai set to be balanced. In addition 
 to all of this, they couldnt even upgrade the pathing from the original C&amp; C. Seems like those 
 groups of soldiers will always go around the longest possible way to get to somewhere. This forces 
 you to make waypoints and to continually have to check up on your groups. I dont understand if 
 character pathing is just that difficult to master or EA was just lazy, I think probably the later. 
 Anyways, not even close to worth 50 bucks. Maybe 9.99 but thats it. With games like this being 
 hyped up (like it was on here , 9.0 score?? are you friggin kiddin??) its no wonder people are 
 pirating games more and more. I cant say I blame them. Why spend 50 bucks on a game that was supposed 
 to be good but turned out to suck? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: INoX-AiC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conqure 3 was well worth the time spent playing it i enjoyed every miniute of it, 
 i still play it to this day long after completeing it.
  
  Command &amp; Conqure 3: Tiberium Wars continues the original Command and Conquer's plot, unlike 
 its counter part, Generals. The story established Tiberium as a powerful energy source, but dangerous 
 to touch. Combat will take place in different zones of Tiberium infected countries, between the 
 two rivals of the Command &amp; Conqure series, the GDI and The Brotherhood of Nod, but there is 
 a third faction Scrin which some suggest was a mistake but i personally find it interesting, I 
 like to feel it brings a very compelling series together but thats just my opinion.
  
  The Creators of the game have mentioned that the game will be highly plot based, with a story unfolding 
 through the campaign. The games new AI is able to adapt to any playing styles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerprince
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 22, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Graphically and gameplay wise it was a good game, but that is it. This game should of been better. 
 After starting from the very beginning and loving the series all this was is a disappointment. 
 The CnC series has been known for great gameplay, storyline, and overall addictive feeling. This 
 game, not so much. In my opinion they should've left the console version for a later date and focused 
 on the PC version. Seeing as how thats what got them this far in the first place. The only thing 
 worse in this series is probably Renegade or the General's collection. Thank you EA for destroying 
 what little bit of my childhood happiness was left. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk_razor
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  It was expected that C&amp; C 3 TW wouldn't live up to expectations, just because there were a whole 
 lot of them rising high in the sky, but this. This is just another desecrations our of EA. The 
 looks and especially the effects of the game are to be commended its not much trouble for the eye 
 but yet nice to look at. The model management is pretty poor i would say. I don't mind the idea 
 of mammoth tanks be big but those really look ridiculous. And you would expect better art from 
 EA with their standard - poppy looks and quantity over quality policy, instead pretty much half 
 the units are rather ugly and look like they are there to oppose the ones done good.
  The buildings are fine, but when you just start the game and see the bright and shiny menu you 
 would expect more style and detail. So you start drooling when you see the menu, and as anyone 
 that has the right to call him self a gamer you go to options to set whatever you can to however 
 you want, then you start your campaign and after the expected cinematic ends - WHAM! You get a 
 white BOLD system font stating the mission, and you are like WTF, i've just moved from a super 
 designed menu, nice opening cinematic to a white bold system font - UGH! (shake head) Matter-less 
 you move on and hope when this choice was made the responsible person was either really drunk or 
 worse. Then you renew you'r old war of GDI and NOD, the campaign takes you on its way, and you 
 start ignoring the rather pathetic but not that crucial flaws in the interface and game play. You 
 fly through missions and try to appreciate that they went to the trouble of hiring actors to keep 
 the old spirit alive, but even so it just doesn't feel quite the same even with the popular actors 
 something is missing. So you keep going, and HI hostile aliens pop-up, and you say - Hmm, well 
 the more the merrier. So you beat your way through the campaign and you get a point where Kain 
 enters a door with light on the other side. And you are like WHAT THE ****! - I just finished the 
 campaign ?!? LOL! That was it ? Some cinematic mission briefs and a video of aliens that gets repeated 
 over the campaign? LOL all the graphics we get is a space station blown up and all the rest is 
 actors stuck in a room with poor decoration and a script that doesn't even look convincing? And 
 this load of horse **** is supposed to surpass the atmosphere of the old C&amp; C. LOL They didn't 
 even made it long enough to say well it wasn't great but just enough to keep you mouth full . And 
 when you think of the old C&amp; C where cinematics were done with style, convincing and mixed with 
 some computer graphics of game events, the exotic atmosphere and the music that made it up to your 
 spine while a nuke, ion or meteor storm caused havoc in the night. Well you always knew that C&amp; C 
 didn't have the force balance that StarCraft provided but you still highly enjoyed the other qualities 
 they've put into it.
  And then your get knocked back to your senses and say good job EA you desecrated another title, 
 after all thats what you do best. So whats next EA buys Blizzard and finishes the work on SC2 (: 
 ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: to0slickforyou
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything i expect from command and conquer series. i remember playing the original 
 in which i installed it from floppy disk and i thought it was one of the best strategy game played. 
 This game has aspect of old and new. Some of the units are from the older game such as tiberium 
 sun, and also there are a bunch of newer units. the game play is as intense as i remembered and 
 as for the videos, gotta love it. People from Lost and Battlestar galatica, just doesn't get any 
 better. The game is easy to play since everything is pretty straightforward and graphics look great... 
 well i have a good video card, but i'm sure it looks great still with lower end video cards... 
 This game is a recommended play for new players and especially the older players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwerty92
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  C&amp; C 3 was supposed to be one of the best RTS of all time. Apparently i have been deceived by 
 all the flash screenshots and vids. Real disappointing.
  I mean, its fun to play and all but it was more or less just C&amp; C in 3d with aliens thrown in. 
 Major let down.
  
  Even running the game on close to full graphics , it doesn't look really impressive. The effects 
 look cool and the units/structures are really detailed but overall the game looks a lot like c&amp; c 
 generals. textures could have been better. also, the AI can sometimes be seriously messed up. I 
 mean for a game like this you would expect AI to really good and it is BTW but its flawed. Eg. 
 Lets say i wanna move a massive army of militia from point A to point B. Lets also say that theres 
 is a field of Tiberium in between the points. Instead of walking around the tiberium , all the 
 infantry would just walk across it and DIE of RADIATION. Well, ins't that smart? Secondly, whats 
 with the vids?! i mean, the new reports were so unbelievably fake and lame. The acting was ok but 
 i thought the vids from red alert 2 were much much better. And the camera is missing a PITCH function. 
 The only thing that was good was the ability retreat and quickly regroup.
  
  Overall, its a good game but all the tiny little flaws and uninspired gameplay make a disappointing 
 experience. Its good but could've been much much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer was one of the best RTS game ever released. The gameplay was extremely close 
 to Dune II, the forerunner of the modern RTS which was also made by WestWood Studios. As with all 
 great sellers, CnC spawned sequels and prequels with the Red Alert series, Renegade, Sole Survivor, 
 and TIberium Sun. After EA merged Westwood with EA Lost Angeles, CnC: Generals was created. Generals 
 was completely different than the original CnC, a fact that pushed many CnC fans away, so EA made 
 the decision to create Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars, the long-awaited sequel of CnC 2: 
 Tiberium Sun.
  
  As the 3rd in the series was a move back towards the CnC series, many fans will notice many similarities. 
 For one, FMV's are used instead of the more popular CGI for cinematic sequences. The side-bar also 
 reappears after a lengthy disappearance. Tiberium is, again, the main resource with the familiar 
 Nod and GDI duking it out for it along with a new Scrin. Many fans will find the gameplay worthy 
 of the CnC brand name. While this might be music to a CnC fan's ears, CnC 3 is not the perfect 
 RTS that many might have expected.
  
  Singleplayer campaigns returns you to the battlefield between Nod and GDI with the new Scrin as 
 you must destroy each other. The settings are vast and different. From the urban capitol of the 
 United States (Washington D. C. you idiot!) to Cairo, Egypt, the three races will destroy and be 
 destroyed. There never is a protect him, defend this area, collect this data, or anything other 
 than destroy this building. Of course you might have to capture something with an Engineer/Mastermind/Sabateur, 
 but it is always a bonus objective and a something you can just ignore as you attempt to destroy 
 your target. With other modern RTS displaying just how varied RTS can be, the destroy-this-and-that 
 object will seem a little repetitive. But luckily, Campaigns are not the only thing you can do 
 in CnC3.
  
  Multiplayer is usually the life and soul of an RTS. Big online community = good. Small online community 
 = bad. Sadly, EA decided to use GameSpy to provide servers for CnC 3. If you has ever played a 
 game that uses GameSpy online, nine out of ten you will find the experience horrible enough to 
 find your online experience ruined. Like me, the millions of people who bought CnC3 are nowhere 
 to be found online, and CnC3 was just released this year. WarCraft and StarCraft boasts hundreds 
 of thousands of people playing online at the same time IN ONE REGION, and both of them are years 
 and years on the market. Despite a couple of other flaws, the ultimate downfall of CnC 3 would 
 be the multiplayer.
  
  While certainly not a bad game, a bad online experience destroys the replayability, and the repetitive 
 goal in the campaigns means that you probably won't be running though them more than once. With 
 such said, forking over $50 might not be as beneficial than just downloading the demo, or waiting 
 for the price drop. If you have a 360, get the 360 version. Yes, multiplayer is that important. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is a real-time strategy video game developed and published 
 by Electronic Arts for the Windows and Xbox 360 platforms, and the long-awaited sequel to the 1999 
 title Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun and its expansion pack Firestorm, by Westwood Studios.
 
  
  Tiberium Wars was released internationally in March 2007, featuring the introduction of a new third 
 faction to the Tiberian series of the Command &amp; Conquer games, and becoming the second C&amp; C 
 title in which players are able to upgrade their forces. It was announced at the Worldwide Developers 
 Conference on June 11, 2007.
  A special release edition of 100,000 copies, called the Kane Edition, was also released.
  
 
  Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars takes place at the advent of and during the Third Tiberium 
 War , after the Brotherhood of Nod launches an unexpected and worldwide offensive against the Global 
 Defense Initiative; abruptly ending a period of seventeen years of silence and crippling GDI forces 
 everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shahzaib_tariq
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  I always like playing the previous part but C&amp; C Tiberian sun but i did`t liked it at all it 
 has pretty good graphics but the game play is to bad it`s not encouraging me to play this game 
 so i will consider not to play this game anymore. And one more thing it`s requirements are very 
 high i play this game on very low graphics which i did`t like it at all. They should make a game 
 which can be playable on slower pc`s as well.
  
  I have been very disappointed with this outing of C&amp; C by EA. They had in their hands one of 
 the best RTS franchises know to gaming and they completely demolished it. I can only hope the next 
 C&amp; C game has a better plot/setting (please use this unique sci-fi setting for better stories, 
 alien invaders is a tired story) and better game design. Another C&amp; C game like this and I'll 
 no longer respect the franchise. EA should be ashamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbrewer842
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of C&amp; C games then this one will rank right up there. Nice real actor movies for 
 cut scenes. Graphics are sharp and up to date. If you have played C&amp; C before you have no problems 
 in knowing or learning quickly any new interfaces. Great sound. Running the 1.05 patch I have yet 
 hit any bugs or problems with the game itself. Any up to date computer with an up to date video 
 card should be able to run this game with excellent graphic settings. The only down side of the 
 game would be, if you suffer from C&amp; C game burn out. Meaning that your pretty tired of the 
 whole C&amp; C style of games. Then you will probably not find the game as high up on your list. 
 Its pretty much another chapter in the book of C&amp; C with a few added things and up to date graphics 
 and a new story line that continues the whole Tiberium story. Compared to the other RTS Genre of 
 games released so far this one at least lives up to its history. Dave Dee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantoclub
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  i have played c&amp; c for too many years to lactate elated ecstasy over a naked but polished c&amp; c 
 installment such as tib wars. i shall illuminate the hate and the love to be had over the fast 
 paced rts. first off, the textures special effects (heat exhaust, explosions, fire, super weapons 
 [although the scrin's black hole is boring] , building collapses, and the new more realistic scale 
 provides for a terribly pleasing experience visually. the gameplay is as marvelous as expected 
 with some of the most intuitive and versatile and movement commands and ai i have seen so far. 
 i personally have issues with the amount of substance as far as the unit veriety and super weapon 
 effects go. each super weapon has virtually identical damage and the radius the damage pushes. 
 each of the tribes have enough unique characteristics to redeem it from meer skin pushing. the 
 scrin is too overpowered but not enough to completely ruin the online skirmish experience. some 
 combat details are seemingly bland but actually being so convoluted it borders on becoming over-stimulating. 
 one can build many of the most expensive units and rush the opponent and end it. or one may guerilla 
 it up and study the defense displacement on the units and the strengths, weaknesses, special abilities, 
 environment... to fully utilize the complex combat system. single player campaign was long enough 
 to sate what i thought was my insatiable appetite for story, although the live-action cutscenes 
 are laughable. yeah yeah yeah i realize its a c&amp; c trademark. all in all it is more than worth 
 the purchase for pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: negone
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C3 is EA's take on an RTS classic. Their attempt to bring back the Tiberium series is done 
 via Classic EA pomp: make the graphics look prettier and the UI a little better, then ruin the 
 experience by making terrible story lines and extremely poor game design choices.
  
  Graphically the game is a higher polygon version of C&amp; C Generals. Overall graphically the game 
 is aesthetically pleasing from the Menu system to the gameplay visuals. The UI is fairly standard 
 with one new element: when you have more than one of the same build structure, the sidebar allows 
 you to tab between them all. For some a nice touch, for other fairly frustrating.
  
  Storyline. Absolutely pathetic outing from EA here. Terrible plot choice for a unique Sci-fi world 
 (seriously aliens invaders? Be a little more creative please) . Also the campaign story videos were 
 completly ruined by god-awful acting even for C&amp; C standards. The actors chosen for the roles 
 in C&amp; C are known B-movie/Sci-fi actors and have shown they are not this bad at acting. So the 
 reasonable conclusion here is that EA flubbed on the directing and writing.
  
  Game play. Personally I think the gameplay is too extreme in the spam/rush bias. Turtle-ing ( a 
 very viable and competent strategy) is not possible in this game. Many have complained that this 
 is due to the terrible economy. I agree with this sentiment. The economy favors spamming and rushing 
 early on. This is not a good set up for strategy games. I feel that RTS games should be more about 
 the strategy less about clicks-per-minute. The game had very strong balance issues immediately 
 after release, most of those have been correct via patches released in the following months.
  
  I have been very disappointed with this outing of C&amp; C by EA. They had in their hands one 
 of the best RTS franchises know to gaming and they completely demolished it. I can only hope the 
 next C&amp; C game has a better plot/setting (please use this unique sci-fi setting for better stories, 
 alien invaders is a tired story) and better game design. Another C&amp; C game like this and I'll 
 no longer respect the franchise. EA should be ashamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfWatch
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game is fun, simple, and perhaps a little to much of that.
  A few things wrong, their aren't enough units to make the game very strategic and personal.
  
 This doesn't even really have anything to do with the Tiberium series other than the story line.
 
  The different races are different enough to allow you to take a preference rather than select 
 random.
  Most of the Tiberium stuff is gone, even the silly things like putting walls around and planting 
 concrete (which actually was a bit strategic) .
  The creepy music is gone, and its like a odd mod of an old Tiberium Game.
  However this game 
 is fun for its RTS, but still doesn't deserve the title of C&amp; C.
  IMHO, it is better than Supreme Commander.
  
  Cons:
  Battle defenses are worthless
  Infantry, 
 tanks, and air force is too powerful
  Game ends usually less than 35 minutes
  Common for a single powerful attack to destroy a powerful base
  GDI may be too powerful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This is my first true experience of the original C&amp; C series. And the game rocks.
  
  STORYLINE:
  
  Earth has been invaded by an alien substance called Tiberium that is considered 
 hazardous to humans. Wars break out to gain control of this Tiberium. Two factions - the GDI and 
 NOD are vying to take control of this alien substance that is spreading rapidly throughout the 
 planet. GDI wants to eliminate this substance from the planet, while NOD plans to use it to help 
 people.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Graphics is great. EA has come up with a good graphic engine for this one when compared to its 
 predecessors (have seen glimpses of those.) Its got what I call the brighter graphics ( as opposed 
 to the shadowy one u get to see in games like Company of Heroes.) This bright graphics works both 
 ways - On one hand it makes the game clearer to follow but on the other hand it loses some of its 
 realism touch. The zoom levels are good and the max zoom is quite clear, not blocky. The fire and 
 explosion effects and the damage effects are also good.
  
  SOUND:
  
  As for the background score, I hardly got to notice it (Maybe I was too immersed inthe game.) It 
 could have been more prominent. However, coming to the in game sound and voics actings I appreciate 
 the work the game developers have done. The voice acting is clear and in-game sounds couldn't be 
 any better. The level to which the the sounds of the engines have been emphasized is noticable.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The gameplay is, as usual, a class apart from most other normal RTS games. There are very few games 
 that have used non-magic and pro-modern warfare with such perfection and success. The only little 
 problem is that the other games of this series have also used the same formula, that makes C&amp; C3 
 not that innovative as some may say. But it has its own features. One good example is the planning 
 mode. The addition of another faction, namely the Scrin has done well to upgrade upon the older 
 versions of the game. The interface is quite simple and the multiplayer mode is well organised. 
 Multiplayer especially is highly intense and demanding. Speed is of great essence here.
  I faced a minor problem with the gameplay. The problem was moving units - When you order a unit 
 to move to a loction very close to another unit, the latter always displaces itself. This gets 
 irritating when you are trying to arrange your units in order in a close formation.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  If you are a fan of this series or a great lover of fast-paced RTS games, 
 Command and Conquer: Tiberium Wars is for you. However, if you like games that are less intense, 
 allowing you to play it at leisure, you might find it a little out of your arena. On the whole 
 it is agme that should be tried out at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rommel1942
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic game... Engaging (I dare say, addicting) game play and fantastic graphics. It stays true 
 to the original C&amp; C but adds new elements to make it an unique game.
  
  That being said, the only downside I have to point out is I feel physically tired after playing 
 the game.
  
  But overall, a, exceptionally good story (both GDI and NOD) with fantastic actors. In same games, 
 the actors suck or seem unbelievable... however, not in this game (and the cut scenes are just great.)
 
  
  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars redefines the RTS genre by combining the same elements found 
 in C&amp; C and Red Alert Series and adding new improvements (such as the control radius ) to make 
 this game well worth it's money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slurpee720
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This Has to be one of the best games from, well, ever... It runs perfect on even the most low-end 
 XP computers, yet with the best computer the graphics show a really large amount of detail. You 
 need almost a gig 2 run the game at any level of functionality but im sure with 512 u could run 
 it much faster than other games with the same graphical look. The campaign movies are certainly 
 the best compared to any other game i've played, but what do you expect from the C&amp; C series, 
 which has always been good, at least to me. Oh, and the fact that EA took over this new game hasn't 
 really haltered the story or gameplay, which, fortunately or unfortunatley, is very similar to 
 the other C&amp; C Games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad1956
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  We finally got C&amp; C back, but is this the end of the line for the series? In this version we 
 get a new enemy (spoiler) the creator of the Tiberium. The GDI missions are relatively simple. 
 The reason is the GDI missions are classified training missions. Nod missions do not get hard until 
 Act III. The Scrin mission I found the most difficult, but they have the most kick butt air force. 
 Some of the maps included in the game for sole play can be a little tricky. If you have played 
 C&amp; C before this is not going to be new to you, build a base and kick butt. Simple - sort of. 
 You get to choice how tough you want the enemy to be and what side you want to play against you 
 in the sole maps. I do not play online so I can not comment on that, but what I have heard it is 
 pretty decent. If like this genre then this is a game to add to your collection.
  
  PS If you owe AVG antivirus be warned it could declare the game a virus and you have to go in to 
 the virus vault and restore. (If the game does not load check the virus vault.) It did not happen 
 the first time I loaded the game, but now it does every time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matteo86
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  The makers have really got it spot on with this one. C&amp; C 3 will keep you entertained for hours 
 and definately replayable.
  The graphics are excellent, and it doesn't seem to be too demanding on the computer hardware. Has 
 managed to retain that classic C&amp; C flavour such as the return of the evil Nod faction led by 
 Kane. The over-the-top storyline movies have returned and are better than ever, featuring some 
 well-known actors.
  3 factions to choose from, 1 of them a new alien race providing a new approach to how you play 
 the game in the single player campaign or online multiplayer.
  Unit balance is probably close to spot on, but it seems to be an advantage to play as the GDI from 
 what I've seen.
  Can get difficult and frustrating beyond enjoyment in a few campaign missions.. but that's what 
 RTS titles become sometimes.
  
  Definately one to add to your collection, if you are a C&amp; C fan or RTS games in general, get 
 this one. If you're not into strategy games but you want something fun you should be pleased with 
 this one too.
  
  I'd be confident to say this is in the top 3 of RTS games I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The footsteps that CnC3 had to follow in where gigantic. Possibly the largest RTS series in history 
 was coming back after being dormant for so long. This time the developers were Electronic Arts. 
 While many people hold bias and distaste for EA they came through in this game.
  
  The gameplay in this game is fun and fast paced. It keeps the old CnC gameplay alive while innovating 
 on it and making it even more fun. Also the multiplayer component of the game is a blast.
  
  The graphics are on an engine that is showing its age but are still adequate.
  
  The sound 
 in the game is great with explosions blasting off and lasers sizzling everywhere.
  
  This game is very replayable and features a great singleplayer campaign with its live action cutscenses 
 and a fantastic multiplayer.
  
  Overall if you like RTS or even want to try RTS out then this is a great game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webby1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  The Command and Conquer series have been out for quite a few years now. Dating all the way back 
 to systems such as the Saturn but along with pretty much every Real Time Strategy game out they 
 are known for not only selling better on the PC but in almost every case playing better than their 
 console counterpart.
  
  So first off how does the PC version compare to the 360, obviously controls are more responsive 
 and since command and conquer is easy to navigate anyway it is pretty easy for anyone to use. The 
 360 version is quite impressive in that it only really takes maybe around 30 seconds or so to get 
 used to the controller and you will be well away. Just looking at C&amp; C 3 you instantly know 
 how far the series has come, especially the Tiberian-Tiberium franchise releasing even FPS spin 
 offs Command and Conquer: Renegade . But this game is graphically impressive in every department 
 not only from ingame graphics and astonishing visuals but the sequences in the game or filmed making 
 the game even more interesting and adding realism. The sound quality is obviously as good as you 
 would expect, hearing either your troops confirm there orders to hearing them die or even explosions 
 of all different kinds going off everywhere.
  
  The gameplay is also as impressive, again you can play as GDI and NOD but this time there is also 
 SCRIN, which are alien like creatures that have invaded Earth. But no matter who you play as none 
 are really that much different to another, balance wise that is. Of course they all have units 
 specialising in certain things but overall they do seem pretty balanced. You might find that a 
 lot of people just Mammoth Rush if their GDI but if your NOD you can play smart and counter attack. 
 For example the Mammoth Tanks Anti Air isnt the most impressive in the game so making it quite 
 a bit easier to take them out from the air. Along with a lot of other things you will find. The 
 single player story overall, I will have to say it lasts quite long, you do have 3 campaigns to 
 play through. The online mode is great fun too. So if you enjoy either RTS games or enjoyed a command 
 and conquer game in the past or maybe just wanting a game to play online with your friends this 
 game is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlord5000
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all I want to make somthing clear, I had started plying cnc games with tiberian dawn 
 not gnerals or the first decade. I have since then played every single other cnc game exept for 
 some of the expansion packs and liked all of them.
  
  Generals put down many peoples' trust in EA for making cnc because it played completaly differently. 
 CnC3 however is a great game.
  
  We go back to the very roots of the game in the tiberian universe and the original playing style 
 (yes the sidebar is back!) . FMVs are back and so is Kane.
  
  Old units amke a comeback such as the mammoth tank-no longer a walker, stealth and flame tanks, 
 apcs, buggies and attack bikes, they are all back only this time they are in state of the art 3d 
 graphics.
  
  The gameplay is great and it feels just like a cnc game. The only missing thing is Frank Klepacki. 
 EA tried to come up with good scores for the game but they dont compare to Frank's work. I still 
 remember my personal favs: Full Stop, Just do it up, Hell march, HM2, Mechanical man
  
  Overall great game rules on pc and probably plays wierd on the 360 but you should get it.
  
 
  To all you Wii users who think this will come out for wii sorry but you are wrong. Wii cant support 
 the game's graphical demands and does not have the pure proccesing power to play. That is why xbox 
 360 is the best console but thats a different discussion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  In Tiberium Wars the game returns to its roots with the never ending war between GDI and Nod. GDI 
 the global defense initiative is similar to the United States waveing its power about to try to 
 become superior and make people belive thay are the Good Guys . Nod on the other hand is a religious 
 fanatic group of so called terrorists that serve directly under the words of their cult leader 
 Kain.
  
  In this installment of the series the world has been plummeted into an age of chaos where tiberium 
 is not only the key to survival but it has infected the wolrd making some of the world unsurvivable. 
 Although it has returned to its roots it also has arrived in new territory introducing a third 
 playable group to the war between Nod and GDI. This new group is an alien race know as the Scrin, 
 little is known about them exept that the heavily rely on tiberium and they scower the universe 
 for large planetary deposits of it.
  
  The graphic quality of Tiberium Wars exceeds the other games alot, it not only looks all around 
 above-average but the animations such as the super weapons look amazing. The sound and music of 
 the new installment is what you would expect a similar but different soundtrack just like all of 
 the other series.
  
  The gameplay consists of 2 elements: the multiplayer and the single player campaigh. The campaign 
 consists of 3 different playable groups showing different sides of the storyline each time showing 
 you more of the in depth view into what is really going on. The multiplayer consists of either 
 playing computers or online play against other players in groups, teams, or single matches.
  
  In my personal opinion I belive Tiberium Wars was a very good addition to the series and some 
 what makes up for the failure of Generals. I would give it an overall rating of 8.3 for its overall 
 fun and good campaign although it wasn't amazing it was a very fun and entertaining game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lzblind
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This is my sincere revision of this game. I luv RTS games and I've played almost everyone. Ok, 
 if you are a fan of C&amp; C series, fine, you will probably like this game since it hasn't change 
 and maintained its nature. The graphics aren't that nice (the infantry look like dolls) but the 
 movies are cool. The story is OK and maybe the game worth your money for the campaign. The gameplay 
 sucks. Like Tiberium Sun, you have a little amount of units each one good against one type of unit. 
 So if you put your huge tank against some bomb throwers you will be wiped out... but if your super 
 useless tank have the help of the little vs infantry car, you are safe... Now, if your huge tank 
 fire at a building, the building will disappear. You will say: of course, its hard to aim a cannon 
 at a soldier, but it's easy to aim it at the building . Come on, go play Comp of Heroes and you 
 will see this happening realistically. In this game, if the tank hit the soldiers, they are history. 
 And a troop with a RPG/Panzer can destroy a tank if they can flank it.. they would die in CoH if 
 they charge the tank. The aircrafts look dumb metal balloons flowing to their targets, they aren't 
 fun. The tech tree is fast and in the beginning of the game you will already be with your tanks 
 and reaching the final units. Then you will rush to your enemy since there's nothing more to do. 
 Trying to defend yourself is suicide since the buildings are made of glass. There are few upgrades 
 that provide few changes. The battle sound is silly. You have a huge army moving through the battlefield 
 and sometimes its so quiet that you even forget that you have a battle to win. In CoH or Dawn of 
 War, you feel the battle, the troops hitting each other and getting hurt, you almost can tell if 
 you will win the fight just listening to the sound. There is nothing new in this game... there 
 is no thrill in the battle of the units. You advance fast in the tech, build a huge amount of units 
 and pay close attention to the fight since you have to aim each unit type at the units they are 
 strong against and this is what they call strategy in this game. There are elements in the map 
 that can mess with your view of the enemy units, and the enemy units appear in the mini map like 
 an almost invisible dot. You hear enemy sighted and you have to stop what you were doing to look 
 for the enemy, or you could use magnifying glass... (i do not know if you can press a hotkey to 
 go to the event, but if there isn't this is veeery dumb!) . If you take a closer look, you will 
 notice that C&amp; C3 copied some of the engine from BFMEarth2... Get Company of Heroes, Warhammer 
 40k RTS Series, BFMEarth 2 and maybe Supreme Commander or Age of Empires 3 instead. These games 
 has new features to offer to you. But if you love C&amp; C you can go for this game (and I bet GS's 
 reviewer love C&amp; C... 9.0? It's a joke) . Some user reviewers (like myself) said that the game 
 isn't true to the series, but I disagree. Last, this is just my opinion, there are plenty of gamers 
 out there that liked C&amp; C3. But I like to tell others the real flaws of the game so that they 
 can decide for themselves. If you are exigent like me and don't like to throw your money away don't 
 buy this game. There's nothing new there, just another money maker... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frezeddy
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I was used to playing C&amp; C on my PC, using a keyboard and mouse. C&amp; C takes some getting 
 used to on the 360. The game is everything I expected from the series. A little disappointed that 
 there is no naval warfare. That would have been cool. At times the gameplay goes from being somewhat 
 easy to almost frustrating, for example having to micromanage individual power on base defenses 
 while being attacked from every direction. Multiplayer can get boring after an extended amount 
 of time playing. What keeps multiplayer fresh is the variety of game types that can be played such 
 as capture the flag and king of the hill. Overall C&amp; C3 is a good game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Perfect Real Time Strategy from the series of Command &amp; Conquer, here comes the newst Tiberium 
 Wars. One of the today's best strategys. It has great single player, with three campagns: The GDI 
 Campagn, the NOD Campagn and the Scrin Campagn (this is after you complete the previous two) . Great 
 fight, as well as some great graphics. Also, prefectly designed multiplayer mode, with enjoyable 
 gameplay, and some relaxable sounds. All these things make C&amp; C TW a great game. But still, 
 somehow, she's not on the same level of fame like CnC Generals was... Everybody asked why? Well, 
 it's on the same engine, as well as the same type of game. However, good game, worth to be played! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  As you can see, the graphics are amazing, superb battle-fields and well-looking tiberium. A very 
 simple game, not hard, relaxing and fun missions campaign, also a nice addition is the new race: 
 Scrin (after you complete both GDI and NOD campaigns) . Surprisingly, the graphics engine is very 
 well optimized, working very very good on medium system. For example i have a 7600GT am i played 
 the entire GDI &amp; NOD campaigns on Ultra High with AA Level 4. The graphics, voice acting and 
 a good music i don`t see how to rate this game below 9. This game is a classic like one in 1995 
 and 1999. It's a simple, a classic, a fun game, it's a must have for every gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertArbez
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game was a horrible let down personally they took out everything that made Tiberium Sun, TIBERIUM 
 SUN. like no more sexy walls / wall torrents / cement pads / underground units / cool vein's / 
 mutants / cyborg's / and many many other things.
  
  Instead of all the cool stuff Westwood did they replaced it with like 9 units to each of the 3 
 teams. and nerfed down versions of the Westwood design's and made the game lose its feel. NOD no 
 longer have anything cool. just same as GDI except the stealth tank and stealthing harvester. the 
 building again less to choose from and defence's always the same patterns.
  The new Race isn't bad but still its like a joke in comparison to old Westwood's Tiberium Sun / 
 Tiberium Sun Firestorm.
  
  I bought this game with the hope of a NEW C&amp; C Tiberium Sun. and got just another strategy game. 
 EA YOU SUCK I HATE YOU AND NEVER CALL YOUR GAMES C&amp; C AGAIN.
  
  I do play it off and on mainly hopeing to see some new updates that bring walls / underground units 
 to the playing field this happens and it could just go up in my books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_j007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars
  
  Storyline
  Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars takes place at the advent of and during the Third Tiberium 
 War , after the Brotherhood of Nod launches an unexpected and worldwide offensive against the Global 
 Defense Initiative; abruptly ending a period of seventeen years of silence and crippling GDI forces 
 everywhere. With the odds tipped in Nod's favor this time, GDI field commanders rally their troops 
 and begin to combat the Brotherhood's second re-emergence, trying to restore lost hope.
  
  The storylines of the factions are closely interwoven in the same fashion seen previously in the 
 Firestorm expansion pack of Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun. In any one faction's campaign, 
 references are made to the events and missions that occur in the campaigns of the other factions.
 
  
  Plot In-game screenshot of conflict in one of the world's yellow zones .
  Game background
  The story of Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars begins in the year of 2047, 
 roughly sixteen to seventeen years after the events of Tiberian Sun: Firestorm. While the conflict 
 between the Global Defense Initiative and the Brotherhood of Nod appears to have subsided substantially 
 ever since, Tiberium infestation has begun to reach critical levels and continues to destroy the 
 Earth's ecosystems at an alarming rate, prompting GDI to divide the world into three different 
 geographical zones based on the levels of local infestation. [8] 30% of the world's surface has 
 been designated as red zones , which have suffered the worst contamination and can no longer support 
 human - or otherwise carbon-based - life. 50% of the regions in the world have been designated 
 as yellow zones , which are dangerously contaminated yet contain most of the world's population. 
 Decades of war and civil unrest have left these regions in a state of social collapse and have 
 continued to provide the Brotherhood of Nod with opportunity for concealment as well as large-scale 
 recruitment over the years. The remaining 20% of the Earth's surface is unscarred by Tiberium outbreak 
 and is relatively untouched by war. These blue zones are considered the last refuge and hope of 
 the human civilized world and have been placed under the direct protection of the Global Defense 
 Initiative.
  
  In-game plot
  In March 2047 the Brotherhood of Nod suddenly fires a nuclear missile at GDI's orbiting command 
 station Philadelphia, destroying the fulcrum of GDI's senior command structure in a single major 
 blow. Since the end of the Second Tiberium War, Nod has silently built up its influence and its 
 military potential into the status of a true superpower, and by providing enforcement of stability, 
 strategically placed medical aid and hate-mongering against GDI and the blue zone populations from 
 within the yellow zone territories, the Brotherhood of Nod is now supported by a significant percentage 
 of the world's population. Unprepared to handle the coordinated offensives led by Black Hand shock 
 troops across the entire globe, the remainder of the Global Defense Initiative's top military and 
 political officials take charge and begin rallying all of their standing forces, determined to 
 turn the tide and achieve a new victory over Nod. At this point, General Jack Granger takes control 
 of GDI's military forces while Acting Director Redmond Boyle, the highest-ranking surviving member 
 of GDI's leadership, takes over administration.
  
  GDI acts on intelligence gathered from NOD prisoners of war and travels to Egypt, where it is discovered 
 that not only is Nod preparing to use weapons of mass destruction, but is also constructing an 
 immensely destructive liquid Tiberium bomb based on research from a Brazilian facility. Swift action 
 by GDI prevents a nuclear strike, but Kane continues construction of the liquid Tiberium warhead 
 in his newly constructed Temple Prime, built over the site of the previous temple in Sarajevo, 
 which was destroyed in the First Tiberium War.
  
  Temple Prime is attacked by GDI, and also by treacherous Nod forces, supposedly lead by General 
 Kilian Qatar. Kane evacuates the Temple as GDI launches a second attack. General Granger plans 
 to lay siege to the facility until Kane surrenders, but Director Boyle orders the use of the Ion 
 Cannon to eliminate Kane's threat once and for all. When the Ion Cannon is fired, it detonates 
 a massive deposit of liquid Tiberium stored under the Temple, creating an explosion that reaches 
 out into space and kills millions of people in Eastern Europe, believed to include Kane himself. 
 Shortly afterward, GDI detects multiple alien vessels belong to the Scrin closing in on Earth. 
 Director Boyle orders the Ion Cannon network turned against the craft, but alien forces still land 
 throughout earth's Red Zones and launch massive, unrestrained assaults on various cities across 
 the globe in a series of diversionary attacks to draw the human defenders away from the landing 
 sites. Kilian Qatar assumes control of the Brotherhood of Nod and joins in an alliance with local 
 GDI commanders in Australia to fight the invaders, whom she views as a more dangerous opponent. 
 In the middle of the battle Kane reappears, denouncing Kilian's actions as an unforgivable sin 
 and orders her capture and execution.
  
  At this point, GDI has become aware that the invaders' goals are to divert the humans' attention 
 away from a series of massive towers being constructed utilizing the Tiberium in the Red Zones. 
 At the same time, the Scrin themselves have become aware of Kane's entire plan: that he had deliberately 
 provoked GDI into a world war and forced them to use their Ion Cannon, which was the only weapon 
 that could create a large enough detonation of liquid Tiberium to draw the Scrin to Earth, where 
 Kane planned to capture their Tiberium-related technology.
  
  GDI succeeds in destroying all but one tower, which is saved by Nod, and the Scrin are able to 
 finish the tower's construction, enabling them to evacuate just before GDI destroys a central control 
 node that is powering the Scrin forces on Earth. With the last tower completed, it is impregnable 
 to human attack, and GDI leaves it alone as it is completely inert following the destruction of 
 the control node. Kane, meanwhile, prepares to enter the tower using their captured key codes and 
 uncover the secrets within, and the Scrin themselves are preparing a full invasion force for a 
 return to Earth.
  
  Factions overview
  
  Global Defense Initiative
  Main article: Global Defense Initiative Early concept artwork of GDI Zone Troopers crossing a Tiberium 
 field. The Global Defense Initiative's internal structure and organization is quite similar to a 
 supranational and large-scale integration of all of the world's major modern day conventional armies 
 into a single globalized military force. [9] GDI is capable of instantly deploying vast quantities 
 of well-trained and well-equipped soldiers backed by powerful ground, air and naval assets to any 
 point on the globe, and this in ways that are considerably more organized, advanced, as well as 
 on a much greater scale than any conventional real-life military force of today possibly could. [9] 
 Global Defense Initiative troops utilize both superior armor and firepower, making them typically 
 much more powerful than Nod forces in direct open confrontations, but also more cumbersome and 
 less flexible, the exploitation of which the Brotherhood is notoriously adept at through its combinations 
 of futuristic guerrilla warfare with uniquely advanced Tiberium-based technologies. [10] By the 
 year of 2047 GDI's forces were restructured to allow for decentralized operations in multiple theatres 
 of war, through the establishment of forward-operating bases in all types of terrain, [9] and the 
 deployment of proven, specialized and cost-effective ground and air forces supported by the most 
 advanced network of orbital artillery satellites in history. In-game, their units are unit-for-unit 
 more powerful than those of Nod and the Scrin. Their superweapon is the quintessential ion cannon, 
 an orbital weapon that has appeared in every Tiberium game to date; previously capable of destroying 
 only a single building at a time, the ion cannon now devastates a large area. [11]
  
  Brotherhood of Nod
  Main article: Brotherhood of Nod
  The Brotherhood of Nod is a mysterious, 
 enigmatic and highly militant Abrahamic society of an allegedly ancient origin, [12] which in modern 
 times began to show the combined characteristics of a vast religious movement, a multinational 
 corporation and a boundaryless nation-state, whilst being none of the three in itself. [12] The 
 globalized brotherhood is led by a mysterious man who is known only as Kane, [13] and its influence 
 in the world at the advent of the events in which Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars takes 
 place eventually reached nothing short of the status of an unconventional superpower. [12] The Brotherhood 
 of Nod represents a flexible, elusive and worldwide cultic army which thrives on the synergy between 
 low-tech guerrilla warfare and highly-trained forces that are equipped with state-of-the-art communications 
 gear and the most advanced weapon systems available, which all have been derived from the Brotherhood's 
 uniquely adept understanding of Tiberium-based military technologies. [12] Nod tactics are highly 
 radical and appear more cruel than GDI's, often showing little to no regard for human life, and 
 their religious fascination with Tiberium also leads them to use the dangerous and toxic substance 
 offensively whenever possible. In-game, Nod forces typically are weaker than GDI's or the Scrin 
 in a head-on engagement, yet are able to use flexible strategies and advanced hit-and-run tactics 
 to their advantage to control the pacing of the battle, as well as sabotage an opponent's momentum. 
 Their in-game superweapon is a nuclear missile. [13]
  
  Scrin
  Main article: Scrin The Global Defense Initiative engages the Scrin. The announced new faction featured 
 in Tiberium Wars is an extraterrestrial force known only as the Scrin, who have come to harvest 
 all of the Earth's Tiberium deposits. [14] They have remained dormant along the edge of our Solar 
 System for millennia, until awakened by the massive detonation of liquid Tiberium beneath the Brotherhood 
 of Nod's Temple Prime . Upon approaching Earth, they are surprised to encounter a heavily militarized 
 native population still coping with Tiberium's spread, and swiftly proceed to launch an assault 
 on Earth's cities, wreaking havoc on GDI and Nod alike. Scrin units and structures show a distinctly 
 bio-mechanical and insect-like appearance, and possess several economic and military advantages 
 related directly to Tiberium [14] , including the ability to promote the growth of the substance, 
 store it in infinite amounts, and to use it to enhance the performance of their units and weaponry 
 in a multitude of ways. Scrin forces possess a powerful aerial fleet [14] , able of constructing 
 fast Stormrider fighters, hovering Devastator warships and the versatile Planetary Assault Carriers 
 , which are capable of generating localized ion storms. The faction also features the ability to 
 create wormholes and to instantly teleport units around the battlefield through various means. 
 The Scrin are additionally able to deploy a large aerial unit known as the Mothership , which features 
 a massively powerful energy weapon that can devastate all structures in a large radius beneath 
 it by initiating a chain reaction upon them. Their in-game superweapon is the rift generator , 
 which creates a rip in space-time in the targeted area, drawing everything near to it into deep 
 space. [15]
  
  Novel
  Main article: Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberium Wars (novel)
  A novel based on the game was written by Keith R. A. DeCandido, and released by Del Rey Books in 
 June of 2007.
  
  Casting Joseph D. Kucan as Kane in Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars. Electronic Arts confirmed 
 through an early trailer for the game - in which the iconic character of Kane was featured - that 
 Joseph D. Kucan would indeed return to reprise his role as the leader of the Brotherhood of Nod. 
 The cutscenes of Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars were directed by EA in-house cinematic 
 director Richard Taylor. [16]
  
  Actors
  A number of well known actors were cast in the full motion videos of Tiberium Wars: [17]
  
  
 Josh Holloway (Lost) appears as a Nod intelligence officer by the name of Ajay. Tricia Helfer (Battlestar 
 Galactica) portrays the Nod General Kilian Qatar. Michael Ironside (Top Gun, Starship Troopers, 
 Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell video game series, SeaQuest DSV) appears as the Global Defense Initiative's 
 Lieutenant General Jack Granger. Billy Dee Williams (Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back, 
 Star Wars Episode VI: The Return of the Jedi, Batman) plays GDI Director Redmond Boyle. Grace Park 
 (Battlestar Galactica) as GDI Lt. Sandra Telfair. Jennifer Morrison (House, M. D.) portrays GDI 
 Lt. Kirce James. News casters
  Electronic Arts Los Angeles has employed the talents of several real-world news casters to deliver 
 TV-style reports of the Tiberium Wars within the game's cutscenes: [18]
  
  Freelance CNN news reporter Shanon Cook (Robin &amp; Company) plays the character of Cassandra 
 Blair. Las Vegas Fox News anchor John Huck appears as William Frank. Shauntay Hinton (Miss USA 
 2002) was additionally cast as the reporter Brittany Murphy. Gameplay
  Electronic Arts Los Angeles designed Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars with the intention 
 to return the Command &amp; Conquer real-time strategy (RTS) series to its roots, as originally 
 established by Westwood Studios. As such, numerous features that were characteristic of the Command 
 &amp; Conquer games prior to the release of Command &amp; Conquer: Generals in 2003 define the 
 gameplay of Tiberium Wars;
  
  The return of the Tiberium substance as the game's sole and hazardous resource, and all the in-game 
 economics traditionally associated with it. Return of the classic pre-Generals right-sidebar user 
 interface, a feature announced early on in an interview with IGN. [19] Destroyable and repairable 
 bridges, etc. Forward-base construction through mobile construction vehicles (or MCVs ) , and construction 
 yard buildings. From version 1.05 and onward, a Classic C&amp; C Mouse Setup option was added to 
 the game's configuration menu, allowing the player to issue commands to units and structures with 
 the left mouse button, in identical fashion to the C&amp; C games produced by Westwood Studios. 
 Single player
  The single player mode of Command &amp; Conquer 3 consists of 38 missions [20] , spread over three 
 campaigns. Each campaign depicts the view of its respective faction on the globalized Third Tiberium 
 War , with the portrayed story being furthered by full motion video cutscenes which play in between 
 each of the individual campaign missions. Players can elect to start with either the Global Defense 
 Initiative or the Brotherhood of Nod campaign, however both campaigns of the traditional two factions 
 require to be completed before the bonus campaign of the new third Scrin faction is unlocked.
 
  
  Each campaign mission features a main objective, the completion of which will instantly end the 
 mission successfully. Several optional bonus objectives additionally are present, which can facilitate 
 the ease with which the mission's main objective can be reached when they themselves have been 
 completed. All campaign missions can separately be given a difficulty rating on the theatre screen 
 before they are started; the available difficulty settings range from Easy to Medium to Hard .
 
  
  As the player progresses through one of the campaigns, new entries in the game's Intelligence Database 
 become unlocked, providing the player with additional background information on the storyline, 
 the factions, as well as their units and structures. Several of these database entries require 
 the player to complete the bonus objectives of the various missions before they can be accessed.
 
  
  GDI campaign
  For more details on this topic, see Global Defense Initiative storyline.
  Consisting of a total 
 of seventeen missions, the GDI campaign is divided into a Prologue mission and five separate Acts 
 , which portray the Global Defense Initiative making their stand against the incursions into the 
 blue zones by the Brotherhood of Nod, and how the organization later on manages to successfully 
 repel the invasion of Earth by the extraterrestrial Scrin.
  
  Nod campaign
  For more details on this topic, see Brotherhood of Nod storyline.
  The Brotherhood of Nod campaign 
 is divided into a Prologue mission and five subsequent Acts , consisting of seventeen individual 
 missions in similar fashion to the GDI campaign. The campaign provides the player with the unique 
 perspective of the Brotherhood of Nod on the Third Tiberium War , as well as detailed background 
 information on why this world war was initiated by them.
  
  Scrin bonus campaign
  The Scrin bonus campaign is unlocked when both the GDI and Nod campaigns have been successfully 
 completed, and consists of four missions of high difficulty. The campaign briefly depicts the perspective 
 of the aliens on the Third Tiberium War , and provides the player with additional background information 
 on the nature and motives of the Scrin species, as well as a few key details of the overall plot 
 which are not revealed in the campaigns of the two traditional factions.
  
  Skirmish
  The skirmish mode AI in Tiberium Wars features numerous settings which each embody a type - or 
 a combination of types - of classic RTS strategies, [21] such as turtler , rusher and steamroller 
 . These behavioral settings can additionally be given a difficulty rating ranging from Easy to 
 Medium to Hard , along with handicap settings that can be applied to either the AI, the player, 
 or both.
  
  Multiplayer
  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars supports multiplayer games over LAN, and online play over 
 Gamespy servers. Players can participate in 1v1 , 2v2 , and clan-based 1v1 and 2v2 ladders - each 
 using separate Elo rating systems - or they can elect to play unranked. In addition to the official 
 ladders, a number of independent ladders have been set up, the most prominent of which currently 
 is clanwars. cc .
  
  Broadband-based multiplayer features VoIP support. [6]
  
  BattleCast
  Electronic Arts is making an attempt through Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars 
 to market RTS as a sport through a project entitled BattleCast . A service centred on the game's 
 official website, BattleCast is designed to allow for players to schedule upcoming games with others, 
 to spectate in games that are currently being played, and to serve as a centralized replay archive 
 of previous games. BattleCast additionally allows for players to function as commentators in a 
 game, providing a running description of the match as it unfolds. Commentators can talk to other 
 observers of a game through BattleCast , and use a paint -style brush to draw onto the screen.
 
  
  Soundtrack
  The soundtrack for C&amp; C 3 was composed by Steve Jablonsky &amp; Trevor Morris. [22] [23] Frank 
 Klepacki - the composer of all the previous C&amp; C installments with the exception of Command 
 &amp; Conquer: Generals - was contacted by Electronic Arts to compose the soundtrack for Tiberium 
 Wars, yet turned the offer down to focus on his career at Petroglyph. [24]
  
  Reception
  Reviews for Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars have been positive, almost on par with the classic 
 C&amp; C games.
  
  PC Gamer gave the game its Editor's Choice rating at 91%, stating that One of the greatest RTS 
 franchises of all time returns to glory . Gamespot gave the game a 9.0 out of 10, referring to 
 Tiberium Wars as one of the finest real-time strategy games in years. [25] 1UP. com/Games for Windows 
 rated the game at 9/10. IGN labelled the game as great , rating it at 8.5/10. [26] GamePro gave 
 Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars its Editor's Choice rating at 4.5 out of 5, designating 
 it as Game of the Month in its June 2007 issue. [27] Polish based CD-Action magazine has rated 
 the game at 9/10. The Swedish PC Gamer gave it 81%, while the magazine's UK Edition awarded it 
 82% and credited the game as a welcome, but limited, return . PC Zone rated Tiberium Wars at 86%. 
 Dutch magazine Power Unlimited gave it an 88/100. UK based website Mansized scored the game a full 
 5/5 stars, stating that chances are youve not had this much fun in a long, long time . UK magazine 
 PCFormat gave the game an 81% rating and praised the greased eel-slick presentation and explosive, 
 ripping action which makes Command and Conquer the distillation of what RTS is all about , however 
 it also criticized the lack of innovation present. Pelit and MikroBitti gave it 89/100 and 4/5, 
 respectively. MikroBitti applauded the game's appearance and sounds, but criticized it for excessive 
 loyalty to the early Command &amp; Conquer game mechanics. UK Magazine Edge gave the game a rating 
 of 7. Due to the intentionally faithful recreation of the original Command and Conquer experience, 
 the magazine felt that the game's strategic formula was too dated in comparison to more strategic 
 titles currently available in the RTS market. X-Play rated Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars 
 5/5. Development
  
  History Old Command &amp; Conquer 3 concept art from Westwood Studios dating from 2002/2003 as 
 said by Chris 'Delphi' Rubyor, currently from Petroglyph Games. A sequel to Command &amp; Conquer: 
 Tiberian Sun has been expected since Tiberian Suns release in 1999. A hypothetical sequel was 
 called Tiberian Twilight throughout the Command &amp; Conquer community due to EA copyrights. Work 
 on a sequel is believed to have been started at Westwood Studios in 2001, but Electronic Arts decided 
 to shift the focus of a sequel from a science fiction theme to a modern theme based on current 
 world conflicts. The work on a sequel was used to make Command &amp; Conquer: Generals and other 
 current SAGE engine based games. Developers still retained the Command &amp; Conquer 3 idea (tentatively 
 named 'Incursion') , intending it to be an update of the original possibly in terms of gameplay 
 and setting. [28] However, just before Generals was released, EA announced that Westwood Studios 
 in Las Vegas would be closing and would be consolidated into EA Los Angeles. This split the Westwood 
 team, with some members not willing to relocate and thus quitting and forming the company Petroglyph 
 Games (known mostly from the Star Wars Empire at War game) , and the rest moving to Los Angeles 
 to work at the new consolidated studio, thus effectively stopping the development of Command &amp; 
 Conquer 3 for the time being.
  
  In 2004, old concept art from Westwood was revealed, under the name Command &amp; Conquer 3 . This 
 artwork showed a mech unit, a fully 3-dimensional environment similar to that used in the game 
 Generals, and the original interface system from both the original Command &amp; Conquer and its 
 sequel of Tiberian Sun. This revealed artwork fueled speculation that EA was working on a Command 
 &amp; Conquer game, which in turn set off rumors as to when the game would ship and what the plot 
 would be; however, in December of 2004, after the EALA team settled down, then executive producer 
 and Command &amp; Conquer lead Mark Skaggs announced in a mass e-mail that the next Command &amp; 
 Conquer game would be Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert 3 and not a long-awaited sequel to Tiberian 
 Sun. However, shortly there after Skaggs left EA for reasons unknown and ideas for Red Alert 3 
 were mothballed. Mike Verdu later became the new lead on Command &amp; Conquer.
  
  On April 18, 2006, Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars was prematurely announced. On April 20, 
 an official press release was made.
  
  Electronic Arts Los Angeles hosted several fan summits for previews, feedback and discussions. [29]
 
  
  The official map editor for Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars was released on 20 April 2007. [30]
 
  
  Engine
  A heavily modified version of the SAGE engine is used to run Command &amp; Conquer 3's graphics. 
 SAGE technology previously was used in the RTS series Generals and The Battle For Middle-Earth 
 games, and the engine's features (e. g. zooming in and out of specific areas on the map, 360 degree 
 rotation of the map, etc.) subsequently are also present in C&amp; C 3.
  
  Game editions
  C&amp; C 3 has been released in three separate editions; [31] the pre-order edition, the standard 
 edition (box art featured above) , and the limited Kane Edition which constitutes a special collector's 
 edition with extras on the game disc and a bonus dvd with exclusive content.
  
  Tiberium Wars has a suggested retail price of US$49.99, while the C&amp; C 3: Kane Edition is available 
 at select retailers with a suggested retail price of US$59.99. Only 100,000 will be sold around 
 the world. [31]
  
  Xbox 360 version XBOX 360 disc and cover of Tiberium WarsThe game was released for the Xbox 360 
 in May of 2007, with Louis Castle previously having stated:
  
  And I know for a fact that they (the developers of Battle For Middle Earth II on 360) are doing 
 this because these are the same guys, the same team, who's doing Command &amp; Conquer 3 and they're 
 definitely going to release it for the 360, you heard it here. And so what they are doing is they 
 are really using Battle for Middle-earth II to sort of use it as a spring board to test, to see, 
 how it is going to work for Command &amp; Conquer 3, so they are trying to almost use this BFMEII 
 as a beta; a very good beta. [32]
  
  Support for the Xbox Live Vision Camera is included. [33]
  
  References 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firestorm250
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  Being a C&amp; C fan since the start of the series, I was saddened when Westwood was bought over 
 and subsequently closed down. However the news of the development of C&amp; C 3 by EA definitely 
 came as good news to me.
  
  I immediately followed its progress, hoping that the new C&amp; C instalment would do Westwood justice, 
 and now that I finally have it, I can't properly express how overjoyed I was to find out that it 
 had. Although I must say that after the fall of Westwood, many new strategy genres and themes have 
 definitely challenged the relatively old Real-Time Strategy genre.
  
  And as for the Real-Time Strategy itself, I must say many other companies have come up with so 
 many innovations that I have to admit (no matter how much of a C&amp; C fan I am) makes C&amp; C3 
 Tiberium Wars look slightly Old-School and even bordering the possibility of being slightly out-of-date 
 . No matter, it is still a highly addictive game that requires intense amounts of concentration 
 and gives us the old but fun Real-Time Strategy feel to it. The one thing special about many C&amp; C 
 games that the Westwood legacy left behind was clearly very present in C&amp; C3, and that is the 
 quality and the feel of the Cut-scenes that not only added intensity into the game, but also made 
 the game come alive, as do most story lines. It is one of the most defining aspects of C&amp; C3 
 Tiberium Wars.
  
  The graphic of the game are good but after playing other strategy games such as Company of Heroes 
 and Supreme Commander, I must say that the graphics have a great deal of room to improve. Personally 
 I think that this need for improvement of graphics is not just limited to C&amp; C 3 but most other 
 EA strategy Games as well. I hope that EA Pacific will take this as positive feedback and I hope 
 to see the graphic of EA Strategy Games to be comparable to that of their First-Person Shooter 
 Games in the future.
  
  Sound is relatively similar to past C&amp; C games with the exception of better quality due to present 
 day higher technology.
  
  Last but not least the gameplay may be Old-School but is refreshing after all the recent innovations 
 in the Real-Time Strategy Genre. Also the ability for a game to last less than forty-five minutes, 
 has also allowed for people with busy schedules to be able to play short rounds as relaxation and 
 then continue with whatever they were initially doing.
  
  All in all it is a great development to the C&amp; C series and remember EA, I am hoping to see 
 better graphics in the future. Good job and well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom_HellKnight
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  EA LA bring us the third 'Tiberium' Command and Conquer game, with Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium 
 Wars.
  C&amp; C3 is an excellent new addition to the franchise, and is just an excellent RTS game in it's 
 own right.
  The Global Defence Initiative and The Brotherhood of Nod return to fight the third Tiberium War, 
 and alien 'Scrin' arrive to join them.
  Command and Conquer 3 sees the return of FMV, featuring actors such as Michael Ironside &amp; Tricia 
 Helfer and of course, Joseph D. Kucan returns as the Brotherhood's leader Kane.
  Classic units such as the Mammoth Tank and Flame Tank make a return and feature a sleek new look. 
 New units, such as the Nod Avatar join the fray.
  The Graphics engine looks as great as it ever did, and loading times are extremely quick. EA has 
 done a great job with optimization.
  Everything sounds great too. I can't really pick out anything specific but it's great to hear the 
 voice of Kane again.
  Gameplay is simply classic Command and Conquer. It doesn't follow many of the genre's advances, 
 however it sticks to what made playing Command and Conquer so much fun.
  Command and Conquer 3 also features some excellent skirmish games.
  AI is very good and can be 
 extremely hard at times. Luckily the player can give the AI a handicap to make them a little easier. 
 You can also toggle what tactics the AI will use in the following battle (Turtle, Rush etc...) .
 
  
  Command and Conquer 3 is simply an excellent RTS, which features classic Command and Conquer units 
 and gameplay, and sees the glorious return of FMV.
  If you are a Command and Conquer fan, or a fan of RTS games in general make sure you check out 
 Tiberium Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lefliesoopreem2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  When CNC 3 was first announced, I was a little incredulous as to how EA could handle going back 
 to the original source material of Command and Conquer without Westwood. For one thing, the first 
 Command and Conquer game EA had made after Westwood was disbanded retained none of the features 
 the previous Command and Conquer games had, such as the sidebar build menus and the construction 
 yards: the very things that defined the Command and Conquer series. As the game developed, however, 
 I saw that my worries were unfounded, because EA did not deviate from the original template and 
 instead followed the roots of CNC as though they were the Bible. Now, after waiting for half of 
 a year to get this game, pre-ordering it, and buying a new graphics card just so I can get it to 
 run properly, has all of my effort been worth it?
  
  Yes!
  
  Where should I begin in the enormous list of good things with this game?
  
  First of all, the 
 old interface and construction scheme is back, which was a major issue with Generals. Now, instead 
 of ordering construction units to build structures and base defenses, you can queue up such structures 
 from the Construction Yard. There have been a few additions from Generals to the build queues, 
 however, but these holdovers actually make the interface more workable and friendly than the ones 
 in the previous CNC games. For example, in the Westwood developed Command and Conquer games, if 
 you had one barracks deployed, you had only one build queue for infantry. This is reasonable, but 
 if you had more than one barracks on the field, say three, you still had only one build queue for 
 infantry with faster build times for all infantry units. In Command and Conquer 3, EA incorporated 
 the concept of multiple build queues from Generals into the old Command and Conquer interface in 
 a way that works splendidly and lets the game move along at a rigorous pace.
  
  That brings me to the next thing worth mentioning about CNC 3: the speed. Everything in this game 
 is incredibly fast. The build times have all been reduced to almost nothing, so building a base 
 hardly takes any time anymore. Such speed is facilitated by the addition of a new structure: the 
 crane, or foundry, if you play as the Scrin. This building adds a new production queue to all structure 
 tabs, so you essentially double your construction rates. The fast-paced nature of the game is also 
 evident in the combat situations of CNC 3. Battles are extremely frantic and barely leave enough 
 time to think. Even entire armies, when pitted against an opposing force of sufficient mass, can 
 be ended within minutes. The release of CNC 3 also marks the reintroduction of FMV cutscenes. While 
 they are loaded with silly dialogue and overdramatic acting, they are far from unpleasant, and 
 can even serve as an incentive to finish a campaign mission. The story of CNC3 has roughly the 
 same structure for both GDI and NOD: you are fighting against an army of great evil, but there 
 is some internal conflict between your high-ranking officers and commanders. While it's nothing 
 too special, it's told very well through the use of fake news reports and mission briefings along 
 with some CGI action scenes thrown in to add a surge to the plot.
  
  Tiberium Wars also looks and sounds as if it was assembled in a factory made of solid gold. If 
 you have a decent rig, you can play CNC3 with graphical details all the way up on a medium resolution 
 and suffer from minimal slowdown. If you own a computer that has a low-end card, like the ATI Radeon 
 9500 series, you can still play on 800x600 with shaders and texture details up. The sound is also 
 a boon on this game, although it isn't as great as the graphical update. The musical score tries 
 its best, although, without Frank Klepacki, it's spiffy, but forgettable. Unit acknowledgments, 
 however, are crisp and diverse and add more character to their side: for example, GDI's units carry 
 a formal, militaristic tone (excepting the Juggernaut) while NOD units speak in a more fanatical 
 and emotional manner (excepting the Venom Patrol Craft) .
  
  I can't and I won't go into the multiplayer aspect of Tiberium Wars, mainly because Gamespy SUCKS 
 and it won't let me connect to the internet with CNC3, so I can't tell you how good or bad it is. 
 CNC3 offers tons and tons of content in its single-player campaign, however, so it shouldn't be 
 too bad that I can't connect to the internet. All of the cutscenes you unlock are kept in a theatre 
 where you can go back and view them at any time you like. There are also over 30 missions for the 
 campaign, along with 4 different difficulty settings and a skirmish mode that allows you to choose 
 from a plethora of maps and a wide variety of AI personalities to play against. This allows for 
 literally days and days of gameplay as you go to unlock new cutscenes and play the short scrin 
 campaign along with all of the possibilities that can arise in skirmish mode.
  
  I only have a few problems with CNC3: structure placement, base defenses, and Scrin unit acknowledgments. 
 For the Scrin, all of their units acknowledge you by making growling or grumbling sounds. I know 
 that they're aliens, and that they do not speak any earthly language, but listening to a bunch 
 of random roars and hoots gets a bit annoying. Structure placement is a lot more finicky in CNC3 
 for some reason as well. In Generals, you could place your buildings on almost any surface, even 
 if the terrain were as lumpy clam chowder, you could still place a nuke on it and the surface would 
 automatically smooth itself for you. With CNC3, it's hard to even put a turret on a piece of perfectly 
 flat ground. While it's not so bad in the beginning, when there's little to no fighting, it can 
 get harrying when you're trying to quickly erect a series of turrets to defend yourself while a 
 group of rocket troopers are laying waste to your structures. Base defenses are also a bit of a 
 joke as well, and only the superpowered base defenses and anti-infantry emplacements are of any 
 use at all. It takes a billion laser turrets to even make a dent in the armor of a predator tank. 
 A group of five guardian cannons can be easily destroyed by a decent-sized group of scorpions or 
 devourers, and the anti-air turrets are a joke. Only the Obelisk of Light and the Storm Columns 
 are of any real use: the sonic emitter is too slow to do any real damage against the enemy. All 
 of those grievances , however, are petty and do next to nothing to detract from the grand scope 
 of this terrific game.
  
  Unless you lack a PC (then how on earth are you reading this review?) or Xbox 360 or if you have 
 any religious convictions that ban you from playing video games, there must be no reason why you 
 should not buy CNC3. It is an outstanding RTS that is a must-buy for everyone, even those who are 
 unacquainted with the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboard91
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  To sum up the game in one simple word, I would say the game is... enjoyable. It's definitely one 
 of the best RTS games I've played, perhaps not quite up to the standard of depth that Empire Earth 
 offers, but its definitely worth the purchase. The graphics and effects are superb as long as you 
 don't zoom right in ; ) and there is always something to keep you occupied during gameplay, even 
 if it does not quite bring the new dimension to RTS gaming that it seemingly tries to. There is 
 a large array of units and structures each with their own specific purpose or ability and throughout 
 the campaigns it is easy to master each one and find out its strengths and weaknesses. The campaigns 
 are very in-depth and provide a strong storyline, filling you in with news broadcasts and mission/situation 
 briefings acted out by real people - a nice addition to the game, even if they are a bit cheesy 
 on the odd occasion. Contrary to the game itself, the extras in the 'Kane Edition' are, in my opinion 
 a bit of a rip-off - around &pound;10 extra in england (all together &pound;40 - about the equivalent 
 of US$75 to $80 if I'm not mistaken) for a couple of actor interviews, the making of the game and 
 a few wallpapers - go on youtube is my advice. Overall, the game is definitely worth buying as 
 it is great fun to play, very easy to learn and pick up, interesting, excellent visually, and it 
 always has something new for you to do - although perhaps not quite worth the price in england. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 is disappointing. The C&amp; C was always a left click strategy game and using 
 the RMB was different. Generals was better with building placement and the 3d view doesn't do a 
 good job measuring distance of weapondry fired. The GDI juggernaut shoots just as far is not less 
 than the Mammoth tank. The Mammoth tanks are ridculously tough at full rank. 5 sargeant tanks can 
 destroy a whole base. Sure the graphics look all great in stuff but it superficial. There is not 
 much use of the aircraft. Just because a strategy game is in 3d doesn't make it better. There is 
 nothing wrong with a 2d isometric game, unless it's buggy but that has nothing to do with 2d.
 
  
  Red Alert 2 Yuri's Revenge I considered to be the height of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BirdofP
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  A true roach, Kane is back again. He has lost the faceplate and seems minus some scars but his 
 personality hasn't changed; he is still a victory at all costs kinda guy. Fans of the previous 
 games might be disappointed with the lack of tiberian flora and fauna as well as the lack of underground 
 units and walkers; each faction now only has a single walker.
  
  This is the third installment in the tiberian universe of Command and Conquer. It chronicles the 
 third Tiberian War started when Nod ends its suspicious silence by blowing up a GDI space station 
 with many of GDI's leaders on board as well as many controls for GDI's space assets.
  
  It features 3 factions: GDI and Nod from previous games as well as the new alien faction the Scrin 
 who are here to mine tiberium but weren't expecting the resistance they found.
  GDI is a steamroller faction They have the biggest tanks and best ground forces but their air assets 
 are lacking.
  Nod is very stealthy having many units able to stealth along with disruption towers hiding their 
 base and a support power that can stealth any ground unit except infantry.
  Scrin is the mirror of GDI whereas GDI is powerful early game Scrin shine towards the end after 
 they have teched up. They also have the best air force in the form of space ships. This of course 
 comes at a cost as most of their ground units can survive even against Nod.
  
  The gameplay is fast paced with each faction having many interesting strategies and each playing 
 very differently. The factions are relatively balanced after the latest patch but as Nod you will 
 not be able to survive direct attacks and will need to resort to guerilla tactics.
  
  There are three campaigns featuring all types of missions. The story can only be truly understood 
 by playing all three campaigns as the stories are intertwined. The Scrin campaign can only be accessed 
 after finishing the other two and seems kind of short though.
  
  I honestly can't give a good critique of the graphics as they break my system at medium settings, 
 but what I can get on my computer were amazing, there are ion discharges above the tiberian and 
 rains have vapor trails
  
  The music and sound effects are great. Players of previous games such as Tiberian Sun or Red Alert 
 might be disappointed to know that the songwriter for those games wasn't available to do the score 
 on this game, but it is a decent score and the Scrin music can be downright creepy the first time 
 you hear it.
  
  The GDI and Nod campaigns are will keep you busy for a long time and the Multiplayer aspect lends 
 much replayability to the game through an integrated clan system and four ladders: 1v1 2v2 Clan1v1 
 and Clan2v2 along with unranked with up to 8 players in a game. There are a few bugs but if you 
 find a reliable player or a friend you won't have any problems as the exploiters of these bugs 
 are a low minority. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnenad
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  When i saw the title C&amp; C 3 i was overjoyed by another C&amp; C sequel. But when i installed 
 the game, nah, disappointing, the gameplay stinks, i mean, i never played the original C&amp; C 
 but man. NOD shouldn't be all magically alienly :) inspired. They're just bunch of people, not 
 aliens, but no they've made them totally ALIEN like. Dude, the 'Hand of NOD' how stupid can you 
 get. But it's made by EA GAMES ;) so graphics are great, and the movies are really cool. And i 
 like the way you can make your base HUGE :) ) ) ) ) . I still thing C&amp; C Generals are the best C&amp; C 
 EVER, and C&amp; C Generals 2 should be the new EA GAMES game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercai
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  Being a long standing fan of the C&amp; C series, we've been waiting for the release of Tiberium 
 Wars more or less since the release of C&amp; C Generals. All things being equal, I must say that 
 it was definately worth waiting for. While the basic design and formula for the game are hardly 
 groundbreaking, everything comes together to form an altogether consistant package. The campaigns 
 are challenging and deep, the gameplay mechanics are solid and smooth, and the visuals are above 
 average when compared to most current RTS games.
  The only complaints i have to make about Tiberium wars are with the soundtrack, which features 
 the same techno-ish metal beat that seems to dominate a good number of RTS games, and minor balancing 
 issues between the different factions (which im sure will be addressed in future patches) .
  All in all, Tiberium Wars comes across as a better than average RTS, but don't expect any major 
 suprises with the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Wow is the word here .... i'm sure most of you must have played the original and if you haven't 
 then go out and buy the game instantly ..... it wont run as good as on the newer systems but still 
 worth your money in every sense ... it is and RTS with all the previous factions and a new Alien 
 race called the Scrin ... Multiplying this game is so much fun !!! Lots of new maps very nice single 
 player campaign and offcourse all those movies that played while in single player are back .... 
 the GDI guy who seems to order you is the same guy who has provided voice for a game character 
 called SAM FISHER from splinter cell series .... in case you don't know .... 5 or more friends 
 can get together and play the hell out of this game !! really nice i recommend it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrepValk
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Overrated, Over Ambitous and it doesn't have the scale of other rts', for example SupCom, Sins 
 Of A Solar Empire, CoH or Warhammer 40k. The storlne is the same as all of the other games. All 
 in all a disappointment. After playing this after SupCom and CoH you cant do anything but build 
 a dinky base and churn out units until you die. The res collection is also a pain that hasn't evovled 
 in a decade. : ( DONT BELIEVE THE HYPE, spend the money on something better, eg: SupCom, CoH, W40K 
 DC, AOE 3 or Sins Of A Solar Empire when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malcantar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm not the most gifted gamer, nor do I sit and play for days and wonder where time went. This 
 game was definitely challenging in the campaign modes. My wife and I raced to see who could finish 
 it first, I won, but struggled. It is definitely a nice addition to the C&amp; C family and with 
 all the new features like the addition of Scrin, makes the game more of a challenge. We enjoyed 
 playing and I'm sure you will too! In my opinion Nod is a little lacking, with weaker units, but 
 have some nice toys once you have teched up. GDI starts out with some great features, foot soldiers 
 digging in can be very beneficial especially on certain missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXDeadraLordXX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer has always been one of my favortie RTS games. The series has always been beautifully 
 simple, with one resource, Tiberium, and one means to victory: Kill the enemy.
  
  C&amp; C3 keeps to this strategy for gameplay, but it adds a twist. Instead of creating single units, 
 you now create squads. This is being used in many RTS games now, but it is very new to the C&amp; C 
 series. Another addition is the new race, the Scrin. The Scrin play just like the other two races, 
 with slight differences that make them appeal to certain players. The Scrin focus on air, GDI focus 
 on heavy artillery, and Nod focuses on stealth and tactical thinking. Each team gets a unique superweapon 
 that has to be built, then prepared for seven real-time minutes.
  
  The graphics are really great in this game. The flashy explosions, bullets, lasers, and landscapes 
 are all amazing. The smoke effects emitting from the tiberium plants actually distort things that 
 pass behind them. It's an impressive little touch.
  
  The sound is nothing to get amazingly excited about, but it works perfectly for the game. The computerized, 
 female voice that guides you and the bombs exploding in the background blend into a symphony of 
 C&amp; C jollies.
  
  The game has a long, poorly-acted (which is good) story for each of the teams, and a skirmish and 
 online play mode. The game lasted me a while, but i got bored of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith22
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  let me begin. First of all the graphics inc special effects are top notch for an rts. the sound 
 is exelent The game play is versatile and fun but at some points it can be preaty frustrating. 
 the controls are easy. The campaign is long long long but super nice. multi player is good really 
 enjoy beaten up friends with mamos and nuks. the cast for the cut scene is exelent . I am not so 
 much into rts im more of an fps type, but i gave it try since some of my friends played it and 
 liked it I suggest anyone to play this game cause its great work of art atru master piece, and 
 its worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lincolnhoole
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3! Are you serious? It's about time! That was basically what I first thought 
 of once I heard that EA was making a new Command and Conquer game. Now please remember that I've 
 been playing Command and Conquer games since 2nd grade folks (I'm going to be a freshman after 
 the summer of 07) so I am a veteran of the series. After playing Command and Conquer Tiberian Wars 
 though, I have to say that I am really dissapointed on how this came out. First things first, Command 
 and Conquer: Tiberian Wars is a great game, but not a great Command and Conquer game. Tiberian 
 Wars has exellent graphics, great single and multiplayer, along with three wonderful factions. 
 It also features a great community that creates mods, maps, and many other things to keep the game 
 fresh. So if you've never gotten into or played the other C&amp; C games than this one has to be 
 for you! For many Command and Conquer veterans like myself though, this game really didn't live 
 up to the proper exepectations. Playing Tiberian Wars feels more like playing a Command and Conquer 
 game that takes place between C&amp; C and C&amp; C: Tiberian Sun. There is a massive loss of technology 
 for GDI and Nod. I'll give you the run down on all of the downgrades right now for units. This 
 doesn't include the units that weren't continued on, the technology that wasn't continued on, and 
 the buildings that bare more resembleise to C&amp; C 1.
  
  ---GDI Downgrades ---
  Diskthrowers now Grenadier squads (futuristic explosive disks to grenades.... hmm, not to mention 
 they can't be tacticaly bounced like before)
  
  Engineer now Engineer (his look is more primative)
  
  Orca Carryall now V-35 Ox Transport (the 
 orca was more futuristic, carried more, was faster, and why discoutinue the orca line?!?)
  
  Orca Fighter now Firehawk (well it's slower and is less futuristic and again why stop the orca 
 line?!?)
  
  Hover Multi-Launch Rocket System (MLRS) now Pitbull (lets see... a hover craft that fired multiple 
 rocket savos now advances to a 4 wheeler..... speechless)
  
  Amphibious APC now APC (well it does have gun now, but it is slower and can't go in the water, 
 and it doesn't look futuristic)
  
  Titan now Predator Tank (well a mech to a tank from C&amp; C 1 is quite a difference, I shouldn't 
 have to point out the specifics)
  
  Juggernaught now Juggernaught ( the older one could fire farther and move faster)
  
  Mammoth 
 Mk. II now Mammoth Tank (WHAT!!!!!! Are we back in C&amp; C 1??!!?? NO EXPLAINATION NEEDED.... PATHETIC!)
 
  
  MCV now MCV (Well the other one was faster and looked more futuristic)
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----Nod Downgrades ---
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Infantry now Militant Squads (now I do think that Militant Squads do match really well with Nod, 
 it's just that they should still have their other infantry too)
  
  Rocket Infantry now Militant Rocket Squad (same as above)
  
  *Chaemolon Spy now Shadow Team 
 (this doesn't really count since the spy was only in single player, but still it should still be 
 in single player)
  
  *Cyborg Commando now Commando (I could see Nod not wanting to use cyborgs after C&amp; C: Firestorm 
 so it's acceptable, but otherwise it's total bs.. no explaination needed)
  
  Banshee now Vertigo Bomber (well the Vertigo is stealthed, but it isn't as fast, it doesn't shoot 
 plasma *it's a bomber though* balls, and looks less futuristic)
  
  Attack Buggy now Raider Buggy (well it is slower, but does have added on emp technology, but at 
 the same time it doesn't look at futuristic so it's a 50 - 50, you decide)
  
  Tick Tank now Scorpion Tank (well although the scorpion tank can have lasers and is faster it can 
 burrow halfway underground, again a 50 - 50 you decide)
  
  Stealth Tank now Stealth Tank (well the new one is slower and looks less futuristic)
  
  Devil's 
 Tongue Flame Tank now Flame Tank (well the new one resembles the C&amp; C 1 flame tank, again we 
 are going back in time, not to mention it can't go subterrianous and the flame doesn't kill infantry 
 as fast)
  
  Attack Cycle now Attack Cycle (it doesn't go as fast now, the diver sits on it like a regular motorcycle 
 as opposed to the Tiberian Sun one were the driver sat inside the cycle in a pilot like canopy, 
 the new one looks less futuristic) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  So that concludes the downgrade secetion of units. I should mention that the Scrin ship you see 
 in C&amp; C: Tiberian Sun gives you the Scrin would be more towards future weapons rather than organic 
 zerg units. Now there were definately some good advances for some of the units, but not nearly 
 enough to cover the downgrades and areas where they simply dumped the technology. Here is the list 
 of all the units that where dumped that were more futuristic along with the buildings.
  
  ---GDI Dumped Units, Buildings, and Technology ---
  
  Disrupter (tank that used sonic waves 
 to destroy stuff, not to mention it looked very futuristic)
  
  Hunter Seeker Droid (it would automatically race accross the map to destroy any random target, 
 not to mention it looked very futuristic)
  
  Jump Jet Infantry (they could fly along the map and fight from the skies, not to mention looked 
 futuristic)
  
  Ghost Stalker (A mutant commando with rail gun, a badass name, and a futuristic look, they could 
 have let you build him along with the commando)
  
  Medic (Come on GDI, you don't have a medic is C&amp; C 3! This guy could heal all infantry instantly)
 
  
  Mobile Sensor Array (could deploy and detect anything is a certain radius, not to mention it looked 
 futuristic)
  
  Wolverine (A mini mech/infantry that could quickly move around the map and was great verses light 
 vehcials and infantry, not to mention it looked futuristic)
  
  Automatic Gate (what else can I say?)
  
  Barracks (looked more futuristic)
  
  Component 
 Tower (was a smart idea, because you could outfit it with anything making it more adaptable than 
 C&amp; C 3's defense tower)
  
  Concrete Walls (Sweet Mother of God, how on earth do you lose the technology to build a wall....)
 
  
  Construction Yard (looked more futuristic)
  
  EMP Pulse Cannon (it could take out vehicals after it charged, not to mention it looked futuristic)
 
  
  Firestorm Generator (a special generator that good power special walls for brief amounts of time 
 that were invinciable)
  
  Firestorm Wall (read above)
  
  GDI Upgrade Center (looked more futuristic and gave you cool upgrade options such as troop drops 
 and ion cannon strikes)
  
  Power Plant (you could put two addons on it instead of one and it didn't look like the C&amp; C 
 1 power plant)
  
  Pavement (Umm... C&amp; C 3, it's called pavement.. anyways it made structers stronger and prevented 
 subterrianous units from comming up)
  
  Power Turbine (read above)
  
  *Radar Installation (well I think this is a case of opinion, I personally think they are the same 
 looking in tech levels and ability- your pick)
  
  Helipad (well the Aircraft base from C&amp; C 3 is a smarter thing to put in, I think the way it 
 looks makes it look less high tech compared to the helipad contrary to what it does or effiency)
 
  
  Tech Center (it did the same thing, but it looked more futuristic)
  
  Tiberium Refinery (read above)
  
  Tiberium Silo (read above)
  
  War Factory (read above, 
 although in C&amp; C 3 the War Factory can heal units wich is great)
  
  Mobile War Factory (the name explains it all)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ---Nod Dumped Units, Buildings, and Technology ---
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Artillery (it was 
 a less advanced version of GDI's juggernuat, but still looked futuristic)
  
  Cyborg Infantry (I said the same thing for the Cyborg Commando- I can see Nod not wanting to use 
 cyborgs after C&amp; C: Firestorm, but other wise it's bs..)
  
  Hunter Seeker Droid (you read GDI's H. S. D. description right?)
  
  Mutant Hijacker (he could 
 hijack any unit and he was more cool and futuristic.. well you know mutant.. it's futuristic)
  
  Mobile Repair Vehicle (although the War Factory now can repair I think this should still be 
 around, it looked futuristic too)
  
  Mobile Sensor Array (you read GDI's M. S. A. description right?)
  
  Subterranean APC (it could 
 hold infantry and it would travel underground to get around the map, it also looked more futuristic)
 
  
  Weed Eater (it was another type of harvester that could eat Tiberium Veins)
  
  Automatic Gate (you read GDI's automatic gate description?)
  
  Advanced Power Plant (although 
 you can add onto Nod's powerplants now, I think that the Advanced Power Plant looked more futuristic 
 and was cooler)
  
  Construction Yard (you read GDI's construction yard description right?)
  
  EMP Pulse Cannon 
 (you read GDI's EMP Pulse Cannon description right?)
  
  Hand of Nod (this version was a badass looking hand that was way more futuristic/cool looking, 
 not to mention the C&amp; C 3 one looks more like the C&amp; C 1, one)
  
  Helipad (you read GDI's Helipad description right?)
  
  *Laser (the new one has three lasers 
 and I think it's a tie between which one you like better)
  
  Laser Fencing (a futuristic fence that had an laser grid)
  
  Missile Silo (Although I like 
 how the C&amp; C 3 Temple of Nod has a nuke that comes with it, I think it looks better without 
 it and this missile silo looked more futuristic and it could launch cluster missles and chemical 
 missles)
  
  Power Plant (Although you can't do a power addon to this one like the new C&amp; C 3 one I think 
 it looks a lot cooler and more futuristic)
  
  Obelisk of Light (This Obelisk looks far more futuristic, not like a C&amp; C 1 Obelisk and it's 
 laser shot farther with more damage)
  
  *Radar (Well it's does the same job as the Operations Center that Nod has in C&amp; C 3, I think 
 it just comes down to opinion)
  
  SAM Site ( )
  
  Stealth Generator ( This one looked a thousand times more futuristic not to mention it cloaked itself. 
 Now that's a true stealth generator, bad move with the new one EA)
  
  Tech Center (Well it looks more futuristic that the Tech Lab of C&amp; C 3 although I like the Tech 
 Lab name better for a Nod structer)
  
  Temple of Nod (Although it doesn't come with a nuke or the master computer option, I say it looks 
 a thousand times more futuristic. Not to have to say this again, but the one in C&amp; C 3 looks 
 like the one from C&amp; C 1)
  
  Tiberium Refinery (read GDI's Tiberiun Refinery description)
  
  Tiberium Silo (above)
  
 
  Tiberium Waste Facility (Although they do have this in C&amp; C 3 you can't harvest tiberium veins 
 since they didn't make them exist in C&amp; C 3 and I think the older one once again looks more 
 futuristic... I know... I know... your o so tired of hearing that)
  
  Walls (don't even make me ask why Nod hasn't rediscovered how to make a damn wall...)
  
  War 
 Factory (Although the vehicals aren't build underground like in the C&amp; C 3 one and it does't 
 repair units, I think it looks more futuristic)
  
  Fist of Nod (it's was their Mobile War Factory)
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Ok, I really hope I covered all of that and I didn't forget any units and structers, but you get 
 the idea. The drop of tech is just too much to make you think this is the Third Tiberian War now. 
 Whenever I play Command and Conquer 3 I feel like it's the hidden expansion between Tiberian Dawn 
 and Sun. Command and Conquer 3 also doesn't have the superb soundtrack that Tiberian Sun had. The 
 soundtrack isn't bad, it's just not nearly as fitting or good. EA did try and get Frank K. to do 
 the soundtrack, but he didn't want to, so you can't blame them for that. Command and Conquer 3 
 has the second best soundtrack you could get. Now, let's talk about the differences between the 
 atmosphere's of the previous C&amp; C games and this one. In Tiberian Dawn you battled through different 
 climates that had some war-torn areas and other nice ones and it featured a start of the war energetic 
 feel . By Tiberian Sun the situation was far worse (in a good way) . You battled on desert areas, 
 temperate areas, winter areas, and mutated areas where the local flora and fona had changed, because 
 of Tiberium. There where meteor showers on some maps, some maps had mutant creatures on them and 
 people, some maps had nice abandoned or war-ravaged post-armageddon like cities with hositles in 
 them, civilians, mutants, or just corpses. There was an exellent lighting system too, along with 
 different types of tiberium. There was blue, green, the rare red, the blue crystels (instead of 
 trees that the red and green had) , tiberium allgie, and tiberiun veins. Ion Storms also would happen 
 on some maps that would temporarly bring down your radar, destroy units and buildins, increase 
 mutant activity, and give the map a cool yellow lighting. The soundtrack was also a great mix of 
 songs that protraied each element perfectly. In C&amp; C 3 the atmosphere is much like the point 
 between Dawn and Sun. Not energetic, but not apocaliptic. It doesn't make sense since it comes 
 after C&amp; C 3. In C&amp; C 3 there are Ion Storms, but only small ones that are barely noticable 
 that happen after you destroy some Scrin units. The previous Command and Conquer games also had 
 far better cutscenes too. The ones in Command and Conquer: Tiberian Wars are not bad, but the acting 
 (besides from Kane and an officer that speaks to you on Nod's side) isn't nearly as good. It is 
 far more cheesier and the setts have a much more cheap feeling. They often are filled with cheap 
 looking objects or unessicary things, as in past C&amp; C games they were very well done. The other 
 actors or extras you see in the background are odd also, they have long hair or odd outfits on 
 that don't make military scenes. So the acting isn't bad, but it certainly isn't up to par with 
 previous games. Another thing is the single player story. It isn't bad at all, but it once again 
 doesn't live up to C&amp; C standards. It also doesn't explain what really happened between the 
 void of Tiberian Sun and Dawn. It also doesn't have that varitiy or creative mission structer that 
 the previous games had. You also don't get to take control over any single player special units 
 (*cough* Toxin Soldiers, techinicans, elite cadre *cough*) like the other games did. Command and 
 Conquer 3 does have some nice advancements over the prevous games though. Although there aren't 
 that many there are some. There are structers called Tiberium Spikes, EMP Control Stations, Tiberium 
 Silos, Reinforcment Bays, Trainstations, and Mutant Hovels that you can capture that will give 
 you cool bounces. You can now garrision infantry in structers which is great. Infantry will also 
 crouch down when near buildings and go prone during combat when there is heavy fire, which is great. 
 There are cool little details like the fact that cars get crushed by tanks when they roll over 
 them, along with fences and such. You can capture some vehical's husks now to capture them. Each 
 unit has it's own voice which is good, instead the often reused previous Command and Conquer games 
 used. There are also some cool multiplayer game modes for the Xbox360 version like Seige, CTF, 
 or King of The Hill. You can also customize the AI to play turle like, balenced, rushing, steamroller, 
 or guerilla style. Speaking of AI, this C&amp; C probably has the best AI so far. They are a super 
 challenge on Brutal difficulty and adapt to your playing style. They also don't pummel you with 
 super weapon after super weapon like in the older games. Sadly though the list of improvements 
 doesn't make up for the fact that this isn't a worthy continueation of the Command and Conquer 
 series. It's definately a great game on it's own and you should buy it regardless, but don't think 
 it's going to be another Dawn or Tiberian Sun. It looks like those days are over, to my great dissmay. 
 Command and Conquer 3 just doesn't have the little or great details that made the older C&amp; C 
 games truely shine. There is also no good explaination of why the tech levels and atomsphere have 
 changed so much, besides from some poor Data files you get in the single player if you have the 
 pc version. End result, be sure to buy it. You will like it a ton more if you're not a Command 
 and Conquer veteran or buff, but you will enjoy it regardless. I do find though that you can get 
 a lot more enjoyment out of this game if your a Command and Conquer veteran or buff, if you just 
 try and use your imagination to pretend your playing a game between Dawn and Sun. Besides you will 
 want to buy this game for the sole purpose of seeing Kane again!
  
  Command and Conquer Game Score: 7.2/10
  
  As A Stand Alone Game Score: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengeance911
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best command and conquer in the market. With better graphics, gameplay, and 
 a much better storyline, i feel that this is going ot be a super hit. The upgrades made in this 
 version are innovative, but I think that the GDI and Nod could have had a few more units each. 
 Also, the Scrin have bee given an unfair advantage, owing to their deadly units and abilities. 
 But what I really like is the fact that the GDI has finally got artillery units of its own. It 
 was really annoying when some one took you out from distance and you could not do so back. The 
 tech tree, which is more complex this time, is also an improvement. The campaign missions field 
 a really different story from the others. Also, the Scrin race makes things more interesting, and 
 also more difficult. This game has got the quality to be the best RTS in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  C&amp; C3 is a HUGE dissappointment. C&amp; C Generals was crap, graphics were terrifying bad, and 
 Tiberium Wars fixed almost nothing. The infantry are an improvement BUT they still look like LEGO 
 soldiers and the limited camera is annoying as well. Your infantry will have no textures on the 
 parts that shows the player colours (shoulder pad, knee pads etc) which is just stupid and raises 
 a lot of questions like WHY WOULD THEY DO THAT? It says +16 on the front yet the infantry looks 
 very very kiddy. The colours are bright and they stand out in front of the terrain and it is very 
 annoying. The vechiles look good and the graphics on terrain and effects r great giving a nice 
 effect and it is always blured near fire or extremly hot stuff which is very nice. But everything 
 is still too simple. Yes the units have some special abillities but that isn't enough. This is 
 still a point and click and whoever has the most people wins. No morale, no terrain advantages, 
 no close combat. Think of games like DoW, RTW, CoH all gave us more options to play with yet C&amp; C3 
 gives us none of these. Everything in this game has been done by another game. Do not buy this 
 game, go for DoW or RTW instead cause for &pound;30 this game is not worth it. I really think C&amp; C 
 series has died cause the last two games were crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bill900
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  This is an all around compitent RTS game that will please any fan of the series or anyone just 
 looking for some old-school RTS action. You can't really knock the graphics, as they are up to 
 current RTS spec and then a little more. The singleplayer campaign is an all around over the top 
 sci-fi story that is funny just from how over-done the acting and scripts are (not really a bad 
 thing though) . After you beat the campaign you can try your hand at the multiplayer which is decidedly 
 old-school in how the battles play out. It serves to return the series to its roots and does it 
 very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelteel
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, this game is just the same as all the rest. Good graphics, special effects especially 
 the Scrin. I plain and simply got bored by the end of the GDI 10th mission. I possibly had too 
 high of hopes for this game. I have enjoyed all the rest but this was just more and so I am giving 
 the game to a friend in hopes he will enjoy it. I wish that someone would come out with Freelancer 
 II and Diablo IV [ LOD was Diablo III ] , or maybe Throne of Darkness II or Arcanum. I do hope someone 
 passes my requests around the web and especially to the game makers. I am waiting for StarCraft 
 II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elorfin_Kendt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  Another chaper in the C&amp; C series... a great game! The GDI powerfull Ion Canon will make your 
 eyes cry, so beatifull as he hits the target, more... the GDI Ultimate Tank... by far the best 
 Unit in the Game as it's capable to stryke powerfull blows by land also fires rockets to air enemies 
 or buildings even to enemie troops, and can be upgraded with railgun to strike hard in infantry.
 
  
  As usual, all the bad guys have the Nuclear missile and yes... powerfull as well. Ultimate Unit 
 are the Avatar capable to be upgraded using your tanks and gain bonus. The other good aspect in 
 NOD, is the stealth in most units including harvester.
  Unlike GDI, NOD have as well, vapor bombs and cataclyst missile with 1/3 power or so less then 
 the nuclear missile.
  
  The Scrin, enemies from the middle of the game, have the Rift Generator as superweapon.
  
  
 The good side: good graphics, well writen story, capable of mantain the gamer up for the next move.. 
 actors well know... such as Jennifer Morrison, from the House M-D. series in the GDI side. Easy 
 to learn ando lots of destruction!
  
  Bad side: Even in medium dificult, the game is easy, comparing to C&amp; C Red Alert 2. The Scin 
 battleship is way to powerfull, luckly in the game they are ratter easy to destroy too.
  
  Good game... but for me... still doesn't match C&amp; C Red Alert 2 + Yuri's Revenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeydog0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 is easily one the the best RTS (real time strategy) games that I have played 
 in a long time. It is almost the perfect RTS, but it sill has it's problems. One of these problems 
 is that, at times, certain units can seem over balanced for or against you. The zone troopers are 
 a good example for GDI units. They are extremely powerful one minute, and die instantly the next. 
 NOD has the avatars on their side. The avatars, if used right, can easily win you a scenario. The 
 fact that you can reuse the husks of one of the units for each of the races (GDI, NOD, and Scrin) 
 also make those units uniquely powerful. Overall this game doesn't have very many problems that 
 I can see (though I am still playing through the campaigns) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sychostud
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Though graphically appealing, I personally had higher expectations of the game. After recently 
 playing Supreme Commander, I did find the game a little slow. The options does not have a speed 
 up option. Even though the game has a great plot to it, one side seems to have an advantage over 
 another (NOD) . But overall, it adds to the C&amp; C universe pretty nicely. The character and in-game 
 moveis are spendid and fun to watch. Addition of the new Alien race was a bit cliche, but it is 
 respectable after playing a round of skirmish. All in All a great game to play and have in your 
 collection and a must have for C&amp; C fan such as myself.
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daxequa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Command and Conquer 3, I have to admit that I was afraid of change. 
 I always believed, if it ain't broke don't fix it. And I can certainly say that C&amp; C Generals 
 wasn't broke. The game was just ahead of its time. It was the first true RTS that was different, 
 intuitive and just plain fun to play. So, when they announced that they were going to change the 
 whole game and give it a modern feel, new graphics and a new AI, oooooooof course I was skeptic. 
 That was until I played the demo. This game is just great. The graphics are ridiculous (if you 
 have the right PC specs to enjoy) and the gameplay is just as good. I have to admit that I kinda 
 miss playing with China and the GLA, but the NOD is a welcome replacement. The AI is pretty good, 
 but the latest patch released from EA does improve on the overall strategy, which is great. Getting 
 back to the graphics, the game does look sick on a good rig, but it can be scaled down and it can 
 even resemble the C&amp; C Generals we all know and love. The sounds are standard, nothing really 
 new there. The units are all knew, and there is a different building queue that brings an extra 
 thought process to the game. Tiberium replaces money, but it's pretty straight forward to collect 
 once you get the hand of it. Overall, the game delivers. I thought it would be pretty hard to top 
 the success of C&amp; C Generals, but this game not only tops it, it exceeds it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lysluk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  First off, I am not a big fan of this franchise. Nor am I new to this series. I still remember 
 years ago when I was hooked on to the very first C&amp; C game, and playing multiplayer like crazy. 
 Soon... games changed, Starcraft entered the market, and when Red Alert, Generals, came out I was 
 more interested in those kind of C&amp; C games than C&amp; C2 Tiberian Sun. I always went against 
 SC, but I knew that game was better than C&amp; C, and even after 10 years.... it is still being 
 played online while C&amp; C feels outdated after 1 year. So you ask, What am I to talk about for 
 C&amp; C3? Well....
  
  I dont have much to talk about it, which means both good and bad things about the game. After trying 
 the demo, I wasnt too amazed at the gameplay and overall hype. It didnt blow me away in any areas, 
 and it played nearly exactly like the old school RTS. Resource, mass units, attack, repeat. The 
 most noticeable goody is the graphics. But why am I not dissing this game?..... The full game has 
 more to offer, with time I actually begin to enjoy it, its fun, its easy to understand, theres 
 a decent challenge from the AI, the gameplay is unchanged but it still works, and most importantly 
 lots of people complained about the gameplay mechanics and stuff dont realize that Tiberium Wars 
 tried to bring back a little revisit or old skool feel from the original that made it great. In 
 other words, I would think that C&amp; C3 is not suppose to be a new invention, but a reinvention.
 
  
  The GDI and NOD/Kane are back, along with the new alien Scrin factions. The missions can start 
 out very easy and feel like a tutorial... but after a few, it gets fun and interesting. I like the 
 graphics, its quite pretty looking and colorful. My PC is not a beefed up powerhouse (P4 HT 3ghz/1950PRO 
 ATI) , but it can run the medium to high settings at 1024 resolution fine, but not entirely smooth 
 FPS throughout. This game basically screams C&amp; C, especially the movements/appearance of the 
 units, the sounds, the MAMMOTH Tank, the interface user bar on the right hand side, the cheesy 
 yet fun live acting video cutscenes, the storyline (now there's three sides fighting for the rich 
 Tiberium) , and so on and so on.
  
  Basically, Im keeping this a short talk. This third installment is to bring back what made the 
 first C&amp; C a classic. By keeping the same elements intact, mainly ie: Gameplay, overall controls 
 and feel, etc... It didnt steer away from what the fans truly felt comfortable with. That being 
 said, this game is made for the fans, and even if you arent, you might like this RTS game. If you're 
 a longtime fan, and somehow felt disappointed.... thats fine... whatever. Maybe you expected something 
 entirely new or different. I wanted this game to be at least revolutionary like COH did.... I wasnt 
 impressed at first but eventually I knew that for this game, maybe its a good thing not to change 
 everything. Just like the upcoming SC2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 91B
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  So far, I'm not that impressed. Same game play with no real changes other then new skins and a 
 few more upgrade options on stuff.....
  
  ..... I'm going back to playing company of heros.
  
  Changing the skins is kinda lame. no real 
 break through like company of heros. Playing on normal, and I haven't had any real problems moving 
 along. It almost bores me, because it's almost just buring up time going through the motions rather 
 then working on stategery. build lots of tanks and move in to enemy base. : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( 
 : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkskater2007
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite RTS game i have played. Quite Possibly my favorite game period. Very fun game. 
 I love playing it, i highly recommend it to anyone who likes RTS games or wants to get into RTS 
 games. definately worth the price. I would'nt be surprised if someone blew off their friends to 
 play this game. Definately the best game in the series so far. Can't wait for the series to Continue. 
 Everyone needs to believe the hype about this game because it is 100% true. HIGHLY enjoyable game. 
 Been playing it since the first date it was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TacticsMike33
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  For those of you who have NO idea what this game is about, and would like to attempt to play it 
 (whether you be a fan of Real Time Strategy games or just think is looks sweet) , this review is 
 primarily for you. In Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars, the future is now. The year is 2047, 
 and two warring factions (traced all the way back to the first C&amp; C game) GDI (or Global Defense 
 Initiative) and the Nod are fighting for control over a substance called Tiberium, which landed 
 from meteors striking the Earth. Tiberium began to spread throughout the Earth, and because of 
 its' qualities, massive quantities of Tiberium kill any Carbon based lifeforms (Humans primarily) . 
 This has forced the various areas of the world to be split into zones : Red, which are uninhabitable, 
 yellow, which are barely habitable and where most of the population is, and blue, the smallest, 
 which is the safe havens protected by the GDI.
  
  Your goal in the game is to play as one of these factions, and either fight the Nod and protect 
 all that is righteous, or destroy the GDI and usher in a new future for humans. Oh wait... that's 
 not all! A third, unlockable faction, the Scrin, is also playable. An alien race that plays differently 
 than both, this race is at Earth to conquer and take Tiberium for itself. The GDI plays well, a 
 good base faction to use that relies on tanks and large mechanized war machines to get the job 
 done. The Nod play similar but different, and the Scrin... well, they play different than both. 
 But because of these three factions, the replay value is high, and you'll most likely end up trying 
 and testing each faction for yourself.
  
  The single player aspect of the game is fun, and sometimes testing. You choose one of the factions 
 and do the norm in RTS games, complete objectives and build troops. The style of gameplay is fast, 
 which seems a little off kilter compared to that of WarCraft III, but feels fresh and smooth. You'll 
 also be guided by cheesy, yet cool, cut scenes acted out by five star actors (Tricia Heifer, Billy 
 Dee Williams, to name a few) , and it adds a kind of authenticity to the game, although you might 
 laugh. Also worth noting of the game is the Skirmish mode. A streamlined excuse for those who don't 
 have online capabilities, you pretty much set up a multiplayer game against various computer opponents 
 of different play styles and difficulties. The A. I. can be exemplified here, as the hardest difficulty 
 of play for the CPU player (Brutal) can be a force to be reckoned with. This makes it a joy to 
 play, and shows the no holds barred, do anything to win style of play that the computer can harness. 
 This mode, as said earlier, is a great play for those who cannot go online, and is extremely enjoyable.
 
  
  The multiplayer gameplay is pretty much the same as the single player game, but... well, funner. 
 Going online is a blast, and the Automatch option does an actually decent job at matching player 
 rankings for pretty fair matches. With the recent 1.05 patch released, the added maps can now allow 
 8 player battles, which can get huge and enjoyable. The Comrade messaging feature streamlined in 
 the game is well put, and is a nice addition to an already pretty good gaming lobby. Obviously 
 a downfall could be the occasional lag, but with the eight connections and game types, matches 
 can be a blast to go through. Definitely the staple of the game, and compliments the game well.
 
  
  Now with all the gameplay out of the way, the graphics in the game are great. Attention to detail 
 is worth noting, with trails of dust following vehicles, and explosions looking bright, vibrant 
 and hot. The shimmer of Scrin shields and the warn look of worn out buildings shows how well the 
 graphics compliment the game. Did I mentions explosions? Yeah... they're awesome.
  
  Also, the sounds of the game are very true to futuristic war form. What with lasers firing and 
 buzzing, guns cracking and mechs lumbering thunderously towards an enemy, the sound is clear and 
 nice. Add in an epic soundtrack with a full blown orchestra and choir, and you've got a pretty 
 good test for a new sound system. With the gameplay at top notch, the graphics glimmering, and 
 the sound thundering, this game is definitely a replay game and a must purchase.
  
  Oh... and Kane lives, in case you didn't know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bLiNCks
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  It's a fantastic game for any fun of RTS!
  The graphics are amazing, the movements are smooth and the special effects rock (ion cannon)
 
  The gameplay is unbeliavable! It's very fast paced, you have to be really quick while playing 
 if you don't want to die right away.
  The units are awsome and their abilities are very well designed! The game is long enough to keep 
 you busy for a while, and then you have MP!! The sound does it job pretty well, and then you have 
 the amazing cut scenes with well known actors! like cameron from doctor house or sawyer from Lost
 
  
  Fantastic game really, very recommended to any fan of the genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Great return to the roots of one of the best RTS series ever!
  After the highly disappointing Generals which had nothing to do with the C&amp; C universe, I didn't 
 know what to expect this time. We are talking EA here after all...
  Still my amazement was so great when I started and played the next good *OLD* title from one of 
 my favourite universes with just a crispy new look. Yes - Tiberium Wars plays just like the originals 
 while implementing successfully 3D graphics in the series - just what I wanted!
  Speaking of graphics, that's probably the most notable feature of the game - the wind blowing dust, 
 green tiberium reflections on the metal surfaces, the Ion Cannon swirling just before a blast and 
 the way Juggernauts eject the empty shells after firing are things that just stay in your mind 
 after swithcing off the PC.
  The B-movie-like FMVs between missions are back again and they look so cheap again that a certain 
 feel of nostalgia for the old games is bound to come to you. Joe Kucan shines above all as always 
 succeeding in being enigmatic, charming and sinister at the same time.
  Mentioning Kane, I must note that Nod's single campaign is the most interesting one, building most 
 anticipation for the end which unfolds so bad, it's probably the only big disappointment in the 
 game for me. Speaking of the story, it's intriguing and the Scrin fit the picture well. Though 
 following the same events, you have to play all single player campaigns to learn all the truths 
 behind the invasion and tiberium as different factions have different knowledge and fight for a 
 different cause.
  As for difficulty, the campaigns are well balanced. I am not good at RTS games but I have played 
 quite a few and some of the missions were challenging enough for me to swear and hit the computer. 
 That's on moderate difficulty. AI could have been better as enemies try to flank your defenses 
 sometimes but most often they just charge your main entrance, dying miserably.
  Every other aspect of this game that has not been mentioned in this review is just good which means 
 that this has to be the best game in the series after the initial revolution by the first Command 
 and Conquer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioflag
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I have played all C&amp; C series except for Generals and to be honest this game is really a disappointment.
 
  This is the same game we have played in previous versions with an updated graphic and 1 more race.
 
  Graphics is really captivating, cutscenes are really well done and help keeping campaign interesting, 
 Scrin are interesting to play; but don't expect anymore, there is really a few difference between 
 the first C&amp; C and Tiberium Wars, just mass units and destroy the enemy.
  This game has anything of strategy, if you want a good RTS just take COH whic has a lot better 
 gameplay than this game. Just wonder how could gamespot give this game 9.0! It's absurd! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkTempler1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Well it's a really good game, adds some spice to the C&amp; C original Series. I really love the 
 game for Campaign and Online play but with all great games comes some sort of let down, for this 
 game the let down was well besides the cheating the game itself has too many bugs. EA's Beta testers 
 need to be fired ASAP lol. Their are like 40 campaign missions? something around that number I 
 suppose. You can create your own maps (if you learn how which is REALLY REALLY HARD!) . You can 
 play the computer in many new ways which is always fun when you have nothing to do :-) Another 
 great thing about this game is you can make clans online which is a new feature added to the game. 
 The graphics are top quality I love them BUT it's good to play on low graphics even if you have 
 a really awesome computer because online play is faster when playing on a low graphics setting 
 for C&amp; C 3. The sound is alright I really wish that they had good taste for music. The music 
 that plays in the background of campaign battles and such SUCK, they shoulda added some old songs 
 from the Red Alert series or something. It would of been nice if they added a music section to 
 pick what music you wanna play and maybe even a feature to add in your own music which would have 
 been terrific!
  
  Overall I give this game a 9.4 it's by far the best of the C&amp; C games but it lacks alot of good 
 things like BETA TESTERS AND MUSIC lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  There are so many great things about this game. First off, the graphics are amazing! Even if you 
 can only play the game on medium settings, it still looks better than the xbox 360 version. If 
 you can play on ultra high settings with a moniter that supports 1680 x 1050 resolution or higher 
 you are in for a treat. There are 3 factions that are very well balanced, and with the new patch 
 1.05, rushing has been slowed down a bit and better to defend against. The game is also very fast 
 pace. Multiplayer games usually only last about 10 minutes, although I have played in a game that 
 lasted almost an hour. An awesome feature they added were replays and battlecasts. After every 
 match you can save the replay and watch it again. This is a great way to study other peoples strategies 
 and learn to better play the game. Battlecast is where you can broadcast your game live so anyone 
 can see. This is great if you want to watch your friends play or to watch tournaments or top rated 
 players go at it. There are many maps, and more maps available every month since the map builder 
 was released. You can design your own map and share with other players. If you don't care much 
 for multiplayer, and just do singleplayer you will not be disappointed either. There are a total 
 of 38 missions. You will be playing for hours. The missions are very good, and some are very challenging. 
 Overall, this game is a must have if you like to play RTS games. It is at its best when you play 
 with your friends online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clonedkyo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  After Generals (which is a great game, but tats another story...) , i waited and waited for the 
 next cnc installment. This game didnt disappoint me one bit.
  the graphics for one, is awesome. better replace ur graphic card to enjoy this to the best extent.
 
  the gameplay is old-cnc style. plant ur buildings, collect supplies, train an army, flatten the 
 enemy. simple as tat.
  if u are new to RTSs, theres a simple and quick tutorial for u. if u are a cnc fan, get to skirmish 
 and test out ur new units! i am happy to see tat the soldiers come in troops... unlike previous 
 installments, where they are trained one by one. the movable mcv is also an addition to the complication 
 of the game. the tanks - are not always tanks. there are those two-legged things u see in starwars 
 (called walkers) , ... ALIENS! yes, tats the new race.
  
  one great improvement for the cnc series is choosing ur enemy personality. try defeating all personalities 
 on butal diff and u are ready to take the battles online. the new commentator feature, plus observing 
 feature gives online play a new edge. now u can watch how the pros do it, and enlighten urself 
 on why get owned everytime.
  
  Overall, this game ROCKS (sounds corny, but its true...)
  
  ksng
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archxaniotiss
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I have bought this game, it worths the money (55 euros) . The graphics are wonderful. It's one of my 
 favorites RTS games. The compaign is fantastic with this wonderful storyline.. When i finish compaign 
 i will play it online, it must be wonderful online. I have played it for about 4 hours and i have 
 finished many missions. Im in Africa now. You travel to other continents to complete missions. Also 
 the movies are wonderful with actors. Everything in this game is realistic. If you are a fun of RTS 
 games you must buy it although it's expensive. I can't say any disadvantage for this game. It's one 
 of the greatest RTS games i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HomoUniversalis
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  In Hollywood, films are often produced and directed through 'formula-work', by distilling what 
 kinds of films work and what kinds of films don't work, films are created in a certain genre with 
 the optimal content.
  Although in most of the Gaming industry, this has not (yet) happened, the RTS genre is definitely 
 showing signs.
  
  C&amp; C 3 could have offered a global-scale campaign with persistent troops like the 'War of the 
 Ring' from Battle for Middle-Earth 2 or the vairous campaigns from Star Wars Empire at War, making 
 the faction choices more interesting.
  This, or other 'gimmicks' could have been used to depart from this standard formula, but all it 
 really has to offer are FMV's. Although the acting is not all bad, with some cheesy moments, it 
 never feels sufficient to redeem the game. Whereas the aformentioned games offer you the thrill 
 of conquering Middle-Earth or the Galaxy, C&amp; C3 can only offer a campaign with a not-so-inventive 
 storyline or scenarios/multiplayer gameplay that differ only in terms of graphics from previous 
 RTS games.
  
  With games like Spore making everyone's heart beat faster copying yesterday's game is no longer 
 tolerable. Avoid if possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  Those of you looking for a leap forward in gameplay mechanics won't find it here, but fans of C&amp; C 
 and fast action RTS games will likely find this return to roots very appealing for its pace and 
 traditional play. While I was hoping for a little more creativity, I couldn't help but have fun 
 through the game's long GDI and Nod campaigns and shorter Scrin campaign. The skirmish was also 
 a good ride even with some of the balancing issues in play. If you're looking for a game that makes 
 it fun as hell to blow things up and leave quickly, C&amp; C 3 is definitely for you.
  
  Gameplay: Good fast action RTS with a slick interface. The pace is kept fast and fun. Still basically 
 the same RTS we've been playing for years.
  
  Graphics: There are some brilliant visuals full of life, laughter, and burning bodies. Special 
 effects are particularly brilliant.
  
  Sound: Everything from the music to the acknowledgements is done well here. Value: Plenty of replay 
 value with long campaigns. Good community support for multiplayer. Skirmish AI is good enough for 
 a challenge lending more life still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco0798
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This review is slightly biased. I LOVE C&amp; C it is, in my opinion by far one of the best RTS 
 game series ever and the Tiberium Universe PAWNZ. This game is basicaly the result of 11 years 
 of RTS all rolled into one.
  This game is FUN. It looks AMAZING. The gameplay is simple for begginers but at the same time it 
 is at the level of the more seasoned RTS player. I wont say anything about the story just know 
 that if this is your first C&amp; C it might appear a little off but stick with it. However if like 
 me you have played every C&amp; C under the sun and your favourite universe just so happens to be 
 the first games storyline then this is a MUST GET if you have to buy a new PC go do it now. The 
 single player is simply brilliant live action movies that develop the storyline and the missions 
 follow what is happening in the story. just the right difficulty but the option of easy difficulty 
 is available for the people who are just getting into RTS. Multiplayer is were the game shines. 
 It is everything you expected and more.
  It is extreamly satisfying to DEMOLISH your apponent with an Ion cannon blast right in the middle 
 of his base, or have your echelon of Mammoth tanks air lifted into the battlefield do support an 
 ongoing battle. They also introduced player ranking and automated win/loss tracking. Overall a 
 brilliant edition to the C&amp; C series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsvcf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  .
  Its been a dozen years since the Global Defense Initiative and The Brotherhood of NOD started 
 battling for control of the world, and the forces of evil still wont go down. Armed with a shiny 
 head and an all black wardrobe - that screams Im the bad guy - the malevolent psychopath Kane 
 is on the rise again. But the Scrin, a new alien faction, threatens both sides with metal bugs 
 of death.
  
  Thats Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars story in a nutshell. For all the hype about the 
 geektastic cast for the campaign movies (Michael Ironside, Tricia Helfer, Billy Dee Williams, etc.) 
 the epic tale still boils down to mission after mission where you run around doing what you are 
 told. Its never clear if the hammy acting is because the esteemed players are taking the material 
 too seriously or not seriously enough. No matter; if you love cheesy full motion videos, this story 
 is for you.
  
  Its a good thing that the underlying game is much better than the hokey script these guys are 
 reading from. The franchise has always carved its own path through the real time strategy world, 
 and there is never any doubt that this is a C&amp; C game.
  
  It's a must have for pc!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  CnC3 is what a famous game franchise becomes when there are no risks taken.
  It sems that no one wanted to kae any risk bringing this game forward.
  Starting with the somewhat 
 goofy and enjoyable cutscenes fronm the past, this time EA has brought in some real actors who 
 try hard to make you believe in the story.
  Fact is that those videos lack any kind of tension and sadly the goofy factor is also gone.
  
 Why do I need a actual news reporter from FOX in a game like this.
  I don't know.
  
  As for the gameplay, it's basicly CnC on speed.
  You can tech up in a few minutes if you're good 
 and then mass spam your stuff.
  the most ridiculous thing is the sidebar menue, yes it's back although no one knows why.
  A building 
 unit has really become standard now in RTS game.
  Instant placing of buildings not only makes no sense, it screws the gameplay in the long term.
 
  
  If you want to play some enjoyable RTS games, pick up Dawn of Wra, Company of Heroes or CnC Generals 
 with the shockwave mod.
  This game here is not worth your or any money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeapstab
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  So we have all been waiting for this since 1995 ......... sigh ..... and they finally delivered it.... it 
 only took 12 years. We now have modern weapons and lots of lasers, but all in all it just more 
 of the same as the original. Still have obelisk of light, ion cannon, etc. Nothing really exciting 
 or jaw dropping about the game. I gave it a 7.5 because it was well programmed I haven't found 
 any bugs yet, also the sound and graphics are decent. Again nothing jaw dropping, but its decent. 
 The biggest surprise is the new alien race which explains the whole tiberium phenomenon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeterna789
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars, is perhaps the best C&amp; C game from the series. Offers 
 an exciting new plot which will offer the players the point of view of all the factions, NOD, GDI 
 and the new faction, Scrin. The game features new units and new terrains and a whole new gaming 
 experience form the previews C&amp; C titles. Still retaining the traditional real life actors as 
 its game cinematic, the player will experience a sense of nostalgia while, at the same time, exploring 
 wonderful features added or polished from it's predecessors.
  
  This games has dozens of skirmish maps, (some based on campaign maps) adds to its multilayer value 
 and replay value which will keep you occupied for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retwakm
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  i found supreme commander to be better than this game but this one is still great. its scale is 
 a little smaller than even average rts standards. Even with the new 1.05 patch the factions are 
 still unbalanced gdi being the worst then scrin and then the nod withc are the best since they 
 have all the advantages. There tanks are stronger they take a shorter time than there counterparts 
 from other factions and they dont cost much. The unit acknowledgements can get kinda buggy too. 
 I also might have liked more maps and more game modes. there also does not sceme to be much teching 
 up . Another thinng i would have liked more was more air units altogether there are only 6 air 
 units in the game 2 per faction. However the story and all three single player campaighns are very 
 interesting. overall this is a good game that you should atleast try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer235436
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  The Best Command&amp; Conquer yet it has great graphics and a really great Campaigns!! The nod avatar 
 was excellent and the flame tank AND BLACK HAND REALLY TEAR UP INFANTRY!!
  The GDI planes are good but by far the scrin rule the air with the planetary cruiser and stormrider 
 rule.
  The Scrin's drone ship is awesome for the mobile base.
  Buzzers are very effective versus any infantry even commandos and etc.
  The mothership is great 
 especially the way it causes chain reactions I took out an entire base with one hit.
  The Rift generator is devastating. (Scrin)
  The Ion Cannon is excellent and like new way it fires. (GDI)
 
  The nuke is still as strong as ever. (NOD) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LikeReD
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  It is the best among C&amp; C series. Three species are distinctive and well balanced. The game 
 flow is speedy. Gameplay - Tutorial is easy to follow. C&amp; C Tiberium internet site supports 
 real time matches which is awesome system to share stretegies. Graphics - It is superb. Every units 
 have unique looking and with various exotic landscapes. I can see every details of units and buildings.
 
  
  Sound - Sound of cannon shells bursting out of tank and lasers from giant walking machines are 
 solid.
  
  Value - Can't miss this babe. I used to collect C&amp; C series, but every next version of series 
 were total let down, but this one is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  So I have been playing this game for a long time and decided to review it.
  Well what is there to say? It&amp;#8217; s a great game. It&amp;#8217; s all you expect from the 
 Command and Conquer series. Let&amp;#8217; s start with the main story. This game continues on from 
 the original C&amp; C series. The tiberium wars as it&amp;#8217; s called. Basically it&amp;#8217; s 
 the first game, Command &amp; Conquer, and I think the second or third game, Command &amp; Conquer: 
 Tiberian Sun. I won&amp;#8217; t give away the main story line but you should all know it anyway! 
 The GDI and NOD are back along with a new alien race. And Kane Lives!
  The main cut scenes of the story feature noticeable actors; the GDI commander is played by Michael 
 Ironside, made famous by acting in films such as Top Gun and Starship Troopers. The Nod intelligence 
 officer who guides you through missions is played by Josh Holloway those of you who watch Lost 
 will know him as &amp;#8220; Sawyer&amp;#8221;. And of course Kane is played by the original Joseph 
 D. Kucan, the same person who did the first games.
  Next the gameplay. The main campaign itself consists of 3 separate campaigns, the GDI, the Nod 
 and the Scrin (Alien Race) which is unlocked after finishing the previous two. The game shouldn&amp;#8217; t 
 take more than around 30 hours for RTS veterans playing on normal, obviously will take longer on 
 harder. However it could take longer if you are determined to gather every bit of intelligence 
 and complete every bonus mission. But unlike most of the other Command and Conquer games, Tiberium 
 Wars already has a very strong online community, especially with the new patch. It offers its own 
 ladder all the things expected from many other EA online games, such as Battlefield.
  The graphics are something to take note of. They are great, to say the least. Especially for a 
 RTS game. You can see the individual little rockets being launched, the rail guns firing and the 
 explosions are something from a blockbuster movie. Just look at the Ion Cannon and Nuclear Missile 
 explosions. Of course it all depends on how powerful your computer is, but even on my sucky machine, 
 it runs perfect with most of the graphics on medium some on high and shadows at full (I hate blocky 
 shadows!) .
  The sounds again are something you would expect from the EA games. The explosions and gun fire 
 seem well thought out and drag you straight into the action. The various orders from your comrades 
 and taunts from your enemies make you feel you are there commanding massive army&amp;#8217; s blowing 
 up anything in your way! So overall, it lives up to being the next &amp;#8220; real&amp;#8221; Command 
 and Conquer game. One of the originals. I can defiantly see this being a new classic just like 
 its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neothelid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Seven long years had to pass between the release of the previous Command and Conquer game and the 
 third installment of the Tiberian timeline. And as comebacks go, it's fairly good, though not a 
 revolutionary one.
  
  If anything can be said about C&amp; C3 is that it has variety. The alien Scrin own the skies and 
 are masters of insidiousness, with units capable of teleportation and the ability to create a wormhole 
 between any two points in a battlefield; GDI has the most potential to steamroll anything that 
 gets into its path, by means of fielding enough Mammoths or Predators with the railgun upgrade; 
 and the sneaky forces of the Brotherhood of Nod are an unruly lot: you can never be too sure about 
 where they are - until they choose to show up in your backyard. For the most part, all three sides 
 are balanced enough so as to avoid a single faction from overpowering the others - what works for 
 one does not work for the other. And the action is continuous: even the toughest units will fall 
 quickly if dealt with appropriately. (AKA: walker units, beware of commandos.)
  
  Unfortunately, what has stagnated is the whole concept of the game: C&amp; C3 is more of a throwback 
 to Tiberian Dawn than to Tiberian Sun. It takes few risks and brings nothing new to the essential 
 mechanics of spice harvesting made popular by Dune 2 so long ago. The units themselves (particularly 
 GDI's) are cheap in concept when compared with the Hover MLRS and the Tick Tank from Tiberian Sun, 
 and the bizarre Tiberium-based landscape changes pictured in Firestorm are nowhere to be found. 
 So are the mutants, reduced to a 'bonus' infantry unit but effectively nullified as a plot device. 
 Furthermore, the addition of the Scrin, the game's greatest 'innovation', means little more than 
 just a third army, albeit an appropriately bizarre-looking one.
  
  GDI and NOD campaigns are excellent: some missions are hard enough to make hardened veterans blink, 
 and at times you are given the choice between two different locales to strike at; it is a pity 
 that the campaign does not vary according to the choices you make. The many minutes of full-motion 
 video are great too, but C&amp; C3 is light years away from the supernatural perfection displayed 
 on Red Alert and Tiberian Sun; a many-starred cast including Josh Holloway (AKA Sawyer on Lost) , 
 Jennifer Morrison (AKA dr. Cameron on Doctor House) , and, of course, Joe Kucan as the legendary 
 Kane, does not suffice to create the sense of wonder that made TS's clips seem almost surreal. 
 A few scenes depicting fictitious TV news programs weave an interesting amount of reality into 
 the whole storyline, but not enough to shake the feeling of playing inside a movie.
  
  Owners of mid-range decks, rejoice - C&amp; C3 requires relatively little in terms of processing 
 power and memory to look great. The landscape is at times dread-inspiring and as believable as 
 you can get on a computer game, especially on the red zones: tiberium grows on the remains of houses 
 and buildings, huge chasms burst with crystals too large to be harvested, and there is no sunlight 
 to cast the shadows of the clouds on the ground. Units and buildings look great too, and adequately 
 sized: a GDI infantry platoon is roughly the same size as a Predator, and the dreaded Scrin Tripod 
 (a three-tentacled laser-spewing monstrosity seemingly taken straight out of H. G. Wells' novel) 
 towers menacingly above the battlefield.
  
  Pretty much the same can be said about the audio department. Unit voiceovers are fairly good (with 
 the exception of the Scrin's, which are flawlessly alien, and yet another throwback to the War 
 of the Worlds) ; while a far cry from the sheer professionalism of real soldiers, they aren't excessively 
 cheesy, and sometimes they reflect the unit's involvement in the battlefield: those who have been 
 mauled will reply with an edge. (Don't expect requests for medics as in Tiberian Sun, though.) 
 Other than that, C&amp; C3 is a blast sound-wise - the mechanic clangs of Avatars and Juggernauts 
 as they advance ponderously and a Tripod's laser blasting at a foe are just a couple of many cool 
 sound effects. The soundtrack is nice enough, and it adjusts itself to whatever happens on the 
 battlefield; for example, during a lull on a red zone C&amp; C3 will not play as much a tune as 
 a collection of ambiental sounds from an alien world, but when hell breaks loose heavy metal rumbles 
 in your speakers.
  
  All in all, Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is absolutely worth the expense, and a must have 
 both for collectors and people new to the Tiberian storyline - but if it's innovation you are after, 
 chances are you are in for a disappointment, albeit a mild one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keymaster7
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  I like strategy games, makes you think, its fun, and I like C&amp; C3. when you start playing its 
 exiting, very good graphics every good gameplay, but i think its only me, the storyline is not 
 that good is this game is like Warhammer Dark Crusade where you conquer enemy base and they conquer 
 yours, C&amp; C3 is different, its scatter around the world and you dont get too choose where to 
 attack and what to do next, theres only 2 choices to attack this base or that base.
  
  you get bored once you finish GDI campaign.
  
  Overall this game is brilliant, this game is 
 a Must Play! but its not as good as I thought 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Just what you'd expect from a C&amp; C game, however this time it has more polish and is far more 
 action orientated.
  
  Despite this its quite hard to judge the game, C&amp; C3 plays exactly like very other game in the 
 series except with a bit more polish and far better graphics. On one hand you could say great, 
 i mean if it aint broke why fix it? after all these were the same mechanics that have made the 
 series a hit after all but on the other hand the interface and strategy involved is very simplistic 
 by today's standards, especially when compared to say supreme commander, arguably the most impressive 
 and deepest rts made in years. In fact the game isnt that deep at all when it comes down to it, 
 the amount of options you have avaliable in terms of units to build and buildings to build, it 
 will take you about 5 buildings before you gain access to everything which isnt all that much in 
 C&amp; C3 and it does leave the in game play a bit empty and shallow in terms of the options available 
 to you. Despite all this though the battles are a hell of alot of fun and are very fast paced and 
 frantic, it doesnt take long at all be able to build a substantial army and within only a few minutes 
 you'll be right in the thick of the action
  
  However what C&amp; C3 lacks in depth it makes up for immensely in character, like every game in 
 the series the plot will stay interesting, the characters, acting, film sequences and everything 
 about the units and structures is very authentic and well done. The campaign has alot of variety 
 within its missions and will take a reasonable amount of time to complete and as mentioned before 
 this is all topped off with superb graphics aswell.
  
  Overall even though the style of play is relatively out of date and the amount of options available 
 to you may seem rather limited command and conquer 3 is probably the best game in the series to 
 date and regardless of its flaws it will keep you entertained for quite a substantial time. Every 
 Command and Conquer fan should buy this game, if you could only get one rts game though, get supreme 
 commander. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boogieme
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I would recommend this only for die hard must have C&amp; C players - when the price is about $20US. 
 Some of the reasons why are...
  
  First, there are many things, as a programmer, which iritate me: 1) Very slow reloading/initialization 
 of the last save. 2) No quick save/load. 3) Backwards controls, compared to previous editions. 
 4) Inablility to change the control mapping, only poor quality games do this. Only requires one 
 dialog, a file, and an interface class. An average programmer can implement this in less then a 
 day. 5) No excuse for a release version to cause a black screen on mainstream hardware with XP. 
 6) No excuse to have a file reading, or level reload crash - period. I mean, %^&amp; ^%$#, can't 
 you load a level from a file that the game just wrote? Generals had the same problem, how long 
 will it take for EA to pay someone to find the bug, or maybe they just don't care. 7) What idiot 
 decided to scatter the heads up displays all over the screen, without the giving the user the ablility 
 to move them around. 8) After experiencing these problems, and hearing the developer admit that 
 many players are having a problem even attempting to log onto a server, one has to wonder how save 
 it is to do such a thing.
  
  Secondly, as a gamer: 1) Why can't we use a super weapon on a shrouded portion of the map? 2) Why/how 
 do the NOD come back in the end of the GDI campaign to suddenly have a nuclear missle, tough units, 
 ect... Did I not just eat their breakfast, lunch and dinner? Yet, they appear to thrive right next 
 to the Scrin's stronghold? Give me a break. 3) Often, one or two units within a group don't go 
 where they are told. 4) Do I really need all those silo required messages? 5) Unbalanced units 
 - such as the Scrin's air units with longer range then their defensive counterparts. 6) Weird missions, 
 weird units. I still wonder what a Zone Trooper is named after, much less how they carry around 
 a laser's power supply around with them. 7) What sane person would crawl on their bellys when out 
 in the wide open while being pummeled by enemy fire? 8) What happened to the unique and appropriate 
 replies the units would say when ordered around - I will make the sacrafice! or We will take what 
 is ours! come to mind. 9) The enemy says nothing at all.
  
  Thirdly, I actually like: 1) The graphics, though that is to be expected these days. 2) Multi threaded, 
 though I cannot see why 15 are needed to take care of the data during single player. 3) Decent 
 support for older video hardware. Myself, I enjoyed General much more, I still play it. I have 
 every C&amp; C made, and doubt that will change. I wish EA would forget the fancy cutscenes with 
 real actors and concetrate on a longer, better, bug free GAME. Spend the money on programmers, 
 level designers, and lots more testing. Sincerly, Mr. B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriKFM
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  No matter who you are, if you like strategy or not, you will enjoy this game. The videos really 
 put you into action, and immerse you into the game. Don't expect much RTS innovative design behind 
 the game, but it's really easy to sit down on your chair, enter Tiberium Wars Campaign and have 
 fun. Scenarios are too small, ultra easy but funny, all misions are destroy this and you can do 
 it just with an air strike, steals some Company of Heroes ideas, multiplayer isn't strong, i still 
 dont understand why ocuppies so much hard drive space even with the minutes and minutes of videos. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer was a game that really started up the RTS genre back in 1995. It was the greatest 
 Real TIme Strategy game of all time, and to this day it still holds its neck high. Now, with Command 
 and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars, one particular story in the game can resume and pick up where it 
 left off.
  
  Although there have been several other games in the series, Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars 
 goes where the end of the second tiberium war left off. The way the third tiberium war starts (sound 
 familiar with the 3 in the title?) is when the terrorist organization, the Brotherhood of Nod, 
 fires a missle at a space station in space owned by GDI. The third tiberium war begins and your 
 thrusted into the war on one of the two sides.
  
  Each faction in the game plays differently, which is good, because playing a faction that plays 
 like another faction is not techincally fun, because you do not have any real destinct units in 
 a faction that plays like another. The GDI faction is a straightforward faction. They rely on brute 
 force and power to take down the NOD forces. The NOD though play as stealthy fighters, sort of 
 like those terrorists that are fighting our soldiers now in Iraq. The NOD are also not a faction 
 that is too great at fighting the GDI head on. In fact, the miitant squad that the NOD uses is 
 likely to go down fighting unless you have overwhelming numbers of them or vehicles with them.
 
  
  During the first bits of the GDI campaign, you are trying to take back areas in the United States, 
 such as the White House. You are also trying to get your air force and army reorganized so you 
 can combat the NOD. The NOD story goes as NOD capturing the areas that the GDI have bee ntrying 
 to retake. Each campaign though is exciting and very challenging in spots, but you'll never get 
 too bored playing.
  
  The movie sequences are not your average in-game engine style. These sequences are FULL MOTION, 
 totally acted out sequnces. The full motion video is incredible, and although some actors in it 
 are a little odd, one particular one is there to kick ass. There is one other faction added in 
 the game as well, called the Skrin. The Skrin are an alian race that comes to earth to wreck havoc. 
 Whats cool about them is that when they are walking over Tiberium, they cannot die. In fact, it 
 would be halarious to take on a full force of GDI or NOD forces with just one unit.
  
  The Game looks fantastic at best. Environments look great and very detailed, while the units all 
 look distinct and varied. Lasers in the game look cool too.....
  
  The sound in the game is pretty cool too. The sounds of battle are at a good **** and feel intense 
 in spots, and also very frantic. The sounds of blowing up a base with good old airplanes feels 
 good on the ears.
  
  Fans of the series will obviously enjoy C&amp; C 3. Newcomers to the series will also find some 
 good qualities with the game. If you are new to the series, you do not need to know anything of 
 any of the previous games, because everything is pretty much well told from the last tiberium games.
 
  
  Overall C&amp; C 3 gets a 9.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichavgo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I hadn't played any of the C&amp; C games before but I decided to give this one a try, to see how 
 it was. First of all, I didn't like the fact that you don't have this freedom with the camera that 
 you have, for example, in Company of Heroes. The gameplay is great and the graphics so; but has 
 little initiative. Maybe I can't judge this for I haven't played other Command &amp; Conquers, 
 but I found it a bit oldie... Anyway, it's a cool game and has a surprisingly large Campaign that 
 will have you immersed for a long time... The Skirmish option will also keep you playing for quite 
 a long time. Personally, I like the AI Personality option and the medal stuff present in both Campaign 
 and Skirmish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  i just got C&amp; C3 and i cant stop playing it! its so addicting that you forget about time. i 
 say EA games has done a great job making another C&amp; C game. this could be one of the best of 
 the entire serie! i played C&amp; C since i was only 6 years old (that was in 1996) when my father 
 got the first C&amp; C in hos hands. i kept getting better and better and now i cant stop playing 
 C&amp; C3. the only thing i hated was, the waiting for a new and original C&amp; C game. the last 
 one (C&amp; C generals was good to, but it just hadnt the feel of C&amp; C) was in 2003, thats 4 
 years ago. in that 4 years i played all the C&amp; Cs again and i couldnt wait to get my hands on 
 this one when i heard from it. and i have andim very satisfied with it. the game contains state-of-the-art 
 graphics which i havent seen before in any C&amp; C games! the difficulty is just right so it gives 
 some challenges to the fans and veterans, but it gives an easy learning way for newbies to RTS. 
 the storyline is one hell of a story (that a game can have such a story!) . the gameplay is awesome 
 howerver they could improver the camera. the sound is good and the soundtrack rocks! the price 
 it costs (in NL for PC: 50 standard, 55 collectors edition (i have) and the XBOX360: 60-65) .
 
  
  i can recommend this game to everyone who has played on or more C&amp; Cs in the past. this is a 
 must-have for RTS and/or C&amp; C fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRXwee
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  This game is worth for the wait and is fun playing. Other than the classical clients which is the 
 GDI and NOD, this game add in another alien race which is SCRIN. My personal thought for this clients 
 are quite imbalance, especially NOD. NOD's army forces are quite weak than the others that make 
 NOD is quite hard to use for beginners. And one thing is too unfair for NOD, the heavy walker units 
 of NOD which is the Avatar is too expensive and less efficiency as it shoots slow with average 
 range. Yet. it is not a good idea that avatars have to upgrade by taking other unit's parts. Overall 
 the game is fun to play but the campaign or missions is quite short. Should make it longer. And 
 more stunning movies should be included instead of just people talking around there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistyanddark
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Below is information not mentioned in the main review:
  
  1) You can not turn the camera round like you did in Emperor Battle for Dune. So its not really 
 3D.
  
  2) There are maps in singleplayer (campaign and skirmish) which encourage certain tactics beside 
 your usual gamestyle. Capturing map key points like tiberium drills and buildings can make a huge 
 difference.
  
  3) In multiplayer these tactics are more a loss of time and money than actually helpful. You need 
 to create certain units faster than your opponent. So MP can be a bit repetitive after a while. 
 4) Forget all about turtling. It doesn't work online or offline. Unless you are playing in a lan 
 with someone you know and have made an arrangement with him. In general when both teams have turtled 
 the less agrressive one will eventually loose. Therefor you won't have the vast armies feeling 
 of Totala Kingdoms.
  
  4) Tank spamming is considered one of the best tactics. It will be reduced to a degree with patch 
 1.05 but my opinion is that it will still be effective. So if you consider tank spamming a lame 
 tactic and want to get online then this game probably is not for you as you will face it really 
 often.
  
  5) You are definitely not going to see the videos shown between missions in the Golden Globes. 
 They look more like short B-movies. BUT this lack of quality is what gives the element of cult 
 in the game.
  
  6) Main campaigns are highly replayable thanks to the several difficulties and variety of objectives 
 availlable.
  
  7) Maps of famous earth locations do not really have similarities with these locations. Yes, it 
 is a futuristic game but still they should implement more similarities with real life cities. Therefor 
 when playing the Sydney map for example do not expect to recognise familiar buildings as it was 
 possible in Red Alert.
  
  8) There aren't really many units in this game. And from those availlable some are completely useless 
 even when upgraded. And as far as upgrades are concerned Age of Empires 2 had more availlable and 
 useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattisgod01
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  I have been a C&amp; C fan since i first played Red Alert all those years ago. I have played every 
 C&amp; C game since then and Tiberium Wars is easily one of the best.
  
  
  Command and Conquer 3 is an incredible game with a huge variety of unit options, a well thought 
 out, lengthy and enjoyable campaign and multi player that never gets old. The graphics in Command 
 and Conquer 3 are great and the great sound makes battles alot of fun. The detail of units gives 
 every factions distinct differences.
  
  The Multi player aspect of Command and Conquer 3 is by far its best feature with the ability to 
 customize the A. I to alow you to play against different difficulties and tactics ( eg. Rusher, 
 Turtle, Steamroller) . Command and Conquer 3 also offers great networking and Online options.
  
  Command and Conquer 3 isn't without problems. The speed at which you can begin to build your 
 most powerful units it too fast making alot of the early units pretty useless after 5 minutes of 
 play and online multi player games usually consist of players using the same tactics, Rushing, 
 which usually results in the game being over in less then 10 minutes
  
  If you are a fan of RTS games then Command and Conquer 3 is one that knowone should miss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoda-yeah
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for 3 weeks to get this game . (3 weeks!!! yes , the shipping was slow)
  My sister still can't forget the smile on my face when I saw the package on the table :P
  The 
 campaign , skirmish and don't forget multiplayer are amazing.
  The multiplayer includes clan support , voip and a commentator function (the commentator function 
 is funny!!) .
  The races you can play are the GDI , NOD , and a new race the scrin (alien) While playing the campaign 
 you will see cutscens played by real actors
  
  I say it's the best game of 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Madness-X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Okay, I was looking forward to this game for ages.... and when i installed it, i was pleaseantly 
 suprised. It was old school gameplay with pretty insane graphics.... I was very impressed with the 
 ion cannon and nuke effects, they really made it superb, and the gameplay is smooth for the most 
 part, BUT.... ea have just forgot about the fanbase... actually i dont think they ever knew there 
 was 1.... there is 1 major error in this game that crashes you to the desktop on some occasions.... and 
 ea have not responded to 44+ pages on the technical help forum, which is very disapointing... imagine 
 44 pages of people with the same problem and ea have yet to respond and clarafy the error and assure 
 there will be a patch for it.... which says to me this problem is UNFIXABLE.... which is very disapointing, 
 SUCH A FUN GAME to play but LACK of SUPPORT and major issues not being fixed makes me have to say 
 buy this game but remember to SAVE ur progress every 5 mins or so incase u crash to desktop... cuz 
 this game does kick ass, but the crash to desktop error EVERYBODY gets has not been fixed and dont 
 think will be fixed.... who knows.... but the game imo is superb except the major error :) and if 
 u dont believe me.... check out the forum on C&amp; C technical help....44+ pages asking for help 
 on the C&amp; C3. DAT error... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qazqazdabest
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  I must admit, I am a CnC newcomer. In need of a new RTS for the summer, I chose this one simply 
 because of the high rating from Gamespot. Little did I know I was in for a treat!
  
  Command and Conquer 3 is simply a great game with a wide variety of unit options, great depth to 
 the storyline and engaging, memorable gameplay. The factions are pretty well balanced and enjoyable 
 to play with. I like every unit and even went to the liberty of taking an individual screenshot 
 of each!
  
  I have been primarily playing through each campaign and have currently beaten the entire GDI campaign 
 completing all bonus objectives on Hard difficulty and am half way through the Nod campaign. Sound 
 easy? The early missions were...
  
  The missions are immersive and addictive. I particularly like the Nod cutscenes involving Josh 
 Holloway as they are funny in a corny way. The campaigns are a great way to learn each unit of 
 each faction and their purpose. A special Intel Database stores information on the story and of 
 each unit. I frequently consult it to see how I should play using all the available benefits. Apart 
 from the campaigns, there is an abundance of skirmish maps to choose and play from. If you'd like 
 to see how you'd fare in multiplayer, try taking on the AI on Hard or Brutal difficulty. Unlike 
 most games, it will be a challenge and if you can consistently win, you'll know the time is right 
 to step into the multiplayer arena. Sorry to say that I cannot tell you more about this section 
 as I have not tried the multiplayer section out yet. But from what I hear, it will give this game 
 a lot of replayability and extra enjoyment thus the 10 for value.
  
  The graphics are stunning (even on my ancient rig) , each unit is beautifully crafted and a close 
 up of the annihilator tripod with forcefields will make one smile. My only concern here lies with 
 the music and some sound effects. The music is rather muted and has to be turned up to be heard 
 and even then it is rather unmemorable. The sound effects of say a laser or bomb are adequate compensation 
 and add that extra oomph to gameplay. However, the voice heard after each unit is created has little 
 variation and can be annoying when spamming units. I remember watching a pro replay from some excellent 
 players and hearing The scorpion's ready about a million times. It kinda distracts me and can be 
 annoying. But this should be a very minor problem and it does not take away from this great game. 
 As a newcomer, I can honestly say that I am infatuated with the Command and Conquer storyline and 
 sometimes randomly blurt out a quote from Kane or the GDI generals. Our lives for Kane - Fanatics. 
 You will most probably become one of them and sacrifice your social life for a game like this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuGgAlO_4_LyFe
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  My very first problem with the game was finding out the controls had been switched around to be 
 more like Starcraft. Besides from that very first ploblem with the game, I just couldn't really 
 get into the game like the other games in the series. It seemed to be lacking that kick the other 
 games had to it. The factions are unbalanced in certain aspects and don't make for the best gameplay. 
 Despite this lack of game quality I will be honest and say the game has some pretty kick ass graphics 
 to go with it.
  
  Thank you for reading my terrible and short review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I have waited a long time for this game to come out and finally I got the demo months before release. 
 It was awsome! I finally got the game a few days after the release and still its awsome. I like 
 the GDI's tanks and super weapon, I dont really like NOD, but the defence buildings are cool, the 
 Scrin is my favorite due to their airforce. I build a massive airforce and its my favorite thing 
 to build. The single player is great I love it, the skirmish is awsome ways to buff the skills 
 up for multiplayer, Multiplayer is also fun way to spend time. (just as long as people dont lag 
 and ruin the game for everyone) The graphics are sexy and the sound is cool. I am so glad that 
 this game was finally released. I am trying to get my friends to buy it to host online games with 
 them and kick ass. This is why I give the game a 10 and if there were higher ratings, it would 
 still be 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsicloneOblivio
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  It is a good game but It relies to heavily on paper-rock-scissors and massing the most units. Each 
 team has one sort of super-tank. Whether it be the GDI Mammoth tank, the NOD Avatar , and the Scrin 
 Annihilator Tripod. Now the unfortunate thing is that when the NOD and Scrin's unit is killed, 
 say during an attack, the enemy can then capture they wrecks with engineers. The GDI's walker isn't 
 often see on the battlefield to the opportunity to capture it is rarely there. The game focuses 
 too heavily on commander controlled special abilities rather than abilities of the units creating 
 a feeling of deus ex machina when fighting another player. In the end the game was fun, despite 
 the short Scrin campaign, the Scrin of course being my favorite race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  I love the CnC series. My first was the Tiberian Dawn port on N64, and then it progressed to Tiberian 
 Sun, Red Alert 2, and Now Tiberium Wars. And I am extremely pleased.
  
  The GDI and the Brotherhood of Nod are back. Kane is back and as bad as ever. Kane is still fighting 
 for his religious sect Nod and their sacred Tiberium, while the GDI are still fighting to control 
 the spread of the green crystal, and stop the Brotherhood.
  
  But, a third faction is added for the first time in the series, the alien invaders known as Scrin. 
 And it works seamlessly.
  
  The game plays wonderfully. The classic interface returns. No builder units, a sidebar where you 
 order buildings and then place them immediately or save them for special times, etc. Everything 
 is produced with the sidebar. It is simply the greatest feature of any RTS ever. Far better and 
 more advanced than the Blizzard bar in most RTS games.
  
  The game is fairly well balanced, but still has a few issues. Right now, there are just a couple 
 well known and over-used strategies, but there are supposedly future patches that are supposed 
 to diversify the gameplay. Otherwise, the gameplay is brilliant.
  
  The graphics are very nice, though aren't the best. Explosions are decent, but not great. However, 
 many effects are very nice, including the pretty lasers and railguns, and cool heat distortion 
 and phase effects. It's fun, it looks wonderful, and it's not too over-the-top.
  
  The sound is great. The graphics are great. Oh yeah, the single player campaigns are fun. Not particularly 
 long of difficult unfortunately, but not bad. The cutscenes are mostly live-action, with such actors 
 as Michael Ironside (of Starship Troopers fame) , Billy Dee Williams (Lando from Star Wars) , and 
 some other TV personalities (like the guy who plays Sawyer on Lost) . The cutscenes are probably 
 excessively corny and overly-dramatic, but it's corny in a good way. It's cool :D
  
  Anyway, I highly recommend the game if you love RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renzovel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  EA has revived the true Command and Conquer even if they're the ones developing it and not Westwood. 
 Generals just serves as a thorn at the C&amp; C franchise and is nothing but a joke. This game revives 
 what it had started at the very beginning with GDI and Nod. In addition, the Scrin have made an 
 entry following Tiberian Sun. Tiberium Wars is one of the best, no doubt about it.
  
  GDI hasn't changed once in a while. They're the good guys who stick to their blue zones, what's 
 once left of good Earth. Luckily, they have brought back their Mammoth Tanks, Orcas and the Ion 
 Cannon and their Commando sounds like Nick Havoc Parker.
  
  Nod still has it's own shoes. Kane returns as if he was an immortal and leads the Brotherhood of 
 Nod in enormous amounts because the people they train are from the Yellow Zones. Despite this, 
 they keep to their traditions of using the Flame and Stealth Tank, Obelisk and their newly-fashioned 
 Avatar Warmech. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcrypto
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer has always been one of my favorite games. I've always loved the resource gathering 
 part of the game and protecting your havester from getting attacked - or even better attacking 
 the other sides harvester. Anyways, Command and Conquer 3 continues this games awesome legacy. 
 I'm not really a campaigner, but a skirmisher, so the idea of customizing the AI really appeals 
 to me. I don't know of any other RTS that has this level of customization. I gradually reduce the 
 handicap and increase difficultly as I get better at the game. Some of my favourite units are the 
 mammoth tanks and the snipers. The voice overs on all of the units are just amazing. Anyways, if 
 you are a die-hard RTS fan like I am, you HAVE to check out Command and Conquer 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_77
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent of Great Graphics and reminiscent 
 of Great Graphics and reminiscent of 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adeboli
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  Tiberium Wars is the latest in a long and widely appreciated series of RTS games (let's just not 
 talk about Renegade) , and brings players back to the universe of GDI, NOD and a tiberium invested 
 planet Earth.
  
  So far so good, but unfortunately, a lot has been said already. Command and Conquer: Tiberium Wars 
 (TW) does not innovate, adds little to the series even though a new third faction makes it's appearance, 
 and instead gives a good, almost old-school game experience.
  
  The campaigns of GDI and NOD both tell the same story from a different perspective, a good thing 
 if you like to get as clear a picture of the conflict as possible, but a bad thing if you're sceptical 
 and see it as a recycling of maps and situations. This is a running theme in TW, because there 
 is a lot here to criticize as being uninspired, simply rehashing old concepts and generally not 
 putting a lot of effort into creating something new and exciting. The game is still a blast to 
 play though, and it's hard not to get enthusiastic about it. Add to that the return of the full-motion 
 videos in high quality and you're guaranteed to have a good twenty or so hours of single player 
 fun.
  
  The multiplayer aspect is hard to describe, because more than ever there seems to be a big gap 
 between the casual weekend player and the battle ready tournament player. The both loved and hated 
 tactic of 'rushing' is very prevalent in online games, and because the gameplay of TW is so fast 
 paced it's not uncommon to see battles last only 5 to 10 minutes.
  
  In conclusion, Tiberium Wars is a good and enjoyable game with a lot of nice extras in the form 
 of secondary objectives, an information library, full motion videos and more. After the experiment 
 of C&amp; C: Generals, TW returns to the classic gameplay of the series, and perhaps this is another 
 one of those things that can be seen as both good and bad. Good, because the C&amp; C games were 
 great to play, but bad because TW ends up being 'just another C&amp; C'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironsulphate
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I loved the graphics; smooth and really nice. And nice job with the video scenes.. makes it look 
 like im really a commander^^... but what was flawed was that this game is just the like the same 
 o RTS style game play; everyone is weak against a certain type, like infantries are weak againts 
 turrets etc.., but not a tank?! well, i know a tanks can run over the infantries, but what about 
 that gigantic bullet thats flying right at you? And that heat radiation... too much of it that it 
 gets a bit annoying. Well, i was hoping that this game would be a bit more realistic, but i guess 
 not. COH is much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UberNova
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun to play single player with a great storyline and innovative movies in between 
 missions which sets it apart from other RTSes which have CGI in between missions. The game is easy 
 to pick up but hard to master. Since there are not many upgradable skills, you will focus more 
 on how much energy you have so you can build more buildings. From what I've seen, there wasn't 
 a limit to how many units you can build with the exception that the airfields can only hold up 
 to 4 units until you have to build another one which makes sense since they should come back to 
 refuel but if that is the case, shouldn't the tanks need to refuel and the soldiers need to eat 
 or sleep. I'm just being picky I guess...
  
  Anyways, the game is fun but i still prefer warcraft 3 as my favorite RTS because it offers so 
 much more versatility in the form of units and the ability to upgrade armor and weapons and etc. 
 etc. etc. I believe that is something lacking with this game is the ability to upgrade. Maybe the 
 developers did that so the multiplayer maps will go faster with more rushes.
  
  The multiplayer function seems to be more geared towards the hardcore players as I got my butt 
 handed to me in the first 5 minutes in many multiplayer scrims I had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, i can honestly say that this game lives up to the old game Tiberium games, which are still 
 classics, but what is not classic is: killing off old soldiers, NOT checking for crash bugs or 
 save bugs. GDI troops shoots at each others and frustrating unbalanced troops.
  
  In the game, as the old ones you have to build up your defenses quick or you'll won't stand a chance 
 the first wave of attack. But the problem is, they killed of the old way of the Tiberium to let 
 the Nod to totally rely on stealth. Training fanatics takes WAY to much time, i don't think they'll 
 need any training on HOW TO DETONATE THE BOMB. In order to win as a Nod Commander, you HAVE to 
 have an armada to do so. It tok me 3 militant soldiers to just kill one GDI platoon. Which really 
 was annoying. So when your' Nod it's just a very old repetetive way when it comes to creating an 
 army. Same with GDI.
  
  What also they shouldn't have done was to kill off the Mech warriors (it's just the same as Generals!) 
 so on each side there is just ONE mech warrior. Which pissed me off, what made Tiberium triology 
 was prolly because OF THE MECH UNITS. But no, it's just a slap in a face, it's like they said Ok, 
 we're bringing Tiberium war back, only to kill of all but one Mech warriors on both sides. Mostly 
 tanks should do in C&amp; C 3 
  
  I really think they just threw in ideas from Generals and let them stay just to finnish the game 
 as fast as possible, so in reality. This game isn't an instant classic since they just brought 
 back half of the concept from the first Tiberium game.
  
  So in quick, the troops are unbalanced, it's bugged and it is a total letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_file
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  much best than any one game of this series.
  i like to play it.
  but
  it has one problem it must have a much RAM minimum 1000 mb to play it well and fastly
  its price 
 is also much............
  and one thing more...............
  it takes much space of hard disk.
  i m playing it for many days.
  everything is right.
  but 
 one thing.........!
  we call trainer of any game like this also.........
  these trainers are not good to play with.......
  i like GDI as my team or army becaz this is 
 more powerful and ressistance than NOD
  but their movement is a little slow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silicel1
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  What can i say they pretty much created a thrilling game thats just great, with a history of a 
 series of predecessors that also won the gold but it got better.!!!
  If you like hard core strategy this is the game for you, mammoth tanks and ion cannons youll love 
 it. The graphics are amazing (wont hurt to have at least a 256 mb graphics card and 1.5 gigs of memory) 
 its just beautiful how the ion cannon destroys the opponents base and blasts him sky high. OK everyone 
 go and gather as much tiberium as you can and keep an eye out for nukes. All together its a game 
 that gives what everyone expects from a game (not everyone knows what they want) large variety 
 of troops and vehicles, fighters and a super weapon. The most inexperienced gamers can try out 
 this game beacause its easy to learn and master it!!
  Go Go im not holding you back just go and buy this piece of heaven. As i said good looks comes 
 with a price have a good rig and a good gameplay experience to you all.
  Test rig: P4 3,2 Ghz, 1.5 Mb ddr2 667Mhz Kingston, Gforce 7600 GT (not on full graphics i dare to 
 say you need a 512 graphics card) Dont bug me with my english im am not ENGLISH OK?!?!!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiie
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 31, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C The Movie: Wow, such a display of directorial talent! When did they even find the time 
 to pack a game into the box? Seriously, it takes about 15 minutes of playing C&amp; C3 to see where 
 all the production budget went. We have the a leading man from TVs hit drama Lost, a foxy costar 
 from the medical drama House, and the lovely blond vixen from the one and only Battlestar Galactica. 
 Not to mention the original Kane is back! Lights, camera, action! Just picture a huge set with 
 light crews, make up artists, costume fitters, camera operators, sound engineers, and production 
 staff all darting about, working on this straight-to-DVD action flick. And for what its worth, 
 the flick aint half bad.
  
  C&amp; C The Game: Meanwhile in a back room somewhere behind the set three CS interns were given 
 a pizza pie, a bottle of Coke, and two weeks to repackage yee goode olde C&amp; C from 1995... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragod22
Rating: 3.6
Date: May 30, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  What a disappointment. This game is all flash and B-ish actors coupled together in tired game play 
 that is endlessly repetitive. If you like RTSs, then this game is not for you. If you like fancy 
 graphics and seeing that guy from lost telling you to go murder people, then buy this game. If 
 you want a decent RTS, then play COH. If you want a fun, redundant RTS fork over 1/8th of the cost 
 of this game to buy Red Alert 2 or starcraft. You would think that 10 YEARS of the same exact gameplay 
 would create the demand for something a little different, maybe a game where you cant sit in your 
 base and spam your way to an unsatisfying (but pretty) victory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shafrox
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  If you are a die hard C&amp; C fan then this game is a must buy. Even if you are just a normal strategy 
 game fan this game will satisfy you. However, please be aware that the game is overrated by gamespot.
 
  
  My favourite strategy game so far is Company of Heroes. The game was amazing. But the problem is 
 that Tiberium Wars also got the same score as COH when it should not have. I'll explain why...
 
  
  The units of C&amp; C are not that satisfactory (only the GDI mammoth tank was the sparkle of all 
 the units) and also there are very few maps where the game takes place in. Most of the maps are 
 recycled. Graphics are also only satisfactory (not even close to COH) . The movements of the units 
 are very unnatural. Obviously less time has been taken to debug the game. However, the gameplay 
 of this game is what make it good and gives the balanc to the game.
  
  If you are expecting this to be a instant classic then you are mistaken. If you have played COH, 
 and expecting something like that or more than that then this is NOT the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BananaJello
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 29, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  After being disappointed with Generals, and the reviews I read about the C&amp; C Decade set, I 
 almost did not pick this game up. I thought it would be just another attempt by EA to cash in on 
 a franchise. But, I bought it anyways, figuring that I would give EA a chance to redeem themselves. 
 So far, I'm fairly impressed. It fits with the story line of the original series pretty well, it 
 has the same dedication to the full motion video, and it uses known actors, including Michael Ironsides 
 and Billy Dee Williams. The graphics are decent, but nothing special, and so far the missions aren't 
 too bad. I thought that with the demise of Westwood, so would go the C&amp; C titles, since I don't 
 consider Generals to be 'true' C&amp; C titles. But I am glad to see that I was wrong. Now, let's 
 hope they do a Red Alert 3 :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ty2991
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 30, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  If you loved the classic Red Alert and Red Alert 2, you will be VERY dissapointed with this game. 
 Especially if you didn't enjoy Command&amp; Conquer Generals. Generals lowered your forces ability 
 to actualy survive a whole a battle during a game, units died in 5 seconds meaning that one soldier 
 didn't make a difference, also the teams were very insulting to me, and I felt it was saying that 
 China was America's strict enemy and so was the middle east; at the same time it made America's 
 modern army look like a piece of crap. Now they make Command&amp; Conquer 3, the exact same thing 
 but with nicer graphics and different voices. Both games were terribly dissapointing showing no 
 new gameplay, and nothing that makes it any different than some common RTS that got mediocre reviews. 
 WHY can't EA and Westwood come out with a game similar to Red Alert? Their best review game of 
 Command&amp; Conquer even by Gamespot itself. What a waste of $50.00, I thought this game would 
 be the next hit.... I guess not.
  
  Red Alert and Red Alert 2, had units that you would learn to love and fear at the same time, really 
 getting you into the game. Like when Russia trained its Kirov Zeplin bomber all teams would hear 
 Kirov Reporting letting you know a fierce and brutal air raid was going to hit. Infantry could 
 actualy fight and not die in 5 seconds after training them. Command &amp; Conquer 3 and Generals 
 follows only one lame strategy which I seriously hate: Build up a base defence as quickly as you 
 can and then rush them with a huge army of tanks to win, which is the only capable way I've seen 
 people able to win. Besides the Scrin army which is the same thing but with annoying air units 
 which have terrible movement and are hard to target. (Including their ground units)
  
  Sure, the graphics look nice, and the sound is good. Thats about all I can say. Everything else 
 is a serious dissapointment. Company of Heroes OWNs this game, if you want a great strategy game... 
 get that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaun_180sx
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer - Tiberium Wars is an intense RTS that sacrifices micromanagement and complex 
 strategy for non-stop mass destruction supplied quickly with highly satisfying results. It now 
 consists of three factions with a strong campaign and huge multiplayer response. C&amp; C3 multiplayer 
 is a mad rush for resources, construction and mass unit production. Although this is not necessarily 
 a bad thing it does reward those who like to play it safe and cut back on the creativity at least 
 early in a match. The first 5 minutes are crucial, hot keys are a near must, every second wasted 
 pondering construction locations or what to produce hammers another nail in your coffin. This frantic 
 gaming is a turnoff for some but if you can take the stress (or nothing stresses you) then this 
 game is awesome as it eliminates all idleness except for the first few seconds as you await the 
 production of your crane, foundry or whatever you use to double your construction possibilities.
 
  
  Combat between individual units is often a case of rock, paper scissors. Some units will have an 
 extreme advantage over others for example avatars versus apcs but the former would be defenceless 
 against air attacks where apcs have some chance. When multiple units are pitted against each other 
 however, anything can happen and the trained player can make much better use of their units taking 
 advantage of enemy unit weaknesses such as suseptability to specific units and lack of armour in 
 the rear or flank. The ability for vehicles to reverse allows units to retreat without exposing 
 their weak rear ends. There is little micromanagement to worry about in this game, which is important 
 because there is simply too much to do and so little time to do it. A big strength in the game 
 is the allocation of super weapons to all factions. They are expensive to build, take a long time 
 to charge, are visible to all opponents and displays a countdown timer for all to see. This means 
 turtling is not a viable strategy as these weapons will decimate a large area thus forcing opponents 
 to rush production and attack with everything theyve got to take the weapon out. Super weapons 
 are also great for solving stalemates where no one is willing to make an assault against well-defended 
 bases.
  
  Factions consist of the UN/US style GDI, the Cultist/Terrorist (no current political influences 
 there) Nod and the new alien Scrin. The teams play quite differently and the balance is reasonable 
 considering. GDI have strong, easily produced ground units. They sadly removed the mecha theme 
 found in the last game so we say goodbye to the monstrous Goliath walkers but welcome the favourite 
 twin, cannon, missile- launching Mammoth Tanks. Nod are lighter armed but have a selection of versatile 
 and stealthy units including the new man-walker, the Avatar which can assimilate fellow nod units 
 to give itself an extra ability based on the sacrificed unit. Scrin are weak early in a battle 
 but later produce a super-powerful air force and also have the strongest ground unit in the game, 
 the giant War of the Worlds style walkers have shields, powerful lasers and can trample smaller 
 vehicles. Although the scrin are a welcome addition to the game the ideas for their units have 
 been heavily influenced by Blizzards Starcraft, one of the best RTS of all time. Scrin consists 
 of a mix of Protoss and Zerg from the popular old game but there is one unit that is unique, interesting 
 and effective. The scrin special infantry unit is highly mobile and has the ability to teleport 
 allied units found anywhere on the map to its location. While alive it can also take permanent 
 control of one enemy unit or structure at a time. The single player campaign has an exceptional 
 RTS story with a large b-grade cast including Starship Troopers Ironside, the hot chick from House, 
 the country boy from Lost, the blonde from Galactica (I believe) plus more. The missions have purpose 
 and allow time to utilise new units differently. Completion of secondary missions will award the 
 player with extra features consisting of data on combat units, structures and historical events. 
 Skirmish games against computer opponents add a reasonable amount of replay value to the game for 
 those who dont network or play online. The one major gripe is the huge difficulty gap between 
 hard and brutal. Hard, one on one is easy but nearly impossible in brutal. Thankfully handicaps 
 can be placed to balance things, this can also be used in multiplayer, a great feature.
  
  The graphics for C&amp; C3 are exceptional on max settings but on lower settings will run on even 
 the most modest modern pc providing it has a GPU. It will run at moderate settings on a notebook 
 with a 1.6ghz dual processor and X1700 GPU. It will run at maximum on a 3200+ with 8600GTS (comparable 
 to a 7900GT) . Any more than 1GB of ram is not necessary. Environmental effects such as sand rising 
 off tank treads or from the drop of a bomb are quite accurate while lighting and water effects 
 are nice to gawk at if only for a moment. Gun fire, explosions and the damaging and destruction 
 of vehicles and structures are great also. C&amp; C3 is a fast, thrilling action game with a strong 
 single player element and offers long-term multiplayer gaming goodness. There are some minor faction 
 imbalances that are constantly being adhered to in patches and this will hopefully reduce the popular 
 rush tactics (GDI mammoth tanks) that seem to plague online battlegrounds. Overall, a top game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebaste
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Game play is ROCKS!
  Graphics is Superb
  Sound and Value Amazing
  
  The Game follows the previous C &amp; C series but having a third faction? Oh Yeh! The GDI and 
 NOD already makes a hell of a combat action but adding the alien race stirs up the battle field 
 making the whole sciene more interesting.
  
  One of the best things I can say on this game is that it allows me to creat my favorite infantry 
 units into battalions in an instant. Not like the previews C &amp; C games I used to play that 
 it takes a lot of time to make infantry troops. In this new way of gaming style new strategies 
 may be executed and not to mention that units has abilities or skills to perform which can be executed 
 when upgrading is complete.
  
  Rock N Roll!!! ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enixtkd
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  Tiberium wars is possibly the greatest Command and Conquer game made, with its high level of graphics 
 and realistic gameplay. The game has 3 Factions, the Global Defense Initiative, the Brothehood 
 of Nod and the new alien race, the Scrin. Each with their unique units and technology. Global Defense 
 Initiative troops utilize both superior armor and firepower, making them typically much more powerful 
 than Nod forces in direct open confrontations, but also more cumbersome and less flexible. The 
 GDI's in-game super weapon is the orbital weapon the Ion Cannon, on the previous Command and Conquer 
 Tiberian Dawn and Tiberian Sun it is capable of destroying only a single building at a time, in 
 the Command and Conquer Tiberium Wars the Ion Cannon now devastates a large area. The Nod's in-game 
 superweapon is the Nuclear Missile. The Nod tactics are highly radical and appear more cruel than 
 GDI's, often showing little to no regard for human life, and their religious fascination with Tiberium 
 also leads them to use the dangerous and toxic substance offensively whenever possible. The Scrin 
 possess several economic and military advantages relating to Tiberium, including the ability to 
 mine the mineral faster, promote its growth, and use it as a weapon. The Scrin has the most powerful 
 air units. The Scrin also has the Mothership which can destroy anything beneath it in an instant. 
 The Scrin's in-game superweapon is the Rift Generator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuriohs
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 26, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has so much potential that inertia is canceled out. The way you can initiate attacks 
 on enemy's bases is amazing. You can rush the enemy with tanks or hit them with airstrikes. And 
 no more radar!! thats beast. Nod i think have the most strategy though, you can do so much with 
 nod. Like send an army of stealth tanks with engieers in their base. The engnieers aren't cloacked, 
 but the stealth tanks are. After the enemy only sees engenieers he will get ready for a brief assault. 
 But he doesn't know theirs tanks around those engenieers. GDI is all about power. You can send 
 about 10 preds in a noobs base and kill it. But if its defended than thats a whole nother story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpshot94549
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This is my 1st game from the series and now i am going to go out and buy all the others. the graphics 
 are demanding, but Kick ass. the fact that you can play from both sides of the war is awesome. 
 and the cut-scenes in HD with REAL PEOPLE is Revolutionary. All and all i give this game 11/10. 
 this is a must get for all real RTS fans. I say Screw the reviewers, this game demands perfection. 
 I have been glued to my laptop since i downloaded it, i mean bought it ;-) . the proof is that my 
 grades in school have been slipping slightly since i got it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimitrisk8
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  I Found This game very cool but the gameplay in some cases are difficulty and you don't have very 
 good defence you can lose very easy and you can win very easy...... Something else which is very 
 good on this game are the Videos.
  This game reminds me more the Red Arlet Series. In C&amp; C Generals the defence was very strength 
 and you can't lose or win so fast if the defence in C&amp; C 3: Tiberium Wars was like Generals 
 i would like it very much..... ***The Story Some times changing very abruptly***
  About the Gameplay i don't have play too much......
  
  Of Course i suggest you to bye it because 
 this is realy very good game!!!
  Sorry for my Bad English..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 26, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  SLIGHT OVERALL
  
  After the second Tiberium War, NOD kept a low profile. GDI knew though that they still existed and 
 here's where you enter the scene again. You are sent to investigate a NOD presence in a zone and 
 after you do that, you must repel their attack on the USA. You go on killing them but a slight Ion 
 Cannon shot in Temple Prime unleashed a huge explosion that brought the Scrin (bugz) . It's classic. With 
 GDI you must destroy NOD and the Scrin. With NOD you must destroy GDI and capture the Scrin. With 
 the Scrin..... they're aliens and in the campaign you won't have to be diplomatic at all. Plus at 
 the classical part of the game stand the movies. Very good!
  
  GRAPHICS&amp; GAMEPLAY
  
  They say the graphics are next-gen. I say... not quite. The effects are very good but the units aren't 
 made too nice.
  
  About the gameplay... well let's make three parts.
  GDI-Experienced slow moving powerhouse (Means a ton of Mammoth Tanks with railguns=fried NOD&amp; SCRIN)
 
  NOD-Fast raids+hit&amp; run tactics (Vertigo Bombers are the best after those Avatars)
  Scrin-High-tech aviation (Carriers and Devastators do the job)
  Each faction has special powers. GDI-Ion 
 Cannon, Nod-TibMissile, Scrin -Rift.
  A very good thing they done was keeping the same gameplay mode and not chaning the base of it.
 
  AWAKENED NOSTALGY
  
  It's goo that they thought to revive one of the best universes which seemed dead when Westwood 
 died. C&amp; C fans are pleased
  My last words in this rewiev are GO GDI!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer666
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I'd say it is one of the best games in the series nice graphicsas in they really whent into detail 
 in each map and also when you zoom into a squad they really look nice nice gameplay but in a short 
 time you get tierd of playing the 3 factions that you can choose from . three is fine but if we 
 had more variety it would make the killing much funner and more factions meaning different ways 
 of counter attacking someone, quick to learn many different units . but still overall a real nice 
 game (if you got the computer to handle at full graphics) if not at low graphics its seems to be 
 fun . if it wasn't for the lack of factions I would of for sure considered it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmoHunt
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is a great game and best yet in the Command &amp; Conquer 
 series by EA.
  If you liked or even loved any of the other Command &amp; Conquer games then why are you reading 
 this and not playing C&amp; C3?
  This game gives you stunning graphics and great game play as well as much more, like the new race, 
 Scrin who are good fun to play around with, but I personally still prefer playing as NOD or GDI.
 
  You will find many differences in this game from the other games like Zero Hour and Tiberium Sun, 
 first you will notice the right-hand control panels have changed, for the better I must say, but 
 if you are really used to Zero Hour or Tiberium Sun you may find it takes a while to get used to, 
 just like it did with me.
  Then you will find the buildings have changed quite a bit, but it's pretty easy to figure out what's 
 what and of course they have added new buildings and they look much better.
  They have also changed the units and the main feature is grouping units together, instead of building 
 man after man, they come out in groups of two's or four's, but some do come out separately, depending 
 on which units you are creating, anyway, this grouping makes life simpler and easier. There is 
 many more changes, but I am not going to tell you them all so to find out more either download 
 the demo version from here at GameSpot or better still.... Get The Game, it's a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangel_19
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Another great game from the creators of the Command &amp; Conquer series! This is game is highly 
 addictive and entertaining.
  
  This is by far, my most favorite C&amp; C game ever. The new race, the Scrin are amazing. The Scrin 
 reminds of the Protoss in Starcraft.... they are very powerful and their weaponry is phenomenal. 
 But the GDI and NOD are no pansies either! I especially like the Avatar of the NOD.... this unit 
 incorporates some of your vehicles' attributes.. now that's awesome! I like the Mammoth tanks of 
 the GDI because it reminds of the Chinese Overlord tanks in C&amp; C Generals... slow moving but 
 very powerful tanks!
  
  All in all this game is a must have for the people who have been playing Command &amp; Conquer 
 for a long long long time! The gameplay and graphics is awesome! It sports another great looking 
 full-motion video integrated to the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panyan91gmail
Rating: 3
Date: May 24, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  sorry, but i have played every c&amp; c game and was really disappointed with this game. My all 
 time favourite pc game is command and conquer: red alert 2: yuri's revenge - this new kane's revenge 
 or whatever does not even come close.... try again
  
  i love the low specs it uses, the countless trainers, mods and even hacks that you can perform 
 yourself on yuris revenge, i know the new one has not been out time enough for mods, etc., but 
 you would have thought that it would be so good, that people would be playing it nonstop, and i 
 cant see that. i have had the game since the demo versions, i have seen the trailers, amazed at 
 the graphics, i really wanted this game, but when i actually got it - BANG! i realised this was 
 such a bad update of the world famous tiberium sun and its expansion firestorm, that i have finished 
 the tutorials, obliterated the campaigns, and still, no enjoyment or satifaction whatsoever - if 
 you want a good game, dont spend &pound;40 on the new kane edition for which you have to buy a 
 new graphics card, just pay &pound;30 for the c&amp; c decade box set and you will have all the 
 classics, including red alert2 &amp; yuris revenge
  
  if your old school like me, youll love YR and be deeply dissapointed with the new better edition.... sorry 
 to all u fanboys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mista911
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 23, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  this is an excellent game. From the moment i picked up this game to even now i enjoy and am very 
 pleased with this game! this is truly the RTS king. I really don't think any other RTS games like 
 SC, company of heroes, age of empires, and the soon highly anticipated SC2 has anything on C&amp; C3. 
 This game is truly amazing and exceeded far beyond what i had expected. i am still truly surprised 
 at how great this game is. The graphics are top notch for a RTS game, the sound is phenomenal, 
 gameplay is extraordinary, i feel good just playing this game overall. It is a really good experience, 
 good friendly community online unlike some RTS games. This game makes me feel good about being 
 alive and being able to play games. Truly, if you are a RTS fan this is a MUST have! if you do 
 not own this game, GO PURCHASE IT NOW!!! DO IT! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmurty
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I don't think there is anything more satisfying than defeating an online opponent with nothing 
 more than quick thinking and a massive amount of Mammoth Tanks. The Command and Conquer series 
 returns with the most beautiful game to date. There's even a set of cinematics to guide you through 
 the GDI and NOD campaigns, using familiar actors, they are pretty cheesy but add to the campaign 
 battles by giving you the story behind the battles. I am really enjoying this game, and would recommend 
 it to any RTS fan. The simple interface and stupid-proof objective cinematics give the game 'pick 
 up and play value' and could be enjoyed even if you are new to RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delbel
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 22, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  The Spirit of old C&amp; C. But you can download another maps to be happy !!!
  
  NOD, GDI ,and Scrim are really different and a lot of strategies are possible
  
  The campaign 
 is a bit short but the game keep a good gamepaly and if you have a good graphik card you can cry 
 because graphism are so.... terrible
  
  IA has now a brain and learn to strike critical point. For me C&amp; C Tiberium Wars is the best 
 of the Tiberiums s&eacute; ries.
  
  Excuse me for my bad english but I'm french and I leave school there are 3 years ago.
  
  Just 
 play for fun and see you later on the web. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 21, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I am new to the Command and Conquer series, so I bought C&amp; C3 with no particular expectations. 
 I thought that the demo -- which I recommend you play before buying -- was merely decent, but decided 
 to give the game a shot. If you are into real-time strategy (RTS) games, this one is worth a try. 
 It is fairly easy to pick up and play, has lengthy campaigns, and it looks great. However, this 
 is, at best, second-tier gaming in my book. When compared to the likes of Dawn of War or Battle 
 for Middle Earth 2, C&amp; C3 doesn't fair well. However, it does have its moments and can provide 
 some good entertainment.
  
  Gameplay: This game has a late 1990s feel to it. It's an RTS game where back-and-forth resource 
 collecting, tank rushing, and unit spamming still rule the day. But to its credit, these throwback 
 features are put together fairly well. The game does allow for some strategic decision-making, 
 despite itself. For example, you can tech fast to big tanks and the super-weapon and hope that 
 the enemy does not show up in the meantime. Or, you can depend on air power to take out strategic 
 targets and take a chance on the enemy not having good air defenses. Or, you can raid the enemy 
 base with an expensive commando early on. Or, you can take a chance and construct turrets all over 
 the place and play a defensive game, at least for a while. Sometimes, tank spam will win the day, 
 but not always. A mixed force is usually best if you don't know what your enemy is up to.
  
  The campaigns are somewhat interesting overall. Each of the three races (GDI, NOD, and Skrin) 
 have their own story lines, which will allow you to become familiar with each side. There are a 
 good 35 missions in all which should keep you preoccupied for a while. The missions are uneven 
 in quality and difficulty. Some are fairly easy and straightforward and can be completed in 10 
 minutes. A few will require repeated, frustrating efforts and are based on questionable design 
 decisions. The stories are tied together by cutscenes that are generally decent, especially for 
 NOD. The AI holds its own pretty well in skirmishes. It switches up its strategies, flanks your 
 base, and fights aggressively. You can set the AI to behave in various ways based on your gameplay 
 style and skill level. Unfortunately, the game ships with only about 20 skirmish maps, with the 
 typical over-abundance of 2-player maps. However, a map editor has been released by the developer, 
 and a few decent player-made maps have appeared. I assume that the inevitable expansion pack will 
 include more maps, missions, and units.
  
  C&amp; C3 flaws are largely tolerable and relate primarily to it being a re-make of an older game. 
 Its familiarity as a traditional RTS is both its greatest strength and weakness. The resource model 
 is straight out of classic RTS games like the Age of Empires series, Warcraft games, and other 
 C&amp; C games. Some will find this enjoyable. However, it leads to the ugly base sprawl and pathfinding 
 problems that are the bane of such games, as well as games that degenerate into who can destroy 
 the other player's harvesters and refineries the fastest. Very few of the newer gameplay mechanics 
 that are found in recent RTS games are found here, such as hero units, RPG-style leveling (well, 
 units do gain experience, but you hardly notice) , or alternative win conditions (you must annihilate 
 the enemy in every game to win) . Since you can climb the tech tree so fast and spam units so ridiculously, 
 you never feel any attachment to any of them. And gameplay is fast and furious. I hope that an 
 expansion introduces some sort of hero units or roleplaying elements to the game, along with some 
 caps on the number of super units that can be made (at least things like Mammoth tanks should be 
 more expensive) . Anyhow, as I said before, some people are going to like this traditional style 
 of gameplay. At least the game has modern amenities like hotkeys, save/load options, and easily 
 adjustable difficulty levels.
  
  Visuals: The game looks great, especially on high settings. Explosions, heat exhaust effects, unit 
 animations, and map features are very well done. Each side looks distinctive. The interface is 
 a lot like that of Battle for Middle Earth 2; necessary information is easy to get to without being 
 in the way. The cutscenes, while a bit to melodramatic at times, do tell the story well, and the 
 actors are all usually convincing, besides the fact that they are talking to the camera most of 
 the time. Sound: Units make appropriate sounds and have decent voice acting. They don't have the 
 personality of a game such as Dawn of War or even Warcraft 3, but they're good enough. The game's 
 music is also decent, but not memorable. Technical issues: The game comes with a good manual that 
 explains the basics. The tutorial mission is only for GDI; there should have been a tutorial mission 
 for all three races. The game has run nearly flawlessly on my computer, with only one crash in 
 about 50 hours of gameplay. I suppose it should run well on most mid-range and better computers. 
 Replayabiity/Value: Since RTS games probably offer the best replay value for the dollar of any 
 gaming genre, anyone who likes RTS games should get good value from C&amp; C3. There is an online 
 community, and the AI poses a good challenge. I would not be interested in replaying the campaigns 
 any time soon, but could see running through them again at some point. If you are a fan of the 
 C&amp; C series, I imagine this is a no-brainer buy. For those (like me) with no previous experience 
 with C&amp; C, play the demo first. I overall recommend this game.
  
  Pros:
  --Great graphics, scalable to various computer set-ups.
  --Good AI, entertaining campaigns, decent 
 skirmish mode
  --Easy to pick up and learn
  --Some strategic depth, despite itself
  --Fast and furious gameplay
  
  Cons:
  --Fast and furious gameplay
  --Spamalicious; badly 
 needs either caps on super units, more balance, and/or increased costs
  --Old-fashion gameplay, with unsightly base sprawl and tired resource collection model
  --Only 
 20 skirmish maps, with too many 2-player maps
  --A few very frustrating campaign missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximiliator
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 21, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  hmmm...
  
  I bought this game, and expected it to be really awesome. Like a game, you won&acute; t forget so 
 fast. As i played it first, it was fun, with all these videos in the campaign and those nice animations. 
 But I must say, these are the only positive things i see in this game. Many might see me as a heretic, 
 if i say, that i do not recommend this game, but it&acute; s my honest opinion.
  
  PRO:
  
  The Videos between the missions are nicely done, and soak you into the story. In the Beginning 
 the vids are better and longer, than inbetween the game, where they can be very short sometimes, 
 just to fill in another mission.
  
  The graphics are amazing ! You can look at details for minutes, if you zoom in. For example the 
 GDI Tiberium factory is really cool to look at, if a collector is docked to it. All the explosions 
 and air-glimmering, is done perfectly, and sets a new graphical standard, for the games to come 
 like Starcraft II and things like that.
  
  CONTRA:
  
  There are not many different units, to play with, which spoils the longtime-fun, and the tactical 
 site of the game. There is not much tactic at all in fact. You just have to build up your base 
 as fast as possible and overrun the enemy as fast as possible. And i&acute; m not a fan of this 
 style of gameplay.
  
  I had really bad problems, to connect to online-multiplayer and setting up a account. It took me 
 about 2 hours, until i had a valid account. And later I had serious conncetion-problems ingame, 
 despite my really fast internet-connection.
  
  The movement of the scrin looks awful. The same thing is it with the Avatars of NOD, they do not 
 look to good, and this is bad, because they are the most powerful units, and should precisely because 
 ot that look nice !
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  The game has certainly something to come up with, like the graphics and so on, but i do only recommend 
 it for C&amp; C fans. For all the Others, i recommend Supreme Commander, which i think is done much 
 better in all aspects, expect the overall-graphics.
  
  Max 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mes4ever00
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars has a fun single player. Some campaigns are a lil easy and 
 some are a lot harder. but it balances it self out.
  Each faction are basically the same. that is the kind of disappointing but not unexpected. Because 
 the are basically the same you re leaved when you finally get done with the single player so cuz 
 it gets repetitive. Not to say it not fun. The multilayer is a blast though good fun
  
  So if you're a fun of C&amp; C or looking for a good game to play by your self or with you friends 
 this is deffently some thing i would look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjun41
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  I consider this one to be the best in its series. With the very attractive female characters from 
 House and Battlestar Galactica, watching movies and listening to mission briefings have became 
 so much more interesting :D
  
  Anyways, moving on. Graphics and gameplay is excellent. It seems as though they have acquired all 
 the goods with previous series and implemented to this version. Default hotkyes are simple to 
 understand instead of having to memories A-Z keys along with 1-0 keys. This game is a fast pace 
 strategy game with several different tactics to approach the enemy. During my play, there was never 
 a moment for me to just sit there and watch the battle or think about which units should be good 
 against the NODs. If you are looking for a strategy game that is innovative and very different 
 from any other ones, I have got to be honest and say this is probably not it for you then. I can 
 see this game being liked by those who have played C&amp; C series or enjoys old style war game 
 with good graphics. The online play is quite interesting. The way you can have a narrator to draw 
 on the map while the players are playing is something many online versus players will enjoy as 
 well as the viewers. All in all, screen shots and some play videos probably says everything it 
 needs to say. There arent any hidden things which you can ONLY find by playing the game except 
 play experience and hot it meets your own personal game interest. I would recommend everyone to 
 play the demo before actually purchasing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixer38
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer 3 : Tiberium Wars is a great ex-sample of how strategy games should work 
 -
  
  1) Single Player
  
  The SP part of Command &amp; Conquer 3 : TW is great. You get to do over 30 missions with all 3 
 factions (The Scrin, The Brotherhood NOD, GDI) and the missions vary from full scale defenses to 
 Commando soloing. All of this complimented with tons of cheesy live motion video from popular actors 
 and Kane (sinister as ever) . You will visit Blue, Yellow and Red Zones across the world as you fight 
 top-notch AI who exploits your every weakness.
  
  2) The Story
  
  The storyline behind C&amp; C3: TW is what keeps the SP game going. When Tiberium arrived to earth 
 in a from of a meteor it started spreading - evolving and consuming everything in its way into 
 more Tiberium. Two factions were born - GDI (Global Defense Incentive) whom was formed solely to 
 contain and terminate the crystal (Save the human race) . NOD (Brotherhood of NOD) led by the sinister 
 man only know as Kane who thinks Tiberium is a blessing that will bring the human race to the next 
 step of evolution. Ever since Tiberium appeared on earth the both factions have fought each-other 
 in a series of wars. Now with the arrival of a third faction only knows as The Scrin - things have 
 gotten even more out of control. Will the Tiberium spreading be stopped by GDI? Will NOD take the 
 human race to its next step of evolution? Will The Scrin conquer earth and whipe out the human 
 race? Its all up to you to find out...
  
  3) Online play
  
  The online component of C&amp; C3: TW is what makes the game shine - clean matches with hardly any 
 cheaters, up-to-date leader-boards and generally allot of good people make playing C&amp; C3: TW 
 online fun for everyone. You can make your own Clan or even observe matches and learn strategies 
 from other players.
  
  Command and Conquer 3 : Tiberium Wars brings back the old-school feel to the series with some spicy 
 ingredients added to the bowl. Whenever your planing on playing the game for the story or the great 
 online action you will not be disappointed with C&amp; C3: TW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abzddon
Rating: 5
Date: May 19, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the C&amp; C series, but this game is a disappointment, especially after you've 
 played Generals. the tanks don't look like tanks, the planes don't look like planes, so quite frankly 
 the game looks disgusting. You think the disgust would end there, but then you get to look at the 
 Scrin, their units, buildings and green ball like bullets. Don't get me wrong the graphics look 
 good, but the pictures are still horrible, i haven't found a single map, structure or unit that 
 looks nice. Sure the game is based in the future, but i didn't know people would lose there taste 
 in the future. The game doesn't have much strategy either, it has not been thought out well enough. 
 All those super units and upgrades are useless, when a match online lasts an average of 10 minutes.
 
  
  Don't bother buying or playing this game, stick to Generals; its by far the best. If you do start 
 playing it you'll be bored in about 3 hours, thats how long it took me. I don't know why people 
 gave this game a good rating, its just a really bad version of the retro C&amp; C games. If Generals 
 was such a big hit, why did EA decide to go back to the old style of play instead of improving 
 the series further or creating a new one better than it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artpop
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 18, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  With amazing atmospheric effects, the new generation of the Command and Conquer series is an absolute 
 killer. C&amp; C went nowhere but forward with the Tiberium Wars release by adding more quality 
 and higher detail - video, audio, control wise. This is one game I do not mind playing the same 
 map over and over. The fact that the alien race makes its presence mid-way through the game is 
 a very smart addition to the story. As a player, you always have a feeling of when a game is about 
 to end. You build this instinct and whenever you play a game and you approach the end, you're already 
 knowing it. With Tiberium Wars, by the time you're about sure you are a hair away from finishing 
 the game (and yes, the sadness starts to knock at your door) , your world is invaded by an alien 
 race. Awesome! A new game starts, and you're facing a new enemy. Very creative, and a surprise 
 I greatly enjoyed.
  
  I've always been a fan of C&amp; C, and I always have been appreciative of their accomplishments 
 and improvements - Tiberium Wars (fortunately) was not a let down, and kept on building on the 
 solid quality C&amp; C fans are already used to. Awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatefish2
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Many of you probably know the Command and Conquer series and I'm sure a lot of you love it. I know 
 I do and that's why I was sure to pick up Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars when it was released. 
 It was an easy $40 and it'll be in my disk drive for a very long time to come. The first thing 
 I should mention is that Command and Conquer has had several different plot lines and even a genre 
 change (Renegade was an FPS set in the same universe as Tiberian Sun) . The Tiberian series has 
 always been my favorite, i loved the GDI vs NOD stuff and it's really great to see a true sequel 
 to Tiberian Sun.. althought it doesn't reinvent the genre in any way at all. It takes the original 
 and adds a few new features and gives it a makeover, but that's not completely bad because the 
 gameplay is what made C&amp; C what it is. I'll admit EA didn't take much of a risk while releasing 
 this game. They basically just gave Tiberian Sun a makeover and a new storyline, some new units 
 and a new interesting race, but they delivered, and what you get is a very fun fast-paced RTS that 
 will have you playing for hours.
  
  Graphics - 10/10:
  
  First and foremost the graphics of this game are amazing especially on an RTS, that's if your rig 
 can handle it :) . All of the buildings are well detailed with their own lighting and shine, even 
 some nice glow effect on a lot of units and objects in the game. The explosions and flames are 
 what really amazed me though. Especially the Scrin effects are amazing. The way their buildings 
 are sucked into a vortex after being destroyed is other-worldly and their weapon effects and units 
 look amazing and well detailed. One of the neatest looking things in the game are the scrin tripods 
 with their Force fields on. The GDI and NOD aren't left out graphics wise because they all have 
 gotten a makeover as well, and are looking as cool as ever.
  
  EA kinda went with a more terrorist-looking approach to the NOD this time, where as instead of 
 wearing nice armor like they did in Renegade they look more like militia wearing hoods and vests, 
 but it works and its cool.
  
  The developers also brought back the actual acted out cut scenes in this game! They look a lot 
 cooler and polished in this game but they have that same corny goodness that made the old games 
 so cool!
  
  Sound - 10/10:
  
  From the cry of a falling tripod to the sounds of lasers and tanks cracking and exploded in the 
 distance, this game definitely delivers in the sound department. I can't really go into detail 
 on what it sounds like but it is definitely nice. Good voice overs and everything. Gameplay - 8/10:
 
  
  Don't let people tell you the game isn't fun because it borrows old gameplay mechanics. This game 
 is FUN! Maybe it's not for everybody, especially the very in-depth RTS player. That was one thing 
 I disliked about the game, after a little while of playing you realize the game does lack some 
 strategy, which being an RTS you'd expect a lot. What i mean by that is, don't expect to be thinking 
 for hours about what you're going to do, that will get you killed. Instead, due to the construction 
 of the maps, you will be encouraged to slam a base together and force out as many units as you 
 can to best defeat your enemy, while expanding your base to gain control of the many Tiberium fields 
 and other goodies you can capture in the center of the map. The main strategy here is to know what 
 race you're up against and what you can use to destroy your opponent most efficiently, rather than 
 planning on a large scale. Not that there isn't strategy involved, of course there is. That's the 
 reason I gave it a 8/10 On gameplay, the gameplay is solid and amazingly fun but for some people 
 it will lack that certain strategic element of planning but that could potentially be fixed with 
 maps so who knows. Multiplayer - 9/10:
  
  Multiplayer is no different than tiberian sun really, but just in case you never played tiberian 
 sun I'll give the basics. You play a skirmish against up to 8 opponents over EA's (Gamespy?) servers 
 and gain ranks. EA uses a neat stat tracking feature to help you keep track of your skill and put 
 you against other people. All in all it's very fun, but against good opponents you may lose interest 
 fast. The main reason for this is because as in every game, there are people who will roll you 
 over no matter what you do when you first start out. So figuring out what your gonna do against 
 that race to rush or defend is key in winning, or else you'll lose everytime. You also have to 
 adapt based off what you see other people doing, but it's basic RTS rules so I won't bother to 
 get into that...
  
  It's great fun though and is just right for LAN Parties!
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Thanks for 
 reading my review I hope you enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aros24
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 17, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  some people think that the game was dissapointing and some think it was great. i for one, am one 
 of the people who support it. i was amazed how the graphics improved for c&amp; c generals and the 
 gameplay is good too. the campaign was also very fun with all of the missions that i thought wouldnt 
 end and all the super powers you could use. skirmish was even better when you could use any units, 
 structures, or powers of that faction and even play as the scrin. this is a really fun game that 
 you can play anytime, if you have the $ or requirments to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars for the PC is one of the best RTS games out there. Imagine 
 the classic War of the Worlds film and the new Spielberg flick turned into a game and you have 
 C&amp; C 3.
  The single player campaign is simply beautfiul to look at. From the live action sequences with 
 some well known actors in between missions putting you right in the action (Hey, isn't that Sawyer 
 from Lost and Dr. Cutty from House?) to the beautiful graphics, you'll feel very good about your 
 investment.
  Multiplayer and LAN is my personal favorite with this RTS. Battles can last for a long long time, 
 and it is always important to protect your tiberium and to branch out to strategic points or get 
 destroyed. With the slew of super weapons and tiberium weapons, the game can continually get more 
 and more intersting as the minutes turn to hours.
  The new race, the Scrin, is one of the most exciting editions. Just like the aliens from War of 
 the Worlds, the Scrin have the large walkers with the cannons and several other creepy and powerful 
 units to rain havoc on the GDS/Nod conflict that looks pitiful compared to the power of the Scrin.
 
  Overall, the game gets a 9.4 because it really puts you into the action. The live-action sequences 
 are fun to watch (and in HD and they look like it) and the gameplay is always fun and easy to watch 
 and play. There is nothing amazing behind the game mechanics, but it is still a blast and one of 
 the best RTS games that has ever been made! Stop reading and go get it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I never use to play RTS games, as a matter of fact i never played any games on the computer except 
 for solitare, pinball, spider solitare, hearts and free cell. Then my cousin introduced me to company 
 of hereos i liked it but i wasn't good at it. Then he downloaded C&amp; c for me and i loved it. 
 For those of you who want to know about how computer games really are challenging and still fun 
 you shoyld get this game. It has great story mode with great graphics and ofcourse it depends what 
 type of performance you PC has. But this is great game and if anyone think this game is wack then 
 they are not a RTS fan. I know because i just now became an RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NS_NIXON
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  This game is totally cool like previous C&amp; C games... I think that live action movies like in 
 Red Alert 2 game is good thing stimulating the game player to play more and more missions.
  About the graphic part... It's completely real 3D that the player is like fully included in real 
 war... But all this things require good and expensive PC configuration.
  Music included in the game is fully compatible with the game play... there are great war themes... 
 like in old RA times :) .
  There is an improvement in sound technology... I have spotted that EA put surround in this game... 
 That's the way I like it. I have no more comment... well done!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArdaXAri
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The new game of C&amp; C series brings the lastest tiberium war to all RTS lovers. The history behind 
 the game is what we've learnt from the other games so it establishes the connection between the 
 old wars to the latest one. Playing the game in campaign mode is very attractive rather than most 
 of the other RTS games because the campaign is based on very fascinating events between GDI and 
 Nod. But this time Scrin is in the game too. Our lovely Alien race demonstrates their power to 
 human race. If you play the campaings you'll figure out that all the sides has their own purposes 
 in this latest war. Scrin campaign will be available to play if you successively complete both 
 the GDI and Nod campaign. To get started GDI is the best, but for the pro-gamers Scrin awaits you 
 for the ultimate experince of RTS. The balance between the races is working efficiently. Doesn't 
 matter which side you take, you can always beat up your enemies. However, the difficulty is a problem 
 in the game. Even if you play at hard difficulty, still the game is very easy except for those 
 missions in which the difficulty selection seems not to affect the game. Some missions are very 
 easy, some are excessively difficult. Actually there is no problem for GDI campaign, but while 
 playing with Nod Kane's Tower mission would result in quitting the game and removing it from your 
 computer after trying many many times. The sounds are amazing. You'll love to hear the sound Mammoth, 
 ready for destruction. Graphics is fabulous. Selecting very high graphics would make you appriciate 
 the money you have spent on your graphics card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesuckerkiller
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  The game is great... just great! the campaign is one of the best in the C&amp; C and gives you a 
 good describtion of what is going on in the world.
  The battle are fast, and you really need to think fast if you want to survive, if you don't against 
 a hard/brutal computer or other players you're toast.
  
  What the game misses aint much, but it could really use a epic ending, like in the Nod campaign 
 where Kane the coolest evil guy ever! says that you are going to follow him into the history of 
 mankind and lead the whole tiberium transformation, it really gets you to think that something 
 really big is going to happen as soon as you follow him out the door.. but it all get bright and 
 the campaign ends.
  
  I also think they could have added some more fighting cinematics like those you see on the DVD 
 on Kane Edition 
  
  besides from all that.... ITS THE BEST C&amp; C GAME EVER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 16, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  It's hard to write this review because I'm a great fan of C&amp; C, but I'll try to keep my perspective 
 on the game and not on the name. First of all I have to say the graphic is just beautifull and 
 the engine itself is great. You can run this game on even slower computers and find no problem. 
 Thats a plus. Gameplay is a different story. Animations are cool, and the story is fine (clishey) , 
 but keeps you going untill you find out there will be another C&amp; C. Who would of guess that 
 ? :D Lets say you dont have an internet connection and you don't care about multi-player game. 
 Then this game is worth playing a while, at least untill you finish the campaign. After the campaign 
 is complete (if you dont get bored in the process) you will probably uninstall it or leave it to 
 hang around on desktop with other icons you dont use very often. Multi-player is not attractive 
 as you have no special tactics how to beat a player. Just spam of any unit should be efficient 
 enough. Strategy ? Whats that ? Just click those unit pictures and make a large number of units. 
 Next step send to enemy base. Step 3 youre the winner. Conclusion: Avoid playing this game if you 
 loved previous C&amp; C's (except for Tiberan sun... This is also big dissappointment) , or if youre 
 fan of pretty graphics and no strat skills, buy it at once. It's made just for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 16, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  Well it is finally here, the game that many was waiting to come. Command &amp; Conquer 3. With 
 the lagendary Kane appearing once more makes way for another classic C&amp; C game. Having owned 
 and played every C&amp; C game there is I can tell you that personally this game is one of the best 
 in the series, The only down falls the game has is the acting was a bit .... well poor to say the 
 least. The cinematics have seem to lost the magic with this C&amp; C game, It almost seem comic 
 seeing them in the play suits. The performance by kane was Excellent. But the Cinematics for the 
 GDI I felt like I was watching CBBC ( a childrens show.) For an experiance C&amp; C fan like my 
 self the game didn't have much to offer in ways of anything being new, it is yet setup base and 
 go kill or go fetch or go guard. After doing the main tutorial I went straight ot the NOD missions, 
 which are the most rewarding. However that might of been a mistake as after having done the NOD 
 missions, the GDI are tedious bording on completely boring. Being a fan of NOD, I've never done 
 the GDI mission even in the old Tiberium versions of C&amp; C. Next time I might try to find how 
 to unlock the scrin missions with out having to do the GDI missions.
  
  Because to be honest, I let my 5 yr old Nephew play the GDI mission and watched him crush the AI 
 on medium with out my help. Yes this is a Command &amp; conquer game, yes it does feel good, yes 
 it is good to see Kane and yes it does even feel good to be back on the battle ground with some 
 new toys to fight with. But some how C&amp; C Tiberium sun still remains the better version, for 
 this genere of C&amp; C that is the games with GDI and NOD. The Cinematics and the play acting seriously 
 let the game down this time, where the acting on Tiberium sun was more believing and done well. 
 The person who appeared for the GDI who appeared in the film Starship troopers and many other films. 
 Some how seeing him felt like doing this game just had to be a come down, Meaning he did this for 
 the money.
  
  A good game for new players experiancing C&amp; C for the first time, nothing too much for the old 
 fans though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamboonga22
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Buy It RTS Oldschool C and C w/ an overhaul, and that is just what the franchise needed. Looking 
 forward to the next installment EA. It better be like the expansion pack on generals. That was 
 a Huge improvement on the original.
  
  Thx for the game. I hope everyone enjoys it as much as I do. Don't forget to play the original, 
 if you pre ordered. Makes it more fun to play them in order.
  
  so go buy every game since 95 that has to do w/ tiberian sun and you will be happy. Generals was 
 the only standalone along w/ yuri's revenge I suppose. But from the c and c timeline the oringinal 
 TW1 happened in 2010 or so and TW2 was about 2030. TW3 is in 2048
  
  it all really started in 1996 when red alert came out. it was prquel to c and c TW WARS. you know 
 the story if not you should be ashamed. that happened instead of the real ww2 and then again except 
 russia tried to invade the usa in the 70's. 1996 was when gdi was formed. I rememeber.
  
  play on c and c fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brankinho_legen
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  excellent game of strategy , i have buy it and it was a great choice, i recommend to everyone, 
 great gameplay and sound, a live for this game, with funny missions to do, its a little hard, nice 
 visuals effects, i like when the bombs exploud, If you're a fan of the Command &amp; Conquer series, 
 three small words are bound to get you excited: Kane is back. Indeed, so are a good number of beloved 
 series hallmarks, like a huge amount of full-motion video and intense strategic combat. But Tiberium 
 Wars is a lot more than just lip service to franchise enthusiasts, and you don't need the rose-hued 
 glasses of nostalgia to appreciate its polish and intensity. It's simply a superb game that's fun 
 and exciting to play both online and off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drescoe
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 12, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game. If you want a good game it is here. But it only has three teams witch is so 
 old school. The super weapons are great. so it's a so-so game. It has great graphics then the other 
 C&amp; C games. If the units and buildings looked more like the Renegade ones i would of gave it 
 a ten. It is cool when the aliens come it's so cool. And there Mother Ship is so cool. And it is 
 not expensive. It's really great no matter how hard or easy it is you should get it. And if you 
 do not like it sell it on ebay or somthing. It's a really good game and you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyfanatic
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 12, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically an ordinary RTS. There is nothing that it does to make it different from 
 other RTS, except good cut scenes. If you have been playing Supreme Commander a lot lately, this 
 will be a poor game for you, since there isn't the zoom feature there is in SC. The sound is great, 
 though.
  
  The graphics are the one thing about this game that stand out. They are excellent as far as RTS 
 games go.
  
  The value is okay if you haven't played other C&amp; C games, since this is almost the exact same 
 thing as previous installments. So if you're dieing for a RTS, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal6666
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 12, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  the good: nice graphics nice videos nice interface easy to learn basic play
  
  the bad: The game is horribly unbalanced and really poor AI for your troops.
  
  The game as 
 a dumb AI for your troops when your soldiers spawns out of the barracks they will not even move 
 until you give them an order to do so even if the baracks that they spawn from is attacked. They 
 need to be very close and have a proximity trigger in order to go engage the ennemy on their own. 
 I really extremely hated that part of the game and it turned me off completely. That lack of AI 
 ability was excusable 10 years ago but not now, Because of this you can't rely on your troops to 
 defend your base while you are elsewhere on the map doing something else or trying to manage a 
 strike against an ennemy.
  
  You always seem to run out of tiberium no matter if you move to another source on the map.
  
 
  The ennemy Ai can become extremely aggressive if you try to be cocky in the game and it will overwhelm 
 you with tons of vehicules to whip your butt in a few moments if you try to go full blast against 
 the ennemy
  
  My regular soldiers are worth crap against even the most basic of vehicules. It takes like 50 soldiers 
 to blow up a dune buggy while it takes a few armored one to do the trick.
  
  Trying to shoot a dune buggy with my regular soldiers was the same exact thing as going against 
 a tank... what gives?!
  
  Some ennemy units are way to powerfull like the flame tanks which will fry your troops in a hurry. 
 Dune buggies have armor rating against regular troopers.
  
  Overall the game is fun but the unbalancing of some units and a dumb AI for my troops made me uninstall 
 the game in disgust.
  
  Also Because the winning combination to approach the ennemy is so tightly linear you may have to 
 play the same mission over and over until you find the right combination to win your battle.
  
  Example: you may make 50 soldiers to go out and attack the ennemy, one dune buggy comes and 
 wipes out your troops like they were mere flees on a dog. You redo the same battle and send in 
 a few armored soldiers and they wipe out those dune buggy in a hearbeat.
  
  So unless you go out and use the proper troops or equipment at the proper time in the game while 
 playing you won't win.
  
  That does not leave you a lot of margin of maneuver because you have to figure out in advanced 
 what to do in order to win and if you do not take this path you don't stand a chance.
  
  Patches may balance things out but when i send 50 regular guy and make them shoot at a dune buggy 
 and they get toasted by said vehicule... something is wrong to me.....
  
  nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gheophrie
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 12, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Back when the RTS genre was young, things were simpler. The number of distinct units and structures 
 was smaller, their capabilities fewer, and the overall tactical situation was simpler. This lent 
 itself to the fast-paced, frenetic game-play characteristic of the best RTS games of yesteryear.
 
  
  Things have changed. We now have more units, in terms of variety as well as overall army size. 
 These units can be deployed in multiple configurations. Building queues have expanded. Unit order 
 queues not only exist but can be quite complex. There's just a lot more going on. And since when 
 is more of a good thing bad? For this gamer, it's been since I played Command &amp; Conquer 3.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong. C&amp; C 3 is fun, without a doubt. Missions are fresh, varied and interesting. 
 Each faction has its own distinct style and assortment of units (with some overlap among the more 
 primitive types) . Combat is pretty much non-stop throughout the whole game, and, after all, that's 
 why we're here: to blow stuff up.
  
  There's also a lot to do. Units and structures can be healed or repaired. Defensive structures, 
 of which there are many types, can (and should) be optimally placed. The ubiquitous rock-paper-scissors 
 relationship among your units needs to be managed; it's crucial that you use the right unit against 
 your opponent's unit, and with about a dozen different types, things get complicated fast.
  
  This is not unique to C&amp; C 3. Things have been trending this way since the birth of the 
 genre, and we love it. The problem is, at least in the single-player mode, the computer opponent 
 has no difficulty making and executing literally thousands of decisions in a second. It's the ultimate 
 micro-manager, Every unit can be individually ordered to attack the right opponent, retreat to 
 be healed, and return to combat, all without your CPU breaking a virtual sweat. This disparity 
 of capability between we humans and our silicon counterparts has typically been handled with a 
 very simple solution: the pause feature. And in C&amp; C 3, this great and necessary equalizer is 
 conspicuously absent.
  
  Some players might prefer to ignore this option, which is fine. As an option, one is free to ignore 
 it. For those of us, however, who prefer a more deliberated approach, the creators of C&amp; C 3 
 have, quite deliberately, denied us the game we want to play. Several times in the single-player 
 campaign, the player inherits a partially (or fully) constructed base. Unfortunately, you have 
 to spend precious seconds (an eternity for your computer opponent) reviewing what you have and 
 deciding what you need. Another frequent occurrence is the rush , where you find your base under 
 assault from a sizable and varied force. As you watch your computer-controlled enemy units meticulously 
 eliminating each of your units with surgical precision, each matched to the ideal opposing unit, 
 your own forces don't seem to pick the best target on their own. Of course, you can give them an 
 explicit target, but you've also got to repair buildings, pull back units for healing or repair, 
 and continue to add buildings you need to the build queue.
  
  All of this micro-management is not a bad thing in and of itself, especially in multi-player mode 
 where your opponent is subject to the same limitations you are. Also, some players have no interest 
 in a slower-paced game, instead preferring to keep things moving constantly. There's nothing wrong 
 with that if that's the game you want to play. It becomes very frustrating for the deliberative 
 player, though, when you can't play the deep and thoughtful real time strategy game you've come 
 to expect and grown to love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ds_radeon9200
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 11, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I've played many rts games in my lifetime... but C&amp; C 3 has proven to be one of the worst. One 
 of the worst choices I've ever made and not to mention a waste of 55 bucks. This is the first review 
 I've ever written and i'm sadden that it's about a disatisfying game.
  
  From watching videos of the gameplay, it first seemed to be rather intriguing, but as I proceeded 
 in playing it, it became rather dull and lame. I was never into the C&amp; C series due to the lack 
 of satisfaction from playing several of the games, but seriously, this game makes me just want 
 to take the cd/box out and smash it into bits and pieces. I don't understand why people see this 
 game as even decent, it doesn't compare with Supreme Commander. The graphics are nothing such as 
 SupCom (Even with C&amp; C3 video settings set to full, i'd rather play SupCom in the lowest settings) , 
 and I must say that SupCom requires alot more strategy and thinking. Now i'm not here to boast 
 about SupCom and inferiorate C&amp; C3, but from reading several forum topics about the two, i dont 
 see how C&amp; C3 even compares with SupCom or other rts games. Obviously, this is just my opinion, 
 but i leave you a suggestion to not waste your money and time for such a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenwaiy
Rating: 5
Date: May 11, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Is not the best of Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium War but it worth playing. It not addictive 
 has Command &amp; Conquer Red alert or Command &amp; Conquer general. Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium 
 War just above average games for me. Bring back westwood!!! Even generals was better than this
 
  
  
  
  
  
  The game is overated there are good sides though graphics are nice if your playing on high but 
 (was there music or a soundtrack) well it's note that noticable due for it being normal. Well yes 
 the game is nice but after playing with the 3 teams you'll get bored as you can only build 2 units 
 (the elite ones) and that's it others are extremely useless when faced against defences they just 
 blow up without inflicting any damage. As for the commanders or generals I get why they should 
 be stealthed but the enemies units 75% of them can detect stealth which makes them COMPLETELY useless 
 unless.
  
  (ps the worst part is there have cheat ( trainer : ( ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_ICE-MONKEY_X
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  For a game that costs close to $100 and more for the special edition, you'd expect some pretty 
 good results. Command &amp; Conquer 3 delivers spectacular visuals and excellent game play that 
 makes it a near 10 out of 10. Featuring classic features like FMV's and characters from previous 
 C&amp; C games and revamped graphics and audio with a mixture of new and innovative strategy commands, 
 Command &amp; Conquer 3 is the perfect RTS for a new comer or a seasoned C&amp; C fan. Controlling 
 massive forces in the palm of your hand is easier with the C&amp; C sidebar command interface and 
 familiar units and factions will put C&amp; C veterans right were they belong, not just the old 
 things in the game are cool the new stuff such as planning mode and formation preview make crushing 
 your opponents easy and enjoyable. The single player campaign spans far enough to satisfy your 
 wants without boring you to death, the storyline is creative and follows the previous command and 
 conquer games. It was the best $100 I ever spent, C&amp; C 3 is just shy of perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guruv
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 10, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  When I started the game, I got really into it. Thanks to a well discplined internal clock, I have 
 learnt to stop at a decent time and continue another time without disrupting my work routine. After 
 playing since it came out, I am stuck. Damn! it. It always happens just when I am getting into 
 the groove and I get bogged down. But I will prevail and get out the seemingly impossible mess. 
 Performance is very good but then I have a very good system to play on with a large flat screen 
 monitor with surround sound system. Cant complain on performance but I feel I can do better by 
 tweaking.
  
  Gameplay is solid and smooth. Artists like BD Williams, Ironside, Morrison et. all add a good structured 
 flow to the events. Sound is very good.
  
  On the flip side, they could have made the bunkers reusable. Trust me! Having a clutter of bunkers 
 is a bloody waste of space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alvega
Rating: 6
Date: May 10, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I doubt there is a bigger C&amp; C fan out there than me. The thing is, from what i read from reviews 
 i was expecting a BIG improvement in this game, something new. This is the biggest flop i have 
 ever seen. I wonder why some people (like the guy who reviewed the game here give this game high 
 ratings. Listen to me, i bought it, played 2 levels and uninstalled it. And i am the biggest C&amp; C 
 fan. This is nothing but more of the same. I was conned by this Gamespot review to buy the game 
 and now i regret it. Nothing new, just some blast effects. I prefer Red Alert or C&amp; C Generals 
 100 times. Avoid this, nothing to lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herbie12282
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  So what's in there that's new, what's been brought back from the old, and what freaking rocks? 
 I'll tell you. New are the graphics. they're gorgeous. even though the SAGE engine has got a few 
 years under it's belt, it still looks great for this type of RTS. The game is super scalable and 
 runs like it's on bullet train rails as long as you set the settings accordingly. Back from the 
 old school is the right side seated command bar/radar/build menu's. if you've played Red Alert 
 2, you know how to play this. Combat is quick so practice up on your click click before venturing 
 online. From what i've experienced, multiplayer matchmaking has some serious issues that hopefully 
 have or will be ironed out. Back also are the cheesetacular live action cutscenes. they're so corny, 
 you'll love them. Billy Dee Lando Williams, Michael Sam Fisher Ironside, The guy from Lost, the 
 original actor who played Kane, and some hotties in pleather clothing bring these high school drama 
 class caliber scenes to life. now for the numbers, 3 factions, approx 30-35 campaign missions, 
 about 20 skirmish maps, and up to 8 player skirmish and MP battles make this one great C&amp; C 
 package. My only gripes, no walls (yet...) but the code was left in the game so they could be added 
 by modding, or perhaps by EALA themselves in a later patch. And the other gripe, no I'm a Mechanical 
 Man in the soundtrack. I have to tip my comically oversized hat to EA on this one, they actually 
 did a great job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaEliteCommando
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 9, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  Before i wrote my review, i read some of the other players reviews. i see people have missed some 
 parts when talking about the game. EA games brought back the interface of Red Alert and upgraded 
 it with the game style of Generals, removing some of the glitches the fans hate in both games. 
 However, the game is not perfect yet. I nearly finished the game, and still don't know how to heal 
 the infantry...
  
  For new comers, the game is a must have. The game has a unique style in RTS, which is not found 
 in other present RTS games. Moreover, the story line of the game is just amazing, and makes sence, 
 in both campaigns.
  
  Considering the Multiplayer, i've tried it quite a few times. I've found out that the game is very 
 stable, the AI is not stupid like all other games (at least it changes its moves!) and the action 
 is just wonderfull. For me, i've played all the series and the game is just perfect. When i first 
 got it, it was so addictive till i finished the missions. Now, i just play skirmish and multiplayers 
 and never get bored! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxpoo521xx
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 7, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  how the **** do u get past croatia?????????? this game causes more stress and anger than enjoyment. 
 EA sucks at all strategy games.. when will they give up?? Bring back westwood!!! Even generals 
 was better than this.. and i thought that was horrible.. I see everyone saying what a good game 
 Zero Hour is but it is just simple a pile of crap.. doesnt anyone remember the days of Command 
 and Conquer: Red Alert or Tiberian Sun?? The graphics are ok but u need a top-of-the-line machine 
 to run it like ALL pc games and why spend $1,500 to play a measly game?? Because you'll just have 
 to upgrade it AGAIN in 6 months to play another great game which will cost another $1,500. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kambosa
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 may be the best strategy game presented.... I liked generals but this is just 
 amazing. It really succeeds to immerse you in a war.. you feel the action as never before. And with 
 the new improved graphics it really gets addictive.
  
  The gameplay doesn't change much from the old Command and Conquer ... and is still great, and sound 
 is also good.
  
  In the end ... if you are a RTS fan or new to this type of games ... it is a must .. and believe 
 this, you will never regret this experience...... GREAT GAME.......
   
 
 
     
 ..............
     
 ............
  ................... .................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............................. 
 ............................ ......
  ..................... ........................... ......................... ......................... 
 ........................... . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfspck
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C 3 is fun to play and look at but going back to the placing buildings around the Construction 
 yard i thought was a bad move, aftergiving poeple a chance to build where ever in Generals to go 
 back seemed mid-evil. Still story line is awsome and real-life movie cut are cool except when they 
 cut in the middle of your campaign, i still give it a 9.3.
  I never played Tiberium Sun or any of the ones with Tiberium in the name so the whole Kane coming 
 back wasn't that impressive to me but it was still interesting and i feel like playing the old 
 one to see where all the Tiberium came from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMEndur
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 6, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a total letdown and can&acute; t even be compared too a 2003 game like Generals Zero Hour! 
 It's a multiplayer joke! When i think in real strategie games i wan&acute; t a funtastic game to 
 play against humans! If you want a single player game, well its good, good movies, nice missions! 
 But in multiplayer its soo lame that i couldn&acute; t play more than 12 games! By the way, i played 
 more than 3000 in Generals Zero Hour and sometimes i still manage to go there and play a bit more! 
 PLAY GENERALS ZERO HOUR MULTIPLAYER ONLINE - ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH 
 ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZH ZERO HOUR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcloki
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 6, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Tiberium infection detected at EA studios ...... creativity levels dropping. Yet anoter franchise 
 bought over, yet another franchise destroyed. Ever notice how the EA symbol keeps poping up where 
 your old time favourite games producers logos used to be?
  
  Really I don't mind this at all but I think the question everyone asks EA is, Why can't you be 
 more like Ubisoft? 
  
  So what has really changed in the next installment of Command &amp; Conquer?
  
  Well lets see, 
 Command &amp; Conquer: Generals, was the previous installment to this one. For the bad guys (Terrorists) , 
 it had: stealth units, fast attack units, suicide bombers....
  
  For the good guys (America) , it had: tanks, APCs, grenadiers.....
  
  So the main changes are? 
 ..... nothing
  
  Any new cool weapons of mass destruction? ..... NOT REALLY
  
  What is new? OOOOO! a playable alien race, Anyone remember Star Craft ? Enough said......
  
 
  So, how does the campaign go? Some of the same old, same old......
  
  Hang on just a minute! Maybe i'm being a bit to harse in my review, maybe they have redeemed themselves 
 in the Scirmish mode. After all, how many hours did dedicated players spend playing there favourite 
 Westwood titles on scirmish mode after finishing the campaign? Can you turn off weapons of mass 
 destruction? ........ NO
  
  Can you assign players in the same team with the same colour? ..... NO
  
  Are all sides balanced 
 to a fair degree? ....... Well i managed to take out two enemy bases with two alien battle criusers 
 alone, actually heres a little tip for anyone thats going to play online. GO THE ALIENS! Maximum 
 number of players on any one map? ......... 8, a bit like Dawn of War then. Obviously not trying 
 to breach any barriers there.
  
  Is there capture the base? or hold the base? or sudden death? or any sort of choice of scrimish? 
 ............ NOT ON YOUR LIFE
  
  Yes, there we have it, a long wait for nothing. To be totally honest PLAY THE DEMO FOR THE GAME, 
 THATS IT YOUR DONE, NOT MUCH MORE TO SEE, MIGHT AS WELL STOP THERE AND SAVE YOURSELF SOME MONEY.
 
  
  If you really have to buy this game, like I felt I did after being a dedicated fan for so long 
 and your also a fan of really BAD acting, then play the GDI campaign first. It's laughable.
  
  There we go, I did find something good about this game, its comedy value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  One of the great RTS games I ever played. Nice story line with nice movies. Game play is great 
 and several type of units to command. Missions are vary from one to other, so no boring feelings 
 about the missions. I love the super weapons available in the game, which are so cool. Graphics 
 are great two ( If your pc can handle better graphics) . Taking about available building structures, 
 they are cool and with great options. So your can really use them well ( Specially for defend your 
 camp ) . Several drawbacks with the game play, one is the absence of the easy grouping technique 
 that can be use to group several kind of units together (By only using mouse) . No advance view 
 changes with the map view ( Which is a good feature of new RTS games ) . Cannot rotate buildings 
 as you want when placing them, sometimes this become really annoying. Apart from these drawbacks 
 this is a great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duaneian
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I ve ever played and one of the best in the universe. It has the 
 most graphics and beautiful graphics and a hell lot of superb sound that shocks you. And the gameplay, 
 wooooooooooooooowww. Waht a tremendous game on the earth. It makes you like you are in the game. 
 wonderful game such a good and fabioulous game. I dont know why some pepole gave it a 3 or less 
 this was the best and is the best game ive plasyed in my whole life of 14 years. but i have to 
 terll you something i havent played this game yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noxious_inferio
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 6, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  Ok , the game is incredible when it comes to graphics , the new control panel is a perfect update 
 for the classic version , and the AI is descent , but i most certainly expected more when it comes 
 to unit and character designs , most of the units in this game are a blast from the past , many 
 of the things that where present in tiberian sun r not even there , where r the base walls , paving 
 , gates , NOD subterranian units , fire storm defence of GDI , EMP tanks and cannons , fast attack 
 NOD fighters , many things like these made tiberian sun a real marvel to play , countless strategic 
 opportunities were created from these things , they're all gone , and we are back to basics now 
 , its more of a super number thrash attack , build up enough tanks and attack , thats it! , also 
 the units and their designs don't go with the story's time line , NOD cyborg soldiers were a must 
 have in this game , GDI walker units r supposed to be present , but instead we r back to the basic 
 tank designs of the first command and conquer in 1998 ! , all in all , the game looks excellent 
 , but no creativity or depth , it seems that the whole EA creative team has been put in designing 
 the scrin race -and they have done one hell of a job there - but forgot all about NOD and GDI ! 
 , the Scrin r a good effort but not the best , the movies r cool , but nothing interesting really 
 , in tiberian sun there were cut scenes from the battles themselves , but the movies here r no 
 more than chitchatting , Kucane was a blast thou , any ways the game is playable and enjoyable 
 , for a new player it should be cool , for old school like myself , i find the game quite enjoyable 
 for a fast , on the run blast , but thats it , no depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umerfawi
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  you're a fan of the Command &amp; Conquer series, three small words are bound to get you excited: 
 Kane is back. Indeed, so are a good number of beloved series hallmarks, like a huge amount of full-motion 
 video and intense strategic combat. But Tiberium Wars is a lot more than just lip service to franchise 
 enthusiasts, and you don't need the rose-hued glasses of nostalgia to appreciate its polish and 
 intensity. It's simply a superb game that's fun and exciting to play both online and off.
  No matter which of the two main campaigns you start off with, you're rewarded with a whole lot 
 of live-action video in between missions, featuring familiar actors getting hammy in near-future 
 command centers. There's never been anything subtle about C&amp; C's full-motion video, and, true 
 to form, the campaigns are loaded with wonderfully overblown sequences filled with intrigue and 
 suspense. Yes, Joe Kucan has returned as Nod figurehead Kane, and he's as irresistibly creepy as 
 ever. He and other familiar actors serve up a heap of extravagant solemnity against a backdrop 
 of flashing lights and important-looking video screens. If you think it sounds over the top, you'd 
 be right -- but it's cheesy in the good way, and it won't take you long to get involved in the story 
 and the characters that drive it. The narrative is structured well, with the Global Defense Initiative 
 and Brotherhood of Nod campaigns telling the same story from opposing viewpoints. There's also 
 a new player in the mix: the alien Scrin race. At this stage in the series, the mineral tiberium 
 has propagated over most of the Earth, but it's more than just an environmental plight -- it's a 
 key to future technology. It'll take you a couple dozen hours to get through the campaigns, and 
 just when you think you've finished, there are a few surprise missions in store, and they are well 
 worth the time it takes to unlock them. There are also plenty of reasons to return to the campaign 
 once you're done, since the game rewards you with medals based on your performance and tracks a 
 good number of statistics for you to chew on. The missions themselves are incredibly varied and 
 involve a lot more than destroying an enemy base or defending a particular structure. You'll have 
 to do these things, of course, but you have both primary and secondary objectives to complete, 
 which include using engineers to capture certain buildings, amassing beam cannons to take out defenses, 
 or teaming up with your sworn enemy to defend against alien attack. You'll be doing it all in a 
 variety of real-world theaters, such as Washington, DC, downtown Sydney, and the eerily dry Amazon 
 basin. The near-future take on familiar locales makes the intense battles feel even more thrilling, 
 because the settings are recognizable and meaningful. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deaths_Vanguard
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 5, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  First of all the graphics are fantastic (as long as you got a good PC and i'm talking overall high 
 to very high spec) . I was hit by the menu screen which is just brilliant, the visuals and also 
 the atmospheric music is just great. The acting is firstly done by well known actors and also done 
 very well, even if cheesey at points lol.
  
  I also liked the fact that there is a movie sequence after each mission and those sequences are 
 worth watching. The structures and so forth are good as well and the modifications from previous 
 games like C&amp; C Generals are impressive too. One thing to pick though is the variety which didn't 
 really bother me to be honest just there isn't as much variety in units and upgrades as there was 
 in generals but of course, there could be a expansion pack on the way, who knows but this game 
 seems like it doesn't leave any room for expanding.
  
  Overall, it's amazing, the graphics are suberb and done very well, the gameplay is fantastic but 
 in my opinion, its kinda lacked in the good old heavy rock C&amp; C genre of music which was clearly 
 present in previous games, ah well. No game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyringo_2007
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  The good: highly polished sage engine blows the doors off of any other RTS game currently out there 
 graphically. Intuitive well designed interface. Highly intelligent AI allows for fierce LAN and 
 solo scrimmages.
  
  The bad: doesn't have any oceans or water based units as some of the earlier versions of the series 
 did. Some minor balance issues that will be eventually worked out. Lots of jealous haters trying 
 to down play the game. World builder is a resource hog and overly complicated. The main focus of 
 this review is the multi player aspect, whether playing online, on a lan or a scrimmage against 
 the AI.
  
  Any RTS fan shouldn't miss this game, I've briefly looked at the single player campaigns, from 
 what I've seen and read they are challenging and immersive, just as the original Command and Conquer 
 campaigns were. This series has a certain feel to it that is highly addictive and with this new 
 version it seems to have taken the standard of quality to new heights. And with cast members like: 
 Billy Dee Williams, Michael Ironside,&amp; Tricia Helfer its apparent to me that EA pulled out 
 all the stops. I feel absolute confidence in recommending the campaign, and solo play aspect of 
 the game.
  
  The game runs as smooth as silk on a Pentium D 2.8 (OC to 3.3 Ghz) a GB of ram, and a Geforce 7900 
 GS. @ 1280x1024 Res. Nothing I've seen or played to date comes close. The graphics are clean, pure 
 eye candy. The sound quality is also good, the voice acting is above average and the sound effects 
 are right on par with the rest of the game.
  
  The interface actually sets the mark for a RTS genre game, its very easy to use, in my opinion; 
 would work excellent for a real world military simulation.
  
  The factions and units are diversified and intriguing. With the addition of the Scrin, (The alien 
 race) we see something new introduced to the series, an excellent addition indeed. The nod are 
 very powerful and are actually my faction of choice. The GDI seem to be a combination of the original 
 US, and Soviet Union. An expansion with a new playable race will be very fitting for this already 
 great game. The addition of water based units would also be very welcomed and a nice compliment 
 to an already awesome technological achievement. I'm very picky and critical of games, being an 
 old school long time avid gamer, I have no ifs ands or buts about give this game a solid 2 thumbs 
 up. It would be nice to see EA polish the world builder to be more user friendly, as a map designer 
 of the original Unreal Tournament CTF maps, I consider myself skilled or at least competent in 
 level design, the current world builder is just barely about a step above plant life, a serious 
 disappointment to say the least. I will close with saying the replay value of the game is also 
 excellent, due to the multi player aspect. I would foresee a larger community base if the world 
 builder were slightly more functional. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grootelaar
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Wel for me it's the best game ever made. Because it's the most beautiful graphics you have ever 
 seen.
  But you need a fast and good PC.
  It wil also come to the XBOX 360 that means harder game play.
  It's hard to play RTS games on 
 console.
  The story begins when the Philadelphia is destroyed and Kane resurrected.
  From the dead.
  (I really hate that guy he's my number 1 enemy in the game) .
  And Later in 
 the game you will battle a alien race called the Scrin.
  It's a really strange race to me.
  Wel i ken only say one thing.
  Buy this game ore the world is DOOMED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voredor
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 4, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  The game is overated there are good siedes though graphics are nice if your playing on high but 
 (was there music or a soundtrack) well it's note that noticable due for it being normal. Well yes 
 the game is nice but after playing with the 3 teams you'll get bored as you can only builed 2 units 
 (the elite ones) and that's it others are extremely useless when faced against defences they just 
 blow up without inflicting any damage. As for the commanders or generals I get why they should 
 be stealthed but the enrmies units 75% of them can detect stealth which makes them COMPLETELY usless 
 unless. I can assure you that you'll get excited when buying the game and exploring every unit 
 and structure but after that it makes you feel like you don't want to play it again, due to the 
 lack of Teams and units which are put just to make more structures so they are available. If they 
 make a expansion pack like the Zero-hour and adding more options then that is a different story, 
 (or start by making REDALERT 3 or something) . Overall this game was very disappointing for me and 
 it only took me 3 days to shift back to LOR and Zero-hour.
  
  If you don't agree with well, every one is entiteled to his opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princegee4
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 3, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Game play and Graphics
  Its up to you to which faction you want to start the Tiberium War. The game starts with a teaser, 
 a live video cast. As all in the previous episodes this game is also great in playing. The old 
 user interface bar is back and this mean you can build a unit or a building from any part of the 
 game map. The visuals are jaw dropping and after COH and Supreme Commander this game is the best 
 RTS of 2007 with great visuals. If you have a powerful machine you can enjoy the destruction of 
 buildings and planes in a great fashion.
  
  The graphics of the game are phenomenal and let you feel the glory of the game at its best. The 
 best feature in graphics is that the frame rate limit is set to 30 frames max no matter how heavy 
 machine you are using to play the game. You cant get more than 30 frames on any machine. The units 
 are beautifully detailed. Environmet is awesome and buildings look great on high shader quality. 
 The damage system is great and when you destroy a building with a stealth bomber or with artillery 
 barrage the destruction is so awesome that you dont want to miss a single scene. The game play 
 is nice and balanced and it provides same amount of fun and enjoyment to new comers to C&amp; C 
 series. The learning cruve is around half an hour. The point of discussion is the AI of the game. 
 The AI is really great and you can easily mention it as one of the best AIs of 2007 RTS games. 
 You have a lot of units in all 3 factions to chose and use different combination of units to break 
 the enemy defence lines or to sneak behind enemy lines to kick some heavy pushes.
  
  The bad thing which I observed in the v1.0 and also in v1.4 of the game is the balance issue problem 
 of the units. For example if you are playing with GDI and you get 4 or 5 mamonth tanks then you 
 will definitely crush the enemy vichles and flatter their buildings and infantry, no matter rocket 
 infantry, has no chance to stand against them. In NOD same problem persists with the Avatars which 
 are the most heavy unit of that side. With Siren their airforce is untouchable with their attacking 
 fleets you can break the enemy air defence quite easily. These things made the game a bit crazy 
 and sometime you feel that its the most easiest game of 2007. Another problem is the compatibility 
 issue of the game is with Window Vista 32 and 64 bit versions. The game crashes, hangs out, freez 
 and many other **** happens. I upgraded the game to v 1.4 but the problem still remains. The skrimsh 
 mode of the game is not as good as you found in C&amp; C ZH. But despite these problems this game 
 is a must buy for all RTS lovers.
  Sound
  The sound quality of the game is great. The tank roaring towards enemy base and you can clearly 
 hear the sound of rubble under the tanks. The rocket fire sound are great. The dialogue quality 
 of the game is really great and EA done a great job in bring the live videos in game play. The 
 planes sound best and when they drop off their load then the sound gets great. From sound point 
 of view this game is best.
  
  Multi-Player
  The MP of the game is good. Here I said good not great and the reason for that is there are some 
 bugs which cant let you play the game. You most of time get timed out in lobby and then you have 
 to start the game form the scratch. Another reason of not great MP is that you dont need combination 
 of units to tackle the counter of enemy and to enter the enemy base. This thing annoys me and I 
 missed C&amp; CZH quite badly for its great and outstanding MP. (I have installed the C&amp; CZH 
 to have some fun) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srocciso
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game !!!! Truly a masterpiece from EA, I own a lot of games from them and this is the first 
 one that makes me recognize EA.
  The level of detail in the game is amazing, the units are really balanced and the campaign is truly 
 breathtaking with the &uml; movie&uml; style cinematics that really immerse you in the game.
  I&acute; m a hardcore RTS fan and since Warcraft III I&acute; ve never enjoyed a campaign so much 
 as this one, even the Company of Heroes campaigns are not this excellent (even though CoH has one 
 of the best strategy I&acute; ve ever encounter, it&acute; s definitely another must-play) .
  I never played the other C&amp; C games since I thought them kind of a Starcraft-like games, but 
 they really hit a home run with this one.
  If you like games, you HAVE to play this one. It&acute; s a MUST !!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Just make it even better!
  
  This is certainly true when it comes to Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars.
  
  Lets give 
 credit where credit is due, and specifically to the developers of this series which has really 
 been going for quite a long time by now. When the original came out way back when, it was already 
 a good game and its pretty hard to make something thats already good better all the time.
  
  From my own experience, I know that its not that often that you can take a game out of the 
 box, start installing it and simply get that very warm and fuzzy feeling that this is going to 
 be a real good one.
  
  Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars was one of those ones for me.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  From 
 the outset, the game just looks brilliant (if you have the right hardware as always) with a very 
 effective and good looking interface. The video scenes between games in the campaign mode almost 
 bring back a sense of nostalgia for an old-school guy like me and if you really want to do yourself 
 a favor, pick up the Kane Edition that comes with an entire Bonus DVD with lots of extras, video 
 footage and such.
  
  The good news is that the guys have really gone full-out with real actors and therefore good acting 
 and scripting as one would have expected with the amount of experience and investment in this franchise 
 after all this time.
  
  From a playing perspective, the recipe sticks to what these guys know has worked and still works. 
 There are the usual GDI and NOD weapons and units one would definitely expect, with some fairly 
 nice super weapons if one can call them that. The pace is just right as far as the single-player 
 campaign is concerned with none of the individual games too difficult or too easy, especially for 
 those unfortunate readers that may have missed out on the Command &amp; Conquer series to date 
 and may be new to the whole thing that is almost definitive from an RTS perspective as far as I 
 am concerned.
  
  Some of the games later in the single-player campaign do tend to make a bit of a meal of things 
 and may become a bit tedious just to get them done, not that they cannot be mastered from a difficulty 
 perspective.
  
  The real change here that has made it even better as I mentioned before, is the addition of a third 
 race if you will, called the Scrinn, This faction brings a whole new dynamic to gameplay, since 
 their weapons and technology are somewhat different than we have all become used to in the GDI 
 and NOD factions.
  
  For those avid fans of Supreme Commander (count me in) , dont expect the same type of massive, 
 global strategy approach. Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars is really more about fast, effective 
 and decisive tactical decision-making in much smaller theatres of war than would the case in Supreme 
 Commander for example, which brings with it its own unique challenges in terms of the availability 
 of units, resources and how far youve progressed along the tech tree.
  
  As far as multi-player is concerned, you will have access to virtually an infinite variety of games 
 or even make your own ones if you have the inclination.
  
  Just make sure you have mastered the basics before venturing forth as they say, otherwise you may 
 just be blasted into oblivion (no pun intended) before the first minute is over.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are simply great as Ive said before, with little nuances like heat 
 hazes below aircraft when they come in for landing and such, all of which make for some real delights 
 in the eye candy department.
  
  Be warned though, as always, that this obviously only applies if you have the right level of hardware 
 to run it on.
  
  Sound:
  
  With a true cast of real actors, a good script and a proven score, the game is also hard to fault 
 in this department, not to mention the in-game sound-effects, etc.
  
  Value:
  
  With the addition of the Scrinn, the game has certainly added a huge new dimension in terms of 
 re-playability from a single-player perspective. Now you can really look at the consequences of 
 our home planet slowly dying with Tiberium infestation from three different perspectives instead 
 of just the old GDI and ultimately my own personal favorite  Kanes perspective.
  
  So, from a value point of view, this must certainly be right up there compared to earlier releases 
 in the series that were already good value as far as I am concerned.
  
  Who Should Get It:
  
  Just about anyone who enjoys the RTS genre or has played any of the earlier 
 releases of this series.
  
  Who Shouldnt Bother:
  
  I cant really think of anyone, unless playing a really great RTS game is definitely not your cup 
 of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  To tell you the truth, I never liked very much the C&amp; C style. Red Alert was &amp; is the best 
 C&amp; C game. Like I said, I thought TibWars wouldn't be a good game. But it exeeded my expectations 
 &amp; it turned out to be one of the best RTS games available. The concept is the same as in the 
 other C&amp; C games, nothing very new, but it's all packed together so good that it's not bad. The 
 graphics are not too special, it's the same engine from Battle for Middle Earth II, but there are 
 so many beautiful effects, so it all looks great. As for the sound, one comment: superb. What I liked 
 the most was the actors who played in the cutscenes.&amp; it was like WOW when I saw &amp; heard 
 JOSH HALLOWAY -YEAH, SAWYER FROM LOST giving me briefings &amp; sending me special units. Not to 
 mention the guy from Starship Troopers &amp; the two guys from Battlestar Galactica. There are 
 3 campaigns, with GDI, Nod &amp; Scrin. But the story is the same in all, but there are other missions, but 
 the common ones end the same-that's great. So a great strategy game, maby the best of this year 
 untill World in Conflict &amp; Opposing Fronts. Important thing: NOD BEATS 'EM ALL .GDI is dead. NOD 
 RULEZZZZZZ. PEACE TROUGH POWER!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malstyne
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 3, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  Got excited, bought it, played it, and 4 hours later, threw it in the box of crappy games to sit 
 in the closet.
  
  Units:
  there are a good number of units and structures, which follows suit with the rest of the C&amp; C 
 titles
  
  Strategy:
  There really isn't much. Most games always result in cranking out 1 or 2 of the most powerful unit 
 types in mass, as the rest tend to get blown up too fast to be of any use.
  
  Campaign:
  Same ol Same ol with some good videos and cutscenes.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Almost every game is 
 over in 5 minutes or less, win or lose. There are a few build orders that people will use and totally 
 obliterate anyone not preprared. you basically have to roll the dice on what your opponent will 
 do and if you rolled badly, then you lose, if not then you win. No strategy at all in that. Online 
 games might have been more fun if they would have cut dmg on all units and structures to 30%. As 
 it stand you can wipe or be wiped in 5 minutes with a few units.
  
  I saw nothing that sets this game apart from any other RTS out there and really do not understand 
 its high rating at all. I would have given it a 6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0rd_4r11y
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  You always it loved Command &amp; Conquer, certainly will like Tiberium Wars, not only for the 
 diversion that the series always promoted, but also for the special devotion that the development 
 team gave to the way on-line.
  
  The game is with face of super production of Hollywood, for the fact that they had been used hours 
 of scenes with real actors, this becomes the immersion better still. It detaches is for the rapidity 
 with that the battles happen, in few minutes of game, already it gives to observe units if directing 
 for the battle. Although everything this, old bug of the shades continues 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddemios
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 1, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------------------
  Overall Gameplay: 5/10
  ------------------------------------
  This game is very slow moving, for a current time game, 
 the RTS should expand in the campaign at least allowing you to keep your base and units while the 
 campaign lasts for hours. Instead map sizes are extremely small and campaign takes place in small 
 bursts. The campaign is also rather predicable and unfulfilling, once the player completes the 
 campaigns, they feel unsatisfied.
  
  General unit depth is good however not great. Three factions, with slight differences from a cookie 
 cutter molding are somewhat of a genre staple in RTS games currently. Looking at the game series 
 track record, within other games in this series the unit depth and structure depth was rather large 
 verse what is in this game currently.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Graphics: 9/10
  ------------------------------------
  The graphics are great, however 
 that is what EA is banking on in order to make up for other issues. When playing network games 
 with friends, some of my friends have problems playing more then with a few people due to computer 
 resources required to play this game. I have no problems and can play this game in max quality. 
 Over all the graphics are pretty good based in its current time frame. However this feels like 
 a Battle for Middle Earth engine clone. They claim this can play well on dated computers, however 
 this hardly holds up well on dated computer which it was tested on. Generally, it is recommended 
 to play this with a recent or new personal computer.
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Sound: 6/10
  ------------------------------------
  Their general music seems not very 
 inspirational and extremely unsatisfying. There will be times where in game music does not play 
 at all because some of it is directly tied to if you are in battle or not. Most people, including 
 myself, will either play other music instead of listing to the in game music. Have unique sounds 
 for ever unit is currently standard for RTS games. ------------------------------------
  Overall Value: 6/10
  ------------------------------------
  There are many issues and problems 
 which could have been ironed out. EA also took a while to support the community tools, which is 
 also a major part of games currently and increases gameplay value. Playing this game online adds 
 to the overall value of the game, however not by much. What really add to the value of the game 
 are the communities which will either modify the game or create maps and campaigns for this game.
 
  
  ------------------------------------
  Reviewer's Tilt: 6/10
  ------------------------------------
  Personally Im a big fan of so the series and most of the 
 games which are linked to the series. However this game is pretty much a Battle for Middle Earth 
 graphic and game engine mixed with Zero Hour. Sure there are some changes and things for the better; 
 however overall for a current game, it would have been better. This game is still worth picking 
 up and trying out.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhiti
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer III Tiberium Wars is the most addictive RTS game I have ever played. It brings 
 back the old memory of the previous C &amp; C game, Tiberium Sun. The game play of this sequel 
 is still the same, but with more improved graphic and in-dept story line. Playing GDI, I have just 
 completed all 25 missions and really enjoy blowing up NOD and Scrin bases. The AI is quite smart 
 though. However, what I want to say is the play balance. The Mammoth tank equipped with a rail 
 gun is quite powerful and unstoppable. So it might not be fun for me if I were playing NOD. After 
 all, NOD units are crappy. Their tactic is to use to outnumber you with cheaper and crappy units, 
 but thats still not enough to stop the Mammoth tanks. Thats why I decided not to play NOD. Scrin 
 is quite OK. Their unit is better than those of NOD and harder to defeat, but with twenty Mammoth 
 tanks at your disposal, you still can blow up their base in the final mission. So Play balance 
 is quite an issue here. Another point I would like to make is that the game has bug. The cut-scene 
 and the speech are not synchronized. Its very annoying. Even Patch 1.4 still does not fix this. 
 Anyway, this is a great game, and I recommend it to all RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibbie99
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 1, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  First, this is where I am coming from. I just finished Tiberian Sun and Firestorm, before playing 
 C&amp; C3. I finished the GDI campaign and part of the NOD campaign. Thus my review will be based 
 on this experience. First the good news: Kane is back! And there are some excellent, well known 
 Hollywood actors. The graphics are visually quite good, generations above and beyond Tiberian Sun 
 (TS) . However, i'm somewhat disappointed on how straight-forward all the missions are. It's essentially 
 the same; build a base, kill the other guys, repeat. The last two GDI missions are at least challenging, 
 lasting for several hours; but really, this is a short, short game, considering how long it took 
 to create the game, and the gap of time between TS and C&amp; C3. If you go back and play TS, you'll 
 see the graphics don't hold up well at all to modern standards, but each map takes several hours 
 to finish. Whereas most C&amp; C3 maps can be completed in under an hour, some maps only last minutes. 
 To be frank, this is really just a rehash of everything TS was; the advanced units are slightly 
 different (but not enough) , the construction yard buildings are almost identical, the enemy is 
 still not that challenging as constructed. However, in one GDI map you get a taste for how good 
 the enemy can be. Left alone for 10 minutes or so, the enemy can tear you to shreds; they build 
 faster, and can handle much more than you can. However, in most maps, there are only a handful 
 of enemy units, and its usually the same-old; get a few units built, send them to your base to 
 be slaughtered. Try to take over their base; a few units will get in your way, then you go through 
 the base and kill the dozens of buildings. In conclusion, i try hard to like this game, and i still 
 do, but it could have been so much more; if the AI had been revamped at all in the 10 years between 
 TS and C&amp; C3, if the devs truely thought about the game and made it more unique, if the maps 
 had a shred of originality, this game would rock. The storyline is great, the actors are great, 
 the graphics are great. But the replay and design show their bald spots readily. I question the 
 9.0 score that gamespot gave it, perhaps due to some nostalgic feeling for the C&amp; C of old. 
 Maybe the expansion will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madglee
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Best C&amp; C I've ever played. Graphics are great, even on my old piece of crap rig. Only thing 
 I don't like - and correct me if I'm wrong - is that I can't build walls! What's down with that? 
 I'm a turtle type guy, and enjoyed building walls and little moving doors into my base. But no 
 more, apparently. Even though in the missions single player there are walls, I can find no way 
 to build my own. Ah, well, this game has fast action, beautiful graphics, nice, non-cheating AI, 
 and fun all around. If you're a RTS fan, I'd buy this immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwmega
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 1, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Just what I've always wanted from a Command and Conquer game. Mammoth Tanks, Juggernauts, plenty 
 of heavy fire plus some nimble vehicles make for some good precision strikes. The sounds that the 
 Scrin vehicles and buildings make are great. Love the Tripod, very War of the Worlds like. The 
 mothership has the creepiest sound of all, very brooding and ominous. Nod is back to their old 
 tricks and some new ones, the tiberium weapons and the Avatar are great additions. Not to mention 
 the cut scenes with Sawyer from Lost and also that hot chick from House MD. Wow Billy Dee is a 
 great actor! HAH!!! Some people have mentioned that there are no water units. Bring back some naval 
 battles for the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  There is absolutely nothing wrong with this game, it follow true to the original C&amp; C, but I 
 think that is the problem, its seem to be almost exactly like the old C&amp; C and its many add-ons. 
 Now that isnt a real problem, but like I said before, I played the first one so many times, I 
 became bored with this one way too soon. It seems as if I was just playing one of the many add-ons 
 from the first one. The graphics are awesome, the sounds are awesome, and the chicks in the game 
 are even more awesome, but I just kept having the feeling that Ive been here before. The game 
 follow so much like the first one, and the units, for the most part are pretty much like the weapons 
 before that I didnt even need to read the manual to get going. Like in the first one I think the 
 units are way too easy to kill, no army in the world would ever send a trooper up against such 
 formidable weapons, but in this game, you pretty much toss hundreds and hundreds in battle just 
 to die 10 seconds later. I was hoping for a lot more realistic battles, with troopers being able 
 to survive the battlefield longer then a few seconds. Again I love the game, but I just became 
 bored way too soon for my liking. I love seeing Billy Dee still hanging around, I saw him a few 
 years ago at the Star Wars Celebration 3 and he didnt look in great shape. Here he is back in 
 Billy Dee Williams old form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sysguru
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is very awesome. I love it all the way. I love all the missions, from campaign to online 
 play. I have been playing C&amp; C since it first came out back in the mid 90's and the game only 
 gets better and better. The only issues I have with this is it seems to crash often. This could 
 be because I have a dual core opteron, and I am not sure if there are compatibility issues. Other 
 than that, no issues. I love the great challange that the campaigns have put forth, playing on 
 Hard on all options gives me the long hours of frustrating fun of killing dudes and aliens :) . 
 Super A+ from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  As the times have changed and as some of the wounds have slowly begun to heal from the second Tiberium 
 war, GDI and Nod have gone through some big changes too. EA has invested a lot of time in making 
 sure things proceed with a certain scientific creditability, never before has the lore been so 
 packed in the series. During missions you can uncover information about why things are the way 
 they are now.
  
  The Global Defence Initiative is still the proud and spoken defender of Earth, looking to reverse 
 the terrible damage Tiberium has caused the World. With Nod being downgraded in threat, funding 
 has been focused more to recovery than military hardware. A mistake they are soon to realise with 
 the return of Kane, whos looking to make his largest gambit for Tiberium yet.
  
  The Brotherhood of Nod having withdrawn from GDI frontiers has been perfecting their experiments 
 and investing more in stealth technology. The globe has been sorted into blue, yellow and red zones. 
 The red zones are uninhabitable to human life; they are filled with terrific ion storms and other 
 general Tiberium hazards. Yellow zones are infected with Tiberium, with its mass populations lacking 
 general infrastructure they become easy Nod recruitment grounds. Blue zones are clear of Tiberium 
 and home to the GDI cities, they hope to expand these zones through the use of sonic emitters that 
 disrupt and destroy the toxic green crystal.
  
  Seeing a return also is the trademark C&amp; C FMV treats, for fans these have been missing in action 
 for far too long. C&amp; C Generals had no such scenes, unless you count the quick news reports 
 but they hardly compare. While no where near the impact of Tiberian Dawn or Suns little movie-like 
 snip-bits, C&amp; C3 does a good job of bringing back that magic. True this time around the scenes 
 are catwalks for known stars from TV series like Battlestar Galactica, Lost and certain films too.
 
  
  The campaigns, both GDI and Nod, are split into Acts. These correspond in the plot to each other 
 so you could play both GDI and Nod campaigns side by side and not have anything spoiled for you. 
 This is a break from the more traditional route where each campaign would lead to completely different 
 endings, which I admit were more satisfy for me. A secret third campaign is unlocked once you 
 complete the first two where you take the role as the new third faction, the Scrin. AI is actually 
 intelligent here, yeah sure there are some miscalculations here and there but for the most part 
 I was taken aback by its ability to adapt. They wont constantly send in wave after wave the same 
 route, they will change direction and mix up their forces a little, and they probe your defences. 
 Normal difficulty is enough of a challenge, and youre rewarded with medals after each campaign 
 mission for core objectives, bonus and Intel collected. Computer opponents are far smarter than 
 your average RTS; it must be all that Tiberium about  perhaps it should spread to a few other 
 games, wish it could.
  
  GDI relies mainly on its tanks, and while the infamous Mammoth MKII is sadly no longer with us, 
 due to budget cuts, the new Mammoth MKIII is most defiantly a significant successor. When fully 
 upgraded with its railgun, a number of these things should strike fear into any commanders heart. 
 Think of them as the Star Destroyer of the Imperial fleet in Star Wars, these things roll across 
 the battlefield capable of challenging any enemy.
  
  The Orcas have certainly seen an upgrade to; admittedly their role in the two previous titles was 
 tenuous at best. They delivered little tactical edge, unless you counted the bomber from TS. Now 
 they pack some real serious punch, a fleet of normal fighters can turn tides of battle, and then 
 you actually get to the Firehawk bombers. The Firehawks can be outfitted with either air-to-ground 
 or air-to-air ordinance.
  
  Dont think Nod is left out; they have some nasty toys themselves now. They came accompanied by 
 the expected buggy, recon bike, stealth tank and flame tank etc. Whats new and ready for action 
 are the avatars, tall and strong walking death walkers. These two legged beasts can be upgraded 
 by savaging other vehicles in Nods arsenal; they can be equipped with flame, stealth detection, 
 stealth generator and an improved beam weapon. Big, bad and rather effective for removing an opponents 
 base defences.
  
  The Scrin, the new kids on the block, are a little stir to the mix. They dont act too differently 
 from the GDI and Nod bases, but are sure pretty and interesting in their own right. At the moment 
 a number of balancing issues need to be addressed. Some of the more influential units can devastate 
 too much too quickly leaving gamers with little time to react. Who couldnt love a faction that 
 comes with a giant mothership? The Scrin air units certainly have the capacity to outdo the competition, 
 from an aerial aircraft carrier to a flying artillery vessel, which can also be upgraded with shields. 
 Well they are aliens after all; we have to expect them to kick us about a little.
  
  Id still side with the Brotherhood of Nod any day; theyve always had the cooler vibe going for 
 them. Super weapons are always in the forefront of any RTS players mind, the Ion Cannon is still 
 the most impressive piece of GDI kit. Its been upgraded a lot since the old days, its power unquestioned 
 and will easily devastate an entire base. The Nods nuclear missile is none to friendly either, 
 or the Scrins special vortex wave generator that seems to create a mini-black hole. Still the 
 Ion Cannon gets my vote; it has come along way from Tiberian Dawn where it could barely level a 
 single power plant.
  
  Base building in general comes with the expected C&amp; C radius limit to placing your structures 
 which expands as you build outwards. The MCV can now redeploy at any time and you can even build 
 additional construction cranes to help build more structures simultaneously. This is true also 
 of any building that can produce units; they have separate build queues to help you pump out those 
 armies. Surveyors are outposts that can be deployed, handy when you want to expand to Tiberium 
 fields far off or if you want to build a choke point.
  
  Multiplayer, and of course skirmish, play big roles for C&amp; C3. Not only is the system better 
 integrated for ladder ranks but a new quirk is available too; Battlecast. This fantastic little 
 feature lets players give audio commentary to games, whether this will be praised as unleashing 
 a whole load of fun or the harbinger of doom as any self-professed expert spews their nonsense 
 view  only time can tell. Patches are forthcoming, a number of issues have already been addressed 
 regarding online play as well as some video sync issues and some balancing.
  Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is a great addition to the franchise and many fans will 
 be breathing a sigh of relief as it returns to more traditional roots. C&amp; C Generals and its 
 expansion left a lot disillusioned to EAs ability to deliver a worthy game in the series. While 
 many may still argue theyve taken a too glossy approach to Tiberium Wars, it cannot be denied 
 that it offers at its heart a lot of the core elements that made Command &amp; Conquer the great 
 universe it is. Get your copy, and welcome back Commander 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enral
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  One of the most brilliant strategy game up to date! The C&amp; C series never fail to amaze me. 
 The graphics improved alot since the last tiberian sun series and the gameplay should be very nostalgic 
 among fans.
  
  The only problem with the game is that the races are sort of not balanced. The GDI seemed to be 
 overpowering the NODs and the scurge seemed unstoppable. However, proper and good control of the 
 game will always indefinately lead to victory.
  
  The new race is a good addition and gives a refreshing gameplay experience. The multiplayer mode 
 is good and highly addictive.
  
  The campaign is cool and the story line is good as usual with real time video in between missions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The good: easy game formula for beginners and experts, cinematic cut-scenes are cool, long single 
 player campaign, scrin race fits right in, a welcome facelift for the series, forgiving sys requirements, 
 fast paced Gameplay.
  
  The bad: campaign missions can be short, tiberium fields dont always last forever, building placement 
 is picky to perfect terrain, campaign endings suck, lacks innovation and originality, scrin campaign 
 too short. The last game I played that is part of this storyline was C&amp; C Tiberian sun, C&amp; C 
 3 is a huge improvement over that. C&amp; C 3 still uses its very old school formula that shows 
 its age and simplicity but its still a blast to play, and thats why the formula works. However 
 rts games these days havent just abandoned the old school formula for no reason. Yes its fun to 
 gather resources build an army and rush your enemy till there dead, but it still has the same flaws 
 such as micromanagement and pesky hassle of keeping your harvesters/peons/whatever alive and doing 
 what there supposed to.
  
  New school: These days most rts games are straying away from using workers to gathering resources 
 by creating a way to have unlimited resources so the outcome of a match is not determined by how 
 much more resources you harvested than your enemy, but how you beat your enemy tactically on the 
 field. Take Supreme Commander for example, you can build mass fabricators and power plants (the 
 2 resources in the game) , and they will generator resources continuously, forever. So you can keep 
 fighting and the only way to win is by destroying your enemy through an all out assault, theres 
 no resource battle of attrition. Same goes for Dawn of War and Company of Heroes they both 
 feature a resource system through holding control points (CPs) in territories. These CPs will 
 generate resources forever (so long as you control the resource point) , eliminating the resource 
 attrition part of battles. Other games make you build resource buildings like mines Star wars 
 Empire at War or slaughter houses/farms LOTR BFME. So weve come a long way since the old days 
 of command and conquer which to its credit pretty much started the rts genre.
  
  C&amp; C 3 and Old school: build a base, gather resources, build an army, and crush your enemy before 
 they do the same thing to you. Resource system: tiberium fields scattered throughout each map. 
 Green tiberium is regular, blue is more potent and valuable. Build a refinery and harvesters to 
 collect and store tiberium. As a result the tiberium field will slowly be depleted of its tiberium 
 but will slowly replenish itself (most of the time) . Ive had a few times where Ive harvested 
 from a field so much and then harvested what it replenished, and after a while it stops replenishing 
 itself!! So the key is to expand by building outposts near tiberium fields far away from your base 
 so you can increase you harvest rate and also it helps so once one field is depleted your harvesters 
 will go to the other one which is still full. And then once that ones gone the first field your 
 harvesters left will have replenished itself, and so youll bounce back and forth etc. First helpful 
 tip for new players: harvesters are complete morons. The old school methods fatal flaw is that 
 your harvesters will go half way across a map and into an enemy bases tiberium field if your fields 
 are depleted. Thats not that bad for the Nod faction because their harvester are cloaked, but 
 once detected its like saying hello Im low on resources and please make my situation worse by 
 killing my harvesters so once my home tiberium fields replenish I have no harvester to work with.. 
 yay Im a moron!!!! So babysitting your harvesters is a thing youll have to get used to.. again. 
 Ahhhh the good old days. Why god? Why did you make us go cold turkey from babysitting? Graphics: 
 a major facelift from Red Alert 2 or Generals but not mind blowing in any way. But its good 
 enough that I have no complaints and it nearly stands toe to toe with the current top 10 games 
 of its genre. It just wont wow you like Company of heroes, etc. I will note one thing that did 
 look cool: a wavy hot air effect after something blows up, like looking at the horizon in the desert.
 
  
  Sounds: Music wont blow you away but its still great, definitely not gonna make me pull out my 
 ipod or anything. Unit responses are redundant and annoying, but the scrin responses are alien 
 sounds so they dont get annoying, its just if I hear weve got the rockets!! one more time Im 
 gonna shot someone. Voice acting is very well done, very high production values here. Everything 
 meets the current standards.
  
  Cutscenes: Back to real life actors. Almost no new games these days do this save for Act of War: 
 Direct Action. The best part is they dont make it corny, well mostly anyway. Theres also some 
 very cool looking cg cutscenes as well
  
  GDI actors: Michael Ironside (one armed soldier in movie: Starship Troopers) , Billy Dee Williams, 
 Grace Park (Boomer from Battlestar Galatica) , Jennifer Morision (TV: House) . Nod actors: Joe 
 Kucan (Kane, duh!!) , Tricia Helfer (#6 from Battlestar Galatica) , Josh Holloway (TV: Lost) .
  
  AI: its pretty good compared to most games that fall short. Your units will engage when attacked, 
 the pathfinding is good. The only retarded units in the game are? You guessed right: harvesters.
 
  
  Gameplay: Its geared mainly to players who like quick action and a victory or defeat in 30 minutes 
 or less; this game is the exact opposite of Supreme Commander. Yes you can do turtle defense, 
 but keep in mind theres only 1 tiberium field at your main base, so you need to expand because 
 your enemy will and then they will hit you with more units than your turtle defense can handle. 
 Units and buildings build in 30 seconds or less (except for superweapons, etc.) . No navy units 
 only land and air. Only 1 superweapon can be built in a match per player. No more hitting the enemy 
 base with 5 nuclear missiles like you could in C&amp; C Generals. And theres no anti superweapon 
 building or units of any kind. So take out those enemy superweapons before they kill you. And buildings 
 need power, so the more buildings you have the more power plants youll need. Powers or abilities 
 will become available to you once you build the proper building, but these abilities also cost 
 money and then slowly recharge so they can be used over and over. This game features a command 
 order system so you can issue multiple orders to units in the order your set them. Just hold left 
 alt key while issuing move orders and even attack orders. So you can tell your army to all attack 
 the enemy construction yard, then the factory, etc just in a few clicks and theyll do it in that 
 order. It not as good as Supreme commanders system, but better then most games will give you. And 
 unlike Supreme Commander C&amp; C has infantry. The engineer is back to capture every building you 
 hold dear. No walls outside of single player campaign.
  
  Campaign missions: Early on missions are so short its ridiculous, literally 3-5 minutes and the 
 missions over. Only till late campaign do things get tough. All three campaign share overlapping 
 stories/events for the most part, but the end of the tiberium war really depends on who you plays 
 as, they have very different endings, but all the endings suck regardless. The scrin campaign is 
 unlocked after completing GDI and Nod campaign, only to my surprise the Scrin campaign in 5 bloody 
 missions long. Thats it!!!!! Factions:
  
  Nod are more stealth like and need to put pressure on their enemies early game if they want to 
 win, deploying fast light units with a few heavy hitting like the avatar walker, as well as vertigo 
 stealth bombers. Nod has great defense. Defense turrets consist of a central hub that has control 
 of 3 turrets means the enemy must destroy the hub in order to destroy the whole 3 turret thing. 
 If any turret takes damage the hub will auto repair it over time. Nod abilities are all about adding 
 insult to injury. Try seeding tiberium into an enemy base and then use a catalyst missile to turn 
 his resource dream into a nightmare. And then have your avatars with assimilate stealth tank technology 
 march right into the enemy base. And if that doesnt work.. Launch a nuke. Unfair in war?? No 
 such thing.
  
  While GDI are a powerhouse that will win in mid-late game if left unopposed. There units are expensive 
 but tough, right down to the riflemen. GDI prefers to use tried and true technology, no lasers 
 or stealth like nod, but they like good old fashion ballistic munitions and superior fighting forces. 
 Use your walker artillery units with snipers for line of sight to blast the enemy to bits. And 
 once you get mammoth tanks rolling out you can really start to push your own weight around and 
 once upgraded with railguns theres only one thing left to do.. March your army to the enemy base 
 and put them out of commission. And if you like light shows use your ion cannon to obliterate there 
 base.
  
  And the Scrin are formidable in their own right with superior air power like planetary assault 
 carriers and annihilator tripod walkers with shields. Sick of fighting the enemy base from the 
 front door? Use your mastermind to teleport a small # of units in the center of the enemies base. 
 All the way across the map! Or use you mastermind to take control of an enemy unit forever till 
 its destroy or you take over another more favorable unit. Enemy not taking the hint to get off 
 the planet? Convince them by activating the rift generator in the middle of their base and watch 
 as almost everything is destroyed and sucked into the vacuum of space.
  
  Bugs/Exploits: I personally didnt find anything bug wise. Overall:
  
  This is a very fun fast 
 paced rts that deserves to be recognized even though it brings only a few new things to the table. 
 And due to its forgiving system requirements almost everyone can enjoy this. I have a Pent 4 3.0ghz 
 processor, 1 gig Ram, nvidia 256mb 6800 pci express. And Ive barely had any lag. Now I also play 
 Supreme Commander so my specs are good with some lag for sup com. Looking for a great rts but sup 
 com is unplayable for you, heres your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldparty
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolute awesome- not like the old C&amp; C dayes but even better i think .. I defentaly 
 gonna play this a long time again and again... I must say I love it GREAT great great This game 
 is absolute awesome- not like the old C&amp; C dayes but even better i think .. I defentaly gonna 
 play this a long time again and again... I must say I love it GREAT great great This game is absolute 
 awesome- not like the old C&amp; C dayes but even better i think .. I defentaly gonna play this 
 a long time again and again... I must say I love it GREAT great great This game is absolute awesome- 
 not like the old C&amp; C dayes but even better i think .. I defentaly gonna play this a long time 
 again and again... I must say I love it GREAT great great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 29, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Wow this is a great game. Id have to say its a mix between C&amp; C 2 and Generals. Im happy about 
 the menu which allows you to build more than one building at a time by building cranes. The new 
 menu is easy to navigate and allows you to take of control of the new faster combat style. Campaign 
 is pleasant and allows you relive all of your original love for C&amp; C by extending the story 
 of the first 2 C&amp; Cs. The story is a little sketchy with Kane coming back AGAIN. Hopefully if 
 GDI vs NOD comes back again, NOD will have new leadership. Im enjoyed the movies very much, mostly 
 with the newscasts. It was a fun way to see both sides of your actions. I just wish that the Technology 
 would have advanced a little in these years, with almost the same technology they left us with 
 in C&amp; C2. This is a great game for all RTS fans but more notably for C&amp; C fans of course. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmyle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Remember Kane? Well he's back. And he's a total badass.
  
  Personally, I'm glad that C&amp; C 3 have many similarities from other C&amp; C games, video cutscenes, 
 Kane and strategic combat. But off course, there is a lot off stuff making the game better. Graphics? 
 Yes. Campaigns? Yes. Scrins? Well... Some might say it's annoying to mix in a third race, but I 
 enjoyed playing Scrin. They're SUPERIOR to both GDI and NOD. No matter whether you are a NOD fanatic 
 or a GDI supporter, both campaigns are awesome. Video in both, and everything is pretty much straight 
 forward. Nothings hidden between the lines. But, over to what the game is all about. Tiberium has 
 pretty much taken over the earth, and only small areas of the earths surface is under control and 
 free of tiberium. The GDI has enough of a job in getting rid of that, but when NOD suddenly appears, 
 and they are trying to convince the world that Tiberium should be USED as an energy source. Both 
 campaigns are pretty much the same, just seen from another point. And as if that's not enough, 
 the alien Scrin race is involved. After you've gone through the missions, which should take you 
 a couple hours, a dozen or two on normal, when you think you're done, unlockable missions pop out 
 of nowhere. And they're worth the struggle you had in the campaigns. There are the RTS games that 
 are pretty much the same missions throughout the whole game. Wipe out the others and you're victorious. 
 C&amp; C3: Tiberium Wars is not one of those games. The variation in the missions are incredibly 
 well made. They go from protection a 200 square meters base to building a base from the bottom 
 and destroy the waves of attackers, or maybe just rescuing someone and bring them out alive. Also, 
 there are secondary objectives that go from capturing a tower to destroying an additional small 
 base. The fights are fought in Washington DC, outside the Pentagon, in Croatia, Egypt, pretty much 
 anywhere. You will even have to team up with your rival to win against a new race. If you like 
 slow gameplay, you should choose some other game. In C&amp; C3: Tiberium Wars, there is action all 
 the time. There's barely time to prepare for the next attack. Also, you might have trouble earning 
 resources, Tiberium, and if you loose your last miner, have less than 1000$ and have nothing to 
 sell, you're pretty much screwed bigtime. The AI is not only agressive, but also fast, rich and 
 smart. Wave after wave with attackers will hammer your base until it's nothing but a pile of rubble. 
 So pretty much, this is a rushers playground. But there is more to it still. You can't win without 
 the right technology, and both sides have some pretty amazing weapons here. GDIs Ion strike and 
 Nods vapor bomb are two weapons that will give you nightmares for years into the future. The three 
 sides all play different when in AI. While GDI rely on brute force and massive attacks, pretty 
 straightforward, NOD is more sneaky, attacking from all sides at once, attacking with stealthed 
 units and so on. Scrin however, is different. When you first meet them, you will stop playing and 
 watch in awe as legions of aliens walk towards your units/base. In addition to awesome units and 
 a few advantages, you won't have to build silos to harvested tiberium, you can store endless amounts!
 
  
  If you're the kinda dude (tte) that hates singleplayer, do not fear, because C&amp; C 3 has an excellent 
 multiplayer scene. If you host, there are not much options for you to change, other than starting 
 tiberium, game speed and so on. The leaderboard and clan support is an awesome future, and you 
 can even broadcast your game to others that downloaded the free BattleCast. Someone can even play 
 the role as a commentator using the Telestrator. The only thing I dislike a little about the game 
 is probably the structure placement. There is so little place, and you will experience problems 
 putting structures close to eachother. Other than that, the game is the best RTS so far the latest 
 years, and a great addition to the Command and Conquer series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EYEInferno
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for I think 1 to 2 years, I've played all C&amp; C games like Tiberian 
 Dawn and Sun, and ofcourse Red Alert 1 and 2.
  I am a huge fan of the C&amp; C-Universe and was expecting ALOT from this game, it had to be perfect 
 or I wouldn't be satisfied.
  
  When the demo came out I immediately downloaded the demo. When I started a skirmish game I had 
 a great first impression, the graphics were great and the game was very 'C&amp; C-like', I loved 
 it right away (and still do) , I think I've played the demo skirmish map 20 times and still didn't 
 got bored.
  
  The actual game was great to, I've finished all the 3 campaigns and was very satisfied, I loved 
 the full motion movies and all that was the campaign. It brought me back to the old C&amp; C Tiberian 
 Dawn days, good old days.. :)
  
  So the campaigns are great, and the gameplay is even better, it really is the fast-paced kind of 
 gameplay that resembles the C&amp; C-universe, and as an addition the graphics were just really 
 beautiful.
  
  The only thing that some people seem to look down on the game on is the Multiplayer issues the 
 game is having now, it allready had 4 patches and between the launch and patch 3 alot of people 
 were having difficulties to play like dissconnects and game freezes, I had the same problems but 
 I didn't care, normally I would get frustrated and stop playing but I liked (and still like) the 
 game so much that I kept playing :) , since patch 4 I dont have any problems or whatsoever any more, 
 so the multiplayer now is great too. OVERALL:
  
  Great graphics, great (old skool C&amp; C1) gameplay, great multiplayer. Just an amazing game, you'll 
 love it when you play it and will allways love it, its allready a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycomidget
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  My first review so bear with me here...
  
  graphics-hmm on high detail a thing of beauty on lower... it makes me relive generals
  
  sound-makes 
 me feel all warm and fuzzy inside
  
  gameplay-classic to quote many people... smooth as silk 
  
  value-i got the kane edition so... really 
 good there
  
  has a good story (live action is finally back =D) for me its about time (imagine generals with 
 live action... ahh that would have been glorious)
  
  so overall a extremely amazing game which i will continue to play until the next installment... and 
 i hope ea dosent go all ea with future games and keeps the westwood magic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anti-strider
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Theres nothing more to say, its an incredible game. The 1995 C'n'C is back! And it looks awesome 
 like never before. Just sit back, relax and enjoy the ride! And if youre a fan of the series, remember 
 that you WILL play this game for a year and a half, or even more!
  
  The visuals are great, sound is very good and the gameplay will make you sit by your computer for 
 a very, very, very long time.
  Theres plenty of replayability and if you already passed the campaigns, theres a great multiplayer 
 to try.
  
  Actors such as Michael Ironside, Billy Dee Williams and others did a great job immmersing the players 
 into the game. Awesome!
  
  If you like RTS, you shoul play this game. If you fell in love with Westwood studios back in 1995, 
 you already playing this game.
  
  EA Rocks!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidr_pikula1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  This is, without a doubt, one of the best games to come out over the past few years. It has a very 
 well laid out, and masterfully acted out, plot. Its return to full motion video sequences, with 
 the story being told by well known actors, is at the peak of such preformances. The campaign was 
 well laid out, and the way that each of the different factions campaigns told the same story, with 
 highly different view points, made it awesome. The introduction of the Intelligence Database made 
 it easy to learn more about the background to some of the story, the units, and the history of 
 the world that led up to the game. Each race feels exceptionally unique, and they play very true 
 to their backstories. The Brotherhood of Nod plays following their roots as a terror organization, 
 with speed and tricks; the GDI is powerful, but cumbersome, and slow; and the Scrin are a third 
 case entirely, very interesting to play with to say the least. When you complete both GDI and Nod 
 campaigns you can then unlock a short scrin based campaign that adds flavor to the game, offering 
 yet another point of view. The multiplayer aspect of the game is also very good, likely to be the 
 reason the game will hold its popularity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  A lot has been said about this game so i'm not gonna repeat all that. Just to point a few things 
 out:
  GDI campaign sucxxx (units are ok, MP 2, skirimsh also)
  NOD &amp; Scrin rock
  
  You ask why? Well, &amp;#8216; cause in GDI campaign your opponent (the Pc, AI or whatever you wanna 
 call it) cheats just to much to be fun to play it. For example U almost annihilate all of its base, 
 leaving him only 2 or 3 building &amp; in 3-5 min. he has a full grown base with so much units 
 that he destroys most of your bases, YES BASES (build over &frac12; of the map) . Sucxxx, doesn&amp;#8217; t 
 it? It&amp;#8217; s ok for AI to cheat, cause it can&amp;#8217; t compete wit human otherways, but 
 in the GDI campaign the cheating got just over the roof.
  
  Everything else seems to be ok, just&amp;#8230; I don&amp;#8217; t understand why the Tiberium field 
 get depleted?! It has a crater in the middle of it, so it should always spawn a bit of tiberium, 
 shouldn&amp;#8217; t it? In that mater NOD &amp; Scrin are dominant, because NOD has a Seed Tiberium 
 ability for 500$ &amp; Scrin has Growth accelerator (the name should tell U what it does) .
  
  The mission briefings are cheap, as they always are in C&amp; C games. But you&amp;#8217; ll 
 live trough it, because after that U can kick some but! :D And that&amp;#8217; s what counts after 
 all. Units are nice, well animated &amp; good balanced (not perfect, for eg. Scrin air power is 
 so supreme that it just hurts &amp; none of base defenses can stop them so you have to use units 
 or you&amp;#8217; re dead for sure) . But the rest is just fun. &amp; for the end, it&amp;#8217; s 
 finally another C&amp; C title that all of us have been waiting for so long. Finally!
  
  p. s. cant' build the walls, that's a big - !!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 2, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun but I dont think it deserves a ten. I am not a C&amp; C junkie by any means, but 
 this game is fun. It is a just like every C&amp; C game. Get resources and make power stations attack 
 and defend. The graphics are very nice plus it has a nice movie in story mode. And Like always 
 it has Michel Ironsides. You have a lot of different vehicles and troops at your command plus space 
 based and land based artillery at your disposal. Sound is good and the Game play is point and click 
 for the most part. If youre looking for strategy you wouldn't be playing this game anyway. There 
 never was a lot of it in this series to begin with. Get as many resources as you can, defend then. 
 A mass a large amount of cannon fatter, then send them into the fire. Not much different then the 
 rest. If youre a fan of the series buy it now. If you hate them then I wouldnt bother, because 
 it wont change your mind. If your not sure then wait a while till the price drops a bit. But it 
 does have Michel Ironsides. WOHOO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treytakahashi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer has been one of my favorit games since well I was a child. The very first C&amp; C 
 I played was the origonal on the Macintosh Performa we had. Any way ever since the games have fasinated 
 me! I was realy dissapointed when Westwood went under, When I heard that EA was bringing it back 
 I'll have to tell you, I had my doubts...
  
  Well They have done a Fasinating job with Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars. I frankly could 
 not have wanted a better game at any other time! With the Retern of Kane this game is Awsome. Action 
 packed, Great story, Superb cinnimaics, Great gameplay, The list go on and on! What better could 
 we ask for! The best thing is how much effort went in to the new Game, Detail, its just facinating! 
 One thing that realy drives this game home is the fact is it so addaptible to adjust to low end 
 PCs This is a great buy and and Great way to contunue the series! Now lets hope for a Red Alert 
 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shepstar1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars is an immense game with out-of-this-world graphics (if you 
 have a decent card that is, I can set my graphics on almost maxxed out with no lag with an nVidia 
 7900 SLI system with a Pentium 4 processor and 1gb of RAM.) the sound quality is excellent (depends 
 on your card again, i'm running with a Soundblaster Audigy Platinum) and the music is as great 
 as with every other C&amp; C game.
  
  Lots of brilliant features in this game which separates it from every other C&amp; C game, the introduction 
 of the new faction Scrinn is an excellent addition and the scenes between each campaign are of 
 excellent quality and feature actors such as Josh Hollaway ( Sawyer from Lost ) which just adds 
 to the magic.
  
  Although, the reason I gave it 9.3/10 is because I think it reminds me too much of Tiberium Sun 
 with just a few units added and a graphics boost. The GDI and NOD still exist (turns out Kane is 
 still alive!) but the addition of the Scrinn faction adds a new dimension to the game play and 
 adds more variety when coming to faction selection. The campaigns are very fun, especially when 
 you have to take over the White House in the early NOD campaign! But I feel like some of the later 
 campaigns drag on a bit, they aren't hard, but they are time-consuming.
  
  Multiplayer is exciting and there is an infinite number of games to choose from (or create one 
 yourself!) but I must stress that you must be quite good at the game to survive at multiplayer, 
 if you are facing an experienced online player, you could be defeated in a matter of a minute or 
 2. I love Command and Conquer and it's amazing storyline based upon the mysterious Tiberium substance 
 which is discovered on Earth and quickly corrupts the world. In the year 2050, 20% of the world 
 is rendered inhospitible, 60% is rendered partially inhospitible (where the majority of the Earth's 
 population lives) and 20% forms the final part of Earth which is untainted by the Tiberium. The 
 fight is on to protect/invade the 20% of the Earth which hasn't been affected by the Tiberium outbreak!
 
  
  Overall, excellent game, graphics, sound, everything! I reccomend the Kane Edition (approximatly 
 &pound;40) as it contains an extra DVD containing lots of behind the scenes and special features 
 which is well worth the extra money! What are you waiting for! Go and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendricks55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  i got this on release and can't make myself play any other games because its so addictive. i beat 
 the campaign modes and the awesome cheesy cutscenes were very fun to watch. the multiplayer is 
 this game's highlight. I can spend hours upon hours playing multiplayer. im no pro but i still 
 can pwn noobs that and have a great time. the battle cast system is still being tuned up but it 
 works pretty well. its so cool to be able to go online and watch other people play and see some 
 new strats to test out. this is a must have for any pc gamer. its fast enough that even hardcore 
 fps players will enjoy it. the micro system is set up really well and keep the controls close and 
 smooth. buy this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 130261
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  i am ok with rts again ... thank you c&amp; c3
  as i get older... i look at my pc games with utter disbelith of the amount of rts i have in my 
 collection. i have played every major one from black and white to suppreme commander. EVERY ONE. 
 and i get sick of it i get sick of rts im sorry but after you have played all these rts. s you do 
 get sick
  
  this we have seen over 10 titles of rts (I can list them if you really want me to) oh what the 
 hell....
  
  supreme commander. maesltrom .
  c&amp; c3 .
  Harvest Moon - Innocent Life |
  Hospital Tycoon spore
  gallactic civillations 2 dreadloards 
 the sims 2 collection (i wont even botther) arma combat revolations..... (lol) medevel two kindoms 
 (summer)
  etc . etc .etc. and this patten has followed for many years .. i love fps and this is the year 
 for fps i just have had enogyuh of playing rts... i couldnt even get passed the second level of 
 some recently cos ive had enough..............
  
  but then this came along . it was ace i fell in love with watching the smoke come outa my little 
 buildings. and setting up aroute for my little guys to follow. it really captured the things i 
 fell in love with ,them little things that mke age of empires 1,2,3 so great so thank you! i dont 
 know wether i should be grateful that im going to be collecting more bl++dy rts but great game 
 none the less! and if your new to rts this will show you wat ti is all about i am a bit skeptical 
 about the futter of rts.. but if this and supreme commander is anything to go by then it is looking 
 pretty good ... roll on spore
  
  i say its hard cos ive played it hard.... i have to play rts hard lol
  i like a challenge and 
 this game really uses its brain when set on hard so i do advice this.... smeg out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkbice
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 26, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  First and foremost I must tell you that I'm not a big fan of this type of RTS. Building up armies 
 for 60 minutes and then fighting for 10 minutes isn't what I'm looking for when I want to play 
 a good game. RTS games of late have tried to work around this problem: making cheap units in the 
 beginning of the game so you can do a little skirmishing while wait for your mega-hyper army. C&amp; C 
 3 does this better than many other games of late but it's still not convincing.
  
  When Westwood released C&amp; C Tiberian dawn it was something completely new for me because I had 
 never played a game of that style before... Now I have. The market is swarming with RTS in all 
 possible settings. C&amp; C 3 is exactly the same as the rest exept for the super cool post-world-war-3-like 
 enviroment.
  
  C&amp; C 3 gave me a very arcadeish and flat experience, that I often associate with EA games (Battle 
 for middle earth for example) . The units don't have very much depth and the rock, paper scissors 
 strategy is all to familiar. Dull is the most fitting word for this game.
  
  I doubt that Kane would like this game, he would probably rather choose a Total War game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polarpedro365
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Easy to learn, play. Hours of fun and hours of thinking to complete each levels from GDI, NOD n Scrin 
 Campaing was really nice. Although this games requires a lot of thinking for diferent situations. Make 
 sure u always choose wat to do and wich unit to choose so u wont waste any credits by suiciding 
 ur troops against a nearly perfect defence. And for sure u always need to have a backup plan when 
 things begin to heat up, so u wont get wiped out in the start of the game either singleplayer or 
 multiplayer. However its required a really strong PC to run this withouth any problems and if u 
 want to run it on High Quality u will need a PC that can run anything u install on it. I liked the 
 abilities each faction has like the Scrin can create a swarm of buzzers wich is useful to cause 
 some distraction, the GDI has power concentrated on defence more then anything else, and the NOD 
 have a mix of defensive, offensive powers wich makes it a nice pick for regular players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senjutsu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is great, with the addition of a new bar at the right where you can build from every 
 base you own. If you have two tank building factory , you can administrate the two of them with 
 the righ bar. This bar is also used to show your current selection of army. The gameplay looks 
 like the other command and conquers games, but with some new things.
  
  The graphic is great since the low settings are WAY lower for the needs of the people who have 
 an older PC, while the high-end settings are beatifull on every aspect. Personnaly I put the normal 
 graphic because my PC isn't the best at all! And the game is playing perfect, without any lag, 
 whith beautifull graphics. A BIG upgrade from generals.
  
  The sounds are good, nothing special about it, it's better than generals, but nothing spectacular.
 
  
  The value is pretty good, since I player A LOT and I only finished one campain, and I'm half another 
 one. There are 2 campains but you can unluck another one by finishing every campain. Also, you 
 gain a sort of medal for your mission, with special acheivements available, so if you wanna finish 
 the game perfectly, you'll have special missions like: finish the game without the help of the 
 special unit or something like that.
  
  I'd say 9.6 , because everything is GREAT in this game. The msot important thing is how fast paced 
 the game is, it's crazy, and gives a lot constant fun to the players. The situation can change 
 really fast, and you have to adapt. Also, the AI is really good in this game, so if you like to 
 have more challenge, you'll be satisfied! Anyway, buy this game, it's great for RTS player! :D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z3ro_limit
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  this is a great game as to be expected from the series, vast improvement in terms of graphics and 
 sound but still the same old C&amp; C in terms of gameplay. some missions are difficult and will 
 require some deep strategy to accomplish but still adds to the fun all the same. i did enjoy playing 
 this game but i dont think ill be playing the same missions all over again like DAWN of WAR which 
 still remains as the best RTS for me. skirmish anyone? this game could get boring for other players 
 that are not fans of the genre but for RTS players like me, this is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fel_rossi
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is very cool. I adored to play this game He is very easy to earn only is enough you 
 have a little of strategy does not need very. and is this ai. my tip.
  The graphics is very good. e the gameplay is excellent.
  This game is perfect
  The sound is 
 very best.
  and eu win in 5x1 no modo brutal
  and the videos are very realistic are very good.
  This game remember Total aninhilation.
  
 
  my attribute for this game is 10. perfect
  This game is very cool. I adored to play this game He is very easy to earn only is enough you 
 have a little of strategy does not need very. and is this ai. my tip.
  The graphics is very good. e the gameplay is excellent.
  This game is perfect
  The sound is 
 very best.
  and eu win in 5x1 no modo brutal
  and the videos are very realistic are very good.
  This game remember Total aninhilation.
  
 
  my attribute for this game is 10. perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malakogavlides
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  generals was much better. it had very diffirent races with much better speech and better designed 
 units. the strategy is simple like all c&amp; c ''make a huge army and ATTACK'' I prefer the kind 
 of strategy that BATTLE FOR MIDDLE EARTH 1 has, meaning that every unit has its advantages and 
 disadvantages and must be used in the right way to win. In C&amp; C3 if you constract a huge army 
 of avatars or mammouths or tripods there can be no defence. I think EA should release a patch that 
 will make every race to have diffirent strategy . Gamespot s rankink should be lower considering 
 that Battle for middle Earth took only 8.4!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craig2182
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  You cant beat c &amp; c but this one is just too simler to previose C&amp; C games, there is nothing 
 really that new and the new things that they have introduced makes the game worse if anything. C&amp; C 
 will always be the top dog but more could of been done here... if you are new to C&amp; C buy this 
 game now and you will love it but if you are a big fan rent it rist because you will quite likly 
 be disapointed. Although the story does do it a huge favour as it is the best storyline yet. this 
 game is one to rent not one to buy... if i could take mine back i would its not worth its price 
 tag and if this game had any other name on it other then C&amp; C it would get a far lower score 
 i think they have used this just as a lazy money maker. truly does lack the effort seen in preiviouse 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ternet
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  Going into the Command &amp; Conquer series I would have to say red alert was my favorite, until 
 I played C&amp; C3. With not 2, but three playable factions it keeps the campaign and multi player 
 fresh. It seemed that in previous versions of the game there was a GDI unit and a perfectly balanced 
 unit on Nods side. Not the case here. GDI focuses on a strong arm, units like the mammoth tank 
 and juggernaut provide serious power, while Nod forces are all about the stealth, then there is 
 the Scrin, then new race introduced in this game. Tripods and air power sum them up. The support 
 powers add a great twist on how to attack and defend. It's a recommended buy for and fan of the 
 series or and fan of RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: don_devil
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  Tiberium wars turned out to be exactly what i expected of the series. The single player is quite 
 immersive, it is well structured and is not repetitive. The intentional cheesy videos and the amount 
 of detail in each map kept me addicted to the single player. The only regret is that the multi-player 
 could have been more fun. For me the multi-player was a huge dissappointment as i was expecting 
 it to be revolutionary. The multi-player gets boring fairly quickly as the gameplay is quite narrowed 
 and nothing new has been intoduced. Overall the game is worth playing and is true to the original 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batmanfan2233
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Well when i heard C&amp; C 3 was going to be released i was excited and i pre-ordered it! but when 
 i really got to play it i realised i wasted my money this game is not worth playing at all they 
 have brought Red Alert back to life i was expecting so much more from EA but i guess not the super 
 weapons have become limited to only one you now have MCV's and not Dozers so if you want to build 
 2 things at the same time you have to make another MCV or you make a crane you also have a limited 
 building area i mean how bad can you get they could not even bring any new thing to the game the 
 teams are so evenly matched that even a fool can avoid an experts attack and go on playing forever 
 and if 2 experts are playing the match will be more than 6 hours long! because you rebuild everything 
 in a second after a attack so if you are going to try this game out dont and if you still want 
 to get download the demo first and i'm sure all C&amp; C fans are going to be dissappointed like 
 i was so just save your money for World in Conflict or buy Supreme Commander 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has one of the sweetest presentations I've seen in a while. From the cool title screen 
 to the only sometimes cheesy movie clip. Then you play your first mission...
  
  The gamplay is just a bit tedious and boring compared to other RTS games on the PC. Come on, my 
 tank should be a little more efficient at mowing down those troops. The multiplayer and skirmish 
 modes add a bit to replay and give you a chance to make use of some of the trade offs involved 
 in the strategy like how some units are useless against others and you need to prepare for that. 
 Some people find enjoyment in that kind of gameplay and will argue that is the point of a strategy 
 game. To me the point would be to have fun, which C&amp; C3 just didn't do all that well for me. 
 Visually the settings go up pretty high but don't compare to other RTS games and neither do the 
 physics or AI. There are some good places for strategy and like the later missions. The early missions 
 are quick so you dont get too bored. The movies imo are good but are labeled cheese by people who 
 watch TV and movies that have enormous budgets. Its pretty amazing for the cliched story they put 
 the actors through. As a PC gamer with a plethora of other choices, this is one bone to throw the 
 console players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberraito
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting for this game since it was announced. I got the KANE edition and after a few hours 
 I felt that I was somehow playing the father of C&amp; C (Battle for dune) , same colors of the factions. 
 Unit alike and in some point I felt that I was playing an old game. The graphics of course are 
 great, the actors playing the story line are also great. I believe that they spect a fortune hiring 
 those persons. Anyway, I will buy any future C%C game. I sincerely hope that the development of 
 the next C&amp; C exceeds this one.
  
  It is good that they return to the original cinematics, great part of playing the game is watching 
 the cinematics. I remember those hot chicks of Red Alert 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude30501
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my most favourite games ever, i played every single command and conquer and this 
 command and conquer is the best one ever. It looks like C&amp; C generals and that may be decieving 
 to some people because of the graphics and the company who made this game are the same that people 
 may think it would be another crappy game just like command and conquer: Generals. EA games finally 
 did something right with command and conquer because the building is just like red alert 2 and 
 this has more flexible kinds of building like being able to build more than 1 building at a time. 
 The multiplayer is a very good and challenging experience because there are many strategies that 
 people can use and infantry units are actually useful unlike in the other command and conquers 
 infantry sucked, the infantry couldnt even really do any damage. Infantry in this game come mostly 
 in squads of people so they would be more useful and wars realistically are fought with infantry 
 rather than all tanks. Only thing on the maps though is that there is a lack of some good maps 
 and they are all pretty much the same thing, the maps should have some bridges and other stuff 
 to make the, more creative, the maps should also be bigger. But thats the only reason why i took 
 the 0.3 off the 10.0 rating. I hope they make a patch that includes more maps soon. This game is 
 also not that hard to play either, it is quite easy and anyone can beat anyone in an online game 
 most of the time, it has alot more units and each unit is more customized and certain units have 
 passive abilities like clearing garrisoned structures or being permanantly stealthed. THE SCRIN... 
 The SCRIN are a unique race that invaded the earth, the scrin are a more skill requiring team that 
 uses abilities and aerial assaults to win battles, the Scrin are good for that. The Scrins best 
 defense structure is also very good and can be used for destroying anything in a quick period of 
 time. I love the Aerial assualt units because they are alot of different bombarding units of the 
 scrin and they are very unique and effective.
  
  The missions... The missions are really creative and have a good graphic storyline that shows drama 
 and action. Playing the missions are very exciting because they directly tell you the objectives 
 that you must do and they even have an indictor. I am thankful that most of the missions are not 
 just destroy their whole base because in the old Command and conquers that was the only thing that 
 i hated because i hated finding one unit that i could never destroy. So these missions are much 
 much better and they have the selecting missions and you can replay any missions that you wish 
 to play again.
  
  that is all i have to say on this review about the game and I think this is a very awesome and 
 fun game for anyone to play and experience and the graphics are awesome too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cycoknob
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  My short opinion for this game, and its reviews is.. that it is
  way overrated! its a good game no doubt about that but its not at all world of warcraft! like the 
 rating almost claims.. its just an upgraded classic. i had grate fun playing it.. though the beginning 
 of the campaigns are quite ridiculous and a wast of time in my eyes.. The multilayer is fun but 
 becomes very repetitive after playing 3-4 rounds.
  Co-op is the must fun, cause playing head to head becomes more of a race then actual tactic.
 
  All in all its super fun but for a very short time.. Low Value both single and multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay:
  just plain fun and easy to learn.. with very classic control.
  
  Graphics:
 
  no blast, but perfect for a game in this genre.
  
  Sounds:
  No comments.. they just work!
  
  Value:
  in 1 hour of skirmish you have been through everything 
 there is in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edot0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  So here I am, at the store deciding on whether or not I will get this game. Part of me says h*** 
 yes, because it looks awsome, and then the other part of me says hell no (Generals... Didnt want 
 another crapy game) . So I bought it anyway. Thank god I did. This game is amazing, instant classic 
 in my eyes, graphics, gameplay, sound, THREE races (Scrin Pwn) , and just an overall huge improvement 
 and step forward for the series. If anyone is new to the RTS genre, and you want to learn how to 
 play, why not start with the new C&amp; C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpvalkyrie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  As a hardcore C&amp; C fan, I was expecting a rather new faction to come up that could be plaid. 
 I wanted to play the Mutants faction, but instead of creating that faction, a new overpowered faction 
 has been created, the scrin. The building placement option is very picky and can be a major problem 
 when an enemy is attacking you and you click the whole place to set the building but the map won't 
 allow it, meanwhile the enemies already blew up one or two of your buildings, you get the the poiny.
 
  
  The maps are small. Sure, they take long but it is always easy to find out where the enemy is, 
 where in previous C&amp; C games you literarly send out recon units to identify the main enemy base.
 
  
  But those were the bad points in my opnion, now let's talk about the good things.
  
  Amazing new units and very beautiful skins. You have the same feel playing this game like the original 
 C&amp; C1 (at least before the scrin showed up) , GDI Units once again rely on heavy fire power to 
 survive, where the NOD relies more on tactics (Yes and No, I'll get to that just below) , but some 
 missions you do rely on steath to infiltrate an enemy base, blow up what you seem is important, 
 then sending in an army of mixed units, sending cheap infantry first, backed by tanks and avatars. 
 Where in GDI a mix of mammoth tanks with upgrades and medium tanks will get the job done.
  The scrin is a new interesting but somewhat verpowered race. They are great to play and sometimes 
 annoying to have as an enemy, so get ready to reply some of the final missions many times. Graphics 
 wise it is just slightly better than Generals, with otherwords, Graphics could have been better 
 indeed for these days graphic cards and technology, but it is still good. The sound is excellent.
 
  
  If you got a good notebook, this is a must have, since when you get bored in the airport, throw 
 in the CD and have some amazing fun in the skirmishes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeuton_Mojukai
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I found C&amp; C3 to be very fun for the first few minutes. Then I tried to find ways to make it 
 more fun. Different tactics, etc. Nope. It's a rushing game, and if you don't like rushing, you 
 won't like this game. Multiplayer is so brutal and unforgiving, you often wonder why you bought 
 the game. Single-player is boring, cheap, and far too difficult.
  
  Maybe I'm not so good at RTS's, but if there's no way to cater to my tastes in such a classic game, 
 then it's obvious that tried-and-true doesn't always work.
  
  The controls, sound, and music are excellent, however. The visuals are incredible, and the game 
 moves fast. That's the problem, though. If you can't immediately figure the right course of action, 
 you're screwed.
  
  If you want a game that is really able to be a long, thought-out battle, then Supreme Commander 
 is a much better choice.
  
  If you want an arcadey-style experience that is addictive more than it is fun, then this is a fine 
 example of such craftsmanship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMike99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  C&C 3 will definately appeal more to fans of the series than those who have not played C&C before. 
 This game is overrated becuase of the previous success of the series and doesn't keep to its high 
 standards. Most of the missions are very similar and require no real tactics (drag a box around 
 all your units and attack) . The are some good weapon effects and interesting unit designs but there 
 are not enough new features added to the game to allow it to keep up with other new and better 
 real time strategies. The game is fairly fast paced and this will appeal to some players but there 
 is little variation in what to in each mission and it can get very dull. The campaign follows a 
 fairly interesting storyline with good video clips but i would only recommend this to new rts players, 
 because it is a fairly basic game to get started on, unless your a fan of the C&C series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drazhar2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  Back in the learning stage of gaming RTS games were being learned, Westwood were the teachers 
 here by bringing out the Dune games, but the next RTS they make will be the true beginning of the 
 RTS genre, it was the classic game Command &amp; Conquer, considered one of the best games ever. 
 Many C&amp; C games would follow with a spin off (Red Alert) , a C&amp; C 2 (Tiberium Sun) , a FPS 
 (Renegade) and a third spin off (generals) . With 3 Universes under its belt C&amp; C went into hibernation, 
 only to spawn the best C&amp; C yet, dubbed Command &amp; Conquer 3  Tiberium Wars.
  
  Tiberium Wars is, of course, an RTS with a very different approach to C&amp; C noobs or a very 
 well known approach to classic C&amp; C gamers that have played the classic C&amp; C before, the 
 first thing that will strike you is the Graphics, clean and realistic and could be the best looking 
 RTS to date, this is DX9s last shot before it diesand boom! Headshot! When you mix in FMV movies 
 that are purposely over acted (like the classic C&amp; C) and the cool Bloom affects, you have a 
 top Graphics score. Just as you start your first mission there is one thing on screen that made 
 C&amp; C fans every ware cry is happiness, the interface is back! The click to build-wait-then 
 click to place approach is back, you can say goodbye to those crappy build units. This style of 
 play just makes it right, its fast and even if youre battling on the other side of the map, you 
 can still build a base and still pump out units and tanks and send them out to were your battling. 
 Thats not the only thing to make a come back, we can see many old ideas coming forth again, like 
 Tiberium, your main resource that gives you money to build your army, and its hard to run out of 
 this stuff; its every ware! The teams are great in this game with the GDI making a comeback as 
 The brotherhood Of NOD (led by the famous Kane) try to stop them and a third race known as the 
 Scrin (an alien race controlling the alien substance: Tiberium) try to destroy them both. Each 
 team is kinda the same except GDI are good for bruit force, NOD are good for stealth and the Scrin 
 are good at destroying every thing and bombing with extreme artillery. The maps are also great 
 with a mix of urban blue zones, Scummy yellow zones and totally destroyed and creepy Red zones 
 each with a different tile set and design, making single player fun.
  
  The units are fun to play with too, with the return of NODs Stealth tanks and flame units and 
 GDIs Commandos and mighty Mammoth Tanks that lay shame to any base. The Scrin have some funky 
 units too with the buzzers (a ton of little bugs) as there standard unit and the Mothership as 
 there special weapon. (It can destroy entire bases by it self!) The multiplayer goes that extra 
 mile with full sporting style elements like commentary and the ability to watch matches like going 
 to the local footy on a Friday night!
  
  If RTS was a religion, then C&amp; C is god and this game is the Jesus. The cool FMV and the cool 
 story add a level that can never be beat and the gameplay and the classic C&amp; C style reigns 
 supreme to all other RTS games out there. And when you ad actors from shows like BattleStar Galactica, 
 Star Wars (Billy Dee!) and Lost you have some good times that will make you cry with happiness 
 like every other C&amp; C fan out there. Kane lives!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  as i get older... i look at my pc games with utter disbelith of the amount of rts i have in my 
 collection. i have played every major one from black and white to suppreme commander. EVERY ONE. 
 and i get sick of it i get sick of rts im sorry but after you have played all these rts. s you do 
 get sick
  
  this we have seen over 10 titles of rts (I can list them if you really want me to) oh what the 
 hell....
  
  supreme commander. maesltrom .
  c&amp; c3 .
  Harvest Moon - Innocent Life |
  Hospital Tycoon spore
  gallactic civillations 2 dreadloards 
 the sims 2 collection (i wont even botther) arma combat revolations..... (lol) medevel two kindoms 
 (summer)
  etc . etc .etc. and this patten has followed for many years .. i love fps and this is the year 
 for fps i just have had enogyuh of playing rts... i couldnt even get passed the second level of 
 some recently cos ive had enough..............
  
  but then this came along . it was ace i fell in love with watching the smoke come outa my little 
 buildings. and setting up aroute for my little guys to follow. it really captured the things i 
 fell in love with ,them little things that mke age of empires 1,2,3 so great so thank you! i dont 
 know wether i should be grateful that im going to be collecting more bl++dy rts but great game 
 none the less! and if your new to rts this will show you wat ti is all about i am a bit skeptical 
 about the futter of rts.. but if this and supreme commander is anything to go by then it is looking 
 pretty good ... roll on spore
  
  i say its hard cos ive played it hard.... i have to play rts hard lol
  i like a challenge and 
 this game really uses its brain when set on hard so i do advice this.... smeg out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elim10286
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  It is reminscient of the past two wars yet stands alone as new players fill the ranks of the departed. 
 Past heroes such as McNeil and Slavik are succeeded by Granger and Qatar. Their soldier companions 
 are similarly filled by successors to the comrade-in-arms of old. At the same time, the perennial 
 enigma Kane resurfaces at the coming of the Third War and the emergence of Tiberium's origins, 
 the Scrin.
  
  Single player campaigns returns to classic dynamics common to those of the First and Second Wars 
 (Tiberian Dawn, Tiberian Sun, &amp; Firestorm) . Familiar and unfamiliar faces fill the ranks while 
 the environmental situation slides towards a Tiberium world.
  
  The alternate NOD histories have shown gamers the price paid for fulfilling Kane's vision and the 
 dangers of Tiberium. Similarly Firestorm brought opposing sides together as CABAL's powerplay threatened 
 the survival of both factions and humanity. The war for humanity, for what remains of Earth is 
 at hand, what side are you on, who do you fight for, and where will all this lead? There are choices 
 to be made, battles to be fought, and the fight begins today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enver_majid
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Its C&amp; C and its evolved very little from its last iteration. Updated graphics but thats about 
 it. I still give it an 8.0 because of nostalgia. C&amp; C is perhaps the only franchise out there 
 that has so many fans - most of which who probably realize that the games are NOT that radically 
 different from previous versions - yet they still coming back for more. the closest comparison 
 I can find are the Star wars prequels to the original trilogy. Nostalgia.
  The only real innovators in RTS these days is the game development company relic entertainment. 
 Company of Heroes, Dawn of War and Homeworld 1 &amp; 2remain among the best games I have ever played. 
 Although Red Alert 2 got on that list a long time before any of those came out.
  Anyway, the game's great in its own little ways - and I actually hadn't touched an old-school rts 
 like this for quite a while - so maybe my score is reflective of the rediscovered joy of fast-paced 
 no-brainer zero-strategy bum-rush strategy. So I'm just trying to be fair. Stay away from it if 
 you're looking for something truly strategic though, because it ain't here. (Even Advanced Wars 
 has more of that to offer) .
  Oh yeah. the FMVs are nice and aptly over the top. Tricia Helfer. 'nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nguyentt
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  The game is good.................., i like it more than Supreme Commander ( the characters are 
 too small, graphics not good --&gt; I don't like game have character is too small, graphic poor 
 ) , game play is exciting, system requirement is not too high, and loading is fast ( i extreme suprise 
 for this ) but the film cutscene in too bad ( talk..... talk..... talk...... boring .... why ? I 
 need a action film not a film with actors alway talk .... talk..... talk) :- (. If these cutscene 
 are same in game Act of War , I think CC3 must have 10 
 
  
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmace
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  First off, Thank God EA did NOT screw this up. That was definitely the first concern that I had 
 about this title. Now, after playing through all the campaigns; I can honestly say this game was 
 worth 60 bucks (Kane Edition) . The game play is just like the original was, but with some much 
 needed upgrades. The gameplay and storyline are very well woven together, with great actors once 
 again. The storyline took a pretty much expected twist with the alien Scrin race. The graphics 
 are amazing once again. With high detail provided to the units and structures alike. The infantry 
 look better than ever as well as the HUGE explosions that the game can show off from time to time.
 
  
  The only major grip with this one is that the landscape and buildings are not affected by the environment 
 at all. There were no maps with major vegetation that could be set fire to. You can't shoot at 
 a soft spot in a mountain or steep hill and make your own road, as in other RTS games. I did expect 
 that much. All in all I found this to be a very satisfying game in the C&amp; C series. A lot of 
 plot lines are still unanswered and more questions arise after you beat it, but thats for the expansion 
 pack I guess.? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Arguably Command And Conquer series of strategy games really pushed the RTS format like no other 
 franchise. Within C&amp; C series are GDI vs Nod universe, Red Alert and for sometime, Generals 
 which was mostly based on modern warfare. But, the real cream of C&amp; C series is arguably the 
 GDI vs Nod universe. While the last game we received was in the late 90's, so its been a long time 
 between the last one and the present C&amp; C 3. So how does it stack up against some of the best 
 modern strategy games like Company of Heroes and Supreme Commander?
  
  Story: Its for you guys to follow and enjoy, I am not writing anything:) ; but rest assured its 
 one of the finest u get from RTS.
  
  Gameplay: The Reason I found C&amp; C 3 all that fun is for very few reasons actually. Number 1, 
 the game is as fast paced as C&amp; C we come to know and love, as there is only one type of resource 
 u need to be concerned about, Tiberium. So instead of always focusing on economy, the game wants 
 you to focus on more important things.... like blowing opposition stuff up what else!
  The 2nd reason is the interface, this is by far up to date, the best interface I found out in RTS. 
 With this clean logical interface, u can manage just about everything, find every unit, build anything 
 without ever searching for it on the map.
  
  The only thing I am against is, is that, it lacks sea units. I would really like sea units and 
 would have added a whole new dimension to the game. Here's hoping there will be an expansion pack:)
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics is all slick. The Textures are very sharp, the explosions look fantastic. 
 And I really want you to see the Laser light show when u put GDI vs Nod vs Scrin. Perhaps in the 
 graphical department, when u zoom up close, the models don't have as much polygon as you would 
 have liked, compared to Company of Heroes. But Still, C&amp; C is a fast game, there is no way in 
 hell you want to zoom and admire the character models.... unless of course you want to see Battlecast 
 and create cinematic sequences, up close and personal. The FMV videos are also Triple A done by 
 talented actors like Michael Ironside (The guy who plays Sam's voice in Splinter Cell) . Bear in 
 mind though, you might need the latest patch if by chance the videos lag. Sound: The Music, voice 
 acting is all great. Although there insn't much of a soundtrack in the game, like a same track 
 repeats with things go hot, this could use a few more tracks. Other than that, the sound of explosions, 
 lasers, cry of nod soldiers (buahahaa) , the collapse of Avatar all add to the atmosphere of the 
 game.
  
  Multiplayer: This game has one of the best multiplayer set of feartures in a PC GAME, a stab against 
 Live! The interface is very friendly, signup is a fast process, finding games is very easy thanks 
 to a robust matchmaking process. Or find the exact type of game you want with advanced search options 
 or create one your own. The online rankings are their for individuals or clans (which you can create 
 easily) . The Battlecast, a great fun feature lets a person to telecast a multiplayer event with 
 commentaries, changing camera angles, drawing lines, etc; it really makes the game much more enjoyable 
 to watch and more like a sport.
  
  So there you have it. C&amp; C in all its explosive glory. Its one of finest games of the year and 
 whether you like it or not, you must get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragynraken
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Lol thats weird GDI destroy the tower, NOD take control of the tower and Scrin escape from tower 
 so which is the truth? So the expension might be Scrin strike again and they want take over the 
 world again, I bet they lose again lol. As for Kane thats my favorite guy, looks cool when bald 
 hahaha and he can't die at all. So damn hard to kill this bald man. When playing skirmish this 
 is really damn hard. Specially the Brutal Balance Scrin is the worse enemy ever. I can't believe 
 it their money each harvest seems like maybe 4X than normal player. Devastating Ship and Carrier 
 tactic already can make so much trouble but plus they are maniac building so many anti Tank and 
 Air units and I can't even catch up their build and train speed. When start they can instant build 
 1 power building, later all just use less than half time train and build. Really crazy but after 
 all its the worse enemy setting so I admit lose to this AI. Only take 5 minute can build 4 or more 
 place mining tiberium. Of all sudden change tiberium shape, no more tiberium roots and only 2 tiberium 
 monster, viceroid and mutant. Disappointing cause too much tiberium monster removed so its worse 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punk_knight_200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  I Love this series of RTS, great mix of everything, fast paced. Great Action and it is what a rts 
 should be like!!!
  
  Gameplay: As said it is fast paced, great rts. Great amount of options and equipment. New faction 
 Scrin adds a kinda of freshness to the series.
  
  Graphics: Visually this is ONE (note I didn't the only one) of the most amazing looking games. Detail 
 is quite defined and impressive I was very surprised at how visually amazing the game is. From 
 the fire fights to the buildings being demolished. Sound: Great sound really goes god with this 
 RTS series, some of the chants can get old fast, (tiberium depleated, base under attack, etc.) 
 but then again thats in pretty much all rts in some form or another. Music is good, but I also 
 like to play my own just my own prefrence.
  
  Value: It's a lil on the expensive side well the limited Kane edition and it's not much more bang 
 for the buck, should have stuck with the regular edition. Other then that it is worth every cent, 
 I've had no problem with it running on my vista machine either.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: If you haven't bought this game yet, I don't know what ur waiting for. This game 
 has great replay ability, for both the single playerp type of gamer and the multiplayer type of 
 player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angre_Leperkan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I heard about this game about a week before coming out. I almost immediately got the demo and tried 
 it. The graphics in this game, even when not turned up, are PHENOMENAL. My pc is good, But it can't 
 even handle this game all the way up. However, if all the graphics were on high, I bet this game 
 would look amazing.
  
  However, that's not the only point. This game also has amazing game play, with new units from the 
 first two, and even a new race: The Scrin. The skirmishes are fun and exciting, with many customizable 
 difficulties and personalities for AI players, and the campaigns are fun, and there is even a bonus 
 campaign ( I haven't unlocked yet, But I can't wait! Go Scrin!) '
  
  However, there are a few flaws. One flaw that I immediatly was annoyed at was the discontinuation 
 of a few of GDI's Units. They stopped the weird robot units like the Tiger, but they give an explanation 
 in the game. They also give an explanation to the fact that The Mammoth MK II is not in the game, 
 and have replaced it with a new Unit, the Mammoth Tank. However, I'm still annoyed about that because 
 those used to be my favorite units.
  Also, there are a few glitches in the game which I hope will be fixed in a patch.
  
  This Game 
 is amazing and highly addicting, and if you like the other games of this series, then you should 
 like this one just as much, if not more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FanaticFirearm
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty much just an updated C&amp; C generals. there is no new or groudbreaking additions 
 that I expected. Oh, and it is crawling with bugs. The online sucks. The AI skirmishes are very 
 hard. Ive had soo many problems with it crashing. The only thing new is the graphics and units. 
 there are only 3 armies with mainly the same units. It's a fairly good strategy game and in retrospect 
 i would not have spent 55 bucks on it. Do yourself a favor and get Medieval total war 2 or Company 
 of Heroes. IF you dont have a high end brand new laptop don't even get this because you won't be 
 able to run it to appreciate the new graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 : Tiberium Wars does everything Command and Conquer : Red Alert 2 did right 
 and then some. Not only is it fun but the game is going to last quite a while do to the superb 
 skirmish games and the new call playing features for the multiplayer modes. Its only a matter of 
 time before mods start springing up everywhere circa Command and Conquer : Generals. Being of a 
 skeptical nature, I am as surprised as any other fan who doesn't generally like EA games but guess 
 what?-EA L. A. manages to resurrect the glory of their former studio Westwood and create something 
 polished and exciting. Its all here folks, the visuals, the cheesy yet cool cinematics and the 
 intelligent a. i. in skirmish mode. I haven't honestly tried online yet for fear of getting stomped 
 30 minutes into a game but skirmish games are keeping me occupied thus far and Command and Conquer 
 3 : Tiberium Wars is a blast so far. Of course its not as good or innovative as Relics Warhammer 
 40,000: Dawn of War, Company of Heros nor Gas Powered Games Supreme Commander but it does enough 
 things right for me to recommend this game to anyone who enjoys a good PC RTS game. All the old 
 play mechanics are there like the base building and controlling of units but now its all in glorious 
 3-D and some of the maps are beautifully rendered with the shadows from the clouds animating over 
 the battle field and lots of fog and haze everywhere as well as light blooms. Its beautiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerald699
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  lol it is quite nice but the value is no point [See Above] Just see my review deck.
  But game is kind of fun, though i don't really like Strategy games such as The Command And Conquer 
 Series or the Rise Of Nations Series .But this Version Of Command And Conquer III Tiberium Wars 
 is not bad and a not at all bad game. Even if you think it is bad, you can always change your mind 
 by playing just 2 to 6 rounds to just get addicted to it and change your mind, and start thinking 
 it is a really nice game. Actually I only got a Tiberium Wars Demo.
  You shall have known my cousin if you love this kind of strategy games, you should just ask him. Number 
 1:
  He loves Strategy and racing and shooting games.
  Number 2 Reason:
  He will burn anything you ask for and need.
  I will end my Review Here Bye Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oringinalgamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game goes back to it's basics. The game can be quiet simple for original players 
 of the Command and Conquer series, many aspecs will seem to be unchanged. The addition of the Scrin 
 also bring a pleasant change to the game.
  Graphics: This game is visually amazing. The effects are distracting your first few visits to the 
 game. All weapons distort the air around them and when they explode it is equally as pretty as 
 well as visually distructing. The basic ground units seem to be just a little dated but it is nothing 
 really to complain about. The FMV sequences are really nice with actual actors bringing back that 
 classic feel.
  Sound: The game also stands out greatly in the sound department. From explosions to the music, 
 nothing was left out. The soundtrack keeps you in the action changing with the pace of the game. 
 Not to mention the voice acting is done fantastically for each unit type. Value: This game has 
 a tone of stuff to do, the single player aspects will last you hours. When you finish single player 
 you can move online and take on other people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelizno
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Best RTS ever! EA Games has done it again. This game has it all: awesome campaign with a great 
 story, fun and challenging multiplaying, not to mention the amazing graphics! I love this game 
 and won't be playing any other RTS for quite some time.
  
  About a month ago THQ released the successor of Total Annihilation which was cool. It had its fun 
 elements too.. but the war between the giants end with a solid win:
  Supreme Commander &lt; Command &amp; Conquer 3 - Tiberium wars.
  
  It's well worth the $s.. 
 Kane is back! Get your copy from a shelf nearby today and join the nod brotherhood fighting the 
 corrupted gdi multiplaying online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sysim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics & sound have definitely been improving constantly and there's always the excellent cinematics 
 and story plot but improvements to the gameplay had been getting stagnant or even worse, getting 
 more and more disappointing since after C&C : Red Alert (All time best) series onwards.
  
  Firstly, new feature in C&C3 such as the additional hotkey commands provided great help to quickly 
 select individual units, construction tabs, superweapons commands, etc. but other than this plus 
 factor, the gameplay had been lacking alot of elements.
  
  Missing elements, bugs, flaws, etc include; Naval warfare and defensive wall, gate (utmost missing 
 elements) , medic, engineers can't repair garrisoning structures, detailed information of units; 
 HP indicator (in numeric) , armor points, damage, advanced tactics, formation etc. (Age of empires, 
 Warcraft series are examples which had good design layout for this)
  
  In summary, I'd rather go back in time to play C&C : Red Alert with improved graphics & sound and 
 actually there's a list of more things I felt that's lacking or could be improved but just pointed 
 out some that is of more significant if not I could end up writing an essay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maestro85282
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  I don't really know what else to say. The interface has managed to be beautiful and quick at the 
 same time. The graphics and sound are both exceptional. They've introduced some new features for 
 controlling units that work great (such as reverse attack will make your units attack while keeping 
 the front of the vehicle facing forward) . There's a hotkey menu that allows you to graphically 
 bind pretty much any key you want (although I've found that most of the key bindings are already 
 pretty nicely set up) ... the cinema scenes are nicely over-acted in a way that makes them completely 
 well done but cheesy at the same time.... pretty good.... well, anyway, if you like C&amp; C games 
 this is, if not the best one, within the top 2 or 3. If you like RTS in general this one is right 
 up there with Company of Heroes (I said with, not equal or in front... Company of Heroes I would 
 have to say beats out this one but hey, that's not what's in question here) Buy it, play the crap 
 out of it, it's a masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Well EA have done it again.... EA have always made great C'n'C games and all of them have been recognized 
 by players all over the wolrd. C'n'C3 is the next generation on graphics when it comes to C'n'C 
 and when gamers play C'n'C3, at first it wount seem like a C'n'C game but as you play it becomes 
 more clear to you that it is truly a C'n'C game and has the same feeling. C'n'C3 has a great story 
 and great gameplay has any C'n'C game would.. the difference in this game is that with the video 
 clips its like real movie that takes to you.... in each clip you see well known actors such as Josh 
 Holloway (Sawyer from the tv series Lost ) as one of the commanders for the NOD side and Jennifer 
 Morrison (Dr. Allison Cameron from the tv series House ) as one of the commanders for GDI side.... both 
 actors will give you a brefing of each mission you have to do, i like this because it gives more 
 of a realistic feeling to the game... other known actors in C'n'C3 are Billy Dee Williams (Lando 
 Calrissian in Star wars episode 5 and 6) who plays the president of the US and Tricia Helfer (Battlestar 
 Galactica) the NOD side Grace Park (Battlestar Galactica) the GDI side and Michael Ironside as 
 the Genral for the GDI....... there is a big lost of known actors that play in C'nC3 and its just 
 gives a more relistic feel to the game.... For and C'nC fan C'nC3 is a game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamisjamas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Besides the major graphic updates, the gameplay has been updated with speed , 3D terrain, and new 
 units. This is in essence what C &amp; C should have been if the technology had been around in 1995. 
 I love it and I think it is a welcome addition to the already stellar reputation of Westwood-now 
 EA. Dont think though because I have praised the game so highly that it doesnt have its cons, the 
 very thing that I love about the game is also why I give it a negative, the somewhat recylcing 
 of the original C &amp; C. Many of the units have been used in almost every C&amp; C game, and the 
 main difference is superficial. But with all that said I love the story, the game is quick and 
 fun and I still say it is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwilletts
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Before CnC3, I had never played a Command and Conquer game in my life. So sorry if I miss anything 
 from the earlier games. When I first began to play CnC3 I was amazed at how great the graphics 
 looked and how much action that was packed into every minute of gameplay. No matter what level 
 you were on, the action was non stop. That was one part of the game that was actually quite cool 
 for me. Also, the campaign for both NOD and GDI were some of the best I've ever seen in an RTS. 
 (Despite the cheesy live action cutscenes) Only thing was, there were way to many glitches in the 
 game that just ruined my gameplay experience. For example, I was on the Croatia mission where you 
 have to go and get MCV and bring it back to your base and at the same time, protect your base that 
 was being constantly bombarded by vehicles and infantry soldiers. WELL, on my way back with my 
 MCV, it magically got stuck on the corner of a building and despite my efforts, I couldnt get it 
 unstuck. So I started over and next time around the EXACT same thing happened, so I kept starting 
 over and trying new ways to go through but always my guy got stuck on something. Anyway, there 
 were all kind of unbalanced game issues with units and truthfully the entire game is a tank race. 
 Basically on GDI, the quicker you get Mammoth tanks the quicker you can go to the next level. That 
 was really a turn off for me as I'm used to playing games where you need a mix of everything to 
 get the job done. Multiplayer was another major turnoff, when its almost impossible to find a game, 
 get it started and actually play it through. I tryed to play around 10 multiplayer matches and 
 only 3 were finished. I cant even begin to tell you how many times I was disconnected, it was ridiculous. 
 In the end, the game just didn't cease to dissappoint me, when you find it hard to do almost anything 
 because of little bugs and glitches that occur, it becomes a turnoff that drives you take the game 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceBoxhit
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  Well I played C&amp; C games every time they came out., always hoping for a challenging strategy 
 game but olmost never got it. EA sales games mostly because of their adds and commercials. You 
 can see it in games like GODFATHER, NHL, NBA and so on. But back to Tiberium! The graphics are 
 really nice. But this will not keep you playing this game. If you are not a fan of the series than 
 you wont probably stick whit it for long. After the first 5 misions you saw every thing! There 
 is just nothing new - every mision is the same 1. Build a base 2. Make some troops 3. Attack the 
 enemy (straight at them) . If you like fast , simple, nice looking RTS games feel free to play Tiberium 
 Wars but if you like real strategy then STAY BACK (try MEDIEVAL 2) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svitas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I was preaty excitet with this game it has a god story and to the end aliens witch they were great. 
 The onlline playing expiriance is for beginers is tough but a few wars and you get a hand on it. 
 Only I in GDI there isn't any strong airplanes like in NOD OR SCRIN. But I recomend that you play 
 this game the requsment is not so high. The god part is to that AI is very smart espasaly on HARD 
 they fist attack you but when the find a weak part there will atack you but if you are smart you 
 wil predict it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piirimehike
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The whole storyline is just great. All the cutscenes are well made and the story is really emotional 
 and even makes sense. If you are familiar with the tiberian universe, the game feels just like 
 you have been on a 7-year break from duty as a commander. If Command &amp; Conquer 3 is your first 
 experience with tiberium, the game gives you all the information you need about the condition on 
 the Earth - the info is all placed in the beginning of the campaigns and it is made really short 
 and intensive so no you shall not confront any blabber. The story evolves nice and smooth. All 
 the information you need about  is all fed to you so that you don't 
 have to dig in some kind of mission menus. You don't really have to worry about knowing the interface 
 or when-to-hear-what - you can enjoy the game with your enemy being your only concern. Although 
 all the missions in the campaign are a bit different, they may get boring at some point. Some are 
 even both boring and really hard to complete so frustration may occur, but only with a few levels. 
 All in all, the story is intense enough to keep you playing even when the missions are boring.
 
  Campaigns are not too long. thats bad, because they don't have a big replay value. You may want 
 to complete all the missions with gold medallions but all the major strategic movements are linear. 
 The skirmish and multiplayer are both fun, but the available maps are not so fun for long. Just 
 miss the good old Tiberian Sun map generation system.
  Both the graphics and sound are good and there is nothing annoying about them. All the menus are 
 simple. Loading times are really really fast and even an army of 100 Avatars is not too heavy on 
 a not-too-new PC. There seem to be no major nor minor bugs so you really don't have to worry about 
 anything else than your enemy.
  Although there really is not anything special about the game, it is very solid and fun to play. 
 A must for every RTS fan and a recommendation for anyone who wants to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerballer
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  total dissapointment
  game was fun for first 5 hours then it got old
  it didnt help that i was stuck to singleplayer because the game is filled with tons of bugs
  
 if you really like this series, my advice is to wait another month before all the bugs are fixed 
 out
  the HD video sequences are soooooooooooooo gay
  the game must have been designed for like 5 year olds
  basically you need to stay away from this 
 game
  go get supreme commander or something
  anything other than this GARBAGE
  graphics are decent though
  so its not alltogether horrible
  just 95% terrible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 22, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  C+C 3 retains the fun fast gameplay as the previous C+C games, excluding offcourse the tripe Generals, 
 which is a very good thing.
  
  First of it looks good, very good infact although you'll need a high end comp to appreciate all 
 the graphical naunces, but a half decent PC can still run the game quite well thanks to the good 
 optimisation.
  
  Sound wise, well its a shame Frank Keplacki did not create the C+C3 soundtrack as he has done in 
 the past, as a result the music lacks distinction and memorable moments wereas in the previous 
 C+C games the soundtrack has stood out. Having said that, the sound track is ok nothing fantastic 
 but nothing terrible, only a couple parts seem memorable but rest just seems to blur together with 
 nothing exceptional.
  
  The unit sounds are good enough too, although the commando units still dont sound as tough as the 
 original commando from C+C 1 and it kinda lacks the almost camp/ridiculous fun from Red Alert 2 
 unit sounds.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game is great, keeping in tune with the classic C+C gameplay, its fast and furious 
 but games can last for some time. The singleplayer portion is excellent, its retained the FMV with 
 real life actors to tell the story to you the commander as is proper with the command and conquer 
 games, and its done to good effect, the story in C+C3 feels a little richer because of this and 
 it was quite rewarding to have the story line furthered along instead of reading a wall of text 
 which might not even be entertaining to do so.
  Theres a plethora of acting talent with the likes of grace park (Battlestar) , tricia helfer (Battlestar) , 
 josh holloway (Lost) , Michael Ironside (starship troopers) , BillyDee Williams (Starwars!) , and 
 C+C3 still has the brilliant Kucan as the enigmatic Kane.
  Some of the acting seems pretty wooden but its suppose to be a little cheesy and funny.
  Not 
 only are their FMV's to further the story but as you play the game you can attain intelligence 
 reports which have a little more background information, unimportant as they seem they are a welcome 
 addition.
  
  The factions are sufficiently varied to ensure a different play style with each one, GDI have better 
 offensive firepower but need more time to get at their better equipment, were as NOD has relatively 
 cheaper low end units which rely on hit and run tactics and offcourse stealth.
  The Scrin units are more of a balance but with spectacular aerial units and probably the best faction 
 to have during a game which is going to last long.
  GDI probably has best low end infantry and tanks, NOD probably has best mid-high end infantry and 
 early vehicles, and Scrin the better air units and commando unit.
  
  The singleplayer part is quite big with over 35 singleplayer missions and missions themselves are 
 varied enough with escort missions, your standard fun build up and destroy missions , and the slightly 
 more difficult missions like using a single commando/engineer to achieve mission objectives. Theyre 
 varied enough and fun to play although I found the NOD campaign much more rewarding than the GDI 
 campaign which felt too easy for most of it.
  And the bonus mini campaign was a appreciated touch and sets the game up for a expansion quite 
 nicely.
  
  The AI of the computer seems competent enough, on hard and above its quite a challenge although 
 Im still not sure if this is due to efficient playing or bonus resources (as is often the case 
 with most games the AI on harder difficulty levels merely cheats or has an unfair advantage such 
 as knowing where all your units might be etc.)
  
  Multiplayer, well a mix bag, theres only one game mode which is your standard build up and destroy, 
 but the staple strategy is tank spamming with the really good players doing early rushes with a 
 few infantry enigneers/shadow operatives, which I feel whislt are good tactics against veterans 
 C+C'ers just eliminates the fun for newbies and there are quite a few newbies with C+C3. Having 
 said that you can save replays to learn from the masters even watching a replay solely through 
 their eyes so to speak.
  I think multiplayer could have been better, if it had more asymetrical maps, as it stands only 
 a few get picked and they get quite boring and sometimes it feels asthough the bases are way to 
 close together, and if multiplayer had included multiple play modes, king of the hill etc, or better 
 yet a option to have peace time (such as with the original Cossacks series) to give those who might 
 get bored of rushing a chance to build up a base - I believe something like this is being instigated 
 for the Xbox360 version so I hope it would get included in the PC version via a patch.
  
  Stragtegy / tactics wise its classic c+c but it seems much much more quicker paced, maps seem small, 
 tank spamming is essential perhaps early rushes aswell, and there are a few new abilities such 
 as new missile attacks and reinforcements.
  
  All in all a very good sequel in the Command and Conquer franchise, which could do with more maps, 
 a map creator (in the works already should be released soon) and more multiplayer options in order 
 to stop 'samey' games happening over and over mainly in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent3810
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C3: Tiberium Wars is truly a great game, just like all the other C&amp; C games.
  In Tiberium Wars ,because of the Tiberium having spread across the globe,
  30% of Earth is too 
 much infected with Tiberium and cannot support Human life anymore.
  
  50% of the Earth is infected with Tiberium and damaged by years of war, but still supports Human 
 life.
  It is under the control of the Brotherhood of Nod (NOD) .
  80% of Earth's population lives here.
  
  20% of Earth remains uninfected with Tiberium and 
 is relatively untouched by war.
  This area is considered the last hope and refuge for the civilized world, and is under the protection 
 of the Global Defense Iniative (GDI) .
  
  In 2047, after years of peace, NOD launches a nuclear missile at the GDI
  Space Station Philadelphia, destroying 
 it and killing everyone inside.
  
  Like in most of the other Command &amp; Conquer games, there are movies for every mission. This is 
 one of the things what makes Tiberium Wars great.
  
  9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midgetman_OWB
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  its by far the best strategy of all time. it fits perfictly in with the games story. it brings 
 strategy games back too the top of the gamers list. one of the best parts is it brings back one 
 of C&amp; C's best actors (Kane) . in both of the campaigns their is a lot of action to go around. 
 with the addtion of a new race of aliens called Scrin. but even atfter you have finished the campaign 
 their are a few bonus missions you will love to play. it takes a while to unlock them but well 
 worth it. but dont think that all the fun starts after you beat the campaign. they have added primary 
 and secondary objectives. you can send engineers to capture positions or you can join your enmy 
 to fight off an alien attack. so there is plenty of drama too fuel your fun. so i bet you have 
 herd a lot about the combat. well its some of the most intenes RTS fighting i have ever seen. you 
 still need to build up your supllies but it get done rather quickly. just build a few mines an 
 generators and get started. if you perfer to wait for the action to find you, you wont have too 
 wait long for a fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILoveCandC3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The game-lay is good the storyline is good it has a great MP system and very fun hard lots of SP 
 Missions this game is great if you like/love real-time strategy this is the game that will broad 
 in your horizons!!! xD every one should buy this game it is the best in the world!!! I LOVE IT 
 XD!!! this game compared to sup com i give this game a 10/10 and sup com 2/10. I got to Kane's back 
 yard and am haveing a HARD time winning!!! the hd vids and how mutch MP missions oh yah the best 
 there is LOTS of people online too so you wont be lonely :P GET IT i wanna see u on there :D. i 
 tell you all this game is WORTH IT! oh yah!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackan52
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  I've played through the game and some skirmishing games and once I got hold of the game I hoped 
 it would set a new standard in terms of strategy and graphics on all strategy games. In a way it 
 does in the graphics department, but other than that the game is taking a huge step backwards in 
 terms of strategy. The game COMPLETELEY lack strategic value whatsoever, it's just wait, gather 
 up troops and attack en masse. No troops formations, no using of terrain to your advantage (well 
 you can cover inside a building, thats something new and ground breaking ) , the Battlefield series 
 is more strategic than this!
  C&amp; C offer nothing new strategic mass and charge, it's basic and it's a letdown to advanced 
 C&amp; C players.
  The game don't do ANYTHING new, it's the same old C&amp; C with more modern graphics thats all, 
 period!
  
  If you got the game and like it, fine like it but don't say it's the best strategy game ever because 
 it's not.
  If you are new to RTS and want to learn more, then buy it because it's so basic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dezhem
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars sure has a big name to live up to.
  It achieves this for the most part but has a few strange quirks that detract from the overall experience.
 
  
  The gameplay follows the tried and true method of the previous games, although lacking a few features, 
 such as naval warfare.
  The Singleplayer Campaign is fun to play, and it is narrated excellently through the use of FMVs 
 between missions. Some well known-actors appear in them and although it sometimes seems a bit over-the-top, 
 it adds feeling to the game. The missions can be quite difficult on occasion, especially if one 
 cares about getting all the Intel Ops which are acquired via completing bonus objectives.
  All in all, the gameplay doesnt stray far at all from the previous games, and while that isnt 
 a bad thing, it would have been nice to see some new elements introduced, or brought back. (Naval 
 warfare, subterranean units etc..)
  
  The one area where C&amp; C 3 falls quite short is the multiplayer. There have already been numerous 
 patches since release and there are still many problems with the online play, with many users not 
 being able to connect to servers at all, while many others experience frequent connection losses.
 
  Furthermore, the included readme states that over 20,000 ports are needed open by the game, which 
 is a large security risk and could have been handled better.
  Also, there are numerous problems with the stat trackers and people disconnecting from games without 
 penalty.
  Time will tell if EA can make the necessary adjustments to improve the online gameplay.
  
  
 The graphics are a pleasure to look at, and unlike other games (Looking at you, Supreme Commander) 
 will run well on even modest systems. The units are detailed and the damage progression is visible 
 enough to not require you to stare at HP bars all the time.
  The environment is quite varied, ranging from cityscapes to the games tiberium-infested red-zones
 
  My only gripe with the graphical side of things is the animation.
  Previous C&amp; C games enjoyed some diverse death animations which were curiously omitted in the 
 latest instalment. You know it brought a smile to your face to set people on fire and watch them 
 run around. No such pleasure this time around as the units either explode, or fall over.
  
  The sound could have been somewhat better. The unit responses didnt quite have the edge to them 
 as they did in previous games. There are exceptions to this of course. The Mammoth Tanks and Flame 
 Tanks for example, always bring a smile to my face when I hear their responses.
  Other sounds seem to have been re-used (gunfire, tank shells) which is fine as they fit well.
 
  The music is quite forgettable, focused on being more in the background than anything.
  
  In the end, fans of the series will love Command &amp; Conquer 3 : Tiberium Wars, even with its 
 (admittedly limited) flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liraris
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  What can you say about this game ? It's just plain fun. Game play is just right depending on your 
 level .I n normal difficulty you will get through most of the game without a problem. Graphics 
 are supurb . You need a good card however to enjoy it to the fullest. The sound in the game is 
 just as great . The vallue could be a bit lower since I think it's a bit much to spend 50 eu-ro 
 for a video game. Over all the game continues the old westwood tradition of making great strategy 
 games. Like the red alert series and Yuri's revenge. The game play of this game is similar to those 
 classic games but a huge improvement is made in the graphics. The missions are plain fun and easy 
 to complete if the strategy is quite right. The commando in the first missions reminds me of Tonya 
 in the red alert series. I enjoyed this game as much as I enjoyed the rest of the red alert and 
 yuri games. Maybe even more. I haven't played this game on line yet since i Just completed the 
 GDI , campaign, but I imagine that it will be just as fun as playing the missions. Although it can 
 be harder if your playing against other people. Overall this game is supurb, and if you haven't 
 played it yet you are missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  The only thing I can find wrong with it, and its not really something wrong, but the only thing 
 is that they made the story a little to much relating to all the other games... I've never played 
 them so I had no idea who was who at the beginning. The game play can be soooo addicting, and the 
 on-line is always a challenge. I don't think I'll be putting down this game any time soon. I might 
 just give up Starcraft for a bit, so I can play this more often... Next thing you know, I'm skipping 
 out on my daily D2 LOD sessions, and all hell brakes lose. Not much else to say but this... Great 
 game, but could have been a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadeyo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Score once again for the CnC series. If your a fan then this is a no brainer -must get game. Not 
 disappointed at all. Good job EA. Nice addition of the alien, 3rd AI. Graphics are easy on the 
 system and should allow more gamers to enjoy this classic. Game play is smooth and fun. Only bad, 
 the story line and movies can get to be a drag but you can always skip over them if you don't want 
 to watch them. If you think you have the game mastered, crank it up and put the AI on the hardest 
 level. Good luck. Now that will keep you coming back unless you just give up. Wimp! Hang in there 
 trooper, you ain't seen anything yet. Like I said, this is another classic and a great addition 
 to the CnC family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponic3
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok well first I presonally found that the game itself seemed a bit too advanced. A C&amp; C fan 
 that wanted to play would have to first upgrade majorly before being able to play the game. I expected 
 the game to be a conclusion but EA merly left it majorly open for an expansion. Though I do give 
 them credit for not making this game like Generals. Now specifically:
  
  The movies were ok. A common error which I found bad was EA didn't pay enough attention to notice 
 that movie video and sound did not synch together example my sound was ahead of the video in most 
 spots the occasional time they were perfect however. I found it mostly occured when the camera 
 was forced to move around. EA should have payed more attention to that however they did hire a 
 good string of actors and I did enjoy many of the movies so not a bad job on that part. The gameplay 
 was nice but I found a problem which majorly changed this game from other C&amp; C games. In older 
 games different areas needed different strategies. For example on large maps you would want to 
 pick something quick and like a jet attack or a naval attack. However because of the story naval 
 is impossible. The issue is I found air attacks seemed relativly useless, it was extremly difficult 
 to figure out where each side was. In all the games (exception being Tiberian Sun and Firestorm) 
 each side had a unit or building which allowed them to reveal a part of the map to find the enemy, 
 only GDI has this Nod does not and Scrin can only reveal tiberium areas. Making super weapons useless 
 as the only way to activate them is if you have uncovered the area unlike older games where you 
 could take a chance and click in the shroud. Another problem was strategy was almost useless each 
 side could do almost the same thing. Rely on 1 or 2 units which were always tanks in older games 
 to win you needed a combination of different attacks.
  
  Storyline: it is epic but it does not seem to connect much to Firestorm. Firestorm however was 
 created to finish off Tiberian Sun so C&amp; C 3 should have acknowledged one of the sides. Proof 
 is in the GDI victory the Tacitus began to give out data in English however in C&amp; C 3 it is 
 obvious that they are still trying to decode it meaning it is not English data. They never even 
 mentioned the CABAL crisis Nod should have made a brief even acknowlegment. Lastly it doesn't seem 
 to be much like technology that sky rocketed as the story went.
  
  Balance: It has seen better days. If used correctly each side can have something that is unbeatable. 
 Nod if used right their defenses are champion and almost impenetrable. GDI's tanks will strike 
 fear into anything that goes against it. And Scrin's air units are a force that you do not want 
 to be against. And each side has a major weakness. Scrin is their tanks are not extremly armoured, 
 Nod does not have a strong air force and GDI does not have a well developed air defense.
  
  All and all I must say this game does feel a little bit like good old C&amp; C but EA seemed to 
 skip out on a lot of things which is what I did not like. Still this is still a type of game I 
 would buy, keep and come back to play again in later days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mezzanne
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm... I'm known to be an EA basher, so that doesn't help this game much. however, I can't deny 
 that I like this game. The reasons...
  
  Gamplay : Nothing revolutionay - but it's old-school , the way it should be! It's unlike Generals 
 (I dislike) and more like Red Alert 2 (I like) , so this is good for me, and I think that's a pretty 
 fair indication to base it apon. I got to play this multiplayer and single player, and well... 
 I just had fun. It feels good to be back, really.
  
  Graphics : Wow. I really love the graphics in this game... they really look fanastic, especially 
 considering that I thought Generals looked good back in the day... But the real reason I give it 
 a 10 is because this game runs really nicely when toned down a notch... even on my rubbish computer 
 with a 5200.
  
  Sound : Hmmm... well, it's nothing special... you can expect the typical clich&eacute; unit responses 
 and all, but basicially, it works. I like it - but nothing extraordinary.
  
  Value : Depends on you... if you enjoy C&amp; C games, this is a treat because I really think it's 
 one of the best in the series. It's fast, it's simple, it's fun. It's nothing really new either, 
 though.
  
  Normally I'm more of a Red Alert fan, but this game has managed to capture my attention rather 
 well... and now, there's really no more reason to play generals ever again, YES!
  
  C&amp; C3 is a fun game, and it delievers as expected I suppose. Try it out if you enjoy RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blade_Tr4iner
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  C&amp; C 3 is the latest game in the series, and although (unlike the original) it doesn't add anything 
 revolutionary to the series it still manages to entertain you greatly.
  
  The storyline continues on tiberium and is as cheesy as ever, and a third side is added, the Scrin, 
 who originally placed Tiberium on earth.
  
  The graphics is beautiful, with post-processing, bump mapped terrain and all the bells and whistles 
 that EALA could stick onto the Sage engine (the engine used in Generals, Zero Hour, and BFME 1/2) , 
 but has the scalability to run well even on lower powered computers with relative ease.
  
  The sound is high quality, and the voice acting in all areas is excellent, with GDI troops tending 
 towards a military ( Sir yes Sir! ) , the Nod troops tending towards mild psychoticism, and the 
 Scrin sounding every bit the Alien invaders they are.
  
  The gameplay is relatively well balanced, with a tendency towards unit spamming (building lots 
 of only one type of unit) , and the Scrin are a bit overpowered, but I think that is deliberate, 
 since the Scrin have superior technology and all.
  
  One of the best things about C&amp; C 3, and something I've missed over the past few years, is the 
 live action video sequences, no cheap in-game cutscenes, but fully blown HD videos with well known 
 actors (sort of) . This is good because it immerses you in the storyline far better than it would 
 have otherwise.
  
  Overall, I think that C&amp; C 3 manages to keep to it's roots admirably, and at the same time is 
 a highly enjoyable and fast-paced strategy game that, while not setting the benchmark, certainly 
 meets it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadokahn
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  I can't begin to explain my frustration. I will admit that I am an older gamer (mid 30s) , but my 
 god... I don't think there is enough Starbucks out there to allow me to play this. Just for giggles 
 I played a skirmish on Easy (I am use to Hard on most RTS) with the understanding that the book 
 says Easy will not offer much of a challenge. Within less than 60 seconds, the computer had 4 buildings, 
 and 4 units of soldiers attacking me (he was on Balanced) . The book mentions tactics, such as forward 
 facing (tactical withdrawl) , but I have yet to find anything that takes more than about 1 to 2 
 seconds to destroy, so whats the point? EDIT: I will admit that if they would just add a game speed 
 control for single player the game would get a very high rating from me. I am not into on-line 
 play, but see the reason for the pace there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krishmaj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  Although the original Command and Conquer universe had disappeared off the gaming map for more 
 than 7 years, it still had many devoted fans across the world who would do anything to see the 
 return of their favourite and beloved series. So in May 2006, they thought that their wildest dreams 
 had come true when EA Games announced the sequel to C&amp; C: Tiberian Sun  Command &amp; Conquer 
 3: Tiberium Wars.
  
  Less than a year later, and the game was released to the watchful eyes of the C&amp; C community, 
 and they were certainly in for a mixed bag of treats. Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars takes 
 place in the year 2047, when Kane and his fanatical Brotherhood of Nod emerge from the darkness, 
 bringing the world-order to its knees by metaphorically decapitating their 50-year-old adversaries, 
 the Global Defense Initiative (GDI) , thus beginning the Third Tiberium War. As the player, you 
 will take charge of forces around the globe, struggling to defeat your enemies and win the war 
 for your chosen side.
  
  As before in C&amp; C, you are given the choice of playing as either Nod or GDI, but a notable  
 and in the end welcome  difference in C&amp; C3 is that the 2 campaigns are directly related to 
 each other. At the start of the Nod campaign for example, you as the commander will be fighting 
 to take over Washington DC for the Brotherhood, but later on when you have moved onto other battles, 
 you will hear reports of GDI retaking Washington DC from Nod (which you as the GDI commander will 
 end up doing in the GDI campaign) . The 2 campaigns are spread over 34 missions (17 in each) totaling 
 about 10 to 15 hours of gaming depending on the difficulty, with a wide range of mission objectives, 
 from simple destroy the other guy before he destroys you, to protecting civilian transports and 
 nuclear warheads, to covertly sabotaging enemy supply routes with limited troops and construction 
 options. All these give the campaign immense replay-value, coupled with a medal-award system that 
 commends you for completing all primary and secondary objectives, and for finding all Intelligence 
 points in each mission. EA have even thrown in a Bonus Campaign that is unlocked after you complete 
 both GDI and Nod campaigns  this bonus actually ties in very well with the main storyline, and 
 opens up the way for an expansion to come perhaps later in the year.
  
  The storyline itself is possibly the most in-depth one from any C&amp; C game, combining a believable 
 and immersing plot, political maneuvers and mishaps, and interesting characters. This game sees 
 the welcome return of the Full Motion Videos to C&amp; C, and for the most part the acting is solid, 
 with reasonably well-thought-out scripts and situations. However, there are times when you might 
 feel that EA was simply going with the famous face behind the character, and not so much with the 
 character itself  the prime example being GDIs Lt. Sandra Telfair played by Grace Park, who despite 
 being billed as one of the games main characters, doesnt really appear to have much to do  her 
 scenes (which number only a handful) could have easily been given to any other character already 
 in the story.
  
  Without giving too much away, the story takes the commander (you) on a whistle-stop tour of the 
 world in 2047  through North America, Europe, South America and Australia, in a new feature called 
 the Theatre of War  each theatre has up to 5 missions and a self-contained plot. This is a nice 
 touch and gives you the feeling of fighting in a worldwide conflict  something that was lacking 
 quite a bit in previous games, where the fighting was confined to a few continents at most.
  
  Of course, what use is a storyline without the gameplay to play through it with? This however, 
 is where I think C&amp; C3 fails the most  there is simply no sense of strategy in much of the 
 game. Sure there are ways to win  plenty of them  but in the end, you will find that they all 
 boil down to one of 2 things: Rushing your opponent, or Spamming one single unit. This is evident 
 in both singleplayer and multiplayer  even against the AI in campaign and skirmish missions, the 
 same strategy will work time and time again, despite EA promising an adaptive AI that will change 
 its strategy to counter yours.
  
  Now, this may be the best way for EA to promote its RTS as a Sport idea for this game, and admittedly 
 from the beginning they described it as fast, fluid and fun gameplay  but the fact that this 
 game only really caters for rushers and spammers means that anyone who actually wants to inject 
 a little thinking and strategy into their play will most likely be wiped off the map very quickly.
 
  
  More evidence of this is shown in the sides themselves  previously GDI and Nod had their own different 
 ways of being played  generally if you tried to use Brute Force (GDIs tactic) playing as Nod, 
 you would most likely suffer more loss than gain, and similarly for GDI players using Hit-And-Run 
 tactics  they just wouldnt be as effective as if they were used with Nod. However, in C&amp; C3 
 you will find at some point that both sides will have much in common in terms of gameplay  it 
 is in fact possible to use brute force (read Tank Spam) for both sides. The only really new strategies 
 come from the new side in the game  the SCRIN  and that is only because their ground forces are 
 surprisingly weak against GDI and Nod.
  
  However, there are some nice innovations for each side that are regrettably not being used to their 
 full potential. The addition of faction powers is carried on from Generals, but this time cost 
 money  meaning that the player has to choose between using that money for the power, or more troops. 
 The factions still have their iconic units  GDIs Mammoths Tanks have gone back to the original 
 designs of Tiberian Dawn, with a modern revamp. Nods units are ideal for hit-and-run tactics (but 
 are unfortunately not being used for such for the most part) , making use of stealth and speed. 
 And the new Scrin units are certainly interesting and a very nice addition to the C&amp; C universe 
  bringing a new flavour to the game.
  
  The superweapons of each side also deserve a mention  finally GDI have a SUPERweapon  the Ion 
 Cannon has been completely overhauled and is now able to dish out the damage that a superweapon 
 should. Nod still have the nuke that makes them infamous, and the Scrin have a neat little toy 
 in the Rift Generator.
  
  But as noted before, despite each side having many different units and an equally widespread variety 
 of buildings and powers, its very unfortunate that games often boil down to the use of just a 
 handful of them in Spam-Attacks.
  
  The other side of the game  MULTIPLAYER  promised to be the highlight of the gaming world  a 
 multiplayer setup that people could literally sit down and get into without a fuss. In addition, 
 EA promised some new innovations that would change the way online play was used  their Battlecast 
 option would make spectator-viewing easy and simple, and the whole thing being run directly through 
 EA (okay, via Gamespy) would make it all nice and centralized.
  
  For some people  the minority it seems  all this hype was right. For others  the majority  
 the multiplayer was plagued with so many bugs on release that there was no chance of it ever living 
 up to the hype. Fortunately, EA reacted fast and as I write this there are already 4 patches addressing 
 the major issues. For the most part now, people are able to enjoy the multiplayer experience as 
 it was meant to be. Unfortunately, the gameplay doesnt change just because youre facing a person 
 instead of an AI  games often devolve into basic Tank-spam still, simply because there is no easier 
 way to get an easy win. This is something that EA will have to balance out if they want C&amp; C3 
 to be successful in competitive play as they appear to want it to.
  
  As to the peripherals of the game  well they leave a lot to be desired. The soundtrack to the 
 game is very poorly done  there is really no other way to describe it. There is no memorable music, 
 only a few background melodies that change every so often without the player really wanting to 
 pay attention. Previous soundtracks (such as in Red Alerts 1 and 2, and Tiberian Dawn) contributed 
 that little extra something to the game  making it feel complete. C&amp; C3 has a soundtrack that 
 could be turned completely off and it wouldnt make any difference whatsoever.
  
  Skirmish mode is as you would expect it  the game is short on maps as of release, with about 15 
 maps at the moment, all of which are to be honest a little boring and simple  perfectly symmetrical 
 and easy to find your way around. But with the release of the World Builder coming anytime this 
 month, the community will soon have the maps pouring in. One thing that is disappointing about 
 skirmish is the lack of pre-game options  such as Tech Levels, Fog of War on or off, and small 
 things like that. But since skirmish games take generally less than 30 minutes with all 7 possible 
 opponents playing, the lack of these becomes slightly moot.
  
  C&amp; C3 takes the universe back to its root in Tiberium, Kane, and the fight between GDI and Nod. 
 There are some very nice new additions to the universe which make the game very worthwhile and 
 certainly memorable. But equally memorable are the small things that bring it down a notch  lots 
 of small things that add up to make a larger problem. As a stand-alone game, C&amp; C3 is almost 
 perfect, definitely 9.5/10. But as a smaller part of a larger series, not so. Definitely not so.
 
  
  The universe is still yours to Command and Conquer, but chances are youll be doing it with lots 
 and lots of tanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_ice
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  i love c&amp; c games i even still play redalert 2 but u didnt tell us wat ore we have to find i 
 mean if it is 1or 2 the fight will get intence but if more 3 or up i will start to b more stratigic 
 to favor units on others cuz of the lack of ores cuz i will not spend more of my power on buildinjg 
 unit to gather food its just boring if its just money food i love it if more i will b\play once 
 or 2 times and that is it right
  but i love it i will buy it as soon it come out in my country 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrealhk
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer, the original PC RTS returns in all it's former glory. For those who do not 
 know it was C&amp; C that kicked of RTS gaming on computers. Before C&amp; C came most strategy games 
 were turn based. The difference of course is that you do not wait for your turn and neatly plan 
 everything. You don't do anything, well that's your loss.
  C&amp; C 3 is basically the classic original revamped with modern graphics. You are basically a 
 commander and you job to co-ordinate infantry units, tanks and aircraft to perform certain tasks 
 like destroy an enemy base. C&amp; C 3 does not have sea units (maybe expansion?) . Compared to modern 
 RTS the C&amp; C 3 tech tree and advancements are very simple, which may be a good thing because 
 the action is very intense and fast. You may lose a whole group of units in 30 secs or less if 
 you are not paying attention.
  Gameplay: True to the original, and very fast and intense. New units and weapons gives so freshness 
 to the game, but apart from that nothing new. I was a bit disappointed by the fact a majority of 
 normal difficulty missions can be completed by spamming tanks with only a small amount of strategy. 
 I remember in the original C&amp; C, you need a lot of strategy in placing individual units to most 
 effect. Maybe because C&amp; C 3 is faster paced, making this more difficult. In harder difficulties, 
 due to the fast pace, it seems a lot of luck is also needed.
  Graphics: The graphics are nice and quite beautiful, however, there are some areas where the graphics 
 are not up to par. With all the nice 3D terrains, etc, I cannot help to notice everything looks 
 like toys. (I have a 7900GT with graphics settings et to ultra high, just no shadows etc, and the 
 mammoth tanks still looks like a plastic toy) .
  Audio: The audio is nice and generally enough for this type of game. However a lot of the miscellaneous 
 lines, are repeated , and a bit more variety. The original C&amp; C had a original soundtrack which 
 played in the background which was upbeat and gives tempo to the game. It seems C&amp; C does not 
 have this which was a disappointment ( Mechanical Man anyone) .
  Multiplayer: The Red Alert series (off shoot of C&amp; C) was one of the first multiplayer RTS and 
 it was this which made it great. The new C&amp; C 3 seems to have all the original maps plus, a 
 few new ones, which are not particularly inspiring, but after a few matches, it seems it will be 
 the best feature of the game. The added battlecast where you can watch other matches seems like 
 another great idea.
  Tilt: I will be first to admit that I thing Grace Park and Tricia Helfer are sexy, and respect 
 Michael Ironside, and Billy Dee Williams, so needless to say I will add plus for the live video. 
 I guess to balance it out, maybe because of the hype, I expected more from the single player modules, 
 which were quite simple in normal level.
  
  Is this game recommended. Yes, definitely yes. If you never played RTS this is a good start off, 
 it is fast pace and actioned packed. For a RTS fan, just get it for the nostalgia if nothing else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medrago
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  Ok first of all to all the SPAM critisizers.
  Show me one game (RTS one) where you didnt SPAM.
  AOW RED ALERT GENERALS and many others.
  
 in many games you cant spam becuase you have unit cape but in here you can it is a test to see 
 if you can really use strategy when you can also spam so all the spammers failed the test simple 
 as that.
  
  Now for the game itself:
  
  Gameplay: just awsome a good old C&amp; C gamplay style with the building browser units and strategy.
 
  I especialy like the shadow teams becuase of their ability to fly and land behind enemy defences 
 and blow up the base and also the Scrin for their complete air supiriority. the gamplay is fun 
 gathering resaources in the old C&amp; C style brings you back to the old good days and rushing 
 a base is still as fun as it can get. a little bit to easy
  
  graphics: The best I have ever seen in a strategy game like GOW and Fall of Men.
  
  Sound: 
 very good I havent noticed any glitches.
  
  value: In my country (Israel) it cost 40$ so it is worth it.
  
  Opinion: If you are a C&amp; C 
 fan BUY THIS GAME and if you want to start playing C&amp; C games BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WisconsinBatman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer. Oh the fond memories I have of thee. Late nights, LAN parties, knowing just 
 a little more about the game then my friends, exploiting their every weakness, only to be dominated 
 by someone else playing possum!
  
  I can see endless nights of C&amp; C 3 again, as the fundamentals still exist to keep seasoned players 
 in the basics of the game, but the units and structures are different enough to level the playing 
 field for the new players.
  
  As of right now, I'm working my way through the campaign missions (if nothing else to learn the 
 story, and to train before getting destroyed on-line) and just as every other C&amp; C game, there 
 are some ridiculously hard missions, and just as every game before, these almost always involve 
 you getting a small number of troops and are expected to destroy an enemy base. Missions such as 
 these only seem to detract from the game's fun, since after the campaign you will not run into 
 situations where this happens (although it would be somewhat interesting to have a multiplayer 
 option to remove the base building, and only start off with a handful of engineers, a tiberium 
 refinery, and a map with a smattering of unoccupied unit building structures. Hmmm...)
  
  So far, I've already gotten my money's worth out of the game. It looks absolutely fantastic on 
 my LCD monitor; the sound is good for the most part (for some reason in the cut-scenes the actors 
 voices are almost completely washed out by the background of the GDI command sounds)
  
  I am a big fan of C&amp; C. I'm interested to try playing as the Scrin (a new faction in the quest 
 to control Earth and its Tiberium supply) , but alas, if I want to train with them first, I have 
 to complete both the GDI and NOD missions.
  
  I recommend purchasing this game if you are a fan of RTS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: will477
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the C&amp; C universe since it originated. I have made a point to play every 
 C&amp; C game (even stuff like Renegade, lol) . In my opinion, the original C&amp; C and Red Alert 
 were the best (especially when looked at in relation to other games of the same time period) . As 
 for Tiberium Wars, overall it is an excellent game. It has very good graphics when turned up to 
 the highest setting. The sound does the job, although don't expect to be amazed by an inspiring 
 original orchestral score or anything. I have played the GDI campaign so far, and it has been fun. 
 However, mission difficulty vacillates wildly. As for the other campaigns, I can't be certain.
 
  
  Anyway, the primary reason that I wrote this review is to discuss the multiplayer. Wow. Lately, 
 I had been playing LOTR: Battle for Middle Earth II (yeh I know it's old and games like Supreme 
 Commander are out, but I still like LOTR) . They are both made by EA, and you can see the similarities 
 in the menus. Yet in gameplay the two games are radically different. A rush used to be a strategy, 
 not the whole game.
  
  I mean, seriously. I bought Tiberium Wars, and I sat down to play online since I had about two 
 free hours. I didn't think that, in that time, I would end up playing over eight (yes EIGHT) multiplayer 
 matches. I will admit that ranked matches go faster because the whole point is to build up as quick 
 as possible then attack, usually via tank rush vs. GDI. If you are playing against NOD, its even 
 worse. Expect squads of stealth units in the first minute or so. This makes online gameplay very 
 unbalanced in terms of strategy. However, it is still fun. It just requires a different kind of 
 tactic than other games, such as LOTR. A game in LOTR lasts around 25 minutes, and I used to think 
 that was quick. It is like marathon compared to Tiberium Wars. If you really want the epic battles, 
 get some friends to play with, and hold the rush. Of course, there are also no rush custom matches. 
 Don't get me wrong, the rush has always been a viable RTS strategy, but when the average ranked 
 match lasts under 15 minutes (I am guessing this since many of mine lasted less than 10) , maybe 
 the gameplay is a bit one-sided. You usually don't even use a super-weapon, because there is no 
 time for it to build/charge.
  
  I have faith that EA will rehash the balance a bit (idealistic?) . Regardless, Tiberium Wars is 
 a great game, if you don't mind the multiplayer. It emulates many of the characteristics of the 
 early C&amp; C games that made them masterpieces. If you have never played a C&amp; C game, go buy 
 Tiberium Wars now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casestomexico
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the games graphics. It also runs good on my computer. I also think that the Acting is 
 great break away from the norm of the C. G. videos. I do think that games are becoming to expensive 
 that is my only problem with this game. The difficulty is this game is just right. It is not to 
 easy and it is not to hard. The On line feature is also great I was able to connect and get going 
 very quickly and easily. I have not spend allot of time with game, but from what I see I think 
 that is has much to offer. The new addition of the Scrin is great and I like the War of the Worlds 
 look. It makes you feel like you are the protect of the world when you see them blow up. ~Eagle~ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheUndyingOne
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Trust me, I'm not a huge fan of command and conquer, but this game is amazing. The Campaign is 
 great, but the multiplayer is fantastic, because the games are so short and the tide of battle 
 can change very easily.
  
  Gameplay- If you're used to some other RTS' , namely Starcraft of Warcraft, the first thing you 
 need to know is that this game isn't like those games. Your units will die. A lot. This game actually 
 feels like a war, and focuses on the combat.
  
  Graphics-Not the best i've ever seen, but pretty damn good considering the low system requirements
 
  
  Sound-Only one complaint; the designers could have made the game so that when a unit is created, 
 it has more than one thing to say.
  
  Value- Worth every dollar.
  
  Tilt- Every battle will be greatly different, even if it is set up the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonermargera
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, all three factions are well balanced and fun to play with, the story is very 
 clear and understandable, overall this game is one of my favorite. continues the cnc universe wonderfully. 
 To bad this game is owned by EA, I think we would have had a lot better more cool things if Westwood 
 was still around. Gameplay - Fun, challenging, computer AI knows how to beat you at all time haha, 
 even better beating down a real life opponent in it.
  Graphics - dated, but do not show it. amazing graphics for what the system actually requires. sound 
 - this gets perfect because it uses the same death screams from the first game.
  value - kane edition is not that much better than regular, get the regular one if your on a budget. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellequin85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  I have been a follower of the C and C series since the beginning. I recieved copies of both C and 
 C and Red Alert on my 12th birthday (yes I was underage... no I don't care.) and promptly fell 
 in love with the characters and the gameplay. I was, however, disappointed with Tiberium Sun, it 
 just didn't feel right and looked... I don't know... somehow nasty. When I heard about C and C 
 3 I was a very happy man. Now at the age of twenty two I am able to enjoy the same thrill I had 
 when first running troops over with harvester... oh and playng the game too. It's good to see the 
 old favourites back, the obelisks, the Orcas and the Ion cannon. The only thing I have found slightly 
 dissappointing is (and trying not to give anythign away!) the ending of the NOD campaign, very 
 open, and more information would've been sweet but nevermind, it still plays well and there's a 
 certain feeling that you only get when Kane addresses you as his son. The scrin are an excellent 
 addition, they fit in with the 'verse and play very nicely as a fighting race. The gameplay itself 
 is simple and easy to pick up for both the seasoned vet and novice commander.
  I have one, minor, fault with this game, and it is only minor, it's over so fast. The AI has been 
 improved and some of the missions are an absolute pain but for the most part the campaigns are 
 fairly easy, even on normal or hard difficulty. It's still enjoyable though. On the whole this 
 is a game that I hope will receive many an expansion pack as with C and C three EA has managed 
 to return the franchise back to it's fantastic ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovimees
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played Command and Conquer yet, this is a good game to start your perfect experience 
 with C&amp; C. The gameplay is well refined, everything works very well. You won't run out of anything, 
 mostly, like in other RTS genre games. The graphics are wicked, you'll need a good rig to run this 
 game on max graphics, but when you can go max, do it. It looks pure, and sharp. The unit design 
 is perfect, I enjoy zooming in on my infantry after they destroy a building, since they do a victory 
 dance of some sort. The sound is good, like it's usually been. The best part about the game in 
 my opinion are the cutscenes, where either the GDI or Kane give you short briefings. If you want 
 to play a solid RTS, this is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clonetrooper911
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Honestly I have never played a Rts and quite frankly i never planned on doing so. That is until 
 my friend bought it so I thought i give it a try. I was addicted to it!! I have never used my brain 
 for a video game ever ( except Halo 2 against like 20 people) I kept on playing and playing then 
 I had to leave which really stunk becuz i really wanted to play that game more. I was considering 
 buying it but i am currently saving up to buy a laptop for myself. So i could play more Rts' like 
 this one without having to be kicked off the desktop for my parents' purposes. The whole tiberium 
 momey thing was kinda hard to pick up but after awhile you get the hang of it.
  
  Highly recommended to ne one who wants to play and Rts' for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duelpad
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  I just dont like the style of gameplay. C&amp; C3 is a let down compared to C&amp; C Generals and 
 the Zero Hour expansion. Its just a game of mass spam, and EA have eliminated anything to do with 
 'Strategy', Infact they've replace it with 'Spam'...
  
  Its a fast, spamtastic match that can literally be won in 10minutes with some rocket men, if you 
 can run 'em to your enemy's base quick enough, and as a true C&amp; C fan, im NOT impressed.
  
  If you one of the old harcore C&amp; C1 fans then buy this game! But i can see my copy of C&amp; C3 
 heading to GameStation in a couple of weeks time.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Fat_Zebra
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Graphics -
  
  While the graphics are not world shattering, I very much enjoy the level of detail in the game. 
 Explosions of buildings, dust thrown up by the tracks of a mammoth, etc. are all very well done 
 and make the enjoyable to look at, and of course, to blow things up!
  
  The Missions -
  
  Overall, I think that the missions are a tad to easy, and I finished the campaign quite quickly. 
 I do like how they build up towards a moral dilemma ...
  
  Cutscenes - Some of the acting was solid, while some of those guys really dont know how to present 
 a believable character. To name but one, the news reporter guy really doesn't come close to a presenting 
 a reporter deserving of his own current issues show .
  
  Multiplay -
  
  This offers a great added value to the game. Battles are short and intense, though as always, rushing 
 seems to be a core part of the game. Maybe Mammoth tanks should be made a bit more expensive, since 
 they will flatten everything with the rail upgrade + air defense combination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRork
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  The good points: Pretty.
  
  Gameplay we're all used to.
  
  Great use of FMV.
  
  The bad points:
  
  Gameplay we're all used to.
  
  Where is the thunderous sound track?
 
  
  So much is right about this game, the wonderful use of graphics, sound effects and objectives makes 
 this a great game to play. But I feel it lacks ambition.
  
  We've seen SupCom take a huge leap out in Big Real time strategy, yet C&amp; C3 at a fundamental 
 level hasn't really advanced beyond what we saw back in 1995. The multipart missions and plot twists 
 are all there, along with all the fun and frustrations you'd expect of a top quality game. Once 
 you get past the prettiness, there isn't much to blow you away, it lacks something definitive that 
 stakes it claim to being better than RA2 and friends.
  
  In short, your expectations will be met, but they won't be exceeded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  The original Command & Conquer blew gamers away in 1995, as it greatly improved upon Dune II which 
 paved the way for most modern RTS titles. With most of the masterminds at Westwood now with Petroglyph, 
 Electronic Arts Los Angeles has taken the reigns of the C&C series, and have finally delivered 
 a follow up to 1998's Tiberian Sun, and its expansion Firestorm.
  
  Set roughly a decade after the Second Tiberium War in Tiberian Sun, and the CABAL Cyborg Uprising 
 in Firestorm; Nod has control over the majority of the world and thus has become a formidable super 
 power. The player becomes an instrumental part of the conflict by siding with either the Global 
 Defense Initiative (GDI) , or the Brotherhood of Nod during the dawn of the third Tiberium war.
 
  
  The storyline is told through the traditional C&C FMVs. Fan favorite Joe Kucan reprises his role 
 as the ruthless enigmatic leader of the Brotherhood of Nod, Kane, and he is joined by an all star 
 cast from various television shows and films. The FMVs are what one would expect from the C&C series, 
 somewhat cheesy but mostly serious.
  
  C&C 3 doesn't stray far from the installments prior to Generals. The side bar interface returns 
 with the tab system from Red Alert 2, as does the traditional construction yard system. Unfortunately 
 the flaws in the series are also carried over, infantry becomes useless late game even though forms 
 of Elite Infantry are present. It becomes a "Who has the bigger vehicles" deathmatch, I was personally 
 hoping that EA would fix this but I guess it wouldn't be C&C without tank spamming.
  
  Visually C&C 3 is both beautiful, and dated. C&C 3 uses the SAGE engine which powered Generals, 
 Battle for Middle-Earth, and Battle for Middle-Earth II. Players who have played any, or all of 
 those games will recognize the graphics right away as very little has changed since the engine's 
 debut in Generals. Still, the graphics are nice enough.
  
  The audio is okay. The voice acting is excellent, and the sound effects are typical battlefield 
 sounds. Like the rest of the SAGE games, C&C 3 also has ambient background effects which add to 
 the environmental atmosphere. Unfortunately the game suffers from a poor soundtrack. The lively 
 Frank Klepecki score found in most of the games is gone, as is the atmospheric Klepecki score found 
 in Tiberian Sun. Instead we get a shoddy rehash of the already mediocre Generals soundtrack.
  
  Tiberium Wars is a little rough around the edges. It brings the classic C&C gameplay into the 
 modern age, and though newer RTS fans who are spoiled by most of the more recent RTS gameplay styles 
 may not appreciate it - C&C 3 is simple, and loads of fun to play. Great gameplay combined with 
 the classic C&C campaign storytelling, and you've got yourself an RTS worth playing. Sadly, only 
 C&C fans may appreciate it for what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_doody_1999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  its definately all its cracked up to be, a heavily re vamped tiberian sun, complete with all the 
 bad acting to boot. Some of the best idias from the travesty of a game that was generals remain 
 and work well hear, but overall and most importantly it feels like a tiberium game, witch is all 
 that rely matters. From the note in the booklet on how the makers all rely love the tiberium universe 
 to the look and feel of the game, its an extention of sun rather than a real change, as someone 
 who was dead set against ea doing it, im happy with the result. graphics are amazing for this ageing 
 engine and although the sound strays a little too close to recycled generals music on ocasion it 
 is on the whole, atmospheric.
  
  if you had reservations, even after the demo, you sould rely pick it up. i cant see it ruining 
 the legacy that the first two games built up for anyone, except the most hardcore fans, and they 
 rely should get a life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  I've been following the title for some time, and got especially interested since I got the Demo 
 - as for the basics; excellent voices to most parts for unit responses, lovely amount of idle unit 
 animations (as when the Engineer drops his tools and picks it up and looks around to see if anybody 
 saw him, that's just awesome) and nice graphics in general with sharp textures, excellent infantry 
 details and alot of nice explosion and fire effects.
  
  And for the campaign, it's very basic setup of it all, you've seen it in previous C&amp; C games 
 but it's still quite interesting, alot of cinematics going on with live actors in very high resolution, 
 even if the acting has been better - if they would simply have removed the known actors and replaced 
 them with some people who could act it would have been much better. But there's good acting as 
 well, ofcourse, but those good efforts are ruined by the awful female actor from Doctor House who 
 are acting for the GDI campaign and some guy from Lost for the NOD - if they would skip them and 
 replace those two with proper actors it would have been Sooo much better. But it's still pretty 
 effective, and the story is alright - though I haven't played it all through but it's been some 
 hours. Multiplayer is what made me actually buy this game.
  
  And to the strongest point of Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars; The Multiplayer. If you've 
 seen the earlier interviews with the developers you've come to get a glimpse of all the Online 
 potential this game has, and there's simply a awesome amount of it. But it just seems like the 
 developers haven't even tested the game online before it was to hit the market - alot of online 
 crashes, lockups, connection problems, high pings, server lockdowns, stats not working, you name 
 it, there's been all those kind of problems in just one week. Unit balance is super-poor, Infantry 
 is left out, only reason for them to excist is to capture resource-points on the maps. Tank Rushing/spamming 
 seems to be the only 'tactic' that really works, especially for the GDI since their Mammoth Tanks 
 is simply too superior to the other factions equalents, in power, price and armor - and they're 
 capable of taking down Every single kind of target. Infantry is killed by the first shot from any 
 vehicle , so Anti-Tank Infantry as effective as they were in C&amp; C: Generals is just a good memory 
 as the rocket infantry in Tiberium Wars are just something you buy to watch while you're building 
 your tanks. Alot of lagging issues, lobbies isn't working properly, they're all just named Lobby 
 1-30 for no good at all, impossible to find any players from your specific country and so on. So 
 EA still has ALOT to do which they haven't been doing before launch. Four patches has been launched 
 first week just to get the game working online for most people, as the balance still remains poor 
 and there's no real competition in the game since you're always pretty sure the enemy will rush 
 you within 5 minutes unless you do something about it. So, bring back the Generals kind-of unit 
 balance so that every unit has a certain function instead of having a one-unit-army wonder. I would 
 recommend everybody to wait at least a month (which would be this May) before getting this game, 
 during this time the EA should have a decent amount of time to fix balance and fix their website 
 to be more dynamic when it comes to match scheduling and also adding some certain features vital 
 to make this game as great as it could be on the paper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Troixman
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  I haven't played out that much of C&amp; C, but its no different from Generals, the graphics, the 
 style most of it are the same. The reason i got bored with Tiberian sun because everyting sucks. 
 Now the AI,... hmmm ... a little bit crimpy, let me just try them after few more days. what i like 
 best is Warhammer : Dark crusade, the batlle is in epic proportions, the warring factions never 
 ends as long as they have resource, difficult game i can say, the zooming in of characters are 
 magnificently done unlike the C&amp; C3 its basically similar to Generals, what a disappointment. 
 NOT a BIG advancement yet, the game is predictable, the difficulty level is predictable. Hope you 
 could put a detail. just the same I'm rating it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitzza_1301
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game and havent really stopped playing it since launch and have enjoyed the majority 
 of the missions and the skirmishs. I first completed the game on normal for both gdi and nod, I 
 found that the campaign whilst closely based and very similar to the previous campaigns gave me 
 more of what i wanted and what i expected, a great title.
  
  +
  Logical Units
  Interesting Building Design
  Excellent Sound
  Great Graphics
  FMVs are back
  Good attacking 
 eg. always brings range of units to attack
  Strategic Attack eg. scouts for weakness and generally exploits it
  Interesting Campaign
  Tiberium
 
  Back to the Tried and True method of building
  The Crane
  Superweapons
  Unit variety
  Scrin
  
  -
  At time Basic rushing employed constantly by ai
  Units gettng stuck at times 
 quite rare though
  In most hands Scrin are easily overpowering and need to taken down a notch in multi and skirmish 
 modes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of this RTS series since Red Alert 1. Always thought it was one of the best 
 hands down. When C&amp; C3 was announced, I couldn't help but to be excited for a franchise that 
 seemed to be dead and played out. After playing the full game, my impression of the game is the 
 same I had for the demo. Fun, but more of the same On the positive, the game is down right pretty. 
 With all graphic settings on high, you really are on a very, very exciting battlefield, and also 
 with numerous units available to you, there are lots of things you can do to completely crush your 
 enemy. But; EA failed in introducing new strategies and game play into this new C&amp; C. In fact, 
 the game stayed so much the same, for someone who haven't touched Red Alert 2 since 2001, I hit 
 the ground running the second I was in game. The options, even build order was exactly the way 
 it was, and there is still a reliance on base defense, power plant and so on. Don't get me wrong, 
 the game is good, but I just wished during its 4 years of absence from the market place, this franchise 
 would learn some new tricks to impress some old-school die hard RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ape3442
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  After 4 months of hoping for something new and different i'm bummed out.
  Supreme Commander was bashed for being to big. This should be getting bashed for infinitesimal 
 map size and limited replay value. I really enjoyed the Scrin campaign all 4 missions. It just 
 felt like another expansion to SUN.
  I preferred Generals and Red Alert. If not for the hype I would have waited for the price to come 
 Down! Now if I had not loved previous offerings I might not have had such high expectations. Overall 
 the game was a slog through poor graphics. Now and again you see some great plots and map designs.
 
  Though not enough to earn a 9.0 sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bg10117
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the Command and Conquer series, particularly the Tiberium line of games, 
 I was really looking forward to Tiberium Wars.
  
  However, I must say I was rather disappointed. The game play hasn't changed much since the original. 
 A bunch of mammoth tanks often seems like the best (and sometimes only) way to get through some 
 of the missions. That being said, there are a few missions that require a bit of creativity and 
 are actually interesting and challenging. The cut scenes were a pretty big disappointment for me. 
 No more of those cool mission failed videos, in fact, all of the GDI mission videos take place 
 in the office so to speak, none of those goofy but lovable battle sequences seen in c&amp; c1 or 
 Tiberium sun. The lack of walls was also a bit of a disapointment, building walls/gates was a nice 
 little touch for Tiberium sun that made base design a bit more interesting. The Campaign story 
 is really rather predictable and dull. You'll find yourself taking out Nod really early as GDI 
 so you can fit in the obligatory assault on the temple mission before the Scrin come into play. 
 And the introduction of the Scrin is laughably bad, the news anchor announcing calmly an alien 
 invasion was just lame.
  
  All in all, not a terrible game, but its nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The game that has set the bar for quality RTS' is back. Twelve years later after the first Command 
 &amp; Conquer game was unleased, this jewel hits the shelves. And just as in its predecessors, 
 Command and Conquer 3 is a fast-paced Modern-era warmachine set in our very near future, in a world 
 that is plagued by the mysterious crystal called Tiberium. And just as in the past games, the united 
 group of nations that reside in the areas unaffected by this crystal is called GDI, or the Global 
 Defense Intiative. The Brotherhood of NOD are a renegade group that have a different agenda then 
 those of their counterparts. But that's not all there is to this gaming marvel.
  
  Beginning with the new visuals, C&amp; C3 deploys very crisp graphics complete with wonderful explosions, 
 and very well animated units and backgrounds. Passing the tradition of the older Command &amp; 
 Conquer games, this one is compiled of a full Hollywood cast. Notably and very eerily, the creepy 
 Joe Kucan (Kane) has not aged a day in the subsequent 12 years. On to gameplay, where the game 
 trully shows its potential. Stepping away from the trend of more deeper strategic RTS', C&amp; C3 
 is a breath of fresh air if you think the current games out there are too slow paced. The GDI like 
 before, relies on its brute force comprised of such units like Predator and Mammoth Tanks (which 
 has returned after a brief stint as a walker in Tiberium Sun) . The NOD is more subtle however, 
 relying more upon stealth and hit-and-run tactics. The suprise new race added is the alien invaders 
 called the Scrin. These Tiberium-thirsty fiends have easily the best air units. On the top of each 
 of the races Tech trees in a powerful walker; the GDI have mobile artillery in the form of the 
 Juggernaut, NOD have the Avatar, a unit that can sacrifice other friendly units to gain their abilites. 
 The Scrin take a page out of War of the World's for their walker, named the Annihlator Tripod.
 
  
  Overall, this latest installment of the Command &amp; Conquer series is a hit. It is easy to play, 
 fun, and furthermore not a hog on your system requirements. This is a RTS game you should own. 
 No matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  There is very little strategy involved in this RTs.
  
  Trying to do anything else but mass-spam attacking with your elite units almost always ends in 
 failure. Sending small raiding forces into the enemy base may net you a few kills and a destroyed 
 building or two, but no matter because within a few seconds the building will be reconstructed 
 and 2 new units will be produced for every 1 killed. Stealth, hit-and-run, or any of the more interesting 
 tactics didn't work well at all because every enemy will instantly know where you are once you 
 attack and you'll get swarmed within seconds. Defensive emplacements can also see and shoot through 
 obstacles (buildings) , so cover is useless.
  
  The only viable solution is to build up a massive force consisting of your best units and rush 
 the enemy base so that you can demolish all of their buildings in one fell swoop. I found this 
 tactic most effective on pretty much every map across all 3 campaigns. This means Mammoth Tanks 
 for GDI, Avatars/Stealth Tanks/Vertigo Bombers for NOD, and Annihilator Tripods and Devastator 
 Warships for the Scrim. Once you have your force, just box-select them, and move-attack on the 
 enemy base. There's nothing like a cluster of 30 Devastator Warships spraying white stuff all over 
 the place.
  
  So it basically becomes a race to see who can build the most elite units the fastest. The superweapons 
 are effective as well, so you'll want to build for those - Ion Cannon, Nuke, Rift Field. Nuke and 
 spam. Repeat if necessary.
  
  Some of the missions were poorly balanced. Some were laughably easy, others were fairly close to 
 impossible.
  
  High production values, but lacking originality, using the by-the-book RTS formula. CoH and DoW 
 had more going for them. At least there was some strategy involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer. Its been around for ten years now. The original was stunning for its time, 
 and Red Alert put a nice twist on things. Tiberium Sun, the second in the main series was a graphical 
 upheaval, which helped RTS games progress to the next level. Red Alert 2 was a highlight in the 
 series' history due to the new advancements that made the strategy more apparent. Generals wasn't 
 too great compared, mainly because it didn't seem as accessible as the others, due to a lack of 
 plot. With the announcement of Kane's return in C&amp; C3: Tiberium Wars, many waited with much 
 hope.
  
  With the return of Kane, comes a new chapter in the Tiberium War saga. The Brotherhood of NOD have 
 been pretty dormant the past few years. With Kane rumoured to be dead, the GDI have shut down some 
 of their bases. They also classified each place in the world into zones. Red being uninhabitable, 
 Yellow mainly belonging to NOD factions, while being fairly inhabitable, and Blue Zones mostly 
 belonging to GDI, and having no radiation due to Tiberium. Naturally, NOD aren't too pleased, and 
 one day, BOOM! the GDSS Philidelphia is blown up and nobody knows why, except NOD that is!
  
  The system in which the game uses is pretty much a cross between Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War 
 and C&amp; C Red Alert 2. The units are grouped (except for vehicles) , and have selectable abilities. 
 Some can also garrison other units or buildings, and gain ranks, depending on kills. Other than 
 that, its pretty simple what needs to be done.
  
  The game's story for both GDI and NOD are done using FMV videos that are actually filmed. This 
 is faithful to the C&amp; C series, and everyone would be horrified if it wasn't so. All the missions 
 are linked via a very good story which also introduces a new faction. Aliens. Yes, Aliens. Now 
 I know what your thinking. Dear god, why have they ruined things by putting in Aliens into the 
 fray? Well, the good news is that they don't get in the way of the normal story, and they are pretty, 
 well, pretty to look at. Most aliens are large brutes, but these guys' basic unit, is a swirl. 
 Makes you think doesn't it?
  
  C&amp; C3 is an odd one in terms of visuals. It all depends on your computer, in that if its low 
 spec, then certain things don't look so nice, whereas a top-end PC will make you look at your screen, 
 cream your pants and make your mouth into the shape that suitably links to the word, Gonk . Medium 
 spec alone is impressive enough. The Framerate is pretty low, but that makes it more accessible 
 for lower end PCs (its at 30FPS) , so its more than your processor can handle, unless the settings 
 are too high. Having said that, everything on Medium Settings plus is a vast improvement on anything 
 you've seen. Units are well detailed, terrain looks awesome and even the fog and water effects 
 look almost real. Sound is pretty much of the same class. Your typical booms, bangs, arghs sound 
 great, but with a good cast, including the original Kane, and orchestrated &amp; metal music. Treat!
 
  
  When story mode gets boring, there is also a skirmish mode to take your fancy. Twenty Four maps, 
 and three races to play as. Online mode enhances the multiplayer aspect and other little features 
 make the experience complete. One thing that should be pointed out is the fact the AI on both story 
 and skirmish modes will try and exploit your weaknesses with all they can get. Be prepared to defend 
 a lot and try to do something against their forces.
  
  Command &amp; Conquer 3: TIberium Wars lives on the series' ability to reinvent itself, and this 
 is the best game in the series yet. In terms of best RTS game? Well, thats for you to judge. I'd 
 say it depends on how much blowing up you want to do, and how much tactical warfare you want to 
 do. Its too close a call! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smakkjoo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  C&amp; C3 is my 2nd C&amp; C game I've played, and I have got to tell you, it is exciting. It is 
 fast-paced and the explosions from crushing an enemy base is worth it after all the work you did 
 to win. The graphics are good, simple, but good. Gameplay is super simple and you can get into 
 it by just running the tutorial once. Although most online games are Who can make tanks fast and 
 rush , more of the skilled players use different approaches to the game. C&amp; C3 is definitely 
 a good buy, so worth it for $50. They go back to the old-style video clips and actors. Fast-action 
 gameplay, great graphics, and an entertaining 38 mission story-line, will definitely keep you occupied 
 for many, many hours. I must warn you, if you do not like strategy games, then I would still, suggest 
 you borrow this from a friend, or buy your own copy. This is THE game to get you started on RTS. 
 If you want to be super-pro at this game, I suggest you skirmish; a lot. This game doesn't require 
 you to micromanage everything at once. You can set the pace you want to play, and improve there 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalSonic89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C 3 Tiberium Wars Review
  
  Its been 8 years since 1999, when we were met by Tiberian Sun. Initially, the community was lukewarm 
 to the game after it failed to meet much the hype, but eventually we gained a love for the game. 
 Afterwards, there was Red Alert 2, which eventually was well loved by the community as well, despite 
 the continuity errors it caused. Then there was Generals, which once again we treated with harsh 
 words but eventually warmed up to it (though not everyone) . Now we got Tiberium Wars out. The reason 
 why the C&amp; C community was so excited about this game was that we returned back to a time line 
 we havent been back to since 1999, and that phrase Tiberian Twilight being kicked around for 
 years. It was shady up until a year ago, and even then it wasnt as heavily hyped as Tiberian Sun. 
 Now the game has been out for over two weeks as of writing this review. Here I start with the review; 
 Ill go over a brief explanation of each concept of the game and my opinions.
  
  Graphics and Appearance
  
  Graphics is an integral part of any RTS; they help to really draw 
 us into battle. The graphics in Tiberium Wars utilizes a modern form of the engine utilized in 
 Generals and the Battle for Middle-Earth series of games- the SAGE engine. Textures and what not 
 have been improved, and dynamic lighting and shader compatibility was added.
  
  Compared to Company of Heroes, the graphics arent as pretty, but the thing is this engine is surprisingly 
 stable. You can have a large amount of units on the screen with out lag if you have a decent computer, 
 and load times are amazingly quick (a nice relief over Generals) . Considering there are no unit 
 caps in C&amp; C games, these graphics fit the situation nicely. Another interesting thing to note 
 are the animations. Though not as interesting as they are in other games, its pretty nice to see 
 the Grenadiers play with their grenades, the fanatics sitting down and slouching back against something 
 while they idle, the Mammoth Tanks treads adjusting to the terrain, and the infantry cheering 
 after they kill something (even the most ridiculous things) .
  
  The sides are easy to distinguish as well. GDI with their more western military look, Nod with 
 their more cyber-punk appearance, and the Scrin with their obvious alien appearance. Some players 
 may have issues distinguishing certain GDI infantry from each other though, as they wear similar 
 armor padding.
  
  A very nice touch of eye candy is the explosions. Watching tanks go into flames, especially the 
 flame tank of Nod, is a nice sight to behold. The super weapons are well done as well, especially 
 the Ion Cannon.
  
  Tiberium also looks pretty nice. Its not like the ones in the older series, rather a group of 
 gigantic crystals growing from the ground around a tiberium-filled hole, with lightning effects 
 too. Theres a noticeable change in atmosphere as you move from the tranquil blue zones, to the 
 war ravaged yellow zones, to the Tiberium infested Red Zones with large deposits of tiberium and 
 immense tiberium chasms with massive Tiberium crystal pillars.
  
  Sound
  
  I wont get into much here, but the music in my opinion fits the atmosphere well. Its not as good 
 as the Tiberian Sun soundtrack that was composed by Frank Klepacki, but it fits in anyways. The 
 sound effects are pretty nice, the explosions and gun fire in particular.
  Only thing that is kind of odd is that they added old sound infantry death tracks from the previous 
 C&amp; C games. This seems to be mainly for nostalgia, but it may turn off some people.
  
  Story
  
  Tiberium Wars starts off after the storyline in Tiberian Sun and Firestorm. GDI, confident 
 that Kane is finally dead years after the Second Tiberium War, begins to de-escalate its military 
 power and focus more on rebuilding and reclaiming lands in the yellow zones. Nod still is around, 
 but apparently fractured. Unfortunately for GDI, Kane is still alive, and is busy at work to put 
 his plans into motion to further humanity with Tiberium. Kane starts off the events of Tiberium 
 War by disabling GDIs land-based space defenses and launching a missile into GDIs space station 
 Philadelphia, killing all the high-ranking officials who were holding a meeting. The game eventually 
 goes to another war between GDI and Nod, and the arrival of the Scrin. Unlike previous titles, 
 each side had the same story line, told from different perspectives. As such, itll require the 
 player to play each side (Scrin are unlocked after playing both GDI and Nod) to truly understand 
 the story.
  
  The story is fine to me, but it couldve been better. At times it seemed to be a bit rushed, but 
 it works. The actors are fine for the most part, albeit cheesy at times. Some are a bit too over-emotional, 
 others with little emotion (Im looking at you Morrison) . My favorites though were Kane played 
 by the Joe Kucan all C&amp; Cers know, Jack Granger played by Michael Ironside (he seems to be a 
 military figure) , and the Nod tactical officer Ajay played by Josh Halloway (who plays Sawyer in 
 the TV series Lost) .
  
  Gameplay
  
  Heres the integral part of any RTSs. C&amp; Cs were always known for their certain style of game 
 play, and Tiberium Wars attempts to bring that back with a few changes. Base building is still 
 the same- you build from the construction yard and place them within your build radius, which you 
 can expand with some vital structures. Base defenses can be constructed around your base- anti-air, 
 anti-tank, and anti-infantry, some with a combination of anti-tank and anti-infantry. Structures 
 can be placed in any direction, allowing players to pack their bases into nice shapes for easier 
 movement.
  
  Like in older C&amp; Cs, you have to build power plants to maintain your power flow, which is important 
 if you want to maintain your defenses and continue your rate of building structures and units. 
 Theres an option to temporarily turn off certain structures to save on power if youre using more 
 than you have. Destroying power plants is a viable strategy in the game, and may very well throw 
 some players off balance.
  
  Tiberium is the only source of credits in the game. Most games start the player near a field of 
 Tiberium, usually small. Tiberium can regenerate, but not fast enough for the player to camp around 
 the same field all game. Most games have other Tiberium fields at different areas of the map and 
 a capturable Tiberian Spike which will continuously generate money. Theres also the Blue Tiberium, 
 which will yield greater credits, but unfortunately has lost its volatile nature from Tiberian 
 Sun. Tiberium is VERY important to the player if they want to build things, so harassing tiberian 
 harvesters or destroying refineries which collect the Tiberium can severely hurt the player, as 
 theyll lose any potential income from those and will have to replace them. Nod and GDI have Tiberian 
 Silos, which need to be built to up the amount of resources you want to have at any one time (Scrin 
 dont need this) . To those of you who have never played a Tiberian title, Tiberian is poisonous 
 to unprotected infantry. The Scrin do not have this weakness. Tiberium Wars also features unit 
 upgrades, the second C&amp; C game to do so (the first being Generals) . Most of these upgrades either 
 enhance your infantry or your vehicles. For example, GDI has the composite armor upgrade and the 
 rail gun upgrade for their units. The composite armor upgrade improves your basic infantrys hit 
 points and durability, and makes them look different. The rail gun upgrade replaces the turrets 
 on the tanks with a rail gun, and will greatly increase their damage output.
  
  Every unit in the game has a specific strength and weakness, which is pretty much what C&amp; C 
 was always based on. Riflemen wont do much against a tank, but a tank cant do much against a 
 rifleman (unless they run them over of course) . Tanks are effective against other tanks, and some 
 vehicles are pitted to be specifically anti-infantry or anti-air. Some infantry are anti-infantry, 
 but others are anti-vehicle or anti-air. The list goes on, but unfortunately this counts for nothing 
 against a massive tank spam late-game. Nonetheless, all the units have a purpose, and youll find 
 yourself using most of them, if not all of them, at different points in the game. Each side has 
 a commando unit. GDI and Nods Commando both excel against killing infantry (although they go down 
 fast against heavy fire) , and can destroy buildings and walker units with their explosives. The 
 Scrin equivalent is the mastermind, which can teleport units and even take control of enemy units.
 
  
  It is important to note that each infantry comes in a squad now (with the exception of units like 
 the engineer and commando units) , unlike the previous C&amp; C games where infantry were individual 
 entities. This is mainly so that the player can get units out quickly without having to wait a 
 while.
  
  Each side has a unit that is meant for capturing structures: GDIs engineer, Nods sabetour (can 
 set booby traps) , and the Scrin Assimilator (can turn invisible when idle) . They can also capture 
 downed walkers, turning them against the enemy.
  
  Each side also has a deployable unit that can be constructed from the base. These are primarily 
 used to establish outposts near Tiberian fields so you can build a refinery near those. These lay 
 down a build radius after being constructed, which can also be expanded with more vital structures.
 
  
  Every side has a unique flavor. GDI is the strong-arm side of the game, as most of their units 
 are more expensive than their other counter parts. GDIs Mammoth Tanks are by far the most powerful 
 unit in the game, especially with the rail gun upgrade. Their harvesters are the slowest, but are 
 the toughest and have an onboard turret. Infantry like the Commando and the Zone Troopers can use 
 their jet packs to jump over obstacles or enemies. Snipers can spot things for the Juggernaut artillery 
 to allow them to strike anywhere on the map from their current location. The GDI rifleman can create 
 bunkers for a price, allowing them to create garrisionable structures anywhere.
  
  Nod is more of a fast hitter side, as their units are much cheaper and quicker to produce, but 
 they got some devastating units like the Avatar. Despite its weakness to the GDI commando, it 
 can be very powerful if used correctly, and can even take parts from your other Nod vehicles. The 
 infantry, despite being weaker than some of their counterparts, are truly effective with their 
 upgrades. Tiberian Infusion gives them greater durability and invulnerability to tiberium, and 
 the Confessor upgrades thatll enable them to toss hallucinogen grenades, causing the enemy to 
 fire at each other. They can upgrade their scorpion tank with the laser upgrade and the dozer upgrade, 
 allowing them to fire deadly lasers and to clear mines and run over heavy infantry respectively. 
 Their harvester is fast moving and can cloak. The Scrin are really more of a harassment spammer 
 side. They rely on harassment tactics early game to be able to deploy their devastating aircraft 
 and Annihilator Tripods, which can be upgraded with shields. Aliens are also the most adept at 
 collecting Tiberium, and their harvesters are hover units and can bypass a lot of terrain feature. 
 They also generate Ion Storms when destroyed, which are devastating against groups of the enemy, 
 especially infantry. Despite their strengths, they seem to have the weakest armor when compared 
 to other sides, but can be devastating if you let the Scrin spread and unleash their power. Theyre 
 also able to utilize Ion Storms, and have the Mothership unit, which if allowed to reach the enemy 
 base, can inflict devastating damage.
  
  Air units are also utilized in the game. GDI has the Orca, which is similar to a helicopter, and 
 is used to destroy vehicles. Firehawks are used as bombers, but can also be used as an anti-air 
 unit. Nod has the Venom VTOL fighter, which can attack both land and air, and the stealth Vertigo 
 Bomber. The Scrin have the greatest selection of air units- the stormrider which can attack land 
 and air, the Devastator Warship which can dish out large damage at a long range against ground 
 units, and the Planetary Assault Carrier which carries small fighters that can swarm targets. They 
 also have access to the Mothership, which is devastating if it can reach its target.
  
  Conclusion
  
  What makes Tiberium Wars different from other games? Not very much unfortunately, 
 so that may turn off people who are looking for innovation in their games. Regardless, it brings 
 back an old RTS formula that hasnt been used for a while, and I feel is perfect for most C&amp; C 
 fans and moderate RTS players. If youre hooked to games like Supreme Commander and Company of 
 Heroes, I doubt youd get on it, but you may. It isnt necessarily devoid of strategy, as I think 
 any player, hardcore or new, can play this game fine and still have a challenge. I played Dawn 
 of War with all its expansions for the longest time and Im enjoying this game. There are some 
 path finding issues, bugs, and some multiplayer issues that I feel need to be fixed, as C&amp; Cs 
 have always been big on the multiplayer front. Overall, if youre looking for some old-fashioned 
 RTS and some fast-paced gameplay, this game is for you. 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  I've been a long time fan of the Command and Conquer series. I've played the game since it came 
 out in '96... all through the series and I have been waiting a long time for the next game in the 
 series. This game is refreshing, yet there are tones of Generals in the game.
  The graphics are pretty nice, better than Generals, but the mechanics are virtually the same.
 
  The textures of the landscapes are what make this game a lot different and not to mention the 
 camera angles. In many of the missions, you'll find yourself looking almost lengthwise down the 
 map... adds significant depth to the environment. GDI and NOD have their usual staple buildings 
 and vehicles. The new Avatar for the NOD side, is awesome. It reminds me of the commander in Supreme 
 Commander. Of course the juggernaut and mammoth tanks for the GDI rock as always. If they every 
 got rid of the Obelisk of Light for NOD, I think I would stop playing the series, because hands 
 down that is the coolest defensive structure I've ever come across in any game!
  The online play is good, not amazing.
  The newly added Scrin is cool if you like aliens... I obviously 
 prefer NOD for everything.
  Overall, this is a great game for a long time fan, or someone who is picking up a game of this 
 type for the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer 3 is the just the game we needed right now. Its a great RTS, with familar 
 gameplay and belongs to a great universe with an extremely engageing storyline. GDI and NOD are 
 back as the warring factions trying to rule over earth and control TIberium. The gameplay is exactly 
 as expected. Not much has changed since the last game. More units and a couple of tweaks. However 
 this is what makes the game so exciting. The TIberium series have been known for their fast gameplay 
 with lots and lots of explosions. This is not a long drawn out game, like others in the genre but 
 rather the game makes you think fast on your feet.
  
  The graphics and sound are great, but whats really good about them is they scale well. My old Intel 
 Celeron with a FX 5500 ran it wonderfully at medium-low settings. Also did I mention the loading 
 time are extremely fast? Serious they are are very fast.
  
  Overall this is an amazing game. I would reccomend picking it up today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curt_leon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning we thought EA was going to muck it up again with that generals crap and make an 
 abomination of an RTS but look what EA plopped on the shelves, a solid well made RTS that kept 
 the live action cut scenes and what ever the fans wanted.
  
  Can you imagine a world without CnC? I doubt. But what is really amazing is how they upped the 
 graphics and there is pretty much no lag, even in big battles with tons of units fighting there 
 is still no lag at all on higher machines, this game will run on middle to high end machines.
 
  
  EA really listened to the fans about the no peons for building and brought back the construction 
 yard and its brother, the mini Con Yard, and it's sister the crane. What the crane does is give 
 you another building queue so if you have a good micro then you can build like crazy. I still think 
 they kept the overall CnC theme that applied to the other games like the original and tiberian 
 sun, it shares the classic sidebar with some add ons here and there, we have the classic nod and 
 GDI units like mammoth tank and the flame tank, but my favorite aspect of the way they mixed things 
 up is the 'third' faction, the Scrin, the scrin are an alien race who seem to have an interest 
 in Tiberium, that's really all I know having only played them once to date, but they are very powerful, 
 when you work your way up the tech tree you get a mother ship, it is a very slow moving very powerful 
 flying ship, it attacks the ground by shooting a laser that is the equivalent to the Ion Cannon 
 except smaller.
  
  The skirmishes are never the same, a brutal GDI steam roller can beat 3 multi-player players working 
 together, skirmish is a real challenge up in the higher difficulties.
  
  So EA really surprised me with this one, and I will play it until i get bored of it which will 
 probably be never. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesarjose1979
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  There really isn't much to this game... maybe i am just used to games with a little more thinking 
 involved in solving problems or what not this really was not much of challenge... the game was 
 not a too horrible I just found it boring and not much to it. To me this is the type of game you 
 play one time to the end then it sits collecting dusk in the closet.
  
  The only reason I continued with game after the first mission was to see more video of the House 
 MD TV show hottie Jennifer Morrison :-)
  
  If you like simple fast pace RTS type games as most missions can be finished within 30 minutes 
 check it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonziter1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what a great game. It makes me reflect on the old days when this type of game first came out. 
 Tiberium Wars is definitely a game worth the price of admission. It has the wow factor with the 
 graphics. The requirements to play the game on good settings are not too restrictive and the game 
 play is a riot. It's about time another PC game came out with a little bit of wow factor. Way to 
 go EA. Entertainment at its finest. The only parts lacking (and they are few) are the actors, but 
 when have they ever been good. Its nice to see some familiar faces but hey, how about a sit up 
 or two instead of a silly flack jacket to hide the gut man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loverboyjay007
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  its a game to play. from the movies to the effects and real play itself says it all. i am playing 
 and cant leave it alone. storyline and the terrain is just amazing. hollywood actors make it even 
 more astonishing. it has all what a games should have. its a very nice game and surround sounds 
 are also very great. graphics wont have any trouble coz its not that high and the performance is 
 good. another good feature about it is you wont need a very good graphics card to play. unlike 
 other new game, just cause its EA Games thats why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Scar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer 3 is a very huge update to the long series of C&amp; C, they have updated 
 the graphics and units and the Strategy.
  
  GDI - The GDI has some nice Updates and they still have the great and mighty Mamuth Tank, which 
 still clears the battle field and really is worth the gold spent on it.
  
  Allthogh they have alot of flat chested girls in the campign and they are very hard to play with, 
 iam allready even looking for Cheats to pass some stages.
  
  NOD - The NOD has the old Scorpion tank as well, and is very fun to play with, thier campign is 
 easy as well and fun to play.
  
  you will enjoy the campig and the stages. and the treason.
  
  This is a fun strategy game and 
 brings some old nice memories. if you are a Strategy fan then i sujjest this game because you will 
 enjoy it.
  
  If you happen to find any Cheats for the game to pass stages or give gold then please let me know 
 or send me a Private message.
  
  Regards.
  Black Scar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cdscottie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  What can I say? Command and Conquer is back and feels like it has never left. It has been about 
 7 years since the last game of the Tiberium wars graced our paths and people wanted more so EA 
 decided to dive in and come to the rescue. Did they succeed? That is up to you but this is what 
 I have seen.
  
  Graphics:
  Not the best looking graphics you will ever see but it looks pretty good giving the hardware requirements 
 for the game. Can you find better? Sure, there are beautiful games out there but what really matters 
 in a game is gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:
  You can have a game with the best known name and the greatest looking graphics but without gameplay 
 it means very little. So has EA done what they set out to do for Command and Conquer 3? That they 
 did. They have delivered simple gameplay that makes CnC veterans feel right at home and leaving 
 it simple enough for newcomers to join in. It is a little faster paced than previous CnC games 
 and in it's current form there are issues with balancing but in all good time it should be corrected. 
 Plus, multiplayer matches may be short but they can be fun if you have a good team with you.
  
  Sound: What can you really say? Listen to the sound and enjoy the explosions. CnC brings back 
 the old sounds such as the famous infantry scream when they die and newer, tougher sounding explosions, 
 engine sounds, and even unit voice overs. I mean, who doesn't want to hear Armor Superiority when 
 clicking on a mammoth tank. Plus, they have tried to bring back the old CnC feeling once more with 
 the techno/rock combination music. The music does fit the game but it does lack the montage of 
 older CnC games such as Hell March from Red Alert.
  
  Overall:
  This game is worth picking up and playing but it does lack some depth compared to other current 
 RTS games. If you are a casual RTS fan or you have been a fan of CnC then you should definitely 
 give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orkslayer
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  If ur looking for a real game that gives u looks and stragey. play DOw or COH. this game has little 
 use for troops and aircraft. its all about tanks and super weapons. i say starcraft has better 
 gameplay. man this game needs some balance issues or something. then theres the maps. there very 
 close to each other and head on. so theres really no turns or have to go threw canyons or stoping 
 on cliffs. its just flat terrain and thats about it. i say (DOW) dawn of war is just the game for 
 everyone well balance and good maps and sounds even effects. they give u seven races to play with 
 so have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdavis999
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  I'm truly speechless about this game, what can I say. Its the best strategy game of the year easily, 
 the graphics are the best I've seen in a while in the strategy department the cut scenes are cool 
 they have got a Hollywood cast now compared to the other cnc games and red alert 2 etc they kick 
 ass, there also in HD, for the p. c its awesome but for people who don't have a powerful p. c then 
 the xbox 360 version comes out soon which I would say will be just as good the two campaigns tell 
 the story of the GDI (global defense Initiative) and the brotherhood of nod, they tell the same 
 story through different views, then if you complete them both you unlock the new scrin campaign 
 which is fairly different but still fun it consists of 4 missions and tells you about the scrin. 
 this game has tons of replay ability and the multi player is very good, this game is easy to play 
 to all newcomers alike and experts of the game. The A. I in this game is awesome and some of the 
 tactics that the A. I use is very intelligent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r3def1ne
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Command and Conquer game that I have played and I absolutely love it. I'm a busy 
 person these days and must be extremely selective about which game/s I invest my time into mastering... 
 it sucks, yes, I'm growing up... and this is definitely the next game I am dedicating my gaming 
 time to! It's simply a kickass game! used to be diehard into Warcraft 3 and found the game's pace 
 a bit off at first but it has really grown on me. It belongs in any serious PC gamer's collection... 
 especially if you have ever liked a previous RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmpinoy65
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been faithful with the series; buying each game and expansion since the begining. After playing 
 with this 3rd installment, I don't see anyone else playing this game except old true fans like 
 myself. The game is GENERALLY the same like the old ones. There is nothing I can say that makes 
 this game a must have. If you are willing to buy it, try looking at a used game store for Red alert 
 2 or Command and Conquer Generals. Both games that are still fun to play. There are already lots 
 of old RTS games out there that are still enjoyable to play. I disappointing buy to a overhyped 
 RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAkster
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  From the first command and conquer game this has been one one my favourite series next to Final 
 Fantasy. It is great to see the sidebar again and i just LOVE Kaine... whatever he is (Not exactly 
 human maybe cloned or at worst an alen) .
  
  This is all good but the GREATEST drawback is that it has a short campaign. I completed all of the 
 missions in 2 days but then again it does take a long time to create levels for the game along 
 with the storyline and lookig at the price tag, this was a huge dissapointment.
  
  the online play is ok but i find it very easy so far since i kill everyone in 6 minuites 7 mins 
 MAX playing as nod (I love those Planes unless I fight Scrin then i better stick to Scorpions)
 
  
  It is a great game, little too short and im lvl 10 on multiplayer at the moment (rapidy going up)
 
  
  It was dissapointing when multiplayer did not work for a few days butthey got there in the end.
 
  Great game i hope there will be an expansion out soon :D (maybe not so expensive)
  
  How long it takes for a person to learn depends on if you are used to RTS games, i picked it up 
 in seconds but im just a big gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F-E-A-R13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  The missions themselves are incredibly varied and involve a lot more than destroying an enemy base 
 or defending a particular structure. You'll have to do these things, of course, but you have both 
 primary and secondary objectives to complete, which include using engineers to capture certain 
 buildings, amassing beam cannons to take out defenses, or teaming up with your sworn enemy to defend 
 against alien attack. You'll be doing it all in a variety of real-world theaters, such as Washington, 
 DC, downtown Sydney, and the eerily dry Amazon basin. The near-future take on familiar locales 
 makes the intense battles feel even more thrilling, because the settings are recognizable and meaningful. 
 These Firehawks are delivering more than pizza to Nod's door. That's not to say the combat isn't 
 gripping on its own. If you're usually content to turtle up in real-time strategy games, you're 
 in for a surprise: Battles are intense and focused, and they give you little time to prepare. Like 
 any RTS, you still need to build up resources, but it's a quick process of plopping down a bunch 
 of tiberium refineries and power generators and finding the action, because if you don't, the action 
 will quickly find you. Once you get past the first two acts of each campaign, you'll discover that 
 Tiberium Wars' artificial intelligence is aggressive and resourceful, and it will take advantage 
 of your strategic flaws. Don't expect to put your trust in one or two favored units, because even 
 the most powerful units have noticeable weaknesses. It's a rusher's paradise, but you shouldn't 
 take it to mean that technological advancement and thoughtful strategy don't have their places. 
 You won't need to deal with long, complex tech trees, and it makes Tiberium Wars feel somewhat 
 limited in this aspect next to advancement-focused strategy games like Supreme Commander. However, 
 you do have multiple powers and upgrades to earn by building various structures. The powers run 
 the gamut from GDI's powerful ion strike to Nod's vapor bomb, and they fit each faction perfectly. 
 As you use units they level up, making them more effective in battle, and in some cases you improve 
 units by more unconventional means. For example, you can use a Nod warmech to destroy your own 
 flame tank, and the mech will then spew fire in addition to its own native attack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  I been Dreaming of this game for almost 1.5 years, but know my dream is a reality. I Bought this 
 game the first day it came out and i love it. with 3 good sides you cant go wrong with this game. 
 I love A lot of this game. But i didnt love it when i found 4 glithces with this game on the first 
 day.
  
  the lobbys were messed up, players list was messed up, game list was messed up, and i could never 
 connecte with anyone. but that is all over now. with 3 patches this game is looking bright. This 
 game has 3 sides, about 6 to about 10 infantry on each side, about 8 to 12 viechles on each side, 
 2 to 6 airplanes on each side. And over 15 buildings for each side. A huge Single player campaign, 
 training levels, and much more to give this game a near perfect score. When i bought this game 
 i preorderd it and got the Kane Edition which gave me lots of new wallpapers, allowed me to see 
 the making of my new favorite game, bloopers, deleted scenes of this game, and much more. I love 
 this game, and there are lots to do with this game. It just didnt work to start out with.
  
  This game is reccommend if you get the latest patches, and love a good strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsb247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I have been an RTS fan since the dawn of time (or so it seems) , and I can remember when the very 
 first C&amp; C game was released for DOS back in the early 90s. I fell in love with the story right 
 away, and I have been hoping for a decent continuation of it for some time now. I am happy to say 
 that C&amp; C 3 is the first of the series to deliver on that hope.
  
  I was very pleased with the pace and style of game play. I wasn't expecting the game to be as good 
 as it is. To be honest, I was expecting something similar to Generals which I found half-baked 
 and kinda boring. Fortunately, that was not the case. The units on each side compliment each other 
 very well and can lead to some particularly vicious battles when used correctly. I especially enjoy 
 the addition of the Scrin. They break up the monotony of just going up against run-of-the-mill 
 tanks and infantry. It's a welcome addition to the C&amp; C universe to see another faction. It 
 keeps things fresh and entertaining. Overall, I would have to say that this is one of the best 
 games in the series next to the original. While it's not the most ground-breaking RTS on the face 
 of the earth, it certainly was worth the wait and it is certainly worth playing. Despite my raving 
 review, I would like to note that there are some stability issues. I noticed that if I max out 
 the shaders, the game will either crash at seemingly random intervals, or it will simply fail to 
 load. It's nothing a patch can't fix though. Max and high shaders aren't too different anyhow. 
 Aside from that, I am very pleased with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albot123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  this is newest greatest game ever made. i love this game and it definitely is the best RTS out 
 there at the moment the command and conquer makers are going to have a hard time topping themselves 
 this time. I'm an old school gamer i love the tiberium sun story but i throw in some of the new 
 stuff like CS but seriously this game is worth the money and it will take a couple of dozen hours 
 to beat the campaigns and boy has it. i will play this game another few hundred hours before i 
 am bored but then there is always the online play which i dug into before the campaign. this game 
 is the real deal if you don't believe me i guess you are going to have to buy it for yourself but 
 by that time you will have played so many hours you will forget about this review and write an 
 awesome one for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirborneAce
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Let me point out first of all, I'm a long time fan of Command and Conquer, and own every game in 
 the series except Sole Survivor.
  
  =A lot of the technology introduced in Tiberian Sun is completely missing from this game. Notable 
 elements missing include:
  
  GDI: Mechs (except Juggernaut) , Orca Bomber, Firestorm Defense, Sensor Array, Limpet Mines, Component 
 Towers, Sonic Disruptors, JumpJet Infantry
  
  Nod: Tick Tanks, Banshee, Harpy, Laser Turrets, Artillery, Underground Units,
  
  Other things 
 missing include Walls, Tiberium Vein Monsters, Tiberium creatures, and (except for a capturable 
 building that produces them) the Mutants [they play almost no role in the game at all]
  
  =Story.... you can't help but feel this game ripped a page out of Generals. Its your generic 'war 
 on terror' style plot including such 'original' ideas as terrorists trying to attack the Pentagon, 
 over-running the White House, and trying to procure nuclear weapons in Africa (no, Im not making 
 any of this up.. they actually turned CnC into a war on terror analogy)
  
  =The graphics are really good, the best the series has ever seen in fact. No complaints graphically
 
  
  =The sound is also superb, although some sounds which have been a staple of the series are noticably 
 missing.
  
  =Music.... eh.... this is not classic C&amp; C style music. It seems like they let some composer listen 
 to the old soundtracks and imitate it the best he could, but overall its a lackluster effort. Don't 
 expect the music the series has been known for..... you have been warned
  
  =Gameplay.... this game has been tailored strictly to hardcore RTS rush-style players. Indeed in 
 the podcasts EA acknowledges that a team of hardcore RTS players were flown in to critique and 
 suggest changes to the game. This explains radar being moved to your MCV instead of your Command 
 Center. Units and buildings are constructed in mere seconds. The longest items to purchase are 
 the few and far between Technologies. The majority of the maps are borderline claustrophobic compared 
 to past maps. Don't get me wrong, its still fun but its painfully obvious who the game was intended 
 for.
  
  =To sum it all up, CnC 3 is what happens when you take a long-running series and change several 
 elements that made it what it is. This game is tailored towards a new crowd of gamers and alienates 
 the classic elements from its past. From the moment you first pop the CD in you will definately 
 realize that this was not a Westwood product..... heck the whole time you play you'll be realizing 
 that fact.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Command and conquer in all it's glory
  
  Goods: Incredible FMVs, the Scrin are a blast to play with,30 or more missions to command and conquer, amazing 
 A. I., great balancing between the all three races, fast fun and fluid, it looks amazing even on old 
 machines, the game makes you think like you are a part of something big, bonus campaign (with the 
 Scrin) , great music that pumps up the atmosphere, very funny idle unit animations.
  
  Bads: Some very very hard missions (like the GDI albania mission and the Scrin Munich mission) , some 
 audio-video sync problems, no walls, no superweapon off/on button for skirmishes and online play.
 
  
  Gameplay: It's pure C&amp; C to the bone with some added things that make it even better. EA has made 
 a great job at balancing the game. All the units have a counter for example the super heavy mammoth 
 can be taken out easily with the help of some vertigo bombers. The new sidebar is much much better 
 than the previous ones. The FMVs are amazing in every way but they have a little sync problem but 
 EA said they will fix that. The game has some very awesome idle unit animations. For example the 
 Zone Trooper will sometimes make push-ups and more cool things like that.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are simply great. Every explosion, gunfire, laser look amazing even on low-end 
 system. With my old 2.0 ghz 768 ram and ATi radeon 9600 I run the game on high-very high with no 
 AA and it moves incredibly smooth. EA have done a great job at optimizing the game. So even if you 
 have a computer similar to mine don't be shy and go buy it cause it will run like a crisp.
  
  Sound: Well I can't really hear the music in the game but the unit sounds and the battle sounds 
 are simply amazing. The juggernaut will say a line like I'm the juggernaut but with a very cool 
 and funny voice (it makes me laugh a bit every time I hear it) . When I can hear the music however.... it's 
 great and very good.
  
  Value: It's great for 50$ (I dunno what to say here so I will leave it like this)
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: It's a awesome game and it's a must buy for any C&amp; C fan and strategy fan (again I don't 
 know what to say about this either so I will skip)
  
  Now let's talk about the races:
  
  -GDI. Well GDI is like the most toughest nut to crack on a battlefield. If they can pump out 
 mammoths almost nothing can stop them. The only thing that can spot them are Vertigos and Devastator 
 Warships. GDI has the most powerful infantry and tanks in the game. Their airpower is pretty good 
 but those orcas an firehawks can be shot down very quick so it isn't where GDI shines. The Zone 
 Troopers are GDI's most advanced infantry that can take out tanks, infantry and buildings. Massed 
 in enough numbers these guys can tear anything into little pieces. The juggernauts are very powerful 
 artillery units. If you can put a sniper in the back of a enemy base then your enemy's fate is sealed 
 because juggernauts can fire at any range if the snipers spot targets
  
  -Nod. The brotherhood of Nod is the stealthy race. Their main assault vehicle is the Avatar Warmech. The 
 Avatar can pick up some equipment from their buddys. They can get a flame gun from a Flame tank, a 
 stealth generator from a stealth tank, a stealth detector from a attack bike and another laser from 
 a beam cannon. When the unit gives his weapon for the avatar the unit dies. To upgrade a avatar to 
 maximum capacity costs a big load of money. Their vertigo bombers are very effective against buildings 
 and tanks if they can hit them. They are stealth so most of the time your enemy won't know what 
 hit them.
  
  -Scrin. The Scrin are a... odd race. They have a Annihilator Tripod that can fire in three separate 
 targets but if they concentrate on one target they can really wreak havoc. Where the Scrin really 
 shine however is their airpower. They have Devastator Warships that can fire at a big range and 
 simply destroy anything in their path, Planetary assault carrier (PAC for short) that has a number 
 of little fighters that are ready to attack and if destroyed can regenerate and Stromraiders that 
 are pretty good at taking out vehicles.
  
  In the end do yourself a favor and buy this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  When i first read that command and conquer was finally making a true sequel i was thrilled. I had 
 waited since tiberium sun had ended to finally see one (completely avoiding generals and renegade) . 
 But now that its finally here i can say it was worth the wait.
  
  Gameplay - Extremely well balanced. Every faction has a unit with a distinct edge, a tactic that 
 can turn the tide (i. e superweapons the scrinn one is bizzare but amazing) , and each fit the individual's 
 play style flawlessly. (I prefer the turtle/tech move with GDI. Fully upgraded mammoth tanks and 
 zone troopers? You bet)
  
  Graphics - Amazing. The way EA was able to breathe life into C&amp; C's vision of future earth is 
 incredible. Shadows cast realisticly as does the way light reflects, special effects like the ion 
 cannon or nuke, are simply breath taking. Clearly they spent some serious time on making this look 
 as great as possible on any system.
  
  Sound - The sounds in C&amp; C are standard fare. Just what you expect from a RTS, but they are 
 done well and reflect their real life counterparts well. With the exception of scrinn cause last 
 time i opened my window there were no aliens invading earth. Music is on par, nothing really to 
 blow you away. Best bet would be itunes. Just be sure to not drown out the ambience and sounds 
 of war.
  
  Value - Any RTS fan would love this and its a C&amp; C fan's dream.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - Back when everyone else was playing SC and WC2 i was playing C&amp; C games. I 
 grew up loving them and its a great trip down memory lane seeing kane get his ass handed to him 
 by GDI again. Cant stop the messiah? We just did...... again lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fathomglow
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  For many veteran RTS gamers, then Westwoods Command and Conquer series of games has always had 
 a special place amongst RTS games or PC games as a whole. When first released, it helped shape 
 the future of RTS games with its stellar gameplay, design and flair. Fast forward to 2007 and once 
 again EA is at the helm of the Command and Conquer series, and brings it back to its GDI/NOD roots. 
 Unlike its previous C&amp; C Generals series, EA has chosen not to stray too far from the original 
 when it comes to Tiberium Wars. This in itself is the good and bad of the game, while its certainly 
 a fun and more than competent RTS game, it fails to take chances in areas that might have made 
 it a more memorable experience.
  
  Graphically, Tiberium Wars is no slacker and features above average graphics for an RTS. At higher 
 resolutions this becomes apparent and the game is beautiful to look at. The game effects is especially 
 nice looking as the barren tiberium infested wastelands, jet streams from orcas and the lots and 
 lots of explosions all look great. In the post Company of Heroes world however, one begins to wonder 
 if its enough. Soldiers still look rather plain at closer look and the games visual style of exaggerated 
 unit features sometimes takes away from the game.
  
  EA definitely seems to have taken the path more traveled in terms of gameplay. The gameplay is 
 almost entirely identical to the original series and adopts its advantages and vices. Gameplay 
 is simple enough to learn and will no doubt be obvious to veterans of any RTS; build a base, build 
 units, send units to destroy opponent. This tried and true formula is still a lot of fun, though 
 in the modern ages, one would think that such simpe things like unit pathfinding wouldnt be a 
 problem, but sometimes fielding too many units in C&amp; C will result in massive pathfining True 
 to its roots, Tiberium Wars also follows in the tradition of fully filmed cutscenes. These scenes 
 are often very over the top and features a surprisingly adept cast of actors and actresses. These 
 cut scenes really bring back a ton of memories, and looking at kanes bald self is almost worth 
 the game itself. EA takes little chances with Tiberium Wars. The game is almost identical to its 
 last few C&amp; C titles. While this will certainly bring a smile to some veteran games, newbies 
 might find the game itself forgettable. While I can certainly appreciate the if it aint broke 
 dont fix it attitude, there are certainly a lot of rooms for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldavidtw2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I'm one of the fan waited for this for entire month and got the limited edition (48794 of 100000 
 Kane Edition) .
  
  If you want something fast and furious, play an RTS with passion as you're playing an FPS, this 
 is probably the one. I'm not saying this is the best RTS (because W3 and SC are the best of all 
 time) but this is by far the newest and most intense RTS game ever. If you really take a close look 
 at building times there's rarely anything that takes more than 30 seconds to finish (except some 
 high tech buildings) .
  
  I'd say if they release map editor as good as SC or Warcraft 3 then this will rank the same with 
 them for providing unlimited mods possibilities, but EA probably won't do it. Some said that the 
 fire and heat effect are overused, I'd say that's just because they haven't get used to realistic 
 heat put into games yet. I mean the heat part is awesome. whenever a thing blows up, or air units 
 flying by there's always some heat that kinda bent the ground on the back, which looks totally 
 awesome in my opinion. If you ever checked the hardware guide and see how it looks like when maxed 
 out vs. not maxed you'll see how realistic this thing can look, just go see it.
  
  Real man actings are O. K... even though kinda weird in some cases, but how can you get better graphics 
 then real actors? and they did deliver some nice legacy from all other EA RTS games, I don't think 
 changing it is going to make this game anywhere better, but rather destroyed its tradition.
  
  There are bugs, like if you click a unit to pull back, then you use D to make it move backwards 
 then it'll start sliding and moving backwards while turning the body... that's a LOL.
  
  Campaigns just can't get better, I mean at the end you actually get to choose which why you wanna 
 win this war for GDI campaign (haven't done other 2 yet) . and the storyline was completely illustrated 
 in about 14 missions, and they did left a foreshadow for that tower at south Italy, which makes 
 an expansion possible.
  
  Overall the entire games are balanced, but Scrin's air units are indeed abit too hard for players 
 who didn't prepare for it. I mean the best way is the Firehawk as far as I know since many units 
 attack beyond defense system's reach. So it is almost impossible to knock out a well built air 
 fleet with your ground units, and most AA units are weak against ground so... hard for GDI and Nod.
 
  
  All in all this is a great intense and good looking game with both some EA games legacy and brand 
 new innovations inside. It's not the best looking, but it's a lot more intense and fun then those 
 best looking games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixDs24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 is, of course, the long awaited sequel to Tiberian Sun. Many held their breath, 
 fearing that EA had moved away from the familiar C&amp; C formula entirely. All those who were afraid 
 can relax. C&amp; C 3 is here, and it's most definitely Command and Conquer.
  
  The familiar sidebar is back, there are no construction units, there is only tiberium (of the green 
 and blue variety) , and most important of all, Kane is back. This game captures the distinct C&amp; C 
 feel perfectly. From the moment you start up, you know this is Command and Conquer. The gameplay 
 is a little simplistic, of course, but that's how it has always been -- there hasn't really been 
 a combined arms feel to any C&amp; C game.
  
  The graphics are top notch, though because of the nature of the game it lacks some of the absolute 
 'wow' factor. That shouldn't detract from the fact that it looks amazing, however. Infantry units 
 act in squads now, but each individual soldier has a great amount of detail. Explosion effects 
 are particularly nice, and a great touch I enjoyed was how the buildings collapsed when destroyed.
 
  
  As far as sound, the game is solid, but lacks of the more heavy metal feel of the original Command 
 and Conquer, which has apparently been abandoned in favor of more modern environmental and background 
 music. That being said, the sound effects are great and immersive, and the unit voices are wonderful. 
 You'll never forget it when you hear a Mammoth Tank say Unrivalled. 
  
  Like any other RTS, this game can be played on multiple skirmish maps, with multiple opponents. 
 The AI is incredibly tough at the higher levels. Just to see how crazy Brutal was, I gave myself 
 a Brutal ally, who produced something like 40 Predator tanks and annihilated both the Medium computer 
 opponents by the time I was getting ready to attack. Admittedly, I turtle some, but that's just 
 crazy.
  
  The campaign so far seems to be somewhat easier than the C&amp; C games of old; I haven't had any 
 trouble at all until Act III, and by that I mean I steamrolled every mission up to that point. 
 Still, it's fun enough.
  
  All in all, this is definitely a great game, worthy of the C&amp; C name. It's a must have for any 
 fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supershaft777
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I will always like the classic C&amp; C the best.
  The first GDI mission, your soldiers disembark... the badass soundtrack kicks in... the machineguns 
 and dying screams...
  
  There was a thrill to it that could never be matched. It's the 'old-school' games.
  It was the 
 glorious 2D. It seems old games have infinitely better composed soundtracks than the ambient, drawn-out 
 overblown 'music' we have now.
  Back then, the soundtracks were SONGS. Here we have a bunch of special effects and new-agey stuff 
 which is just not catchy like the classics. It is 'background music'.
  I really, really wish they had resurrected some of those old songs. They sounded like the scratchy, 
 heavy metal stuff that U. S. soldiers play in a cheap little boombox and fits the 'classic C&amp; C' 
 mood much better.
  
  Music aside, while this game is good, it still has that overpolished feel, those console-y EA controls 
 that simply make it too easy. I can't stand how in every mission I am interrupted by a shaky, flashy 
 camera that shows me exactly what to do next. Are we making games for 5 year olds/dumb people these 
 days? I don't need them to hold my hand through each mission.
  
  What happened to figuring out your own strategies like in a REAL rts? Game designers nowadays have 
 to take steal a page from classic games. I see this trend in every new game I buy: things are polished, 
 flashy, and there's some tutorial/guide that holds your hand and you feel like you're playing with 
 a walkthrough.
  A lot like a movie with flashy special effects all the bells and whistles but an awful plot and 
 no ingenuity or innovation at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usshaddon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay for this game is awesome, it has a mixture between Battle for middle earth 2 and dawn 
 of war, its a really good RTS. Even if someone isn't a big RTS fan, they should still try the demo, 
 its worth it. The graphics are well done on here as well, the sound far as the sound effects and 
 the music are pretty cool too. And for once, they finally don't have cheesy video clips, they are 
 pretty cool and what makes this game very good is mainly the whole story line, its pretty bad ass! 
 So go out there and buy this game, and don't boot leg it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpython99
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  As I am a long time fan of the series this was a must have for my collection. I was amazed at the 
 graphics of the game, far superior to anything C&amp; C has laid out before. The gameplay is exactly 
 the same, save for a few things that have been changed that I do indeed miss. But the AI is certainly 
 top notch. It's the small things that I miss that you could do in RA 2 that can't be done here. 
 Such as setting units to guard mode. However, these little details are offset by new additions 
 that make building units far easier, such as the ability to have multiple queue's for units. All 
 in all an excellent game that is a good pick up fans of the series and those that are new to it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  There's quite a lot to be said about C&amp; C 3. First of all it carried a HUGE burden on it's shoulders, 
 and that's the incredibly difficult task of living up to the original C&amp; C while keeping it 
 fresh. Where Tiberian Sun failed (don't get me wrong, it was still a good game. It just didn't 
 do the series justice.) , Tiberium Wars ultimately succeeds in flying colors.
  
  By now, Tiberium has evolved and contaminated most of the world, rendering it uninhabitable. What's 
 left of humanity has moved into Blue Zones , or zones where Tiberium contamination is slim to none. 
 The Nod have kept relatively quiet as well. In an instant, they launch a massive surprise assault 
 and the third Tiberium war begins. Guess what folks: KANE'S BACK and he's freakier than ever. Gotta 
 love it.
  
  The gameplay is excellent. It's everything we loved about C&amp; C plus a few new strides that make 
 it better, instead of bringing it down. The campaigns are loaded with video sequences featuring 
 familiar actors. Each mission is a different test of your skills and wits. Some require you to 
 hold off the enemy until reinforcements arrive, some give you a few units and orders to investigate 
 and my personal favorite are the turtle-up missions: build up your technology and attack the enemy 
 with brute force trauma. One thing I didn't like is the intense micromanagement some missions require. 
 It gets annoying and at times very frustrating. The skirmish is fantastic and the new alien race, 
 dubbed the Scrin give the series a huge jolt upwards. The Scrin are an absolute blast to play with 
 in skirmish modes. They did a fantastic job on the alien race. It's the kind of game that you can 
 never get tired of.
  
  The graphics and sound are excellent to say the least. The world and all units within look absolutely 
 fantastic in all their 3D glory and sound just right. The explosions, weapon effects, heat flares, 
 water all look and sound great. It's definitely one of the better looking strategy games, and plays 
 very good, even on low-end systems. Quite a feast for the eyes and ears.
  
  In a nutshell: C&amp; C: Tiberium Wars is a worthy addition to the Command and Conquer universe 
 and an awesome game in it's own right. Get it, you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arry_ng3
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Its a good game but abit of a let down, If your more into modern war (Like Generals) then i REALLY 
 recommend that, personally i dont like future games and stuff thats one of the reasons i'm not 
 very impresed. it has a good campaign with a choice of two different teams... decent story line 
 and some nice characters (not enough weapons though)
  
  Pros: Great Graphics and nice sound, lots of (skippable) clip scenes and good campaign, skirmish, 
 training, mutliplayer and more
  
  Cons: not alot of weapons (unless i havent played enough) only 2 different teams. and the 5gb install 
 is probebly 2gb of movie clips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  it tooke me a few days to even get past the crashing, but with a simple adjustment of the shader 
 detail and it worked fine. i have played several skirmishs and campaigns, this game rocks.
  
  Even though i am virtually new to the C&amp; C universe having only played generals and ZH, 
 i was really able to get into the whole tiberium thing in no time. I like the so-called 'old school' 
 live actors thing too. it can get frustrating at times having to figure out which mouse button 
 to click to accomplish a task. i wish that there were more skirmish maps though.
  
  overall i am ecstatic with the game and plan to spend every moment on it. i believe it is the best 
 in sereis and can be considered an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixSS
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  From the DOS days of Dune 2: Battle for Arrakis to Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert and beyond, 
 The RTS games headed by Westwood Studios and taken over by EA have been nothing but impressive 
 and exciting.
  Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is an explosive game. On the surface, the RTS element hasnt 
 changed much. You build your base, you build defenses, you build units and amass an army, and then 
 you blow stuff up. Did I mention blow stuff up? Yes, blow stuff up.
  
  If you are familiar with the series then you will recognize the story as a slight continuation 
 of Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun. If youre not, no matter. You will be able to jump right 
 into C&amp; C3 without any confusion. Personally, Im a much bigger fan of the cast from the previous 
 Tiberian Sun release. The video cut scenes in C&amp; C3 just dont quite do it for me. I dont get 
 the: HOLY CRAP THINGS ARE GOING AWRY feeling that I did in the last release in the series. There 
 are some famous actors, most notably Jennifer Morrison, (HOUSE) and Billy Dee Williams, (Star Wars) , 
 but there were notable actors in the last release, (James Earl Jones for example) , that I thought 
 fit their parts much more appropriately and made the story much more engaging. I just dont buy 
 Billy Dee Williams character and I feel that he somewhat of overplays his part to a certain extent. 
 With all that said however, it doesnt detract from the intense game play but can be somewhat annoying 
 and almost sort of laughable in parts.
  
  From a gameplay perspective, there have been improvements in this release over those from the past. 
 Managing your construction of units and buildings is broken down into a simpler model and provides 
 more accurate management of the battlefield. If youve played Warhammer 40k then you may notice 
 that the developers decided to bring you closer to the battlefield in a similar way. You can now 
 zoom in and view your units in detail as they battle it out, or stand out and watch the battle 
 unfold from the sky. One great aspect is the ability to manage multiple construction queues as 
 well as multiple unit queues. This means for example, you can build a power plant, radar station 
 and base defenses all at the same time or alternatively, you can build a mammoth tank while cranking 
 out smaller, quicker units in the meantime. This definitely helps ramp up game play.
  
  Graphically the game is intense. Lighting, shadows and detail have been paid much attention. Watching 
 a NOD tower tip over and crumble is a very rewarding experience and makes the game much more immersive. 
 Seeing debris fly all over the battlefield while you crush your opponent is also quite gratifying.
 
  
  Another addition is the various bonus missions within each primary mission. You must uncover intel, 
 (found mostly just from exploring the battlefield) , as well as complete certain objectives such 
 as keeping a certain unit from taking damage or a certain building from being destroyed. These 
 bonus missions wont end the primary mission if they are not completed, however they add to your 
 overall score at the end of the mission and you will receive rewards for successful completion. 
 This helps make each mission last longer as you spend more time exploring the area and working 
 out strategy versus just outright dominating your opponent.
  
  On the negative side, I'm not sure why we still have Kane as the world's mortal enemy. I mean come 
 on guys, can we try to think of something more original? The story line is the same so that's a 
 drawback. Building placement is terrible. Occasionally you'll have the perfect place to put an 
 airfield or other structure and for absolutely no reason, (even being inside the building boundaries) , 
 you still won't be able to place the structure. It can be quite irritating at times.
  
  Regardless, even if you've never dove into the world of Command &amp; Conquer, this comes highly 
 recommended. PhoenixSS out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rontor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 is a great game because it brings the series to a new level while keeping 
 the charm of the old games. I was greatly impressed by the demo and bought the finished product 
 and my money was not wasted! The only problem I encountered with the game was the cutscenes and 
 sound were off on my PC. Maybe its my sound card but idk. I found no other bugs in the game and 
 the multiplayer is great. Ive gained a few ranks in Multiplayer and its a ton of fun. Mainly the 
 game is just plain fun to play. Buy this game, you'll be glad you did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  I like a good RTS. I've never complained about the old-style RTS games, where resource gathering 
 and the tank rush were rules of thumb. I've enjoyed some great innovations in more modern RTS games, 
 such as the more strategic planning in Company of Heroes, or the strictly tactics driven oldie 
 like Myth: The Fallen Lords and Myth II: Soulblighter.
  
  Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars is a combination of old and new, taking some great new features 
 of RTS games and also using some old ones to create a great experience. Full motion video for the 
 WIN!
  
  I appreciate an RTS will a story. Although the storyline in C&amp; C 3 will not surprise anyone, 
 it flows nicely and makes sense, and it does a good job keeping you caring about what's going on. 
 The FMV sequences are done well, if not a bit cheezy. The overall production values of the game 
 are excellent, and the experience is one of the best ones I've had with an RTS lately.
  
  Graphics are excellent, with finely details units and environments. Explosions and destruction 
 appear very realistic, and animations are plenty. The game looks very convincing, giving you a 
 real feeling of being in a warzone in the near future.
  
  Sound is very good. From mission dialogue through updates (accompanied by a little viewscreen of 
 Kirce) are a nice tough. Gun fire, explosions, vehicles, troops all sound great. The music in the 
 background is there and I like it, but I usually don't really notice it much.
  
  The gameplay is the main highlight of C&amp; C 3. It's very action oriented. The game moves along 
 at a quick pace, but never really made me feel too rushed. I had just enough time to think and 
 act, and was never pressured, which is a key thing for me in RTS games . . . I like to sit back 
 and enjoy whats going on sometimes instead of constantly having to click buttons and move the camera 
 and order prodtuction queues, etc. C&amp; C 3 requires all this, but never bogs you down with it 
 all. Battles are memorable, and do allow for some strategy, although the Tank Rush is inevitable 
 during multiplayer battles.
  
  I've played almost all other gmaes in the C&amp; C series (with Red Alert being my favorite) . I 
 usually like to offer some of my opinion about what was wrong with a game, but I really can't think 
 of much that was negative about C&amp; C 3. Overall, I would say that C&amp; C 3 is one of the best 
 RTS games to come along in years, from the little details to the major features, it just seemed 
 to get everything right from the start and I can't wait to finish it and start playing Skirmishes 
 and online matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_385
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  I have to say this was my first outing on a C&amp; C game but as a veteran RTS player I know what 
 makes a good RTS game and this is it.
  
  For a start the graphics are nothing short of superb the gameplay is also excellent. From the first 
 mission you are thrown into the action. The battles are intense and the enemy A. I is very good 
 and is also adaptive say you launched a massive air assault on an enemy base and try so a second 
 time expect a large host of assorted anti-air weaponry. There is also never a dull moment your 
 base is constantly under attack from the enemy you don't even have time to breath making this game 
 a fair challenge.
  
  The two different factions are very different the GDI with their powerful artillery and heavy armoured 
 vehicles but what I really love is the Brotherhood, who are essentially terrorists, and in the 
 early stages of the game play like them. The first unit you will ever touch is a fanatic, a suicide 
 bomber in all but name. But as the game goes on you get access to some really fun units like hang-gliding 
 demolition teams to glide behind enemy lines and use their explosives to take out key structures, 
 stealth tanks and fast-attack venom aircraft.
  
  Although this is a very good game it is not without it's hitches, it has not evolved as much as 
 other RTS games have in the last two or so years having being practically re-invented by the innovators 
 behind Company of Heroes, Supreme Commander and Rise of Legends. And the only other problem is 
 the live acting yes some well known actors from some well known Tv shows but it just doesnt seem 
 real and can feel quite cheesy.
  
  But overall command and Conquer 3: Tiberium wars is a must by for RTS fans and anyone else for 
 that matter.
  
  PS: This is my first review forgive me if it isn't very good. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  First of all, i'm a Command and Conquer Fan since the first one, well since his old brother Dune 
 ( Older players remembered this game ) .
  
  Well, the tiberium series get me addict and this one is no exception. Wow graphics are superb , 
 gameplay is superb and soundtrack too. Since the first mission you are in action, and trust me 
 , people who love action got served. This one is a little harder, cause you got always enemies 
 who approach your base, you don't even the time to take a breathe. But it's playable just-right.
 
  
  Little problem is ... the live-action acting... Well yes they are know-well actors... some got 
 it good... and some don't have it... well some are more reading a text than acting... Well in fact, 
 that's not a big problem , cause the core of a game is not the live-action acting. Finally I say 
 : Buy it! It's a must buy and it's going in my favorite collection ( and got the kane collection 
 :P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azoo12
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  I'm a little puzzled about all the fuss made about this game. So I'll just ignore the fan boy drivel 
 and give you my opinions.
  
  The introduces itself well, and fans of the series will immediately identify the return to the 
 classic C&amp; C3. I was a die hard C&amp; C fan, that said I didn't have any expectations, I just 
 wanted C&amp; C really Bad.
  
  After the shock and awe of seeing Kane back, fighting the enemies of nod etc. I was left with... nothing. 
 My opinion is simple. IT IS NOT ENOUGH TO RE SELL C&amp; C!!! I have played a Galaxy of RTS games 
 since, and I must ask... haven't we moved on? Do they really expect to sell me a game idea so old, 
 game play so outdated and simply package it with great graphics in the hope it will smooth over 
 all the problems? I think not. It's a return to times when rocket men can kill tanks, as tanks 
 (stupidly) only damage other vehicles and structures. UTTERLY STUPID!!
  
  EA have chosen safety of creativity. Choosing to rehash (albeit beautifully) old ideas and game 
 play. Unfortunately. fans are about all this will appeal to. Perhaps the cinematics will add some 
 character value. These days however, the people expect a little more. It's a return to the past, 
 whether or not that is a good thing, depends on the individual.
  
  Finally. The building placement is despicable. In the heat of an attack you find yourself clicking 
 wildly to get extra defenses up. The Graphics, while beautiful, are cartoonish and absolutely nothing 
 in comparison to Supreme Commander. And finally. the scale is too small. Try 500 units per opponent 
 on GPGNet. Then spend 20 minutes amassing a huge force of tanks to wipe you enemy off the map in 
 one go. Or make one of the many super weapons, throw up defenses and wait for the countdown to 
 finish. YAWN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnTooDeaMan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  This game has made me so happy. Lately I was dissapointed with SupCom because it essentially was 
 like playing chess (you zoom out - remember) , only that chess is more fun and faster.
  
  I became dissapointed with STALKER because it's a major system hog and still doesn't look that 
 good. Plus it's basically linear and is smack full of bugs.
  
  So - when there comes a game that lives up to the hype. Well - I can't salute it enough. C&amp; C 
 3 is old school to the core - but better. And I love it. It's better looking than ever, it's fast 
 paced like never before and it's more polished than ever before. Commands are executed in an instant 
 and the interface is one of the best ever - in my mind the game is pretty much flawless.
  
  From the moment you start up this game you are absorbed into a fast paced alternative, and super 
 slick, universe. And that's exactly what I'm looking for in a video game.
  
  I believe that this is the best RTS since Starcraft and everyone with the slightest hint of RTS 
 in their blood should own it. And if you haven't been into RTS before this is the game to try - 
 because the genre has never been more fun, easier to get to grips with or better looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antraxspore
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I have got Supreme Commander 3days after it got released and i hated it so much that my pc could 
 handle it on high resolution, it lagged sometimes (GT 7900GT, AThlon64 3800+,...... &gt;1GB&lt; 
 ram :S ) there were problems with the DX9 dlls, sound dlls and so on, in other words i got no sound 
 and sometimes lag which didnt make me enjoy the game so much,... but well
  Now i said lets try C&amp; C 3 after my SCom experience i wasnt so convinced to buy the game bcs 
 well i was shurethat it was going to run same as that game on my pc,.... but after reading a review 
 from a guy who told that C&amp; C 3 runed perfect on his pc were he played Generals years before 
 made me take the risk of buyeing that game.
  Omg i pressed set resolution to default and i got a nice Ultra High ! and i really runed amazing 
 on my pc no lag nothing.
  Now to the game itself. The graphics are astonishing, the explosions look so real, the effects 
 of the alien (scrin) ion, plasma cannons are well made, same for the super weapon effects, after 
 testing GDI, which i knew from CC tiberian sun, and nod i swiched to Scrin the aliens, the unit 
 ideas an building ideas were awesome i got my army together and went to crush my oponent, but what 
 was that a ship called Scrin Planetary Assault Carrier was sending small ships out which only made 
 me remeber to 1 game Starcraft !!!, Protoss &gt; Carriers,...... If Blizzard doesnt want to give 
 us our SC 2, CC 3 is a good choice to take sc2 possition. Since the first time i played Diablo2 
 which was 2004, i never had enjoyed a better game than CC3.
  There is only 1 thing that needs to be fixed hope they do it for the next patch, the structure 
 placement, bcs it happens very often that u wana place a building in a place where u see there 
 is enough space but the game simply wont let u, argg.
  For the difficulty i will make it just right. I havent tried hardes diff yet. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are gorgeous, Plays good on just about all systems, and is alot of fun, this game is so 
 much better (at least in my opinion) than SupCom, sure it might not have a mile long tech tree, 
 sure, the maps might not be over the top gigantic, but you also dont have to zoom out and watch 
 lil specs run around while getting 5 frames per second LOL.
  
  Only problem i got with it, is ... seems like there could be more upgrades for units and stuff, 
 and a few more units per side, but thats y god invented the expansion i suppose.
  
  If you dig RTS's especially CnC then you will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexabx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant if you are having doughts about buying it or not DO! it is absolutely awesome.
 
  
  So before i tell you about the game hear this. DO NOT i reapeat DO NOT LISTEN TO THE OTHER CRITICS 
 WHICH SAY IT IS BAD. Let me start with the graphics. They are the best around you cant beat these 
 graphics. The explosions are really cool the flame graphics are amazing. Then the sound is great, 
 the gameplay is great you can get stealth units, good anti air units, superweapons, transports, 
 tactical bombers, each race is unique NOD is underground, stealth units, special beam artillary, 
 missles and so on. GDI is traditional big tanks, APCs, many different reinforcements, super cool 
 ion cannon and so on, the Scrin are extreamly connected with tiberium so you get units which spit 
 tiberium or motherships, teleportation, black holes you name it! The campain is extreamly fun, 
 missions here and there that each advantage you in a different way, the cinematics are cool, the 
 story is good. its great ^^. Overall its really good and you should not say it ruins the trilogy 
 it improves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteWorld
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Apart from the graphics and some new units this game is exactly like its predecessors. It's not 
 so much a sequel as much as an expansion pack to the old games and a way to introduce Command &amp; 
 Conquer to the new generation of gamers. People that have played the old Command &amp; Conquer 
 games, even if they've only played Red Alert and Generals, will get nothing out of this game except 
 a few hours of enjoying the graphics. The campaign is not good, honestly. It's not groundbreaking 
 as I heard someone describe it, it's just the same old, same old. They did manage to make some 
 of the missions very cinematic and cool but they aren't fun because, like I've said before, you 
 feel like you're doing the same thing you've been doing for years with nothing new or surprising 
 brought to the table to spark our interest anew.
  
  Another thing that bugs me is that the terrain is just so uninteresting and the environment and 
 feel of the game isn't as charming as it should be. They didn't accomplish much with this game 
 and I regret having been so excited about it. Don't believe the hype unless you've never played 
 any of the other Command &amp; Conquer games before, if that is the case then this game is awesome 
 and you should definitely play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RatTrap
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  im going to warn you now, if you are buying it only for multiplayer, they need to work on the bugs 
 in their system, because it would seem like a 3 year old wrote the software they use for it, and 
 until they fix it, multiplayer is a HORRID experience online. They are working on a patch, and 
 its only been out a week now, but at the end of the day, that dropped the original perfect score 
 i gave it. For example: Online if you join a game that is full, you will get disconnected from 
 the server and have to reconnect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_Pitt
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  This game is at the top of my RTS book, the easy to use construction menu is still there and the 
 new units are incredible, my personal favorite is the scrin mothership, what a beauty i wiped out 
 an entire base with one, an amazingly fun game that i would recommend to any gamer, i personally 
 prefer my FPS but this has me hooked and won't let go. do not get this game if you want to have 
 a life, the online play is amazing as it is so much harder than single player, it gives you a real 
 buzz if you win a 6 player free for all and i would definitely tell people to at least have a go 
 at online play because it is completely different to skirmishing or campaigning 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtblackev8
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  The overall look of this game is impressive. However, the gameplay reminds of the game Company 
 of Heros, and not the infamous C&amp; C Generals. Those that are die hard C&amp; C Generals fans 
 might be scratching their heads on this one. Especially, in the onlne skirmish play. By the way, 
 in my opinion the hallmark of C&amp; C has been the online play. One of the things that had made 
 C&amp; C Generals so great was the diffirent types of strategies from base rushes, to sneak attacks, 
 to building massive forces. It seems in C&amp; C 3 the attacks are more straight forward (no creative 
 attack strategies) , and that even best of players need more time to build up forces. Another place 
 EA went wrong was with game console. EA must have forgot that there was a bunch of dedicated C&amp; C 
 fans that were used to a console that had worked well. Finally, one of the biggest beefs I have 
 with this game is that a player builds a building and then places it. So now an opponent, for example, 
 is faced with a situation in where out of the blue a base defense comes popping up. Whoever the 
 mastermind at EA that thought that one up needs to get fired. I have noticed that not as many people 
 are playing C&amp; C3 online as they are with C&amp; C Generals. I wonder why. EA took a game that 
 had so much potential and took a major step backwards in their game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horney89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say CNC is back and its graphically better than ever I have not really played 
 much of this game as I am still waiting for it to be delivered so I surely hope it comes through 
 the door soon. So now you have heard the first part and thinking or not how the hell does he know 
 what its like and hear so far I have played the demo in skirmish as I am reluctant to try the missions 
 as I dont believe in doing them till I get the full game hopefully soon. Well anyways in the demo 
 I tried it on easy get a feel for the new enemy and see what kind of buildings there is and weaponry 
 just the usual kind of sussing a game out and I have to say I like what I saw.
  
  So lets move on to a few good points I found for starters theres the graphics as you all probably 
 know by know are pretty damn good but I m not going to bore you with all that pixel shade business. 
 Know the individual unit commands responsive and often do what is asked of them unlike the older 
 games were the units more often than not decided id rather not go and fight I could end up dead. 
 Now a few of the down points of this game I m sure as most of you own or at some point played Supreme 
 Commander and are aware of being able to zoom out it was a good feature but more often than not 
 you would sit stirring at dots as if you were a satellite. Well I think if you were able to zoom 
 a little not a lot away from the structures in CNC it would make it even better than what it already 
 is. Also another slight draw back to the game is having to build little vehicles to deploy so you 
 can extend you base good idea. But the idea of being able to get a little construction vehicle 
 in the old game and go of to build an extension to your base for example make a new supply depot 
 to keep the cycle running was altogether a better idea.
  
  Altogether I recommend a must buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mktazza
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Tiberium wars 3 is a must have for all real time strategy and command and conquer 
 fans. the learning curve for me was about 1-2 hours but can be different for others. Game play 
 is fun you never know whats coming weather its a juggernaut or a tri-pod. The graphics in the 
 game are amazing with all the laser explosions and detail of the terrain. The down sides of the 
 game would have to be glitches such as videos with white boxy lines through them, but they should 
 be fixed since the game has only been released for a few days Multiplayer is ok with a few bugs 
 but as I said should be fixed in the future
  The scoring of multiplayer is thought out well with ladders and rankings. A nice new feature for 
 online is VOIP so who can be bothered typing just talk.
  
  The difference of the Tiberium wars 3 to command and conquer generals is that you have the sidebar 
 to manage your base while you are in action. The factions are NOD, GDI and recently discovered 
 SCRIN the scrin are from outer space and arrived on earth for the tiberium . Units in the game 
 are detailed nicely if you have your settings on high but you make sure you can run it on high 
 otherwise its not going to be a real time strategy game, it will be a lag time strategy game. Thats 
 all for now Remember KANE IS BACK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EldarLord123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  OK, so maybe I was living abroad when the whole C&amp; C thing went off but I've heard about it's 
 legendary status in terms of RTS games. This one looks even better!
  The Scrin are an interesting addition especially with the funny tripods. I like it how all the 
 races have strengths and weaknesses (although most games like it do nowadays) and Tiberium is just 
 plain freaky! If anyone wants to spend a good few hours on an awesome strategy game, this is the 
 way to go. Have fun blowing up others on the internet as well lol. Imagine the destruction with 
 some of the larger maps!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega0718
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Oh boy this is it, the big Command and Conquer comeback. I still remember the time when people 
 were clueless as to when the Command and Conquer series will return to its already established 
 universes, Tiberian series and Red alert series. People wondered if there even is a future for 
 Command and Conquer when Westwood was abolished. People lost faith when Command and Conquer: Generals 
 and its expansion Zero Hour were not what they had in mind. And then out of no where, short video 
 clips of a game popped out, bearing the title 'the next Command and Conquer' and shortly after 
 that Command and Conquer 3 was announced, and with that the Command and Conquer community will 
 never be the same.
  
  Now as I sit here typing this review, I can see my copy of Command and Conquer 3: Tiberian Wars 
 Kane Edition right on my desk waiting for me to fire it up. They asked 'but is it any good?' The 
 reviewers answered with 90/100, 90%, 4/5 scores and players were screaming like NOD fanatics charging 
 towards their enemies in delight and NOD fanatics they will die for this game, and this game will 
 destroy other RTS games with as much power as a fully upgraded Mammoth Tank
  
  But beyond all this a mark has been made, a saga has been born out of the dark void left by Westwood, 
 the EA LA Command and Conquer era has begun and they said it loud and clear that they can make 
 a Command and Conquer series worthy of a 'Best RTS ever' award. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonders1989
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  When i bought the game and started playing it, the first thing i noticed was the graphical flaws 
 which was horrible and rendered the game to be unplayable. It blocked me from viewing various parts 
 of the map. Im using a 256mb nvidia geforce 7800gtx and my system exceeds the requirements of the 
 game. Even though my driver was up to date, i still encountered this problem. I tried various steps 
 and also visited the technical support website but to no avail. Im very disappointed with this. 
 I shouldnt have bought this cause I had similar problems with the demo. Overall its better not 
 to buy this game now. At least wait till there are more patches in the upcoming months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixier
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Pues es el mejor juego k he visto hasta ahora, corriganme si me equivoco, pero innovo muchas cosas 
 la serie de Command&amp; Conquer desde la 1 hasta Tiberium Wars, como pasarle ensima a los soldados 
 con los carros, sin limite de poblacion, solo 1 recurso y muchas ventajas k le da mas accion al 
 juego y no recolectar y atacar con pocos soldados...
  
  Hablando de Tiberium wars, los videos son Excelentes en HD y se disfruta mas asi teniendo actores 
 k le dan vida a la historia y no simplemente animaciones (no es k te encontra de ellas) pero tendiendo 
 actores da mas vida.. k mas puedo decir, la jugabilidad es grandiosa, los graficos ni k decir tengo 
 una tarjeta no muy potente pero tampoco muy chafa, y aunque ta en low varias cosas se ve bien, 
 al igual k kuando lo juego en una pc potente con una terjeta de video fantastica, el sonido psss.. 
 sii ta padre aunque sinceramente no se como se califica eso jajaja xDDD...
  
  Para todos akellos ke ya tan aburridos de la clasica estrategia les recomiendo ampliamente este 
 juego... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idocc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  A deep thinking RTS..... this is not. I have read all the reviews in here and have only agreed 
 with one. There are much more involved RTS's out there. SupCom/COH/ etc.. are fantastic examples 
 of pushing the RTS envelope to a new level. I have a lot of experience with COH personally and 
 I enjoyed that game immensely!! However, I bought this game with the intent that I would get an 
 old school RTS... the kind that drew me into the genre in the first place.... and I could not be 
 happier for the money!! Billy D W acting dir of GDI? Cheesy cutscenes? Arcade-like RTS? It's got 
 it all. This game will not surprise CnC fans, nor does it add anything new at all to the RTS genre... but 
 man does it do it well!! Make units, use units to kill, make more, rinse, repeat... with very little 
 resource management... awesome in my book! My time is spent fighting and not worrying about a node 
 that I may have lost about a 3 min walk away. I already own the games that make you consider that... and 
 this is a refreshing change!!
  
  This is my first review ever, so be gentile lol. I have not felt this strongly about a game living 
 up to what it promised.. well ever... and I felt I had to post. To those who say... its not involved 
 enough... its not deep enough... its not *whatever* enough... I say it never claimed to be. This is 
 CnC TW and all it claims is to be the latest CnC in the chain. And in my opinion... by far the greatest!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSteve
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Whilst I was at college in a year I'd rather not remember due to age, I spent many a late night 
 playing Dune 2 until 3 or 4am. Then C&amp; C 1 appeared and that was it - I was living on 4 hours 
 of sleep a night for a week!
  
  Of late the C&amp; C franchise has diverted off down Red Alert &amp; Generals but Tiberian Sun was 
 the last, true C&amp; C game really. The Tiberian story, for me, always has been the better story. 
 Red Alert 1 was good, but kinda went off the rails with Red Alert 2 and the less said about Generals 
 the better.
  
  But EA showed they knew how to make a good RTS with the Battle for Middle Earth series and C&amp; C 
 3 is the peak of their RTS catalogue so far. If you're a C&amp; C fan, you'll instantly be at home 
 with C&amp; C3, the side bar makes a very welcome return (never really did get on with the bottom 
 bar) and the game plays like a C&amp; C game.
  
  Yes, some other reviews may say that RTS has moved on - you're missing the point on what makes 
 a Command and Conquer game, its the gaming experience. If it played like Supreme Commander (which 
 is dire by comparasion) it wouldn't be C&amp; C.
  
  You don't spent 30 mins building upteen structures &amp; upgrading them to get a decent tech level, 
 even the level 1 units you get to start off with are more than capable of holding off level 2 units, 
 as long as you've got enough. You never get the situation where one top unit comes towards your 
 base and wipes 90% of it out, leaving you feeling rather cheated. Sure, the super weapons are powerful 
 and the Nuke is beautiful, as is the new Ion Cannon, but you can stop them if you need to - as 
 long as you haven't been careless in your building. Quite often 4 or 8 GDI Firehawks will get through 
 a reasonably defended base and take out a nuke silo before it gets a chance to launch.
  
  Also, unlike other RTS games you could mention, the 3 sides play completely differently but at 
 the same time are very well balanced. The variety of units are good, although there are no sea 
 units. I'm not sure if there any in the previous C&amp; C tiberian games, but it would be nice if 
 they were added in an expansion pack at some time.
  
  Graphically the game is brilliant. Even with loads of action on screen it never gets bogged down 
 - I am on a pretty high spec PC though, but the System requirements are very accommodating and 
 the game does scale very well according to the capabilities of the PC.
  
  The choice of multiplayer maps could be a bit better but the skirmish AI is very robust. Easy is 
 quite easy but a good intro to Skirmish for the first couple of times. The AI has about 5 different 
 styles and they do have quite distinctive differences.
  
  The FMVs are simply superb. Presented in glorious High Definition, the videos really do help to 
 set the scene and immerse you into the game. Some people don't like FMV, but I personally love 
 it - its another C&amp; C feature though, you couldn't do C&amp; C 3 without it.
  
  The acting isn't bad, certainly the actors and actresses in the FMV are known and quite a coup 
 for EA to get them onboard for this game!
  
  Overall the campaigns are well crafted &amp; levels well designed. There are 3 campaigns in all, 
 with the Scrin campaign unlocked after you have completed the GDI and Nod. Difficulty on most missions 
 is aimed perhaps a bit too easy, usually you can complete them on your first attempt on 'Normal'.
 
  
  Multiplayer has some very good features - the battlecast feature is one I can't wait to have a 
 play with. The blurb on the box says C&amp; C turns RTS into a sport and with battlecast they are 
 right! You can watch games as they happen (usually with a 10 minute delay so the players can't 
 cheat) and they can even have commentaries on them.
  
  There are a couple of minor things.
  
  1) The mouse movement appears to be inverted! I don't 
 know if its just me, but it would be nice to have an option to invert the mouse scroll. I tend 
 to find I scroll down when I want to go up and up when I want to go down!
  
  2) It would be nice to have an option for multiplayer modes where you can restrict units or abilities 
 from the game. So if you want to play without superweapons or long range missiles, you can do - 
 resulting in a conventional battle instead of a race to a nuke or ion cannon.
  
  3) The mouse isn't clipped to the display area, so if you have a multi monitor setup, you can find 
 yourself clicking on the desktop if you inadvertently scroll off the map.
  
  4) Support for dual monitors. This is one area where Supreme Commander works well. I've got a multi-monitor 
 setup, it would be nice to have a large map of the area (like a large-mini map, if that''s not 
 a bit of an oxymoron!) or a 2nd view port to move about. (great for watching choke points or enemy 
 bases.
  
  5) Additional Fog Of War options. Personally I hate it when the Fog of war closes back in when 
 a unit has moved out of an area. The original C&amp; C games didn't do this and for multi player 
 it would be nice to have it as an option.
  
  6) Camera doesn't zoom out enough. Generals had the same problem and it wasn't too hard to fix 
 via an INI file setting change and hopefully C&amp; C is the same. The camera is simply zoomed too 
 far in, you never seem to be able to see enough of the map.
  
  But those points are really minor. If you like your RTS games, this is one game you must buy. Its 
 a shame the same guys who wrote the first 2 Tiberian games aren't involved anymore following Westwood's 
 sale to Electronic Arts, but (and I say this with the greatest of respect to the Westwood guys, 
 who I was lucky enough to meet a few times) , but I'd have top say, I doubt they would have done 
 a better job than EA have done. Its faithful to the previous games, the attention to detail within 
 the game is astounding and its a very worthy successor to Tiberian Sun.
  
  The thing I want to see next is another installment of the Tiberian story and / or a movie version 
 of the game, done properly (i. e. not like DooM) , it could end up being the best movie tie in to 
 a computer game yet.
  
  Games like this don't come around very often. Make sure you don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  As one of the C&amp; C series biggest fan boys, unfortunately I have to greet Tiberium wars with 
 huge disappointment.
  
  To show I am such a C&amp; C fan I can tell you that I have owned every C&amp; C game, including 
 its forerunners Dune I &amp; II going back to about 1995. I am still playing Generals which has 
 been on my hard drive for the last 4 years. I was so excited when I heard a new C&amp; C was coming 
 out after it was said there were going to be no more.
  
  TW follows the same tried and tested format of previous C&amp; C games (this is certainly no criticism) 
 so players who have been involved in previous instalments of the genre will be able to dive straight 
 in. The beauty of C&amp; C is its simplicity  just aim and click without too much to micro manage 
 making the game so difficult that its impossible to play as can be found in alternative titles 
 such as Act of War.
  
  However, RTS games have moved on and the bar has been raised quite substantially in the last 6 
 months by the excellent Company of Heroes. Anyone who has played this game will immediately realise 
 how weak TW actually is.
  
  Graphically, TW is nothing special and I was highly disappointed. Im running this on a high end 
 rig (Vista 64 Ultimate, 4GB ram &amp; Geforce 8800) . The graphics, especially the map landscapes 
 look quite cartoonish. This game looks and plays like the recent Supreme Commander, rather than 
 a C&amp; C game - Lots of little tiles which are supposed to be space ships flying round the screen 
  Its a bit like playing tetris on acid.
  
  Gameplay is exactly the same as previous C&amp; C games  maybe Im just getting older but it seems 
 that the lack of tactical gameplay detracts from the overall fun of the game  In the missions 
 its simply a matter of building as many units (say rocket soldiers) as possible and rushing the 
 enemy base  game over. Further the missions seem quite short, they can generally be won in under 
 20 minutes. Ive been playing on the normal difficulty settings and the missions seem far too easy 
 with no real challenge. To be honest Im finding it quite boring and its only the fanboy in me 
 thats keeping me going.
  
  Sound is average again nothing compared to COH and incredibly repetitive  it is so annoying to 
 hear Missile squad ready for combat over and over again each time a new unit is made.
  
  C&amp; C was one of the first games to use full motion video for cutscreens. There are cutscreens 
 between each level but they tend to be too long, dont really take the story any further and the 
 acting is dire.
  
  Stability is good  I have not experienced any crashes or glitching.
  
  C&amp; Cs major strength has always been multiplayer which leads to the games longevity well 
 after the single missions have been completed. No change to the old games here  the server browser 
 still sucks and its hard to get into a game. Online play brings us into a third faction  the Scrin 
 which appear to be an organic/robot insect race which is hugely over powered and almost impossible 
 to beat.
  
  One thing that particularly disappoints me is that there has been a lack of thought and originality 
 when making TW. EA have just got the old Tiberium games and rehashed the maps and brought the graphics 
 up to date slightly - it smacks of a distinct lack of effort. For example one of the most annoying 
 things about the multiplayer game universally acknowledged is the rush tactics. One would have 
 thought that with about seven attempts at making these C&amp; C games the developer would have had 
 the sense to do something like have an amnesty option to prevent each side attacking each other 
 for say the first 5 minutes whilst the players build their bases.
  
  Whilst TW is good, for gameplay the 4 year old C&amp; C Generals is much better.
  
  If you agree 
 with this review please rate it - Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idlesens3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  The Yes:
  - solid graphics and environment effects are quite immersive
  - each faction is very unique and play differently while remaining balanced
  - fast-paced action 
 the C&amp; C name is known for
  - Kucan is back!
  - those overly complicated commando missions have been done very well and are no longer a pain 
 to play through
  -Battle-cast
  
  The No:
  - nothing really innovative (but why fix what isn't broke)
  
  EA pulled out all of the stops 
 when they returned to the Tiberium universe. The story is your predictable Kane is a madman, someone 
 will mutiny, GDI wants to wipe Kane off the face of the planet deal, but it works for the game. 
 It is the bread and butter of the C&amp; C franchise, after all. Every faction was nicely constructed 
 and balanced, giving each their own feel without one being overpowered. The addition of the elusive 
 alien race alluded to in other games of the series was definitely a breath of fresh air, and makes 
 the story-line that much better. The single player campaigns unfold in parallel, and it is cool 
 to be able to fight battles from both sides of the conflict. Besides the single-player campaign, 
 the multiplayer is also solid. The Battle-cast feature is great. If you want to watch others layeth 
 the smack down, it is as easy as going to the Command &amp; Conquer website, browsing matches, 
 and selecting one. The game loads, and you get to watch the full match unfold from beginning to 
 end, regardless of when it started. If you are new to the game and want to try to learn some multi-player 
 strategies, this is a great way.
  
  All in all, C&amp; C 3 delivers a great game that is a blast to play. There was tons of hype around 
 this game, and it surely does not dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laureanSL
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  +
  Customizable perspective, even some limited zoom in, zoom out feature
  Fluid gameplay, some big, detailed, almost self sufficient units that can be used strategically.
 
  Some developer accidentally stumbled upon Starcraft and they actually rediscovered the carrier 
 unit after all this time.
  Good graphics, proper terrain
  Nice Asian chick in videos
  
  -
  Lacking some unit type for scouting also a valid means of gathering intelligence.
  
  Apart 
 from graphics, just some minor improvements over its predecessors.
  I enjoyed C&amp; C Generals far better.
  
  Predictable classical story.
  
  It would seem 
 like EA is trying to milk the last drops from a dying C&amp; C franchise. And what other better 
 way to do it than to put the emphasis on graphics, then link the game to the C&amp; C storyline 
 with the fact that some bald headed Kane lives (who the hell is this guy anyway) , throw in some 
 FMVs with well known actors and finally pay the reviewer sites to cough up a high score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Im sure those reading this have played recent C&amp; Cs
  
  I rather think the gameplay is quite boring since its all similar to the rest of C&amp; C. I think 
 that the game looks too big as well as too graphical.
  
  The options in the game are very small and if you have played Supreme Commander you'll CERTAINLY 
 get my thoughts.
  
  Im not writing much because i really dont think its a game to get excited about.
  
  My advice, 
 must try Supreme Commander.
  
  And if you really think of trying C&amp; C3, please be careful and rent it first. Because i assure 
 you it will get boring soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apenoot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  I honestly don't understand all the people who give this a low or average score. This game does 
 EXACTLY what it promised it would. EA announced that this game was going back to the basics, it 
 was supposed to be 'fast, fun and fluid'. Many critics involve the lack of innovation, the unit 
 spamming and the campy FMV's. But it really isn't fair to judge this game for that. All the 'dissapointed' 
 gamers could've know beforehand that this game wasn't going to be as deep as Supreme Commander. 
 Buying the game and then bashing C&amp; C3 for just that isn't fair.
  
  It's like buying a tactical shooter such as Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter when actually preferring 
 more arcade shooters such as Quake, and then saying 'the action isn't fast enough', 'it's too realistic' 
 or 'you die too quickly'. C&amp; C3 might not technically be 'better' than games such as Company 
 of Heroes (love it!) or Supreme Commander (too slow for my taste) , but it's a lot of fun if you 
 look at it the right way. It's a triple A title, that is all about frantic, brutal battles and 
 factions with a lot of personality and memorable characters (Kane!) . The game does have some features 
 new to C&amp; C, such as tanks being more heavily armored at their front side (yes it's true, read 
 the manual!) , better interface, and the customizable skirmish AI, but otherwise stays faithful 
 to the series' roots (although the Tiberium series wasn't as fast-paced as this, they took the 
 pacing of the RA series) . Overall, this is one of the most enjoyable games I've played in a LONG 
 time. The campaigns have a lot to offer, especially once you get to the later missions when the 
 story is unfolded. Story is quite good and well-told. The FMV's are enjoyable and a little cheesy 
 -in a good way- as they've always been. The game is well-polished and has decent graphics that 
 don't require a monster PC. I haven't ran into any gameplay bugs at all, EA actually managed to 
 deliver a nearly bug-free game! The enemy AI is good, and as mentioned before, customizable in 
 skirmish. The 3 factions are fairly balanced, and each is interesting in it's own right with enough 
 variation and differences to make them unique.
  
  Bottomline: If you want your RTS games deep and with prolonged battles, go play some other game. 
 If you want a fun and brutal RTS experience that goes back to the essence of the genre... play 
 this. You won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  If you enjoy playing RTS games on-line against humans, and/or if you enjoy the campaign scenarios, 
 this review offers little interest to you : I never play with/against humans, and I only venture 
 into skirmishes with/against A. I. players. I have previously tried all of the C&amp; C and Red Alert 
 titles, with all their expansions.
  
  1 &gt; ViSUAL quality. If you have a powerful enough videocard (mine is a GF 6800 with 512 MB of 
 Vram) and (at least) a 19-inch monitor (mine is widescreen) , and if you place the video settings 
 to the maximum level of quality, this appears (especially on certain maps) as the most beautiful 
 of the C&amp; C/RA titles. For me, that is very important : I play relaxed skirmishes with comps, 
 so I need to savor the esthetic appearance. 2 &gt; AUDIO quality. Even with only 2 speakers (I 
 have 4, but I also tried with 2) , the sound is exquisitely eerie and atmospheric. 3 &gt; A. I. players. 
 Your skirmish allies and enemies can not only be set at one of 4 levels of difficulty (which are 
 well explained) , they now can be set with one of 5 behavioral personalities : for example, if you 
 do not want to be rushed, do not give to a comp the rusher personality. Since I only play with 
 comps, this is a great addition, enhancing the replay value of skirmishes. 4 &gt; CONCLUSION. If 
 you are not, like me, a veteran of on-line RTS gameplay, if you wish to fool around, in a relaxed 
 manner, with an old-school style of RTS (by contrast to Supreme Commander) , go out and buy it now 
 (but shop around : I have seen it at CAN $ 69, and bought it at a WalMart for CAN $ 49 !) . WalMart 
 also offered Supreme Commander at the great price of CAN $ 49, but 2 important reasons are making 
 me delay its purchase : I am much less familiar with its excentric style of gameplay, and especially, 
 my computer is not powerful enough to run it at a higher level of visual quality and framerate 
 (when there are hundreds of units in the later stages of the game, on very big maps) . My PC has 
 a 2.8 GHz P4 (the older model) and 1 GB of RAM : that's quite good enough (with the GF 6800) to 
 run C&amp; C 3 at a high level of visual quality and framerate (a very important factor to me) , 
 but far from good enough to run SupCom in all of its gorgeous glory. I will buy SC when I get a 
 new PC with a dual-core processor, at least 3 GB of RAM, Windows Vista, and a DirectX 10-compatible 
 videocard (especially since they are working on DX 10 enhancements for SC) . In the meanwhile, C&amp; C 
 3 is very smooth and beautiful for my (limited) tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepshi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  I was and still am a big fan of the C&amp; C game universe. I played all the titles in the series 
 and I enjoyed each and every one of them. Still, this doesnt mean I cant be objective. C&amp; C3 
 is goodbut not more than that. The graphics are done pretty well. There are a lot of nice effects, 
 a lot of HQ textures and even with the quality set to max the game isnt a big system hog (at least 
 not on my pc) . However, there are games out there that can put C&amp; C3 to shame even in this department. 
 Whats more, Modeling quality isnt great (not too many details on the units/structures) . Even 
 if the music in C&amp; C3 is enjoyable to say the least and the unit sounds are good (could have 
 been better, though) , the game creates no spectacular atmosphere to speak of. The movie scenes 
 are cheap and the actors have even cheaper performances. The game-play is C&amp; C and nothing more. 
 Nothing new under the sunNo tacticsno resource management, no strategy planningJust PLAIN OLD 
 SIMPLE C&amp; C (and this is also true for the interface, unit types etc) . Judging by the fact that 
 the AI is somewhat predictive, single player (campaign or skirmish) isnt too entertaining. Online 
 or LAN gamingare COOL and its nice to see eight players battle it out right in the center of 
 the map just for the fun of it. In the end, a word of adviceIf you have several games you wish 
 to buy but no money for them allBuy C&amp; C3 last. Its a must have for any strategy fan but you 
 can find better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxico81
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  Being a very traditional gamer I'm enjoying this game a lot. I wasn't looking for a revolutionary 
 RTS-game. I was looking for a game similair to what I was playing about 10 years ago. And that's 
 what I've found here. If you're nostalgic to old-skool games then this game is for you. Basicly 
 it's Red Alert with better graphics. If you're looking for a change in gameplay, well, then probably 
 you wanna check out something else.
  
  A bit offtopic but I really hope that more genres will go old-skool again, especially rpg's. I 
 miss the turnbased adventuregames which i enjoyed so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dante9583
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  brilliant game!!! brings back the excitement of tiberium sun with a little retro C&amp; C, if you 
 take the time to learn the controls properly you can execute un-rivalled strategies at the click 
 of a button (or two) . any one that has played the previous C&amp; C titles will have a breeze playing 
 this game but anyone new to the series will have alot of fun and enjoyment learning how to be a 
 COMMANDER. all those who are familiar with the series with be pleasently supprised when they use 
 the ION CANNON next, what an improvement (its not just a quick light with a noise no more
  well worth the wait thank god for mammy tanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smino
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I love the fast paced action, and the extremely tough AI. In all the previous C&amp; C games, my 
 friends and I could each take on 3-4 Brutal enemies. Now, we are lucky to survive one medium enemy 
 a piece. Granted we are learning the new game. Why is it so tough? The AI tends to follow your 
 style of play and counter act your every move, only faster, and they do not slow down or hold back. 
 There are very few choke points where you can concentrate your defences, and as such, they find 
 ways around your defences and attack your weak side. I feel the mobile defences are much better 
 in this game verus previous C&amp; C games.
  
  I wander if they will build a Generals version of this game? Hmm...
  
  Top 5 List of :
  
 
  Pros:
  Great graphics
  Great Game play and fast action
  No computer slow downs like in previous editions
  Very stable, and fast even when playing on 
 underpowered laptops
  
  Cons:
  Having to relearn C&amp; C strategies and tactics (could be a proS)
  Right click is very annoying
 
  Fog of War is very annoying (option to turn it off would be good)
  No Ability to drop ship MCV on allies base to help out!
  Scrin units and buildings are not as 
 clear in regards to differentiating them.
  Very few Multiplay co-op maps, or maps of more than two on two. Maps are small, bad for turtling!
 
  
  Keep in mind this review comes after playing the game for a few hours in multiplayer mode. It is 
 definatley worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdressler
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  OK, my original review was a 4 because of poor controls. It seemed that a lot of the control simplicity 
 had gone out of C&amp; C. However, thanks to the latest patch, the one click control is back and 
 now that I am oriented to the panels, I am finding C&amp; C3 a lot more fun to play. I still think 
 the city-scape is too busy and find it sometimes difficult to find where I sent my forces, but 
 the controls are easier. And, of course, I am a heretic and never really liked the original C&amp; C 
 or the Kane story line. I preferred the US/Soviet/Yuri stuff - that probably puts me in the minority 
 of C&amp; C players. Still, a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZZoMBiE13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  In the early days of the RTS genre, one game stood above the rest. Command and Conquer may not 
 have been the first, but it is arguably one of the most memorable franchises known to the genre, 
 and for good reason. Campy FMV sequences mixed over the top military combat come together to create 
 something straight out of sci-fi RTS fans wildest dreams. The charasmatic Kane has returned after 
 a lengthy hiatus and has brought with him a dream cast of big name talent which lend themselves 
 well to the cutscenes. These sequences have been a big part of the C&amp; C formula from the beginning 
 and fans will be happy to know that they do not dissapoint. But what good are cutscenes if there 
 isn't anything good in between right? Well not to worry, the classic Westwood style is in tact. 
 Some slight changes for the better have come to pass since Generals and they are all welcome. A 
 less invasive toolbar setup allows to plenty of the battleground to be seen at any time. And thanks 
 to Tiberium Wars modest system requirements there is plenty of eye candy to feast on. The social 
 decay of the world in Tiberium Wars is never boring to look at. The landscape feels sickly and 
 diseased, which is exactly how it should be in a world that is overgrown with a harmful alien plague. 
 The setup of this game will allow people with aging systems to still play the game, even if they 
 can't jack up the settings. But even with the lower settings the game still manages to pull off 
 it's disctinctive look with style. And if you have the hardware to push up the sliders, you will 
 be happily rewarded with a great looking experience from menu to victory screen. Many people will 
 enjoy this game in the multiplayer, but the single player is no slouch either. Competitive A. I. 
 will keep you on your toes even on the lowest settings. And the higher settings will challenge 
 even veterans of the series. Overall C&amp; C: TW is the proper sequel that fans have been waiting 
 for. Great graphics, great gameplay, great cheesy cutscenes, and a perfect blend of system settings 
 to allow entry level PCs and hardcore gaming rigs all play. Why are you still reading this???? 
 GO BUY IT NOW! KANE IS WAITING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hirmetreus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer is, in my opinion, the definitive RTS series. The reason I'm sitting at my 
 computer playing RTS games nowadays is all because of Command And Conquer Red Alert... and that 
 was a LONG time ago.
  
  A lot, and very little, has changed since then. I'm now earning huge amounts of cash and have a 
 powerful high-end computer. Thats what's changed. What hasn't is CnC's game play.
  
  More on that later. First, the eye candy. When you first start up Tiberium Wars you see the EA 
 logo and its new tiberium facelift. Great job! I was getting sick of the challenge everything crap. 
 You'll load up a game remarkably fast, faster than Company of Heros, and immediately be looking 
 at a very familiar (if you played generals) battlefield. The ground looks the same as it always 
 did. However, when you look at tiberium - the effects are stunning. The wonderful glow that emits 
 from it really makes you notice how far we have come. To add on top of this, when you finally find 
 some action, youll see just how great some of the weapon effects and animations are. The shining 
 surface of a stealth tank, the rippling air under jets and around laser blasts... it makes the 
 game visually excellent.
  
  Then, you have your sound. Its the classic grinding war tracks that came in with generals. Which 
 is a shame really, as having tracks and a record sort of system like in all the Westwood games 
 would have really been beautiful - wheres mechanical man part 2 or 3, or whatever number were 
 on now? However, one thing the sound doesn't let itself down on - explosions. And thats not the 
 half of it - as if hearing the satisfying boom of a nuclear missile or the buzzing lasers of an 
 ion cannon wasn't enough, infantry death screams sound as brilliant as the original command and 
 conquer. Every time I hear an infantryman die the scream takes me back to those days - and that 
 is what bumps the sound so high up for me.
  
  And finally were back to the game play. Tiberium Wars finally brought back the formula we all loved 
 and knew. For many of us, its great to be back in the same seat. However, after a few hours or 
 so of playing, you start to notice that almost nothing has changed - at all. We saw lots of innovations 
 in Company of Heros and Dawn of War, both top of their game modern day RTS's - so wheres the 
 share of it in Command and Conquer 3? Why don't infantry have a morale system? Why is the resource 
 gathering still exactly the same? This is possibly the biggest letdown of Tiberium Wars. Theres 
 absolutely no innovation in it. Its just Tiberium Sun crossbred with Generals. By today's modern 
 standards, its very disappointing.
  
  Then, I've got a further gripe; why are infantry with massive rocket launchers or rail gun totting 
 power-armoured madmen so weak against tanks? You would of though getting hit by a massive twin 
 barreled rocket would do a little more than scratch the paint. The game is almost entirely dominated 
 by tanks - theres very, very little infantry can do in the grand scale of an RTS. I felt this 
 element could have been played up far, far more than it actually is. I'd like to see a million 
 man march strategy or something - that doesn't lose because its so costly in comparison to tanks.
 
  
  If your a medal manic, the campaign has a nifty cool mechanic with medals, and depending on the 
 difficulty, you can earn bronze, silver or gold versions, which have further awards and little 
 marking for completing all secondary objectives and finding all the Intel (which is only a challenge 
 in GDI's case) .
  
  Online play should be supreme however. With commentating on replays, RTS as a sport and such, Tiberium 
 Wars has a lot to offer to future tournaments, making it lasting game. Any replay driven community 
 should have a huge buzz from this, and new players can definitely learn lots thanks to the new 
 system. As a shoutcaster myself, I really want to see how this turns out. Alas, its far, far too 
 early to start making decisions on if this element is a success or not, since its only release 
 day!
  
  I really don't know how to feel about Tiberium Wars, since I don't think I've played it enough. 
 But thats true of any RTS game. The game play should of done with more polishing, but at the same 
 time its a game based very well on what is possibly one of the best structures ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The Command &amp; Conquer Series has been one of the most successful gaming series with numerous 
 installments in various genres. This time C &amp; C 3 goes back to it's RTS roots and this is a 
 great thing for Hardcore fans of the series and genre. While this is mainly a good thing, it can 
 be a difficult and challenging experience for noobs to the series.
  
  I for one am new to the C &amp; C series. While I am not the biggest fan of RTS games I thought 
 I would take a shot at C&amp; C3. The demo I first played was fun and intense along with the nice 
 graphics. Graphics in this are very decent and with an added bonus comes the lower requirements 
 compared to a game like Supreme Commander. The physics are also decent and fun to watch when destroying 
 a Nod or GDI base as it crumples and burns to the ground.
  
  Overall trooper movement and units are decent and the different armies each have their own special 
 units. This aspect will drive you to play as each of the 3 race for the full experience. Gameplay 
 in itself is very enjoyable but at the same time challenging. While C&amp; C 3 is a great game it 
 can suffer from very difficult missions that may make veterans smile and noobs, like me, cringe. 
 If you like a satisfying but challenging RTS game then Command and Conquer 3 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4ft3rD34th
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer is back in one of its most exciting installments yet. Generals, for me, was 
 a complete let down - no cinematics and definitely no Command and Conquer feel. This has obviously 
 been noted by EA, because I'm pleased to say that this is a true C&amp; C game, not just another 
 franchise exploitation.
  
  Everything about this game feels right for me. I get that buzz which other RTSs just can't deliver 
 - the buzz of a C&amp; C game. Generals never gave me that but this latest installment really does 
 endear itself to fans of the past - and puts in a few new tricks along the way.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10 - If you've never played the original C&amp; C games, and only recent RTSs, I doubt 
 you'll think much of the gameplay but for the old-school fans like myself it really is a happy 
 return. The tactics are back - tank rushes, APC rushes and, with the Kane Edition, you get some 
 handy videos to show you some manouveurs, such as bombarding your enemy's base from the other side 
 of the battlefield. Class.
  
  Graphics - 10/10 - Brilliant. I only bought my PC 6 months ago, specifically for gaming, and I've 
 had to turn some settings down to get it to run smoothly. But looking at others' videos... beautiful.
 
  
  Sound - 9/10 - The old C&amp; C sounds are included along with some new ones that really make you 
 feel in the battle. Great.
  
  Value - 9/10 - Two long and challenging campaigns on three difficulty levels make you feel like 
 you want to come back for more. Skirmish and multiplayer add to the excellent buzz, and even if 
 you finish the campaigns quickly, you'll still come back to this time and again.
  
  Tilt - 10/10 - Okay, so I honestly don't like the Scrin - they seem a bit too difficult to fight 
 in multiplayer and I just don't think they're right for a serious game like this. However, that 
 aside, this game is a must-buy for anybody out there. You'll have a blast playing this with your 
 friends or just by yourself. Seriously, those who rate this game poorly obviously haven't played 
 C&amp; C before, but it is seriously addictive. Buy it, and pray that there'll be a sequel just 
 as good if not better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Welcome back into my life...
  
  It's been a wait worth while; even though I miss Westwood I can't complain on EA's job in this 
 matter. C &amp; C 3 is as good as it gets. As many of you I saw the trailers, lasers flying off 
 everywhere and I thought; Is this going to be like 'Generals', nice in the beginning, but just 
 a crapy game? C &amp; C 3 is nothing of the sorts. Every minute detail is enjoyable, from the very 
 start. Welcome back commander, welcome back old friend... 
  
  You start to smile when you see those familiar words and then you are plunged into the action. 
 First you are met by Sam Fishers voice, and you go, Hey, don't I know that dude... - and of course 
 you do. Michael Ironside is always a nice treat when cast as a voice actor, but it is nice to see 
 his old wrinkles and hear that voice that makes you take the game seriously...
  
  GDI &amp; NOD are back in a clash, trying to rule the earth, but in reality, trying to rule our 
 perception of a good time; I will not choose a side, because all of the sides are great fun...
 
  
  You'll love the plot, the storytelling, the in-game films, the faces of the actors, the attitude 
 not to say the graphics that are wonderful. I just turned up everything on max and couldn't believe 
 all the nice things. Shadows, reflexes, physics, the easy control, the colours, the explosions, 
 everything we loved as kids really capture the ones of us that are adults...
  
  Buy it for heavens sake, don't download it, give these guys the signal that we loved what they 
 did, they deserve it... Long live GDI, or was it NOD!? :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMacBot
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is much like the classic C&amp; C and Tiberian Sun. The radar and command HUD have been 
 completely modified. Graphics and sound are unprecedented! Lasers and explosions will fill your 
 screen that you will actually think your there. Polygons, textures, and shadow effect are what 
 really enhance the realistic graphics of the game along with cool image filtering. The sound is 
 crystal clear. The story and plot are strongly put together and make sense. All in all this PC 
 version of the game is just great (and also the best version, I wouldn't recommend getting it on 
 XBOX 360 if you have a strong PC and like insane graphics) . The cinematics are very original and 
 some well known actors from TV and Hollywood play some interesting roles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say as much as i hate EA i don't hate the studio from LA because they are the westwood 
 guys pioners in RTS's &amp; i have to admit i have enjoyd every game that used the SAGE engine 
 ... starting with C&amp; C generals &amp; BFME series to this 1one .
  C&amp; C3 is a very great hard core RTS , with great graphics &amp; speedy action ... you will not 
 get bored cause it will allways be a problem to solve any minute of the campaign or skirmish ... 
 the control is easy smilar to Red ALert ... the only thing that really pisses me off is that they 
 stole gameplay ideeas form other RTS's like Starcraft &amp; Warhammer .. most of this ideas are 
 within the new race SCRIN wich gives you the feeling of a zerg like race but with protos technology 
 .... the best exemples are those Aircraft ships with multiple miniships that do the job (Kerier 
 style from Starcraft ) ... so the verdict is that the graphics are good , sounds 2 m gameplay is 
 very old with stolen ideeas but for those of you who are fans of C&amp; C it wont matter because 
 its still very enterteining :D ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerpetualBliss
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a huge fan of Command and Conquer, as the game play mechanics have always been 
 a little frustrating. This game fixed all of the problems I've ever experienced with Command and 
 Conquer, and does it in such a way to make the game and absolutely enjoyable experience. When I 
 first saw the trailer for this game, my first thought was Oh, man, not again. I reluctantly downloaded 
 the demo and tried the demo campaign, and was pleasantly surprised at the numerous improvements. 
 I bought the game the next day, and haven't regretted it. If you're an RTS fan, this game may not 
 have the most tactically effective interface like Supreme Commander, but it's still just plain 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4_majin
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Mixed reactions! All I can and should say. But this is a review so lets get down to the nitty 
 gritty. As we all know C&amp; C is an awesome universe with 7 games up to date (not counting expansions.) 
 Then came C&amp; C 3 from every gamers fan: EA! The Good: Live action cut-scenes, a really nice 
 overall design of units, sound effects are even awesome-er, the in-game music is very nice and 
 extremely entertaining, the ability to construct buildings without builders. Wasnt that a short 
 list? Oh yea and a New race. The bad: EA's constant not-giving-a-damn-about-fans attitude. Well 
 this game shouldnt be out. Ive been having a few problems with my C&amp; c3 so I made some investigations: 
 it turns out that the game has more bugs than an ant farm: video sync problems, game crashing, 
 units blocking, uninstaller crashing (you read right) , patch-er problems etc (bigger list than 
 The Good) . Now a few of these bugs were very present in the demo and EA made great vows promising 
 to fix them. Bull crap. Retail version here and here they still are (even funnier: the patches 
 that are suppose to fix these problems dont do nothing either) . Now my opinion is that this game 
 is the most imbalanced balanced game ever. Let me explain: The GDI are clearly the slow strong 
 and powerful; the NOD are fast low-health sneaky SOBies and the Scrin are coming at you with a 
 good equilibrium of things. Alls well and good on the outside, but when you truly play the game 
 you notice a few things: GDI unit cost is way over the top, giving the Nod and Screen much bigger 
 number advantage. This is very well hidden as most people play against AI first and AI is not as 
 good as your neighbor. In multiplayer the GDI become absolute losers. Secondly this game (again 
 in multiplayer because people tend to evolve opposite to an AI witch will not) is strictly an air 
 game. The air defenses suck. All 3 races have air defense capabilities but that does not mean that 
 they do any good. A squadron of lets say 70 Nod venoms (dont think that that is much because 
 venoms are quite cheap in this game) will wipe the map clean. 70 venoms cost 700 x 70= 49000. With 
 49000 you can only get 18 mammoths. Trust me when I say that the mammoths wont win (to little 
 air damage and to slow movement) . Scrins have the best air defense (the cripple amongst the paralyzed) . 
 Heres one of my favorite bugs: Snipers. The GDI Sniper has a huge range and detects invisible 
 units, but he doesnt shoot unless given the order too. Now since Snipers are invisible you might 
 think that is logical. Considering that theres a hold fire command it isnt. Now I wont waste 
 even more of your time enumerating the hundreds of bugs I discovered (units blocking: one of the 
 reinforcement plains got shot on top of the NOD base but it did not die; it just hovered there 
 giving me a clean view of what was going on inside the NOD base. computer rebooting, crashing etc) . 
 Instead I will explain my reasonable high mark for such a letdown: It single player it allows a 
 gamer to fully use the entire arsenal of a nation and gives you (only in this situation) a feeling 
 of strategy and fun. Its relaxing, its easy to learn, it has really nice effects, and it has 
 Nuke missiles, Ion cannons and the Scrin Super weapon (play the game and find out) ; it adds an 
 interesting story to the C&amp; C world, it has religious fanatics, United nation troops and Aliens 
 (The Scrin are one of the coolest looking alien races in a while) . I am sorry if I left out a few 
 things that ought to have been said, but I believe that a C&amp; C game should truly be great (the 
 rest of them were, this one is not) . It should have everything (except bugs of this magnitude) : 
 graphics, sound, game-play in single and multiplayer, fights to the death, balanced races giving 
 the win to the better tactician not the better race. Hopefully, in time, patches (that actually 
 work) will bring the game to a status that is SHOULD but doesnt have. P. S. I am shocked at the 
 EA kiss-ass review Gamespot did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  What they've done is responded to what alot of people wanted which was a old school C&amp; C game 
 with all the trailers, UI and gameplay of the originals but with better graphics. IMO though as 
 this is my review i just get a feel of i've already played this before and fedup with playing it 
 now I mean the games still not as good as RA2 and tbh i'd just prefer to go back to play that game 
 than waste money on more of the same. I'm having more fun with games that have moved on from this 
 like COH, altho really i want something new.
  
  That said though it's not a bad game and infact it's well polished and put together. The single 
 Player isn't that good and i was never a fan of the real actor thing in the games lol. Where this 
 game really shines is 1 vs 1 multiplayer and for competitive gaming, on anything other than 1 vs 
 1 tho you get alot of lag due to the crappy netcode and it becomes unplayable.
  
  I find C&amp; C games too fast paced more me and i prefer to sit back and relax abit but it's great 
 for people who like it. Theres 3 races and each look different buy play pretty much the same and 
 thats what i hate. You just build the same buildings time after time of playing and it gets boring, 
 specially when the only tactic is RUSH. Tbh i prefer my games to have more tactics than that.
 
  
  Overall tho the single player isn't that good and the multiplayer is where it shines and thats 
 all that matters with a RTS anyways. It's abit too fast paced for me and i do prefer RA anyways. 
 It does get very linear and boring as you can only ever do the same thing over and over and the 
 building placement gets on my nerves as it doesn't give you much room. Also the Alien race is FANTASTIC 
 and the best addition to the series, reminds me of war of the worlds or something.
  
  The Graphics are good but not as good as say COH, the maps don't really get destroid as much and 
 theres not much eye candy. I do find the cameras don't zoom out far enough and i can't really see 
 the bigger picture, but C&amp; C games have always been like that tho i wish there were changes. 
 The Art is pretty generic on 2 of the races however the alien race does look great. The performance 
 is fantastic too but i wudn't expect anything less.
  
  The sounds are great but don't really shine like COH and i wouldn't say are the main attraction 
 for the game. However again the Alien race sounds fantastic lol.
  
  I would say the value depends on if you like playing multiplayer, because thats whats will keep 
 you playing after all the single player isn't great. If it keeps you playing for ages then it's 
 a bargin! However i do think the price tag is abit steep seeing as everyone will be wanting the 
 Kane Edition.
  
  Overall the C&amp; C3 is a good game but for me Too much Nostalgia for the old C&amp; C games have 
 made it soo theres no new gameplay elements and it becomes boring for me as i want something new. 
 For the new C&amp; C i'd like to see more innovation.
  
  However for C&amp; C fans i guess this is what they wanted anyways but for me no.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lone_Warrior_66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  When CnC 3 was announced i was all but excited. EA making the next installment for the tiberian 
 universe ? Quite a task for a company that in my eyes is still to commercially.
  
  However after the demo release last month most of my doubts where taken away, and with the final 
 release of the game two days ago i can say that EA has done one hell of a job. Game play:
  The game stays true to the old CnC concept but also adds several familiar concepts from other games 
 that really add up. For instance the general powers now also have their place in CnC 3. Instead 
 of earning these with a rank they are linked to a specific buildings which you need to use them. 
 CnC3 is incredibly fast paced which was something i wasn't sure i liked at first. It turns out 
 great however, most multiplayer and skirmish matches are quick but really action packed.
  
  Graphics:
  CnC3 looks absolutely incredible. If you've got a high end machine you'll be able 
 to enjoy some beautiful carnage on the battlefield with great looking explosions and lighting effects. 
 However if you've got an older more outdated machine you're probably still able to run the game 
 with lower settings.
  
  Music/Sound:
  The music in CnC 3 is no longer made by Frank Klepacki who made the music for the previous CnC 
 titles. This doesn't mean that the ingame music is that bad however i get the idea that there aren't 
 that many music files as we are used to from previous CnC titles. The overall sound is really good 
 explosions and weapons sound really realistic. Campaign:
  One of the most important features of previous CnC games was their campaigns with cool story lines 
 and full motion video's that made you fell like you where right in the thick of it. Both features 
 are back in CnC 3 and with over 35 missions there's enough single player fun. In the FMV's you'll 
 see some pretty famous actors but of course also the return of Joseph Kucan as Kane.
  
  All in all Command and Conquer 3 Tiberian Wars makes a great RTS game that is more the worthy of 
 continuing its legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalay_BG
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C3 is great game i cant say something different from the most posts . I just didnt like the 
 little new things in the game . It really feels like the good old c&amp; c . Really stunning graphics 
 and normal requirements ( well the game is good optimizated ) . The gameplay is great but i found 
 some like the AI to easy so i redirected my self to the multiplayer .okay thats amaizing good job 
 for EA the game has cool multiplayer , most of the people playing the game are cool 2 ;)
  // btw i dont like the sounds , ost etc...
  
  // if you are wondering that game is a must for 
 the C&amp; C fans and good chance to try something interesting for the rest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  Yep its back, back with avengence.
  
  Its been about... roughly 8 years or so since the last Tiberium Sun game was released. It was an 
 excellent twist or stint on the series which was quickly over succeeded (or the attempt to at least) 
 by the Red Alert series sequels.
  
  This time it packs seemingly more movies with higher quality acting and CGI, better graphics and 
 basically a better engine... lets find out:
  
  -------------------------------
  Gameplay:
  
  Ok first things first. The Game engine. If you've played Command and Conquer: 
 Generals, this is like a way more stable beefier version of that game engine. It has a better camera 
 system and way better detailed units and unit control.
  
  Since the last Tiberium Sun the principal roles of collecting tiberium, creating a base of operations 
 and large force hasn't really changed. So basically they kept the formula that worked!
  
  However this time round you need to create LARGE forces, even if your playing this on Easy Difficulty 
 you need to create a large force to destroy most enemy bases. Also you need to be quite smart about 
 how you go about it. Wrong unit combos spells disaster usually most of the time!
  
  The CGI cutscenes are i have to say hands down the best in the whole series. The acting has moved 
 from a TV movie type filmed style and the low production standards of Babylon 5, to a full fledged 
 semi-realistic Ops briefing.
  
  Actors from current hit shows in America are present like Josh Holloway from Lost and Michael Ironside 
 from various films like Total Recall, and various cast from the revamped Battlestar Gallactica 
 series. They are all excellent in there roles in the game. However, of course Kane is still the 
 best played character, another aspect of the game they kept in!
  
  Finally the new addition of incoming transmissions from the latter mentioned actors or from the 
 main computer mainframe's analysis on the battlefield is just sheer brialliance in the idea department.
 
  
  -------------------
  Graphics:
  
  Tottaly revamped and detailed. For an RTS this game is really good looking. Sure you can say its 
 verging on cartoonish because of the contrast of collurs etc but the battle screen here works!
 
  
  Tiberium looks really amazing now, i can see why their Harvesters in Nod are obsessed about collecting 
 it! The third alien faction in this game has really amazingly animated units! Overall, a nice piece 
 of tasty eye candy! Also the CGI in cutscenes is very well done!
  
  ------------------
  
  Sound:
  
  Excellent sound track. Wont win awards but the main thing here is that is works 
 - works in tandem with the action of the game.
  
  Voice acting, sound track, addition of the incoming transmition messages are very well done! Also 
 laser sound effects are still fun, yet again the Obelisk of Light sound is still present since 
 the very original C&amp; C!! -------------------
  
  Value:
  
  To summarise this, basically everyone should really be greatful of two aspects: One - Its a Tiberium 
 Sun game which personally for me as i'm a Sci-Fi fan was their best and most excellent version 
 of the C&amp; C universe.
  
  Two - Yes they added new additions to the game, but they were actually improvements in the series. 
 Everything else was kept the same.
  
  Apart from incoming transmissions, graphics, game engine and the newer stuff, they have kept the 
 working forumla in here, and when you have a long running game series this is what counts.
  
  Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Sun has proven that if it aint broke, then sure dont fix it 
 BUT you can add things which wont get in the way of the formula but make the things that made this 
 game so wonderful, more prominent and more fun to enjoy!
  
  If your a casual RTS gamer, or a die hardcore fan, you will enjoy this game for its campaign and 
 story telling and or its intense multiplayer action.
  
  Overall, an excellent addition to the series and probably the most well thought out and the most 
 love and care has been put into the development of this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuamishael
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 is a Blast!, aside from beautiful motion pictures, the gameplay is addictive 
 and easy to learn just like before, and surprisingly the improvement is so cool, if you have a 
 high graphic cards, this game has great eye candy, even if you have low graphic cards, the game 
 is still great, my graphic card is low , but I could play a medium texture so far, it is great.
 
  
  there are so many improvements, I just don't know where to start.
  1. all units have mulitiple special abilities, really. :D
  2. you train squads of troopers instead 
 of just one, and don't worry about population cap, so far, there is none, cause I have like 200+ 
 troops with 40 tanks in my base, and I don't know... if there is a cap so far. LOL
  3. the interface are awesome!
  4. with so many army, the game run so smooth.
  5. you see awesome 
 projectile, coming from , machine guns, lasers, plasmas, and unkown energies.
  6. ION cannon, is PERFECTED !!, you can blast an entire base with this !
  it's like dropping 
 a nuke.
  7. NOD and scrin are also cool, the skin of the vehicles and structures are out of this world !
 
  
  ultra recommended game! Good Bye, and have a NICE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Only until your computer can handle it, because C&amp; C 3 is just awesome in many levels right 
 now!
  
  But I will try and compare the 2 for everyone ;)
  
  If you haven't played the C&amp; C games before, you will probably be wondering what all the gee 
 up and hype is about this world. As a game, it has covered the 3 most important fun factors of 
 an RTS game.
  
  Simplicity.
  Speed.
  Destruction.
  
  There are reasonable amounts of units and upgrades to experience in this awesome blast fest. Supreme 
 Commander may be bigger and have more options to cover these areas but geez, doesn't that explain 
 why it's so massively heavy on your pc?
  
  C&amp; C 3 has the perfect balance of total awesome explosive gameplay, and you can really pump 
 up the graphics on a medium end pc NO PROBLEM.
  
  This game looks beautifull. The lighting and shaders make your pants fill with many bodily fluids. 
 The explosions are bigger and brighter than ever, and the cutscenes are classic! (Some great performance 
 by the actors for once) and it is presented in Hi Definition - at least from what my monitor is 
 telling me!
  
  The balance of units amongst the 3 factions are awesome and very constructive. Each faction has 
 it's own unique play, therefore you will feel the value for money aspect right there. The construction 
 options are better than ever, as is the upgrading and All in a nutshell, the combined warfare elements, 
 graphics and awesome programming of C&amp; C 3 make it right up there in the RTS hall of fame. It 
 beats C&amp; C Generals and is faster than Supreme Commander. What more could you want???
  
  Worth the bucks my friends, and it's not buggy at all. (at least not yet, I've just finished the 
 1st ACT)
  
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I think that there was alot of concern about the latest sequel to the command and conquer series. 
 Well, I am pleased to say there is no reason for that concern. It is a high quality game through 
 and through, staying true to the command and conquer name.
  
  Taking place after Tiberium sun the world finds itself swamped in tiberium. For those who dont 
 know tiberium is a parasitic substance from the original game which leaches minerals from the soil. 
 Making it the perfect resource but less than perfect in the sence that it is covering the entire 
 planet and is rather toxic. GDI and NOD are back and when i say NOD is back i mean KANE! The story 
 is told through FMV cutscenes which put you in the boots of a rather overworked commander.
  
  The quality of these live action cutscenes are extrememly high and really pay tribute to why 
 the original command and conquer was such a great game. Far better than Tiberium Sun in my mind. 
 The acting is terrific (albiet at times a little cheezey. The sound is terrific as well, while 
 the music may not be quite as memorable as others in the series it is very solid. During the game 
 you will sometimes hear comments coming from your units which is influenced by your current situation. 
 One example of this is when you play as the scrin destroying a city and you can hear people fleeing 
 in terror. This is a nice touch and realy enhances the game.
  
  Lets talk about gameplay itself. It stays extremely true to its roots, sometimes almost to its 
 detriment. Playing as GDI tis units are the most straitforeward. Smash through your opponents defences 
 usng brute force. Nod on the other hand has more subtlety using cloaking and sneak tactics. The 
 interface is quite nice and offers many improvments to the RTS formula. It is extremly easy to 
 get up and play but if you really want to get into it there is alot more depth. The only quibble 
 is that the right click moves you troops which will throw alot of people at first. Luckely EA is 
 patching this in the fiture. The units are responsive and even with hundreds of troops on the screen 
 the game played smoothly. The three single player campains are great and when you are done its 
 onto the internet for a little multiplayer. There are a few things which make this unique although 
 for the most part they seem to be underutalized. Overall multiplayer works well with a few irratations. 
 If you are trying to start a game with more than 4 people it can get bogged down with people leaving 
 the game and most irratatingly of all not being able to connect with each other. I would say about 
 fifty percent of the time i have to wait quite a while while the host has to kick people from the 
 lobby because for some reason they cannot connect properly. This tends to slow things down and 
 will hopefully be addressed with future patches.
  
  Besides those concerns the mutiplayer works really well. Voice communication allows people to talk 
 to there teammates. Some interesting additions have been made which i think can be quite cool. 
 This allows somone to be the commentator of the game and allows observers to see and hear the match 
 in progress. So far these capabilites do not seem to be used very much though. Hopefully EA will 
 patch the game so it takes better use of these features. I would love to watch a few teams go at 
 it but all of the time that I have joined a game to observe i couldnt because there was an automattic 
 cap of people and by default only allows enough people to join the game and not observe.
  
  Overall it is an amazing game which could possibly be the best in the series. Containg great multiplayer 
 and single player experiences. The game stays true to its roots but brings many modern RTS innovations 
 into the game as well. It plays great as as a sequel but also as a stand alone game. RTS fans should 
 definetlly give this a try. There was no reason for the trepidation.
  
  Welcome back commander. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I never really had a chance to get into the Command and Conquer series in the earlier days. Back 
 then, I was more concerned with transformers and action figures.
  
  I did, however, get a chance to play Command and Conquer: Tiberian Sun, however briefly, and it 
 was tons of fun.
  
  Command and Conquer 3 is really quite a game. It's an RTS that is very easy to learn, easy to play 
 (but difficult to master) , and tons of fun. Graphics are impressive, even on the low settings I 
 play it on. The music, unfortunately, is almost absent from the game. I hardly notice any music 
 playing in the background, but this is the only thing I could find wrong with this game.
  
  You'll see all sorts of special effects and graphics during play, including the rather impressive 
 Ion Cannon, EMP strikes, Firehawk Bombings, and more.
  It all looks great.
  
  As I stated earlier, the music doesn't really make itself known during the game. Everything else, 
 like speech and sound effects are impressive and really add to the game.
  
  Gameplay is simple and very easy. The user interface is laid out very nicely, and makes for simple 
 and easy to understand controls. You'll be able to quickly construct a base and manage your units 
 using the effective tabbed interface EA has provided. You'll have multiple queues depending on 
 the number of unit producing structures you have.
  
  For instance, if you have a crane and a construction yard, you'll be able to quickly switch back 
 and forth between them and build structures by clicking the tabs located on your UI.
  
  I haven't completed the storyline yet, but so far it looks very good. There's nothing really silly 
 or absurd about it, and it does a decent job of actually telling the story of the Tiberium Wars.
 
  
  All in all, this is an impressive game. A great RTS to play that doesn't require an extremely powerful 
 computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I have several feelings on this game. from the past, present and future. Let's just stick to this 
 game for now. The first thing that came to mind is to give an 18 gunshot salute to the graphic 
 and interface boys (and girls) on that team. This game is beyond a simple 'rock on!'. The graphics 
 are tight and severely impressing. And all this is BEFORE the game starts.
  The overal gameplay is the same it always was, and that is for the most a good thing. the graphics 
 in the game look dratically improved, which is no surprise after all this time, and the interface 
 is a little improved, but this is not that weird as the interface was always near perfect and many 
 other developers copied the interface Westwood build from scratch.
  
  Now the music is still good, but less impressive then the past. The movies and cut scenes are nice 
 and decent, and we do praise any custscene with Grage Park, but it is about the game and not the 
 cut scene.
  
  Then last the storyline, which is good, and that does impact the game too. Overall those who liked 
 the game in the past will love this version, those who never played it should investigate this 
 game as it has a lot of chalenging gmaeplay to offer.
  
  Now the bad side of this game. It seems that the AI has a few bugs that seem to have survived previous 
 version. it is less evident, but it can make a few levels jokingly simple to do, however the better 
 balance of the armies is makes a blitzkrieg with supersoldiers a lot harder, so that part is a 
 lot less easy to do. The Orca's seem more powerfull, and with only 1 commando at any given time, 
 you will need more strategy to get through the game. Overall an excellent game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MATRIXMAN3780
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Tiberium Wars is Command &amp; Conquer at its best, and an absolute blast for series fans and newcomers 
 alike. The Gameplay is relatively different from your average Command and conquer, most command 
 and conquers you have construction dozers to build your buildings, this game allows your command 
 center to build them and then place them when they are done building. So your command center is 
 basically a non movable construction dozer. Tiberium is the main source of money here, it regrows 
 slowly, and forms where nuclear bombs are fired. Blue tiberium is rare, and gives you much more 
 amounts of money at a time. Green tiberium is the standard money, that gives you pretty good amounts 
 of cash. In multiplayer, you must use teamwork. I have learned from experience that offense IS 
 stronger than defense online. You should still defend yourself, but you need units to back that 
 up. The maps are fun to play on, all though i wish they allowed 5 - 8 player maps in ranked. Thats 
 how it was in C&amp; C: Generals ZH. The lobbys are a little messed up atm, but im sure they will 
 fix that. The armies are incredibly well balanced, everyone always has a chance.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Top notch with graphics settings on medium or high. I done ever look at an object 
 and get grossed out by its smudgy texture or limited details.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The music is at the level to where you don't notice it while playing, its perfect. Some games the 
 music is very annoying, so you notice it and others its very good but. the music is perfect for 
 the game and never bothers you, which is good when you are thinking about your next move at all 
 times.
  
  Overall: 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulder2683
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping for something more! The game is exactly what u expect from a C&amp; C game. The graphics 
 are amazing, but the gameplay is somehow something u have played over and over. In a way, I couldn't 
 find any surprises. Take it like that...... Just another C&amp; C nothing more, nothing less. I think 
 after playing Company of Heroes, it's hard to find another game that even comes close! C&amp; C3 
 is a must for your collection as it brings back old memories but this time modifies them into the 
 21st century! ;) Buy the game and play it, it is enjoyable but not to my expectations! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Vader1_4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  It may not be the best RTS out now nor the worst the game is just plain fun from start to finish. 
 I will first explain my score then I will go into more details about the game.
  
  Gameplay 8
  The game is very fast tipe of RTS, it focuses more on tactics and micromanagement 
 then strategy on the level of Surpreme commander. What is fun about it is that you can play it 
 even on the fly since you can rush in about 1 minute and be at the top of the tech tree in 10 minutes 
 or less. Then the factions are all unique and preaty well balanced, but there are some notable 
 flaws. The biggest one that stands out from my point of view is the Mammoth tank, it is just too 
 powerful, in most skirmishes and the campaign I can win with GDI just by spaming these. However 
 none of the flaws are substantial and a balance patch should correct some of these problems.
  
  Graphiqs 9
  The game looks good and more importantly runs good. High end machines can run 
 it on high settings with no frame rate drop what so ever, and it runs well with high to medium 
 settings on lower end machines as well. A lot of effects are well done, the shock-wave bubble that 
 grenades create are nice, the visual distortion that rail guns create are beautiful, the heat distortion 
 is great.
  
  Sound 9
  All the units sound right, from the proud GDI to the shadowy Nod and the allien Scrin, also the 
 sound effects are great, explosions, weapons they all sound great.
  
  Value 9
  The game has great replay value, for one you can play two very entertaining very enjoyable campaigns, 
 and you will want to play them again thanks for one of 3 reasons. You can try and master it on 
 a higher difficulty, you might want to unlock all the achivements, you just want to enjoy the movies 
 again.
  The movies are beautifull, the visual quality is incredible, and the cast is great and memorable, 
 especialy Kane, and the story alone will make you just go on and want to finish and see what finaly 
 happens (though I am sure that this is not really the end of the line for Kane) . And once you are 
 done with the Campaign you can slug it out with the A. I on a lot of maps, and there are more then 
 one tipe of A. I so you can experiment a number of strategies on it. The A. I on brutal is very good, 
 even if you destroy one of it's bases it will have a back up base that it will grow and once rebuilt 
 it will continue to attack you.
  Once you are done with the single player then you can have a lot of fun online. Playing games is 
 fun but it can also be great to watch a game in action and study other players tactics and with 
 the ability to comentate it online play becomes fun and addictive.
  
  Tiberium Wars is definitly a fitting succesor to Tiberium Sun and Red Alert 2. The game play is 
 exactly how I remember it from Red Alert 2, fast, brutal and fun, being able to finish a game in 
 less then 15 minutes is great for busy people but the games can last longer on larger maps. The 
 trusty old task bar is back and better then ever.
  However TW also adds some new elements, the Scrin are a wonderful new addition to the game, they 
 are unique and a lot of fun to play.
  Then there are all the little changes to the game, like the ability to power down individual buildings, 
 witch can have a big impact in a game by alowing you to prioritise which buildings need power you 
 can keep going even in a sticky spot when you find your power supply sabotaged. Reverse mode is 
 another small thing that adds that extra something, very usefull when you need to retreat fast 
 and still shot back.
  This game is fun but it may not be for everyone, the fast paced game will probably turn off some 
 people, it is also more about tactics and micro then strategy on the level of other games. The 
 game is definitly over rated by some and under rated by others, you can't please everyone. However 
 C&amp; C Tiberium wars is a great game, with fast gameplay that will keep you on your toes and coming 
 back for more, it is just plain fun and should not be missed by fans of the series or player who 
 just like fast coffee break long games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew2004gto
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I loved command and conquer games ever since i played that first one, in fact, it was the first 
 game i played at a friends house when i was 7, ever since i loved it anyway its all like the other 
 command and conquer games do the same stuff, which i enjoy, but one thing i didnt like about this 
 game is it didnt feel like i was playing command and conquer all the time, and i was disapointed 
 in the story, honestly tiberium sun, i liked that story better its seems to be more mysterious, 
 idk, but the graphics and muliplayer is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nodashi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Let's start this straight.
  
  I'm a hardcore C&amp; C fan, but unlike most fans, I hate TS. That's why I was afraid this game 
 would be bad as hell.
  
  My opinion was completely wrong. the game plays smooth, has a fast gameplay without giving a shallow 
 feeling or the usual lack of weight some fast-playing RTS have.
  
  The units are well designed and cool as hell (except the Nod Avatar, that one sucks salty chocolate 
 balls) , the game is balanced, the graphics are nice (and work in a low end computer, unlike SupCom) ...
 
  
  Ok, so it's a good RTS. Now the other question: Is it a true C&amp; C game?
  
  Yes.
  
  The campaign is nice, the FMV are simply GREAT... and Kane is back (and Kucan increased his 
 acting skills, too) .
  
  The only thing I miss from the first C&amp; C was the feeling of poverty. Discovering your enemy 
 had ONE mammoth tank was terrifying. But, well, the modern model was born in RA1, so I guess it's 
 ok. And forcing people to expand is good for the gameplay too, as Starcraft showed us all.
  
  Highly recomended to any RTS lover and every C&amp; C fan as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantehre2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I really do love the C&amp; C games (the RTS genre in general) and I think that they did a pretty 
 good job in their third of the TW installments . It has enough of an older feel/ style to keep 
 me happy but adds in some time saving features and options etc. The movies are as cheasy but cool 
 as ever and the Campaigns are equally entertaining. The units are interesting (especially NOD and 
 SCRIN) and the new race was a needed addition (albeit maybe not in this way exactly but close enough 
 IMHOP) . THe thing I am most dissapointed about is multiplayer. Loads of great new features ... 
 SURE.... fun, fast, exciting.... I guess! I suppose my gripe is not restricted to C&amp; C and maybe 
 its just the strategy of the general public and not the pros ... but MAN IS THERE A LOT OF TANK 
 SPAMMING in RTS now! It makes me thing back to SC when someone just pumps out the Hydras or something 
 along those lines. I understand that people want to win and that tends to be the fastest, best, 
 and easiest way ... and I am not faulting the players but more the developers. Don't get me wrong 
 I SPAM 'em with the rest (I try other strategies now and then) but what is the purpose of adding 
 16 unique units if half the people out there use only 3 or 4! Again it could just be people carrying 
 habits over from Generals (also lots of tank SPAM) or maybe its just me but I would like to be 
 able to get a little creative with my battles (commandos, juggernauts, firehawks) rather than just 
 build lots of tanks and maybe riflemen etc. then plow into their base repeat. Granted if the initial 
 attack doesnt work I might get to build some cooler units .... but not often! ANyway .... now I 
 am ranting ... It is a good game ... PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neogenweb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Although EA did not reinvent the wheel with this one, it's safe o say they used all they're technical 
 knowhow to create a game that would fallow closely in it's predecessors footsteps. It is obvious 
 to anyone that has played the BFME series that they used most if not all of the engine to create 
 CnC3. The engine is one of the best out there and offers a very easy system with a short learning 
 curve. That said, it also explains why the games works so well on older computers like mine. Although 
 the requirements are fairly high, I have the minimum for XP and my game runs smoothly, with some 
 minor hiccups due to hard drive rpm that I get with all major games.
  
  Since they are using a 2 year old engine, they could have tried to make the graphics a little better. 
 They seem to be from a game that would have come out 2 years ago... The music and sounds of the 
 game are nothing new as well, a stylish soundtrack puts you in the mood for some major destruction, 
 while unit one liners are as always.
  
  What puts the game in front of many other rts' are the FMV's. It's been a while since we had a 
 game that did that, and it's nice to see so many actors are willing to participate in them. I personally 
 have a soft spot for Jennifer Morrison. The story line of CnC3 is a nice touch, although I haven't 
 completed either side yet, I like the fact that they continue from previous Tiberium storylines.
 
  
  The good:
  -Finally a new CnC
  -Easy learning curve for newbies
  -Fast paced gameplay
  -Works on older computers (like mine!)
  -Nice soundtrack to put you in 
 the mood for destruction
  -Great acting, even from mr Lando (Billy Dee Williams)
  -Continuing storyline from previous Tiberium games.
  
  The bad:
  -Could have done better 
 graphics
  -Some pathing errors... Some units just like to walk in the Tiberium...
  -Nothing new
  -The Kane Edition
  
  And finally, here are 2 things that didn't sit well with 
 me.
  
  1 - The Kane Edition... Paying 10$ (CAD) more for a bonus disc that contains a few maps, a few desktop 
 wallpapers, and some bloopers is not the way to go... I would suggest getting the retail version...
 
  
  2 - The replay posting is a nice little trick, but it doesn't hid the fact that there is nothing 
 new with this game.
  
  All in all, this game does what it is supposed to do, and does it really well. Let's hope the next 
 installment won't take 4 years to come out and will have a few innovations... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdestek
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  I love this game. but i don't play just yet. : ( ( , i was played demo. &amp;#351; imdi T&uuml; rk&ccedil; e: 
 Oyun &ccedil; ok g&uuml; zel fakat indiremedik, linkler u&ccedil; mu&amp;#351;, faka bast&amp;#305; k, 
 77. partdan sonraki linkleri yeniden istiyoruz, upload yapan arkada&amp;#351; lara duyrulur. hadi 
 &ccedil; ocuklar hemen bekliyoruz, yenileyin &amp;#351; u linkleri, oyunu biran &ouml; nce  
 k&amp;#305; n&amp;#305; yorum, &amp;#351; ifreler bedava olsun istiyoruz, herkes  
 slm s&ouml; yledi. onlarda demosunu oynad&amp;#305; lar, &ccedil; ok be&amp;#287; endiler, demosundan 
 b&amp;#305; kt&amp;#305; k art&amp;#305; k oynaya oynaya, full s&uuml; r&uuml; m&uuml; n&uuml; oynamak 
 istiyoruz. l&uuml; tfen, rica ediyoruz, art&amp;#305; k, oyunun birde full s&uuml; r&uuml; m&uuml; 
 neden 7.76 gb. anlamak m&uuml; mk&uuml; n de&amp;#287; il, hay&amp;#305; r o bi&amp;#351; ey de&amp;#287; il 
 indirmeside zor oluyor caniim, k&amp;#305; sa olsayd&amp;#305; &amp;#351; imdi &ccedil; oktan indirmi&amp;#351; 
 oynuyorduk bile. t&uuml;&uuml;&uuml; h bug&uuml; ndemi oynayam&amp;#305; ycaz oyunu, halbuki ne hayaller 
 kurmu&amp;#351; tuk, bug&uuml; n oynayaca&amp;#287;&amp;#305; z diye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  I did not buy this game myself, i only played it for few hours at friend's home. All i can say 
 is, this is a fine game, but certainlly not one of the best, and I agree with many that this game 
 is overrated. I understand that now days many people like fast, arcade RTS games, but there is 
 no reason to simply throw in unreasonable marks like 9.8, 9.6.... to, seemingly, just drag up the 
 score due to personal taste. GS's review is a little out place this time. (of course, personal opinion) 
 The graphic of the game is ok, but it doesn't deserve a 9, a score which means almost perfect. 
 I think the post-filtering is a little over-done in teh game. The wierd part is the gameplay also 
 got a 9. We really should re-consider our standard of a 9 . How many good rts games are reciving 
 even a 8 ? If you look closely, you will notice many of the programings (units movement....) , are 
 jsut copy-and past from other EA games like BFME.... The only thing that changed is how the units 
 look. I have this impression that the dev really did not spend that much time and effort on this 
 one. it is just one of the tons of rts games they released during the recent years. good cutscens 
 and famous actors should not be considered when evaluating a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egyetem
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  EA took the engine of LORD: BFME 2, redesigned the graphic and sold it as a sequel to another series.
 
  The sound and graphics are without a doubt beautiful, with many options to fit to your hardware, 
 the gameplay is smooth and easy to learn, but we all have seen it earlier. From the main menu view, 
 through building replacement, the rising and the destruction of them, the special weapons/powers/reinforcements, 
 the garrisoning of empty structures, the explosions and units flying around, every moment reminds 
 me to a previous EA creation: Battle for Middle Earth, especially the 2nd one. It's a good choice, 
 because it was a really good game, but it's a cheap one to. I wanted to see a real unique game 
 after that much advertisement.
  If you are really in C&amp; C you'll probably like it, but it's nothing more than BFME 3, playing 
 5000 years after the 2nd one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junwy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  Great game , I came from coh and although coh is one of the best rts games at the moment I think 
 I like cnc3 more. The loading times on multiplayer are very fast and thats a plus for me. Its real 
 easy to get in a game. Gameplay has got to be a 10 along with the graphics. Theres just a ton of 
 stuff goin on .. The game runs great on low system specs too!! Im playing it on my laptop at almost 
 max settings!! lots of action. There really isnt anything to complain about at the moment. CnC3 
 is not a game that will die anytime soon. I would recommend this game to anyone. Its well worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angkawsw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  I've started as Nod when I just grabbed this game.. and wow lots of new arsenals availabe! the 
 missions are fun to play and the story is evermore engaging... with a nice little twist in the 
 end of each faction.
  
  The new C&amp; C is faster, grittier and probably the best game of the series so far.
  
  Players 
 can definitely see that the developers have spent plenty of time on the computer's AI just on the 
 campaign alone.. they are smarter and will attacked the weak points of the players especially for 
 first-time C&amp; C players.
  
  C&amp; C3 is definitely must have for RTS lovers!!! KANE IS BACK.. with a vengeance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yia
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Alright, this game has a long history associated with it. But i realised that besides Generals, 
 all the other titles associated with this franchise has not been well received in the lanshops 
 maybe besides red alert series. this game is great basically because the game works on almost any 
 system around, unlike some of the newest RTS games where a really good system is required to play. 
 so i suppose it is possible for most people to be able to handle this game on their comps. some 
 even mention that a comp able to play battlefield 1942 can be used. not sure about that but yea! 
 its great..
  
  back to the game itself. graphics wise, it is not as fantastic as other rts games are, but at least 
 it does not make me feel giddy like some rts games make you feel. movements are smooth (depending 
 on ur settings) . i really like the way they model the units and characters to make it vibrant and 
 colourful. i especially like the effects of the Ion-cannon. it was Explosive to the max! the game 
 had no hitches thus far and has been running smoothly on my comp which is not an extremely powerful 
 one.
  
  one interesting feature of C&amp; C3 is its unique way of presenting the games by adding videos 
 which gives it that special touch to the game. having the game in dvd really increases the clarity 
 of the videos as compared to the cd-roms counterparts (eg. when it was the golden days of C&amp; C 
 and red alert) .
  
  overall the game speaks louder than the words of any reviewer and if you are a hardcore c&amp; c 
 fan, its a must to get it. even if you are not, do get it. its worth you $$! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineterrorism
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning of the series, dating back over a decade ago, came an RTS that would soon bring 
 me into the grasp of PC gaming. Command and Conquer was its name. The countless hours, the addiction 
 and the real time strategy the game offered, can never be explained in so few words.
  
  From then to recently, the series was on a strict hold. Only releasing RTS titles with the the 
 Command and Conquer brand, but lacking the meaning we once remembered as Command and Conquer. But 
 no all was lost. Now the series continues from Tiberium Sun, with its sequal Tiberium Wars. Kane 
 is back and he is alive more than he ever was. The endless war between GDI and Nod continues to 
 unfold, and we as CnC fans, are now in for another treat. A treat that once fed our RTS addiction, 
 when CnC was the cornerstone of the RTS genre.
  
  Tiberium Wars lives up to its successors and will hopefully continue the legacy that was graciously 
 brought to us by the legendary Westwood team. The brilliant minds who gave birth to one of the 
 best RTS franchises of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBLMember
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Love the whole structure of the game, seems VERY polished to me, have running this game on a 27 
 Widescreen monitor looks FRIGGIN SWEET. Great addition to the line of C&amp; C. Highly recommend 
 this game to even the light RTS players out there. THe graphics can look lower end one minute and 
 then the next you see heat displacement from burning vehicles or flame-throwers. Laser beams and 
 light glaring off armour. Reminds me so much of the first C&amp; C with the different mission types. 
 One mission you have a whole army to control and the next your going in on a recon mission with 
 a commando. You have got to love the Snipers, you can use them to call in air strikes or paint 
 targets, but you have to get them in visual contact with the target, so you have to sneak into 
 the enemy territory first, LOVE IT.
  I bought the KAIN Edition and I don't regret the buy AT ALL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_hosi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  i have been a big fan of the C&amp; C series from the first time i played it on psx. i have played 
 and beaten all of the games they have come out with, and this is yet another great game.
  
  The war Between GDI and NOD is back and its about time, red alert, renegade, and generals has been 
 fun and all, but NOD is what started the series. the controls are as easy to learn as the old games 
 and the graphics are great for an RTS. The series has always had a decent storyline, it isn't very 
 in-depth but it does provide a fun campaign mode.
  
  As in most game series, after a game or 2 there comes a need for expanded play options, so enters 
 the alien race known as the scrin, their highly advanced technology provide a challenge that the 
 series has been lacking, 2 enemies that have different ways to attack and destroy you. The tech 
 tree for the scrin is fun and there are many new units to throw into the heart of battle. C&amp; C 
 has been one of the best RTS series around and i hope it continues to provide such entertainment 
 in the years to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General_Jeff
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  The game is wonderful. It simply is one of the best of Command and Conquer series. With a brand 
 new and creative story line. In my opinion, the game is very well designed and the balance of power 
 is spread equally. Not one race dominates the rest. Some units are actually quite surprising for 
 a RTS game. As there are super-range artillery in the GDI forces. Their firepower could cover across 
 nearly the whole battle field. This makes the effect really impressive and very few RTS design 
 rarely create such units in order to keep the forces in balance. But this game just set it up just 
 in the right place.
  
  The graphic is a major imporvement compare to what I played in Command and Conquer: Generals. There 
 was a major jump forward and, sure as sure, it is absolutely lovely.
  
  However, the design of the races are still quite predictable two human races having a civil war 
 and an alien race fighting each side. It is in fact quite typical. But overall, the races are having 
 their own characteristic and this is one of the attractive point of the game and the story.
  
  Maybe it is just me. But I thought that on Command and Conquer, the way of obtaining resource 
 is quite tiring. And I thought that sometimes design a game with simple resources and stationary 
 resources. Saving the trouble of fiding raw materials. The players would enjoy more on the military 
 side of the game. Really focus on how to use their troops wisely. If not, it could still produce 
 a epic battlefield which it would be very impressive but usually cannot be found in the Command 
 and Conquer series. For example, the Relic designed Dawn of War has the way of collecting resources 
 that i just suggested. By holding on key strategic points, the players could get unlimited resources 
 if they deploy their troops wisely and build a strong base. This is what I think RTS games are 
 about, holding a strong and benefitial position to yourself and either your oppnent attack you 
 first or you would launch a suprise attack to crush the enemy. I found it more attactive than sending 
 and wasting time to sniff out where the resources is. And sometimes the map actually provides very 
 few resources to let the players to produce enough arm forces to crush the enemy. So I would find 
 a Strategic Point resource getting policy would be more convenient and fun to the players.
  
  But overall, the new Command and Conquer is a brilliant sucess and I love it too. I would be 
 looking forward to the design of the next of Command and Conquer seires. This series is simply 
 lovely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhezekim
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  I couldn't wait for this game to come out. I opened it and installed it as soon as it arrived from 
 the shipper. A nice surprise was the bonus game that come with it, an original gold copy of Command 
 and Conquer, the game that started it all. CC3 is awesome, graphics, sound, gameplay, you name 
 this game has it. I like the fact that it has 35 single player campaigns, that should keep me busy 
 for days. I hope that done the line EA will come out with an expansion to this classic game, this 
 is one RTS that is worth it's weight in Tiberium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom3165
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised by this new addition to the CnC mythos. I found the graphics refreshing 
 and crisp. The game execution is impeccable to the point of having a unique feel when you play. 
 The full motion video's are well directed and not too over the top. The storyline is engaging and 
 fun to watch unfold. The skirmish and multiplayer components are well though out and tight. All 
 in all I really have enjoyed the game so far. I have only one real complaint and it could be specific 
 to me but the game does crash from time to time. These crashes are directx or game. dat errors and 
 when they occur the game crashes to the desktop. I wanted to give a 9.5 or higher but this negatively 
 impacted my experience and I expected more. I cannot blame EA completely for this as it seems that 
 many games of late have really buggy code; S. T. A. L. K. E. R and Ubi Soft's Rainbow Six Vegas to name 
 a few. It seems the better looking and more interactive the games become the more prone to errors 
 because of the rush to get them to the public and the lack of testing. I have a high end athlon 
 64 with a Geforce 7900 and should have no issues. Anyways, aside from the random crashes this is 
 an excellent game and one I highly recommend. I am confident there will be patches that address 
 this otherwise superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  I really really get bored quickly with RTS games. However, this game rocks. I loved Company of 
 Heroe's and the controls etc seem to be very similar. I'm not expert on RTS so I can't say much 
 about differences between this and the old version but its lots of fun, runs amazing on my mid 
 spec machine (Dell 9300 Laptop 2 gigs ram 6800 Card, 1.8ghz Dothan) @ High all the way, and moves 
 fast and smooth.
  
  When an RTS holds my attention I have to rate it really high.
  
  Lots of perty colors which look great on my HDTV.
  
  Totally recommended to RTS begginers like 
 me. As for Veterans well it looks like your ratings agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnZo_15
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot more than just a game. it combines elements from the OLD C&amp; C Tiberian Sun 
 game, with something new, perfectly fitting this release. Starting from the outstanding graphics, 
 up to the thriving gameplay, in my opinion this game is a 'must have' :) . The sound is superb, 
 starting from the actors voice, up to the background music, it makes a pleasant and enjoyable game 
 to play. The AI programming is very good, thus giving the game a very good reputation as one of 
 the best RTS's of 2007. I don't know about you guys but I like it, and thats why my score is 9.6! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  I know you love my reviews, you have agreed with me on STALKER and many other reviews i wrote cause 
 you know i wont praise a crappy game and much less to Strategy games which i hate.
  i have played many strategy games and the only one i loved if CIVILIZATION IV, never liked any 
 of the C&amp; C series but....... now that changed.
  
  GRAPHICS - Well the graphics are in 1 word AMAZING, forget any of the earlier C&amp; C, this one 
 got all the options your card can master.....
  starting from Antialiasing, Utlrashadow, Pixel Shader and it shows once you load a game, not only 
 it looks fabulous but also on a decent PC runs super-smooth.
  
  my pc is Core2Duo E6600 + nvidia 8800gtx + 2GB ram and im playing 1280x1024 with every options 
 maxxed without a single slowdown, lag or anything else.
  
  The animations are superb and characters move smoothly and realistically, flashes of light and 
 textures make the game look great and nice to take screenshots to share with friends who didnt 
 purchase it yet :-D
  
  SOUND - usually i hate the music in games but this one is Good and not annoying, the audio generally 
 is very good and voiceovers are really well done.
  explosions and gunshots are great on a 5.1 speakers set.
  
  GAME - this is where i wont spend 
 much words cause it is excellent, there's nothing else to say and even newcomers will jump in and 
 enjoy, the interface is very well done and everything is nice and clear.
  this is gaming heaven.
  
  MULTIPLAYER - didn't try it sorry, but a friend said it is a blast 
 :)
  
  CONCLUSION - Even if you hate strategy games like me, you will find yourself engaged in what is 
 arguably one of the best games this year, i still hate strategy games..... but i adore C&amp; C3 
 !!
  and if that's not enough to convince you, nothing will.
  
  MUST BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  This game has made me so happy. Lately I was dissapointed with SupCom because it essentially was 
 like playing chess (you zoom out - remember) , only that chess is more fun and faster.
  
  I became dissapointed with STALKER because it's a major system hog and still doesn't look that 
 good. Plus it's basically linear and is smack full of bugs.
  
  So - when there comes a game that lives up to the hype. Well - I can't salute it enough. C&amp; C 
 3 is old school to the core - but better. And I love it. It's better looking than ever, it's fast 
 paced like never before and it's more polished than ever before. Commands are executed in an instant 
 and the interface is one of the best ever - in my mind the game is pretty much flawless.
  
  From the moment you start up this game you are absorbed into a fast paced alternative, and super 
 slick, universe. And that's exactly what I'm looking for in a video game.
  
  I believe that this is the best RTS since Starcraft and everyone with the slightest hint of RTS 
 in their blood should own it. And if you haven't been into RTS before this is the game to try - 
 because the genre has never been more fun, easier to get to grips with or better looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamietje
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  so good game now visit my site: www. cncgamingsource. com
  
  I love the graphics very good shame the game doesnt support mx because I got gforce 4 nvidia amd 
 mx440 so it wont work with C&amp; C3 damit so I can only play on saturday and sunday at my dads 
 so thats not a real good thing.
  
  gameplay is fast and cool I enjoy it.
  sound it nice and fits the profile maybe they could add a 3rd hellmarch version.
  
  Valeu it 
 quit worth it only the online probs I heared about arent good karma for the game and I really hope 
 I dont ahve it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  3rd in series and still a great game. C&amp; C does not bring inovative elements to the game but 
 the graphics and game play are great. The movies are absolutelly great. The still have actors but 
 they also have great 3d graphics. The mission vary from destroy the enemy to escort (the usual 
 but are not boring) and some are even chalangeing (it's not an very easy game) . The bonus objective 
 kkep your attention on making the misson more interesting. The unist have great desing some bring 
 back memories of tiberium sun while others bring to mind c&amp; c generals . The campaing is not 
 tha long but is fun and with a great story. And you even get to chose betwen to endings :) (don't 
 wanna spoil ) . The sound is great from units speach to the voices of the actors. The women in movies 
 are kind of cute :) .
  This game could be described as immersive as i played it for 5 hours straight and i didn't even 
 notice it. Great game. It was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterchia41
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  I love to play RTS games. I still remembered playing Command and Conquer: Tiberium Dawn to the 
 recent Company of Heros. This genre has greatly developed and advanced but the questions lies, 
 is it going the right direction?
  
  Supreme Commander and Company of Heros has shown how deep the gameplay can be and that to a certain 
 extend, how 'serious' the story for RTS games can be. Purely strategy and purely profound.
  
  This game, Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium War is a refreshing and different approach to RTS. 
 A world of 'serious fun and excitment'. Do remember that the purpose of playing any sort of game 
 is for fun and not for just reflecting reality and getting all complex and serious.
  
  The game play is simple but yet engaging to any gamer. No complicated Tech-Trees or strategies 
 that would kill the joy of playing such a game. From the most casual to the competitive player, 
 it a good balance for all.
  
  Do not be mistaken, I love Supreme Commander and Company of Heros but this game has shown that 
 the genre can go in another direction and provide real fun and excitment. To close, have you not 
 realise that the Emmy Awards place shows into either drama or comedy ? So this genre has develop 
 another way to advance rather than the recent seriousness in other RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game brings back the fun addictive gameplay that I always loved sense Red Alert 1. And the 
 graphics invprovements and the new stuff is just completely awesome and nothing less.
  
  Gameplay, wow its excelent. grat re-play value. great story, great fun and so many possibilities 
 and strategies and collect tiberium destroy command and conquer!
  
  Graphics, wow!!!!! for command and conquer its a big difrence. By itself for someone who never 
 even played C&amp; C its plain amazinn and you have to pick up this game. You will be shocked by 
 the graphics.
  
  Sound, nice. Love the music the sound effects are great and its just great.
  
  Value, variety 
 of fun ways to play the game so many mission levels so many multiplayer maps great online fun amazing 
 battles not much lag no glitches and is just a great RTS at heart and deserves its reconition. 
 Best in series if I may say so but you can disagree if you want. But I thonk its the most amazing 
 C&amp; C and is a good start for non fans.
  
  Tilt
  
  The Good, amazing graphics, amazing story, amazing game by heart. RTS fans will fall for this game. 
 just plain fun. You can not pass this game down you just can't 
 
  
  The Bad, I encountered some lag when I built a bunch of men and attacked at the same time but every 
 game has lag. Oh and when it does a tutoriial thing to show you what to attack it glitches a little 
 but then it goes back to normal in a heart beat litterely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gj2chen
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Graphic: Zoom in/out rotation left/right all look good in Mechanic/structure detail. Air forces 
 blow out hot air effect and dust are impressive. Anti air guns look funny like water when firing 
 though. With moderate CPU/GPU, like E6600/ati 1950pro, and 1680x1050 with max setting, it maintains 
 almost no noticeable frame rates below my eyes can sense in any cases so far. So I wonder why some 
 other games require so much more cpu/gpu powers with or w/o better graphics. Smaller characters, 
 like infantry, look less detailed though when zoomed in but they are doing something, like push 
 up, when idle. The walkers of GDI, I like most when idle. They act like a strained animal, wiggling 
 its feet, standing up, and sitting down but stay where I told them to. It is an an art and humor. 
 Sound: The musics are quiet inspiring according to battle situation. Explosion, reporting, echo, 
 environmental are realistic and immersing. Different things respond in their own way and changed 
 sometime. Snipers of GDI says funny when injured. Game play: The tech trees are not very deep but 
 take some time and resource to reach all of them and no ones become useless at the end. Different 
 unit has different weakness and strength. Especially, difficulty &gt;= hard, the AI alters strategy 
 to defeat you based upon your soft spots. However, the AI is becoming less intelligent after 15mins 
 game play if you can hold on and built up your base. And I think difficulty=brutal is impossible 
 to win against AI. The game AI plays very fast once it finds your soft spot, then sends overwhelming 
 counter-forces to attack to let you feel desperate. If that happened, I restarted the game usually 
 before the ending. Superpower, it is not that powerful as it seems. It can't turn the battle tide 
 the other way as long as you have spread and properly populated bases. It can't destroy every things 
 in its range. Actually commando is far more efficient in that but easily get killed. Different 
 units need backup and cover to do its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Well its out and its absolutely amazing. This is the best RTS I have ever played. I didn't think 
 this game was going to be visibly as good as Company Of Heroes but they did it. Its definatly the 
 best C&amp; C game I dont think anyone could argue that. C&amp; C has gone back to their roots of 
 Red Alert 2. Immediately when you start playing it feels like RA2, which is great since lots of 
 C&amp; C fans say RA2 was the best, well now #3 is the best. Graphics are incredible, looks amazing. 
 Sound is great, as previous games they hired actors for the cut scenes, theres 1 actor thats 
 been in many movies cant find his name though, he was the cop in thinner the dude that turns reptilian, 
 hes been in the outer limits im pretty sure hes been in previous C&amp; C games, as well as Joe 
 Kucan who plays Kane, also Josh Holloway (sawyer from lost) is in it but havent seen him yet. 
 The live action cut scenes are excellent, some really trippy like a news report of Armageddon in 
 the background, great visuals. Game play is excellent, feels exactly like RA2 with next gen graphics. 
 If you previously played RA2 the learning curve will be minimal if not you get used to it fairly 
 quickly. Storyline is excellent you travel all over the world, first few maps are in the USA, places 
 like the pentagon, Langley air field and the white house, and then over to Africa in Act 2. Theres 
 always action when playing, theres usually a bunch of side missions to accomplish, Theres 2 campaigns 
 the good guys the GDI and the followers of Kane the Nod. Im working on the GDI campaign and on 
 act 2. I love this game, and I hope the come out with a bunch of expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer [Tiberian Dawn] was the very first game I ever purchased, and I played it 
 so much I could dominate any living being in a very short amount of time. I beat both campaigns 
 multiple times, and now, I own every Command &amp; Conquer game excepting five (Red Alert 2 (lost 
 the Soviet disc, so I count it as not owning) , Yuri's Revenge, Sole Survivor, Renegade, and Zero 
 Hour; six if you include Retaliation for the Playstation; but no one does) .
  
  Coming to Tiberium Wars, the third in the chain of Tiberium-based games. From my immediate impression 
 and the subsequent several hours of enthralled gaming, I concluded this game takes all the improvements 
 made in both Red Alert 2 and Generals and combines it with the first two games in the series and 
 produces an amazing product -and I haven't even tried online yet. The city missions are fantastic; 
 they originated in RA2 but Generals accomplished them as well to good effect. The graphics, which 
 use a magnificently-upgraded Generals engine, are spectacular, and what they lack in raw amazement 
 they make up for in stupendous detail and dazzling special effects, regardless of your crappy computer.
 
  
  the full-motion video sequences which every die hard C$C fan looks forward to, are just as impressive 
 as before, although so far into my playing, lack the grandeur of RA2's and Tiberian Sun's. Regardless, 
 they are effective and a real joy to watch.
  
  The gameplay is instantly familiar to anyone who has encountered a previous C&amp; C game; build 
 base, repel meager attacks, build forces, annihilate enemies. Is this bad? Hell no; it wouldn't 
 be a Command &amp; Conquer game if it strayed from this formula; if we wanted something new or 
 improved, we would've bought Supreme Commander or Medieval 2.
  
  I can't recommend Tiberian Wars enough to veteran Command &amp; Conquer players, and really anyone 
 who wants to play a spectacular game. While it does lack the Westwood nostalgia which was so inherently 
 great on the games previous to Generals, it is obvious EA took their time and perfected every last 
 detail. And as I said, I haven't even logged online to experience the much-touted BattleCast or 
 popped in my special Kane Edition DVD. Imagine what my score would've been then...
  
  Addendum; Juggernaut's reference to X-Men: I'm the Juggernaut, Bi**h is glorious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Dukes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, gamespot gives this a 9.0, i think they were payed off or something because all they ever 
 ask for is something new this was THE FARTHEST THING FROM THAT POSSIBLE!!!! if you've played ANY 
 of the other C&amp; C's save you money, there are soooooo many better RTS's out there. COH, SupCom, 
 act of war, both of the total wars, the graphics look good and all, but honestly there not even 
 on the same level as (games mentioned earlier) . there is absolutlely nothing to this game. you'll 
 be lucky to make it threw an entire campaign from being to bored... almost no technique required, 
 just build a lot of units fast, and send them up gut. if this is your cup of tea have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rm44152
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Command and Conquer sense it first hit the shelfs back in the 90's and I was 
 blown ways they way C&amp; C set the pace for most of all RTS games are made and played. Most all 
 RTS games have the same basic play. But others set the bar. C&amp; C may be different from more 
 complex RTS games but C&amp; C has something that I think everyone will enjoy. From playing the 
 game from the beginning from its humble beginnings to its Amazing look and feel now. It can truly 
 to said thats its an epic game. One that has stood the test of time and one that still is a top 
 seller world wide in the more then 10 years its been around is worth give the game a try even if 
 u are new to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prophet001
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I think a 9 is way overrating this game. It plays like a kiddie RTS to me. As far as 
 technology and gaming has come and this is all there is for an RTS? Seems shallow and without much 
 replayability. Perhaps I am overshooting what we should expect from game makers but this game just 
 doesn't do it. I've never been a big fan of do it again with better graphics and that is how this 
 game comes across in my opinion. As far as the frills of the game go, movies are nice I guess but 
 you won't be playing this game for the movies in a month. If that long.
  Good graphics are nice too in a game but they don't tilt the bar that far to the right. I think 
 that immersion should come from the game experience, not just the graphics.
  It just seems too much like something I've played before and at length to be rated a 9.0. The bar 
 should move a little at least, not stay where it was and get prettier. Just my .02 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReactiveDrunk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I suppose I'm just too big a fan of SupCom, but CnC3 just doesn't do it for me. It's just not immersive 
 enough or big enough and those full-motion videos they keep harping on have always been so ridiculously 
 cheesy.
  
  If I wanted to watch bad acting, I wouldn't be playing a video game.
  
  If you're a really casual gamer looking for an RTS, then go for CnC. But if you want something 
 that's gonna challenge you and keep you interested for a long time, I don't see CnC doing it for 
 you.
  
  It's pretty, I'll give it that. That's about all I can give it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micknator
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  i just got C&amp; C3 and i cant stop playing it! its so addicting that you forget about time. i 
 say EA games has done a great job making another C&amp; C game. this could be one of the best of 
 the entire serie! i played C&amp; C since i was only 6 years old (that was in 1996) when my father 
 got the first C&amp; C in hos hands. i kept getting better and better and now i cant stop playing 
 C&amp; C3. the only thing i hated was, the waiting for a new and original C&amp; C game. the last 
 one (C&amp; C generals was good to, but it just hadnt the feel of C&amp; C) was in 2003, thats 4 
 years ago. in that 4 years i played all the C&amp; Cs again and i couldnt wait to get my hands on 
 this one when i heard from it. and i have andim very satisfied with it. the game contains state-of-the-art 
 graphics which i havent seen before in any C&amp; C games! the difficulty is just right so it gives 
 some challenges to the fans and veterans, but it gives an easy learning way for newbies to RTS. 
 the storyline is one hell of a story (that a game can have such a story!) . the gameplay is awesome 
 howerver they could improver the camera. the sound is good and the soundtrack rocks! the price 
 it costs (in NL for PC: 50 standard, 55 collectors edition (i have) and the XBOX360: 60-65) .
 
  
  i can recommend this game to everyone who has played on or more C&amp; Cs in the past. this is a 
 must-have for RTS and/or C&amp; C fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has made me so happy. Lately I was dissapointed with SupCom because it essentially was 
 like playing chess (you zoom out - remember) , only that chess is more fun and faster.
  
  I became dissapointed with STALKER because it's a major system hog and still doesn't look that 
 good. Plus it's basically linear and is smack full of bugs.
  
  So - when there comes a game that lives up to the hype. Well - I can't salute it enough. C&amp; C 
 3 is old school to the core - but better. And I love it. It's better looking than ever, it's fast 
 paced like never before and it's more polished than ever before. Commands are executed in an instant 
 and the interface is one of the best ever - in my mind the game is pretty much flawless.
  
  From the moment you start up this game you are absorbed into a fast paced alternative, and super 
 slick, universe. And that's exactly what I'm looking for in a video game.
  
  I believe that this is the best RTS since Starcraft and everyone with the slightest hint of RTS 
 in their blood should own it. And if you haven't been into RTS before this is the game to try - 
 because the genre has never been more fun, easier to get to grips with or better looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusmeig
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  It seems I may have missed the point with this game? Command &amp; Conquer is at the foundation 
 of RTS gaming. However this game is only a very average RTS game.
  
  Firstly the camera control is not great. The level and speed of zoom pales in comparision to Dawn 
 of War and the excellent Comapny of Heros.
  
  The placement of buildings is a real nightmare as you are unable to plan your base the way you 
 would like it..... as you are not allowed place some buildings on perfectly clear pieces of land. 
 The units are all the same, with a few new untis added for good measure.
  
  The videos are ok.... but lay off on the small/medium size actors! Kane is great.... as usual. The 
 graphics are only o. k (The roads are ultra reflective!!!????!!!)
  
  Im a very loyal C+C fan.... but lay off on the next generation comments! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WBao
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Ok, I had an inclination that the C&amp; C 3 local launch would be pretty decent in size, if judging 
 by the rate of pre-order cards being snapped up. Obviously, the C&amp; C franchise is a big deal 
 for EA, what with the latest installment gaining a lot of interest as soon as the playable demo 
 was released. But it has to be said that the pre-order pack is definately one of the better deals 
 that's being offered to local consumers where for only $79.90, you get the Kane Edition of C&amp; C 
 3 chock full of bonus content, a NOD or GDI faction t-shirt, dogtag, mousepad combo plus an oversized 
 Razer Mantis mousepad in one frosted Tiberium bag. Now that's what I call incentive.
  
  But throwing a launch event on a Monday, from 2pm onwards? Surely the gaming masses would take 
 it easy and stride in only when it's convenient right? Well, evidently the queue snaking around 
 Lido Cineplex meant that either a) it's been declared a public holiday and I'm the last to know 
 of it, b) Grace Park is in town to promote the game, or c) there's just a lot of local C&amp; C 
 fans out there. Though I'd have preferred a national holiday in Grace Park's name, seeing such 
 strong support from the local gaming community did raise my hopes on Singapore being a veritable 
 gaming hotspot, and makes a solid point that PC gaming is far from dead, but rather, is capable 
 of generating numbers that dwarfs any console game launch yet. Sony would've killed for these numbers 
 with their PS3 local launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yacbos
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  woow this game passed the word amazing
  i have been waitin for it for a long time i preordered it and seriously its one of the few games 
 that i dont regret payin every penny in it even thou EA games are kinda expensive
  old skool RTS are rare this days and cnc tw bring back the old memories with a new fresh look with 
 awesome gfx and superb story line with its usual cinematics i really missed that kinda games lately 
 since nobody did it like cnc series
  the in game gfx are superb the lightning effects the weapons effects you can even see building 
 craking after you fire them the haze effect resulting from heat or the tiberium factory is amazing 
 and also the game runs very smooth at my current pc no laging and no long time in loading while 
 my pc isnt that up to date its an old dula core D 945 @3.8 with 2x1gb ddr2 ram with an ATI x1900xt 
 and and xfi sound card but still i got the game running on v. high details on 1400x990 on my 19 
 wide screen display and no lagging at all am shocked but am glad for that
  the sounds in game are good you can feel the surround (not perfectly) but in an RTS game that would 
 be one of the few that i really enjoyed (off course nothing to compare to medival 2 total war ) 
 still the center speaker plays a very active role in this game you feel yourself in the battle 
 its all worked up i just love it.
  for the A. I. its kinda ez i played on all the difficulties the brutal is really brutal it doesnt 
 give you a chance to breath but the other difficulties i got no problem in playin against 4 of 
 them allied the story line goes back with kane again ( i missed the bold guy lol) while you will 
 enjoy every mission in the campaign and the break in cinematics between missions are just right 
 to make you feel the story and goes with the game.
  well if you are newbie or pro if you play RTS this game is a must its superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shagun_Shah
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  All those years of waiting and saving have finally payed off... BIG TIME~ xD.. this game is awesome...... all 
 you CnC veterans out there are in for a treat: D&gt;.. all the rest of you are gonna have a blast 
 and will want to get hold of every CnC every made: D: D
  The menu's are somewhat similar to those of Battle for Middle of Earth but its maintains its uniqueness. 
 The load times are almost non existent. and there is an incredibly small lack of glitches. The 
 video quality is also great and the seamlessness from the in game videos to the actual gameplay 
 is great. This game is definitely gonna replace Warcraft as one of the most moded and played games 
 around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zennious
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty: Scalable which makes it great
  Learning Curve: 0 to 15 Minutes (Depends on your level of RTS skill and familiarity with C &amp; 
 C)
  Time Spent: 10 Hours or Less
  
  :|First the Basics|:
  
  Gameplay: It's wonderful, all of the amazing RTS action that you have been waiting for.... Stealth 
 missions... monstrous base building... non-stop action. Don't worry that one side is better than 
 the other because you can tell a lot of time and I mean A LOT of time was put into balancing this 
 game out.
  
  Graphics: No matter what your system is this game still looks good from the jet trail of your Vertigo 
 bombers to the tracer rounds of your infantry this game just plain looks gorgeous.
  
  Sound: The sounds are good, what you would expect for an RTS, the screams and Kill them all screams 
 your squads make as you send them into battle can get repetitive, however the voice acting is wonderful.
 
  
  Value: More bang for your buck, a undeniable must have.
  
  Tilt: Didn't I say enough already?
  
  :Just a few words:
  
  This is an in your face action 
 game that will convert you to one side or the other. I started playing NOD right away and I must 
 admit, if the NOD was recruiting today I'd sign up in a heart beat. The acting and story line is 
 gripping and the campaigns are fun. It's constantly changing objectives so no two levels are apart. 
 If your given the choice of going after and Air Base or the White house the next level is affected 
 by what you choose. Say you take out the Air Base, then when you go to the White house level, they 
 lose their air support. You actually feel like you accomplish a mission when moving on the the 
 next.
  
  If you actually read all the way here then there is something wrong with you. You should have been 
 picking up the game after your read about the Gameplay. Tisk tisk, please do yourself a favor and 
 pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ActionRPG_Boy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I've only played a few levels of the Brotherhood of Nod campaign and already I'm blown away by 
 the game! Here are the things that I thought about the C&amp; C 3:
  
  1) Spectacular Graphics
  - very polished graphics that can match any other RTS games
  - amazingly, 
 very minimal or no slowdown even when the settings are turned up with many units on-screen
  - high level of details; smoke, fire &amp; explosions look so good - great presentation all the 
 way from the main menu, settings menu and mission objective briefings
  - looks good even on lower-end machines
  
  2) Gameplay
  - nothing new but stays true to the 
 original C&amp; C formula
  - intuitive and cool game interface
  - fast-paced
  
  3) Sound
  - sound effects are real and the music really puts you in the mood.
  
  4) Others
 
  - brief loading time between missions or when loading saved games
  - high-quality in-game videos and cinematics
  - Kane's Edition packaging is totally cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riamo_10
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  GOOD
  It is evident that this is probably the best RTS's out there. The command and Conquer serious was 
 successful from the first game (Red alert Gamespot 9.7) They never looked back implementing newer 
 technologies into their games and creating new innovative ideas to keep gamers interested!! The 
 combination of new features like the ability to station troops inside building is amazing. Along 
 with the real looking characters, vehicles, and amazing graphics this game has a captivating campaign 
 mode. BAD The only downfall is a minor one that is you can only zoom out a limited amount. As well 
 its sometimes gets annoying when your troops are behind a building and you cant see them!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westchewbacca
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: the graphics in this game are absolutly amazing for an RTS game. BUT I MUST STRESS THAT 
 YOU NEED A GOOD COMPUTER TO HANDLE THESE GRAPHICS! There is a lot of detail on everything and nothing 
 is not detailed.
  
  Sound: the sound in a CNC games has been classic. you gotta love those death sounds for GDI infantry!
 
  
  Gameplay: Simple Rts gaming, but its hard to describe why its better than the rest.
  
  I think if you like RTS games you should definitly buy this, it is the only game on the market 
 to use real acting for the cutscenes
  
  ENDING VERDICT: FREAKIN AWESOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackleech
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10 Same great C&amp; C gameplay, with AI-play-style options too! The difference in factions 
 is also more noticeable, so the faction (s) you choose has a bigger influence on your playing style.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Although it is based on a dated graphics engine, C&amp; C3 still looks really impressive! A really 
 huge graphical jump from Generals to this game.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The audio and music are similar to the previous games in the series.
  
  Value: 10/10
  There're 
 a lot of missions and skirmish maps. The multiplayer portion is also highly addictive, and the 
 much-needed spectator mode is finally here.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Although C&amp; C3 is great in its own right, it simply doesn't provide anything that other games 
 have. (ie There is nothing revolutionary about it)
  
  Good:
  The game is on par to the previous titles in the series, with some welcome additions.
  
  Bad:
 
  Nothing completely new or innovative, so it feels more of a sequel just for the sake of one.
 
  
  Who Should Play:
  Buy it if you like RTS, C&amp; C games. The 'Kane edition' is worth it in some countries (given 
 the amount of goodies) .
  
  Potential: +-0.2/10
  I believe there will be updates providing more maps and the like.
  
  Conclusion: C&amp; C3 is 
 one of those must-have games for the PC this year, especially if you are into the series or into 
 RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spazter1231
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  C &amp; C needs no introduction, the guys have always made awesome games with the right amount 
 of flash to keep us interested, and another thing, its the third game in the series of Kane's saga. 
 If anything else you might wanna check this game out just to complete the epic.
  
  So far as the graphics go they are pretty old school with some new age sparkle, so if you remember 
 that old pc you used to smash people online with on General's and BF 1942 you might wanna wipe 
 off the dust and get it working again cause its possible to run.
  
  Gamplay is pretty good, its good three sides and you can go salvage the enemies avatar should they 
 be stupid enough to let their awesome technology get into your hands... muahahaha... ahem... The 
 A. I is good with different difficulties to suit the players, but be warned if you play the highest 
 difficulty, you are gonna be biting your tongue in the next few minutes cause they got double the 
 resources than you start with. Another thing is that if you go hard and up, the AI tends to self 
 destruct or self their buildings when they see an engineer coming. In my opinion that needs to 
 be sorted out cause you could spam engineers in apc's and if one get through and get out the vehicle 
 the AI self destructs their buildings in the immediate vicinity
  
  Still this game is a must have for all C &amp; C fans, just don't forget to get the Kane edition, 
 got some extras that are quite cool, including a new look for your army online. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
