-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer Gold Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandconquergoldedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 16, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.6, 8.9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 439 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 28, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Is it really worth 30 or 40 bucks for the enhancements? 

 If you're a strategy fan and don't already own a copy of Command &amp; Conquer, you've got it easy 
 when it comes to deciding whether or not to buy the new Gold Edition of the award-winning classic. 
 Because you haven't already spent $40 or $50 on the original Command &amp; Conquer, you needn't 
 worry whether or you should shell out another $45 or $50 for Windows 95 support, SVGA graphics, 
 head-to-head Internet play, and a Command &amp; Conquer Theme Pack (animated icons, wallpaper, 
 and sound effects) ; after all, you're buying the game, not the extras. So you'll buy the Gold Edition 
 and love it - case closed.   

 But what if you're one of the hundreds of thousands of users who already own the DOS version of 
 Command &amp; Conquer? Is it really worth $30 or $40 bucks (owners of the DOS version get a $10 
 rebate) for the enhancements? For gamers uninterested in multiplayer action, the answer is probably 
 "no." The new graphics are a big improvement, but they're not enough to get you excited about fighting 
 the same single-player battles over again. But if you're into multiplayer C&amp; C, it's probably 
 worth the investment.  

 Take the SVGA graphics, for instance. It would be easy to dismiss them as eye candy, but the truth 
 is they allow you to see four times as much of the map as in the DOS version - giving you a decided 
 edge when competing against players using the old C&amp; C. And with the addition of Westwood Chat 
 support, C&amp; C fans have another venue for finding opponents and playing tournaments or ladder 
 games. Setting up a game over Westwood Chat is about as easy as Internet gaming gets, and there 
 are always plenty of opponents looking for action.   

 The one complaint many will have with the Gold Edition is price. Westwood has made a ton of money 
 (and justifiably so) off the sales of Command &amp; Conquer; to ask Command &amp; Conquer owners 
 to pay almost full price for an SVGA upgrade, Internet play, and Theme Pack is a bit much. New 
 users will find the investment well worth it, but the company could create a lot more goodwill 
 among their loyal fans by upping that rebate by five or ten bucks, or simply creating an upgrade. 
 Especially when you consider that serious C&amp; C players will consider those SVGA graphics essential 
 for staying competitive in their multiplayer matches.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  If you've been playing real time strategy games, you're probably aware of the Warcrafts and the 
 Starcrafts but another series of games made a large impact on the Genre.
  
  Command & Conquer Gold for the PC is an updated version of Command & Conquer for DOS. After Windows 
 95 came out, this version gave users better resolution and the ability to run on the Windows OS 
 smoothly.
  
  The setting takes place in 1995 earth, but the history of the planet is different. Only recently, 
 a strange landing from an alien source has caused areas of the worth to begin growing the earth 
 has labeled as Tiberium named after the area it was first discovered. Tiberium is very easy to 
 harvest and very profitable but the Tiberium leaches into the ground and changes other plants and 
 materials into Tiberium much like a virus.
  
  This wouldn't be much of a problem except that Tiberium is completely poisonous to people and animals. 
 Because of the ease of money of Tiberium and the health problems related to it, some areas of the 
 planet have become unstable. There are two main sides in this game vying for control. We have the 
 GDI or Global Defense Initiative and the Brotherhood of Nod. GDI is basically a United Nations 
 sort of force that is sent to protect the world over the overbearing and evil Nod. 
  
  Both sides have their unique units. Nod is much more speed and stealth based while GDI is more 
 strength and balance based. Each side has access to infantry and vehicles and aircraft. The basic 
 building block of each side is the Construction Yard. The construction yard allows players to build 
 all the other buildings in the game. There are many buildings to select from barracks to communication 
 centers, which grant you access to radar and many other buildings.
  
  To get the buildings going, you need power and players can build power plants. The left bar indicates 
 how much powder you need and how much is provided. Careful, because if the buildings are taking 
 up more energy than the power your buildings are producing, your base will go down and producing 
 units and other buildings will slow down to a snail's pace. Power plants can also lose power if 
 they are attacked so repairing them is essential to keeping the power running through all hours 
 of the night.
  
  One unique aspect of the game is that when you building multiple units producing buildings of the 
 same type, you are not given access to multiple building cues. Instead, the cues are combined into 
 one and the times are reduced. You can select which building the units come out of.
  
  Gameplay is fairly balanced in some respects over realism. For example, infantry units can easily 
 be run over but tank shells do minimal damage to them. In reality, a tank shell would destroy dozens 
 of infantry in one shot but in this game, 5 minigunners can easily take out a tank. Orca missiles 
 destroy buildings in mere seconds but compared to flamethrower infantry, it will much longer. This 
 type of balancing makes the game more playable but less realistic. 
  
  Building a balanced force is very important. Building all infantry units, or all hum vees, or all 
 tanks is very dangerous because it can be far too easy to counter. Infantry also have the added 
 disadvantage that tiberium causes them to lose life very easily and eventually burn up. Vehicles 
 also get slower in mobility speed as they decrease in life so keeping the vitality of your units 
 up is important.
  
  Building an army is important but without the buildings, this can not be possible. One aspect of 
 the game that is utterly frustrating is the fact that the entire game revolves around the construction 
 yard. If you should lose it to an enemy engineer or should you accidentally sell it, the game is 
 basically lost. There should be another way to get back into the game but there is nothing like 
 that available.
  
  Though this is annoying, the game does do well in it; s single player missions from rescuing scientists 
 or defending against the enemies until more reinforcements arrived. But the game really shines 
 in multiplayer. Back in the mid 90s, the basic way to play was over modem, direct connection or 
 going on the Internet and using Westwood Chat. It's too bad that Westwood Chat no longer exists, 
 so playing this game online is virtually impossible but there were a lot of fun games to be had 
 for sure. You can change the amount of players to play with or how many resources each player started 
 with. It was also possible to play with no bases and just have a lot of units beat each other up 
 until everything was destroyed. 
  
  Though multiplayer was largely successful, a simple part of it was missed entirely. I am talking 
 about the addition of computer opponents. You can not add computer opponents and this was a major 
 letdown.
  
  For what it is, Command & Conquer Gold was a fun game. It's probably not worth revisiting nowadays 
 but it's easy to see why the game was good back then. It's colourful, had a intriguing story and 
 had decent multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc_ajk29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have always loved the C&C series since I watched my cousin playing Tiberian Sun years ago 
 (which was also my first C&C game) . However, I regret to say that I have never played the game 
 that started it all until just recently, when I downloaded it from C&C's 12th Anniversary celebration. 
 Although Command and Conquer (Tiberian Dawn) has lost its glory to its successors long ago, it's 
 still a great game.
  
  Set in the First Tiberian War in 1995, the Global Defence Initiative (GDI) is at war with the Brotherhood 
 of Nod (Nod) over this green (or sometimes blue) substance called Tiberium. Tiberium is a very 
 valuable substance, but is also quite damaging to the environment, as well as human tissue. Basically, 
 GDI is trying to exterminate both Tiberium and Nod from the face of the Earth, and Nod is trying 
 to spread Tiberium, as well as destroy GDI.
  
  This game is pretty good. While not very graphically pleasing (but then again, the game was released 
 in 1995) , it is still quite enjoyable. THe musical soundtrack is great, and the gameplay is invigorating. 
 If you like C&C, you're going to like this game.
  
  My biggest problem with Tiberian Dawn is the lack of Skirmish mode. While Westwood's Skirmish AI 
 is quite buggy and erratic, this still leaves a gaping hole in the game, as well as significantly 
 reducing the game's replay value.
  In addition, everything is very tiny on the screen, even on the highest graphical settings.
  
 
  But despite these flaws, Tiberian Dawn is definitely worth playing. Enjoy the game that started 
 the Command and Conquer series.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 9
  
  Final score: 8.5\10 (great) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  One of the most legendary RTS series' of all time is Command & Conquer. Being one of the first 
 this is to be expected. The game that started it all is Command & Conquer (also known as Tiberian 
 Dawn) , and the original C&C is definately one of the best games in the series.
  
  In Command & Conquer you play as a nameless and faceless Commander. At the beginning you're allowed 
 to side with either the Global Defense Initiative (GDI for short) , or the Brotherhood of NOD (NOD 
 for short) . GDI is a United Nations funded military organization whose purpose is to defend the 
 world from numerous problems such as terrorist organizations. NOD is a group of men and women who 
 fanatically follow the enigmatic Kane. Command & Conquer's story is told through live action movies 
 that play between missions.
  
  Command & Conquer's gameplay is some of the most addictive RTS gameplay to date. Forget population 
 limits and gathering five different resources. In C&C you can have unlimited units, and the only 
 resource you need to harvest is the alien mineral known as "Tiberium" (which is also poisonous 
 to your infantry) . Your primary objective in C&C is to wipe out the enemy base (s) and units by 
 using the most powerful army you can muster.
  
  The graphics are nothing special by today's standards. For their time, however; they weren't bad. 
 C&C consists of small and cartoony sprites on top of decent looking terrain. C&C is weak graphically.
 
  
  The audio is excellent. There's gun sounds, explosions, the screams of falling soldiers; everything 
 you'd expect on a battlefield. One of the best parts of the audio is the music, however; composed 
 by Frank Klepecki the music in C&C is diverse, and very catchy.
  
  Command & Conquer Gold (which is more or less C&C with a higher resolution and better menu graphics) 
 is a fine game. Anyone who calls themselves a fan of the real time strategy genre owes it to themsleves 
 to try the original C&C at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdevries
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  What makes it great, it was one of the first strategy games ever, revolution.
  
  The music is good, the graphics were good for that time too.
  
  Though C&C gold has needs to 
 be patch if you install it via Windows XP and want to play it via Windows XP.
  
  C&C has a weak Ai what makes the game in this day and age a bit outdated, but overall everything 
 about the game makes it historical. If you play it, you feel the DOS version is your hands.
  
  A dissappointed thing about C&C is that some units can be build far too late in the single 
 player mode.
  
  Verdict: ... Unforgettible...
  
  Greetz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denis_vl
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 13, 2005 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Great game. But it does not work on WinXP. There is a patch for XP, but this one does not allow 
 play LAN game. I was very bad. I remember the time, when I with my friend play it all nights. We 
 had unique strategies for both NOD and GDI. 
  Some days ago I install this game again and decide to rewrite network library to play LAN game 
 on WinXP.
  Great. I did it! it works.
  Now LAN game uses TCP/IP instead of IPX. 
  New unstable version THIPX32. DLL you can download from http://dev. denis-vl. org. ru. Please send 
 me all information about bugs. I will try to make a stable version and add some features to play 
 tis game not only local network, but over Internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuruptt
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 30, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  i dont really know why i like to review old games , but it needs to , cuz this old games kept us 
 alive.. games like Comand & Conquer Gold Edition or the First Comand & Conquer were the greatest 
 games that i played.. cuz im a big Strategy Fan ! i like all strategy games.. but the first Strategy 
 Game that i played was .. Comand & Conquer.. and i really like it.. this game made me StrategyGamer.. 
 i dont know why.. but it just was placed in my heart.. it was a little game.. big meanings.. The 
 Story had The Balance.. 50 percent good , 50 percent bad.. so it was GOOD !!.. it was the first 
 time that i was playing a Strategy game.. and i just played like a dump creatin Airplanes attackin 
 the enemies without knowin the Damage that could that Way of Strategy Tactics do !.. The Gameplay 
 was GREAT GREAT GREAT.. i give a 10 point proudly.. Graphics.. ?? what could i say it was the year 
 1997 !! The graphics was that kind .. all the games had those kind of Bad Graphics.. even if for 
 that Time these kind of Graphics was Crazy !! amaizing.. you know =P !! but.. it wasnt the best.. 
 i can say it.. i dont remember those games that had better graphics bit if u played games in those 
 years u would know it , im sure.. Sound ?? i didnt have a proffesional Loudspeakers System in My 
 PC.. but with those that i had.. i would give 7 points.. cuz my mind its a little bit fresh'd !! 
 so i cant go back and hear that Sound .. cuz 1997-2005 has a BIG DIFFERENCE .. and u know that 
 for sure.. now.. the Value of the game.. it was like a worthly 9 Points.. it was like that.. i 
 can give 9 points to it clearly.. ant the Reviewer's Tilt.. what can i say.. i dont want to say 
 more words.. i just give some 8 Points..
  
  Classic Strategy Games.. was the Beggining of this New Era Strategy Games.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
