-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Commandos Strike Force
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/commandosstrikeforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Successfully applies some elements from the Commandos strategy games.
 Fairly open-ended levels let you tackle objectives out of order.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Disappointingly dumb enemy artificial intelligence.
 Missions often boil down to trial and error.
 Bland presentation.
 Multiplayer's nothing special and no one's playing it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 6.4, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 804 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Pyro Studios
Genre: Historic Tactical Shooter
Date:     Apr 4, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though based on a great series of innovative tactical action/puzzle games, Commandos Strike Force 
 comes off as just another middling World War II shooter, despite some good ideas. 

  The Commandos series dates back to 1998, and it was always a whole lot easier to like than it was 
 to describe. While the Commandos trilogy looked and played like real-time strategy games, they 
 combined tactical action and puzzlelike situations from an isometric perspective. The result was 
 some tense, open-ended, and highly challenging scenarios. Now Commandos is back in -- wait for it -- a 
 World War II-themed first-person shooter. This latest entry in the series attempts to integrate 
 some of the distinguishing features of the previous Commandos into a fast-paced WWII action game, 
 but it just doesn't execute on its ideas as well as a lot of other similar games do.  

          The strategy roots of Commandos Strike Force are well hidden beneath the guise of a generic 
 WWII shooter.     

  The transition from strategy game to shooter has also served to limit the scope of Commandos Strike 
 Force. In the previous games, you'd get to control a squad of specialized soldiers who could spread 
 out to assault and sabotage huge Nazi compounds. In Strike Force, there are just three characters 
 forming the squad (and they're nobody Commandos fans will recognize) : a Green Beret, a sniper, 
 and a spy. These guys combine some of the abilities of the other Commandos characters. For example, 
 the sniper is also an expert with deadly throwing knives and happens to be a great swimmer, so 
 he's like a cross between a sniper and a Marine. However, the game loses its predecessors' sense 
 of you having to coordinate a complex invasion. Here you just tend to control one or two of these 
 soldiers in a given mission, sneaking your way past Nazis or killing them in droves. The missions 
 themselves still sometimes have an open-ended feel, such that you may have multiple objectives 
 you can tackle in any order. But larger missions are divided up into multiple smaller zones, which 
 diminishes the sense that you're deep behind enemy lines. The presentation isn't particularly compelling 
 either, especially on the console versions, which look really bland. These missions feel like your 
 average first-person shooter levels.  

  Commandos Strike Force isn't particularly successful at telling you a compelling story, either, 
 though it seems to try. The three soldiers have their own distinct personalities, from the wisecracking 
 Lieutenant Hawkins (the sniper) to the slightly aloof Colonel Brown (the spy) . But their interactions 
 during between-mission cutscenes often seem disjointed and awkward (not to mention surprisingly 
 filled with profanity for a T-rated game) , and the missions themselves aren't always clearly related, 
 so you really aren't drawn in from any of these respects. At least the characters play fairly distinctly. 
 The Green Beret is a pretty generic gunner, the sniper's long-range rifle and throwing knives make 
 him quite different, and the spy is able to take uniforms from dead enemies and infiltrate their 
 ranks -- he just needs to watch out for the piercing gaze of high-ranking enemy officers.  

  This stuff may be conceptually interesting, but the quality of the underlying action isn't particularly 
 impressive. The game's modeling of stealth is fairly simplistic, as you can just walk right up 
 to an unsuspecting enemy as long as he's not looking your way. Keep a low profile by crouching, 
 and even enemies looking straight at you will have a hard time seeing you. Enemies may be alarmed 
 to find the dead bodies of their comrades, but since bodies simply disappear after a little while, 
 this isn't much of a concern -- just another knock against its sense of realism. Meanwhile, a highly 
 convenient radar reveals all foes in the vicinity and often the direction they're looking in. This 
 is useful while sneaking, but it feels almost like cheating when you're running and gunning, since 
 you'll always know when there's an enemy around the next corner. Combine that with lousy, slow-on-the-draw 
 enemy artificial intelligence, and you'll find that brute force rather than tactical prowess tends 
 to be the path of least resistance through Commandos Strike Force. However, some missions force 
 you to avoid detection, requiring you to slowly inch your way through a level you know you could 
 probably just blast your way through if only the game let you. You can save anywhere, which will 
 compel you to take a trial-and-error approach in each new situation.  

          Why sneak your way through a Nazi compound when you could just smoke everybody?     

 
  In addition to the single-player campaign, Commandos Strike Force offers an online multiplayer 
 mode that's roughly the same on the PC, Xbox, and the PlayStation 2. You can theoretically get 
 up to 16 players going on the PC or in a system link match on the Xbox, though the console versions 
 are normally limited to an eight-player limit. But good luck finding people to play with. During 
 a week's worth of attempts, we found only small handfuls of players on any of the given versions 
 of the game. The matches we did get into felt laggy, meandering, and unfocused, lending themselves 
 to lots of sniping. Playable modes include the typical deathmatch and team deathmatch, as well 
 as a mode called sabotage, in which spies may attempt to interrogate fallen foes for a code to 
 sabotage the enemy base. Of the small numbers of people that were playing Commandos Strike Force 
 online, next to no one seemed to be bothering to try to get a grip on this team-based mode.  

 
  Commandos Strike Force isn't a bad game... it's just similar to but worse than a large number of 
 other World War II shooters. Its main distinguishing features -- the ability to control a couple 
 of soldiers through open-ended levels -- aren't all that remarkable, and the core action doesn't 
 cut it either. Consider this one a casualty.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  so lets talk about "commandos strike force" oh... a first person game? great!! better than the 
 last strategy games.. so lets start
  
  the graphic is really good.. not that good.. mm.. like everyother game of 2006 good graphic nice 
 visual effects
  
  sounds: the sounds are great i mean like every other army games.. its really nice
  
  gameplay: 
 so first the enemys can be really stupid sometimes.. problem with the AI and its a big problem 
 but still its fun to play, you can be a sniper or a gunner like in the strategy games and its cool, 
 
  
  story: what can i say? world war... good story
  
  multiplayer: since the first day of the release no one ever playd the multiplayer.. its just an 
 empty streets that U cant do nothing beacuse theres no players
  
  the game is ok and i think worth playing, play it yourself dont judge by what people say...
  
 
  this game is not worth buying but worth playing
  rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Commandos Strike Force is OK, but that's about it really. The gimmick of this game is that you 
 can select which character to play (as long as he is available for that mission) this involves 
 a quick key press and you switch back and forth. This does add some depth to play but the AI really 
 does let it all down. The commandos series started life as a RTS type game but Pyro studios decided 
 for this outing they would go down the FPS/strategy route.
  
  The graphics even at 1280x1024 with everything turned up to maximum look dated. The lip sync is 
 non existent and looks like it's 5 years out of date where the bottom jaw just moves up and down 
 and then they laid over the sound track on top. The actual characters and NPC's all look like they 
 should belong on the PS2 and really let the game down especially on PC. CSF is a multi platform 
 game being released on PS2, Xbox and PC but as with all these games, the graphics are just not 
 up to scratch for todays PC's. It's a real shame really as some of the level graphics are quite 
 beutiful from bombed out Starlingrad to the snowy mountains of Norway. But again the textures are 
 plain and belong on a console.
  
  The sound is a standard fare with some nice orchestral pieces to liven things up and give atmosphere 
 but again this is standard and no option of EAX. The guns sound OK but just OK, there is nothing 
 special, they sound as they should but with no "beef" to them so they sound a bit weak.
  
  But then comes the level design and gameplay and this is what saves this game from getting a low 
 score. The levels are great and can finsihed in a number of ways. I suppose it's a little bit linear 
 but the option of being able to switch between characters livens things up. You can be sneaking 
 with the spy and reach a checkpoint. There is no way through for the spy but if you switch to the 
 sniper this all changes. You get in to position, take aim and fire. Quickly one by one you take 
 out the guards at the checkpoint, you switch back to the spy and quickly make your way through 
 into the barracks kill the general and take his uniform, this lets you walk around unnoticed unless 
 you see another general or higher ranking officer who will see you as an imposter and raise the 
 alarm. The levels all pan out similar to this in one way or another and this does give an extra 
 edge to it all. But then the AI goes and spoils. In one of the levels your under heavy attack from 
 the germans and you have control of the green beret and the sniper. You use the green beret for 
 close quarter combat and use his machine gun, then you hear the general say "shoot the officers 
 to stop the german onslaught". So you make sure the green beret is behind cover and swap to the 
 sniper, you start to take out the officers and then you get the message that a comrade has fallen. 
 You have to run to him and give him a health pack to revive him, but as soon as you let the computer 
 take control again over the green beret he hardly ever protects himself and keeps getting shot! 
 So it's never ending race to keep your 2 chaps alive. Once again the AI lets you down. But even 
 with this flaw and the outdated graphics there lies are pretty good game. The levels are really 
 good and really fun to play and for me this was it's saving grace.
  
  So overall this could of been alot better but it's still worth a go. If Pyro had spent a little 
 bit more time on the AI and graphics this could of scored alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Briancapo92
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  What happened with the other guys ???
  there were 8 guys in the other games.
  what append?
  its a totaly difrent game. What happened with the other guys ???
  there were 
 8 guys in the other games.
  what append?
  its a totaly difrent game. What happened with the other guys ???
  there were 8 guys in the other 
 games.
  what append?
  its a totaly difrent game. What happened with the other guys ???
  there were 8 guys in the other games.
  what append?
  its a totaly difrent game. What happened 
 with the other guys ???
  there were 8 guys in the other games.
  what append?
  its a totaly difrent game. What happened with the other guys ???
  there were 8 guys in the other 
 games.
  what append?
  its a totaly difrent game. What happened with the other guys ???
  there were 8 guys in the other games.
  what append?
  its a totaly difrent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  When I saw Commandos Strike Force 2 year's ago, Electronic Entertainment Expo, it struck me as 
 a disconcerting detour from Pyro Studios' usual fare. However, they have developed every single 
 game in the series, which is unusual in such a fast-paced industry. If anyone knows Commandos at 
 this point, it would be them. So I kept my worries to myself, took my notes, and did the write-up 
 like usual. And here we are now, almost a year later, with a demo build of two very different levels. 
 With the small amount of content, it's difficult to tell whether or not the franchise has successfully 
 made the transition to first-person action, but I definitely see some positive signs. The voice 
 acting and music are as good as ever, right up there with, say, Call of Duty or Brothers in Arms. 
 German accents, English accents, and French accents all appear in this build, and it's quite polished. 
 And the orchestral score is appropriately dramatic, foreboding, and tense.
  
  This build of the game is locked at 800x600, but several people in the office noted how good it 
 looked nevertheless, even blown up on this 21 monitor. I'd say the visual quality lands somewhere 
 between Call of Duty and its sequel. Texture quality was also locked at medium, but I found the 
 visuals to be quite solid anyway. We took several short videos, so you can judge for yourself. 
 You'll also get a good sense of the music and voice acting.
  
  The other big change is that you can switch between up to three commandoes on-the-fly by hitting 
 the Tab key. You'll sometimes only have one commando in a given mission, but otherwise you can 
 use them in tandem to maximize mission success. The sniper can cover a bridge while the commando 
 attempts to cross, or the spy can creep up to a guarded vantage point and clear it for the sniper. 
 When you're not in direct control of them, they'll stay put.
  
  The first mission, should you choose to accept it, involves storming a wintry shoreline outpost 
 and eliminating an officer who will attempt to flee near the end of the mission. The engagement 
 isn't very long, but it gives you a taste of controlling multiple commandoes, and a feel for the 
 game mechanics in general -- things like movement, weapon recoil, accuracy, damage modeling, pathing, 
 animation, et cetera. Enemies will pour out of buildings, but not endlessly. You'll have a limited 
 amount of ammo, but there might be a stash lying around. If a body lies on the ground for long 
 enough, its weapon will disappear as it disappears. So if you want to switch from that shotgun 
 to something else, you'll need to move quickly -- but not too quickly. A commando can be seriously 
 injured and incapacitated, requiring another commando (if available) to make his way over and use 
 a medical kit. If too many of your AI-controlled cohorts die, you can fail the mission.
  
  The second mission explains the cloak-and-dagger system the spy works with. It's not too different 
 from the one we've seen before; you can do stealth kills, steal uniforms, and pass as a fellow 
 German soldier, but a high-ranking officer will out you immediately, if he sees you. Even-leveled 
 servicemen will be suspicious, and you'll get a timer before they alert their buddies nearby. This 
 build, however, grants a fairly wide degree of flexibility. I was able to shoot a few people without 
 anyone coming over to see what's what, which is unusual in a wartime situation. But there are also 
 three difficulty levels to choose from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noneofthese2006
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  Commandos Strike Force sounds at first like sacrilege, but surprisingly, it remembers its roots. 
 The mix of stealth and action works well and the pacing is good. The game is a fun, basic stealth 
 shooter. There are numerous moments in Strike Force where you simply need to put a lot of bodies 
 on the floor, and the Green Beret will see to that. He'll also heal allies and himself, as well 
 as being best placed to lob grenades into the midst of hapless infantry. His is the most familiar 
 FPS challenge, and the occasional bursts of firefight are genuinely engaging. This latest Commandos 
 game doesn't shirk on the gun action simply because it has a history of stealth and sniping elements. 
 It is a great game with new cool maps and new equipments and new techniques. But the bad thing in 
 this game is no old player except green beret and spy, which is very grief. But afterall the game 
 is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krishna_sarwan
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  disappointment..... If you are a fan of the commandos series... plz dont try this... you will be 
 disappoint. As a great fan of commandos series i expected this a lot more.. but Eidos had created 
 a worst game ever..
  First of all the problem is its not a 3rd person view game. its more like a first person shooter.. 
 and it destroys the silent missions in Commandos Strike Force
  
  Commandos Strike Force isn't particularly successful at telling you a compelling story, either, 
 though it seems to try. The three soldiers have their own distinct personalities, from the wisecracking 
 Lieutenant Hawkins (the sniper) to the slightly aloof Colonel Brown (the spy) . But their interactions 
 during between-mission cutscenes often seem disjointed and awkward (not to mention surprisingly 
 filled with profanity for a T-rated game) , and the missions themselves aren't always clearly related, 
 so you really aren't drawn in from any of these respects. At least the characters play fairly distinctly. 
 The Green Beret is a pretty generic gunner, the sniper's long-range rifle and throwing knives make 
 him quite different, and the spy is able to take uniforms from dead enemies and infiltrate their 
 ranks -- he just needs to watch out for the piercing gaze of high-ranking enemy officers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barlienb
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Well, I was skeptic when I heard that the next Commandos game was going to be a FPS. I thought 
 they had blown it. And when I saw the GS score, I almost cried a little. So now that Steam had 
 a packaged bundle. All the Commandos games for only $49,99 I thought what the hey.
  
  So, first thing's first: Gameplay
  This is why you would have to had played the original Commandos 
 games to really understand whats going on. What the hell, if I crouch here those guys standing 
 30 feet away wont see me? This is unusual in FPS like games. And for some, might be ridiculous. 
 But this is why its like this. This game, is still very much a Commandos game, its only changed 
 perspectives from over-head too out-from-head (first person) The game keeps allot of aspects of 
 the 2-d games, and quite frankly. When you know this, it makes sense. And it allows for very fun, 
 and intuitive sneak gameplay. Some thing else that is great about this game is the fact that you 
 can change the guy you are using. There are three types of characters in the game. The Sniper, 
 The Spy and The Green Beret (gunner) . And its pretty easy understand what each one is about. So 
 let me set up a scenario for you. You need to get you're sniper into a tower, but the way is blocked 
 by a German solider. Then switch to you're spy. Change into German uniform, walk up to him, walk 
 behind him and wire his throat shut. Then the Sniper can get into position to clear the way for 
 the Green Beret. Its fun, its a challenge and its puzzle. The shooting is fun and responsive, and 
 the Axis have a satisfying rag doll effect.
  
  Graphics:
  Well, its not Battlefield 2 ore GRAW. But the textures are crisp and clean for the most part. The 
 models could use a couple of extra polygons, especially in the face (nose and cheeks are a bit pointy) . 
 But its pleasant to look at. And it will run on pretty much anything. The particle effects are 
 good looking and well done. And as I mentioned before, rag doll effects are always good. But they 
 are terrific in this game. The landscape looks very nice, Stalingrad is a good example. The ruins 
 of a city is always hard to create and make look good, but they have done it. The textures are 
 nice too look and helps you forgive that it is somewhat blocky. Norway is also a good example, 
 they have done it right. The snow and lighting looks very nice. And Stalingrad looks like a war 
 torn city, Norway looks like Norway (I should know, I live there) And France looks like France. 
 In the end, that's whats most important. That they've managed to sell the scenario too me, the 
 gamer.
  
  Sound:
  Its good, and its symphony. Its not some computer program. The weapons sounds good and powerful. 
 The speech is good, but quite frankly the sounds are just good. Nothing that will really catch 
 you off guard and show you what it can do (no CoD effect) . But its there and doing the job its 
 supposed to.
  
  In the end, its a great game. The concerns Greg had with lacking story is foolish. Its a Commandos 
 game, and its a WW2 game. When did those two ever have a story. If you like stealth games, you 
 will like this. If you like Commandos games, you will like this. If you like both, you will love 
 this game. I know I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veki_The_Shadow
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  At first, I didn't even want to buy this game because of the gamespot crew rated it so bad and 
 I thought: It can't be so bad! 
  Well, I bought it and I was quiet surprised. The game was awesome!! 
  
  The Sniper: Citing 
 from the game: My name is William Hawkins, I am a sniper, one of the best. You can slow down time 
 to shot better, throw knives at germans or simply do a stealth kill with a knife.
  
  The Spy: Citing from the game: What he says, goes. He is the captain of the strike force. You can 
 take enemy uniform and travel with it without being spotted by the enemy forces. The higher ranking 
 uniform you have, the harder they discover you. The uniform with the biggest ranking is the gestapo 
 uniform, only other gestapos can spot you if they take a longer and closer look. The Spy can also 
 stealth kill with a wire (probably fiber) , and he can throw coins to distract enemies so you can 
 pass by somewhere without being interrupted.
  
  The Green Beret: Citing form the game: He is the muscle, but not stupid muscle like, clever one. 
 His main weapon is Thompson, and that says it all. He is more the heavy shooting type, not a stealth 
 guy but he is still awesome. There has to be someone to bring the adrenaline up :)
  
  We are the Strike Force, the enemy fear us, and so they should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarxass
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 30, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  This is the death of a legend. If I want to play a shooter, I play Half-Life or Battlefield, or 
 any other shooter out there. Commandos used to be beyond shooter. Yes, there are some good ideas; 
 and yes, some of the original commandos action is transferred well. Yet, it is a total letdown; 
 since I've been playing all Commandos series intensely; and I expect a lot from each new Commandos 
 game. This was a surprise for me, that they changed the original concept and made it into a shooter; 
 but that's just not right! The franchise was a legend, and rightfully so; and now it is dead, for 
 me at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_bugmenot
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  This game is the only game I have ever installed twice, first time I uninstalled it after about 
 20 mins of appalling game play, then I mistakenly reinstalled it 6 months later (as I couldn't 
 remember ever playing it) .... it lasted about 30 mins the second time!!
  
  Such a disappointing game, the AI is completely lacking in this game and you have to babysit two 
 characters, you can switch between the two but while you are playing one role the other one just 
 stands sucking his thumb and waiting for you to come back. A little basic intelligence would be 
 nice (like taking cover... or even shooting at teh enemy!!) . Feels more like your looking after 
 a couple of kids in the park rather than fighting!
  
  The game play is soooo restrictive you will be shouting at the screen.... often you can see where 
 you need to go but there is a mighty 2 foot high fence blocking the commando (I guess he was absent 
 on the day they did climbing over small fences in training) : ( This results in a frustrating running 
 backwards and forwards trying to find a way round.
  
  Could be a good game, would be much better if you just went solo without any other soldiers, all 
 they do is get shot and hold you up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafiqians
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  It is good game in first shooter category. I like it very much because I am a great fan of Commanos 
 series. This game has good storyline but I think it is incomplete. This game lack in hardness, 
 means characters are so heroic that they can change every situation I have to say that if such 
 people are alive then rest of Army should go to their homes. In nut shell this game have great graphics, 
 sound, gameplay and easy for everyone to play no complications at all. Great fun &amp; joy. My advice 
 to Pyro Studios is to make strategic, tactical &amp; more complicated game so that it can win editors 
 heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  From first look it looks frustirating, but some people may like it or may not...
  Depends how desperate are you to play FPS with some tactical features which in my opinion makes 
 game a bit unproper. Remember BIA: EIB..... what a dissapointment was that man, I think same factor 
 does play a role here as well, which ruins the FPS games.... I think developers want to give gamers 
 new experience but each time they ruin whole game with this tactical things and other stuff....
 
  
  Let take for inistane COD 2, brilliant fast paced FPS, liked it a lot..... but then ccame through 
 COD 3, almost the same game as COD 2 but with new expereince that you will never forget.... what? 
 Hand to hand fighting, why do hell I will need that if I am holding bloody mauzer or thompson in 
 my hands... it is not bloody movie man...... we want just fight as FPS games pers, if somehow the 
 idea comes through from my nuts to fight someone in hand to hand fighting I will just go and play 
 Tekken......... not FPS shooter.
  
  This needs to be stoped, cause FPS is FPS... I dont need any knife throwing or hand to hand fighting 
 in it....
  
  Just proper and fast shooting but with long and enjoyable game line.
  
  This games is one of the examples of dev frustration...
  
  Anyway I hope you may enjoy it... have 
 a look.
  
  Enjoy your game, if of course it is like so!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripcord23
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw this game on the store shelf i was thinkg oh just anotehr WW2 shooter But i was 
 rong when i got it as a gift. It was a good stealth game. You can be a sniper spy or green beret.75% 
 og the game is stealth snipeing and spying but a the other part is decent shooting all out fighting 
 along the lines of simple plesure like a shooting gallery. You are sent to france Norway and Russia. And 
 the game featers some fun Sniper missions and the spy mission or also fun. But there are alot of 
 problems to like the enemys are not that samrt or impresive and the graphics are bad but otehr 
 then that it is worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baloneysammich
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  Very frustrating gameplay, long boring cut scenes in between each level. One of the first games 
 I've uninstalled without bothering to finish. Defeinately one to take back to the shop for a refund.
 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  II think this Commandos Strike Force is a good game. I had played Commandos: Behind the Enemy Lines 
 and Commandos 2 and is the same game but with a different perspective, a perspective in first person. 
 The game is difficult and is mixture of a First person shooter and an infiltration game. There 
 are missions of infiltration and there are missions where you have to shoot to everything that 
 moves in the PC. So is interesting the possibility of use different commandos into the same mission. 
 This is a very interesting strategic possibility. I only meet a trouble with this game; the graphics 
 arent so good as games like Medal of Honour or Call of Duty. This game remembers me Hetman you 
 are be able to finish the missions of different ways, by infiltration or shooting, but in one or 
 other way the game is hard to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StraiN-ShifTeD
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  In the &uml; making of documentary&uml; the Director of the game states that the game is an unfinished 
 piece of business. To some part I have to agree with him, because the hyping of the game talked 
 a lot about the tree characters, and being able to switch between them on the levels. Sure this 
 is true, some levels do feature all three characters, but you will not bee able to switch between 
 them all during these levels, but just two at a time (as the third character arrives later, one 
 has to leave etc.) This is probably the biggest letdown of the game since you sit waiting for that 
 ultimate end level were you will be able to utilize the full skills of the three characters, but 
 then suddenly, in what feels like the middle of the game, its over. The story feels like its hardly 
 started and the game gives a kind of odd and uneven aftertaste.
  
  It sounds as though I cant stand the game, however thats far from the truth. Im a big fan of 
 the Hitman games, and this game sometimes reminds heavily of that game, especially when you take 
 the role as the spy. And there are a lot worse rule models out on the market then Hitman. The game 
 levels that is in there are actually really good, good mix of sneaking and action, that gives a 
 good feel of pace, sometimes patient, sometimes insane. The only in-game stuff Id have to complain 
 about is the disappearing bodies, but if that doesnt bother you, youd probably like the game.
 
  
  As for the story, there is some, but as already said, it feels like it never really starts, but 
 then again, when gameplay is this good you dont really need a story that good. The game features 
 ok voice acting, except from the Green Beret that sounds quite exaggerated. Good sound effects 
 as well, though I had some problems with sound disappearing from time to time, which also gives 
 a kind of unfinished feeling.
  
  The games strongest points though, are its gritty, and dirty but yet very good looking graphics, 
 which really gives a good WWII feeling. That, along with the games awesome music score gives a 
 very authentic feeling of actually being there. On the whole the game falls on details, and the 
 feeling that it ends were it should get going. Its worth your money though, if youre into this 
 kind of game, because if you see through the actually quite few flaws there is a really good game 
 in there. A really good game that could have been superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haky2
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  Commandos Strike force is just a shadow behind Medal of Honor and Call of Duty. Good try, but.... 
 At first the graphic site of this game was disappointing for me. It looks great, but the release 
 date of this game is 2006, and when I run Call of Duty2 or Medal of Honor Pacific assault on my 
 Pc they look much better than this game, and these games were released in 2003-2004. The singleplayer 
 site of the game is somethimes good, somethimes boring. The multiplayer is good, there are people 
 every day playing this game online, but not too much, the max was, when I played with 7 people 
 online, thats a big difference between call of duty and commandos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badboy_32820
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  It wasn`t great but not that bad!!!!
  
  here it comes at last new comando ... but wait.. it`s fps (ooooo new age men!!!!)
  
  briefly 
 the graphics ain`t good and it`s really bad on ps2 at least on pc it`s not that bad!!
  
  sound design is just right and gameplay rocks !!!
  but there is something great in it... yeah 
 sniping is really the best sniping i have ever seen (i`m talking about the effects men!!! just 
 hold down Alt and SEE WHAT I MEAN!!!)
  
  the game is good go and play it because of the gameplay and story don`t be mr-graphic guy yeah 
 it`s bad but not emportant!!!
  
  tanx for your time!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flicker66
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 8, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Picking this up from an auction site for just ninety-nine of your English pence (bargain!) , I expected 
 it to be something similar to the demo I'd played of it and I wasn't disappointed.
  
  You'll see action in three fronts - France, Norway and Russia - and, apart from the standard running 
 and gunning bits, there are few things to worry much about. Certainly the differing personalities 
 and abilities of the three squad members are interesting: the revelation that the spy is German 
 but detests Nazis (and many ordinary Germans did) , the suspicion from the Green Beret O'Brien that 
 the spy is a traitor - something which is sort-of dealt with later - and the piss-taking Cockney 
 jocularity of Hawkins the sniper make for some snappy banter between the three on the occasional 
 cut scenes.
  
  Certain sections are a challenge. I was on a lone mission as Hawkins without any medikit healing 
 things and had taken a few hits so completing a difficult level whilst keeping him alive proved 
 harder than I thought. 
  
  The graphics are nicely coded and the detail of the levels is very good. You get a sense of how 
 devastated a city like Stalingrad was and why the Russians fought the Nazi invaders as hard as 
 they did. 
  
  Not all the squad are together on some of the levels, the spy especially going off to do other 
 things. He refers to sabotaging the heavy water plant in Norway but we don't get to see it, even 
 though the other two were involved in the proceeding story. 
  
  The AI rarely pulls any strokes on you, enemies nearly always attacking you head-on or from the 
 flanks. It's even possible to stand right beside an enemy that's shooting at someone else before 
 he sees you before you kill him. Taking the uniforms of officers helps the spy get through bits 
 that otherwise would be difficult but they seem to wear off or something. Using the E key to see 
 an external view of your character is sometimes the only way you'll know whether you're in disguise 
 still or not. 
  
  It's possible to complete each mission by achieving all the objectives in any order you like which 
 is useful but sometimes you find that you should have completed them a certain way first! Some 
 of the objectives are not greatly apparent and I didn't always achieve some of the secondary ones 
 at all. 
  
  Small gripes? There are too few missions. The final one is pretty long and quite intense as wave 
 after wave of the bosch come at you in Stalingrad and you'll need to keep on your toes to dispatch 
 them. The date given for this showdown is October 1942 (I think) as Hitler came acropper during 
 Operation Barbarossa - the invasion of the former USSR. This was handled a good deal better in 
 Call Of Duty 2. 
  
  At the end of this level, the squad assemble after the spy's return (the inference being that he's 
 been hiding as has the Russian general as they're actually traitors?) and they mention going to 
 Berlin. That's fine, except the battle for Berlin proper didn't start for another two years at 
 least.
  
  The whole thing was coded and developed by a large Spanish-lead team and they've done a reasonable 
 job. The voice talents used were not credited, by the way. All in all, not bad but not great either. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 3.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  This game should never had been made. Bring back the old commandos style games. Pyros should be 
 ashamed for ruining one of the best game series ever with the moronic attempt at a run-of-the-mill 
 WWII FPS game. Like their aren't a bazillion others out there like it, except better. I played 
 the demo just to give it a chance, but that was enough for me. This game just plain blows the big 
 one. To think what Pyros could have done to the old series with today's technology. The original 
 games contained a style of gameplay that's very unigue compared to other games. There are few games 
 out there of that squad-based style, especially newer ones.
  
  Ah... what coulda been.
  
  Edit.....
  
  Okay, I adjust my original rating of the game because I felt a bit dishonest 
 in my anger at Pyros for making this game. I still think it's a poor game and poor concept, and 
 Pyros missed the boat on using advance technology to bring the original series up-to-date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdmundHonda
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  I was hoping from what this game looked like that it would at least be decent if not very good. 
 Sadly, most games these days advertised appear to have great graphics and are put forward as being 
 great! In reality, this is for the most part not the case.
  
  The graphics are very poor. The game play absolutely reaks with terrible control design.
  
 
  The Sniper mode in this game sucks!
  
  And, the online is terrible and not thrilling at all.
  
  The only two good games online for 
 the PS2 are:
  
  Sniper Elite
  
  Battlefield 2
  
  The others suck!
  
  And even then I wish there were much more options, BIGGER maps for the games listed above. Not 
 to mention a touch on the graphics too!
  
  Sincerely,
  
  E. Honda
  
  PS
  
  Capcom wake up! We need Street Fighter II for PS2 or PS3 to be Online! Put the donut down Capcom!!!! 
 
  
  Capcom! I must admit: Shadow of Rome -- Awesome! But no online play.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobsterbushcrab
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  i liked this game it not that bad. it stays true to commandos, well maybe a little easy compared 
 to the others. the graphics are a little dated but still look ok. weapons are cool like using 2 
 tommys at once. the animations are also quite good too. multi play is also quite fun if you can 
 find a good server. even though stelt missions get a bit boring the action is really good. not 
 as good as COD 2 mind you
  
  one really bad thing about this game is the VO they have to be some of the worst to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  yes i said it was ok but, i rate it a 9.0 becaase i love this game and i think i rated it right 
 so if you dont like it go play some other game alright because somepeople like alright now ok well 
 i like this game because its just awsome with all the actoin and gameplay or whatever you call 
 it i thought this game was great it really depends on what kind of computer you have to have a 
 high graphical computer to play this game the way you want it to and like i said i love this game 
 i play it all the time so keep it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  CSF has average graphics and sound effects, two things that pretty much classify it as an average 
 FPS. The commandos series used to be a 3rd person action but Pyro deicided they wanted to ruin 
 a good thing by making the next installment an FPS. With that aside, the game uses common character 
 models that make you sayHey didn't I just kill you?". The radar takes the fun out of the game 
 by letting you know where EVERY SINGLE enemy is along with the confusing HUD and not average controls 
 that shows Pyro is new to the FPS scene. The V. A. and cutscenes are laughable along with the subtitles 
 giving the generalized name of characters such as Sniper and Green Beret other than there real 
 names. The game does have its kind of cool features such as the different play on bullet time with 
 things more blurry and allies are interactable (least the medics) . The load times are fast and 
 enemy deaths can be entertaining but mostly the A. I. is bland and doesn't take any skill to kill 
 only a shot in the right direction. The missions can be confusing with one mission lasting 2 minutes 
 (literally) and another lasting 30 minutes. I crashed once but I had no other technical problems. 
 The multiplayer feels like its from 2000 with its laggy hitboxes that took 5 seconds to show a 
 player died and people calling you a hacker because your good at FPS games. When finished with 
 CSF, you don't get that feeling like you do from HL that makes you think "Wow." only a thought 
 of why you just wasted your time playing CSF when you have better things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metr01973
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Commandos Strike Force is OK, but that's about it really. The gimmick of this game is that you 
 can select which character to play (as long as he is available for that mission) this involves 
 a quick key press and you switch back and forth. This does add some depth to play but the AI really 
 does let it all down. The commandos series started life as a RTS type game but Pyro studios decided 
 for this outing they would go down the FPS/strategy route.
  The graphics even at 1280x1024 with everything turned up to maximum look dated. The lip sync is 
 non existent and looks like it's 5 years out of date where the bottom jaw just moves up and down 
 and then they laid over the sound track on top. The actual characters and NPC's all look like they 
 should belong on the PS2 and really let the game down especially on PC. CSF is a multi platform 
 game being released on PS2, Xbox and PC but as with all these games, the graphics are just not 
 up to scratch for todays PC's. It's a real shame really as some of the level graphics are quite 
 beutiful from bombed out Starlingrad to the snowy mountains of Norway. But again the textures are 
 plain and belong on a console.
  The sound is a standard fare with some nice orchestral pieces to liven things up and give atmosphere 
 but again this is standard and no option of EAX. The guns sound OK but just OK, there is nothing 
 special, they sound as they should but with no "beef" to them so they sound a bit weak.
  But then comes the level design and gameplay and this is what saves this game from getting a low 
 score. The levels are great and can finsihed in a number of ways. I suppose it's a little bit linear 
 but the option of being able to switch between characters livens things up. You can be sneaking 
 with the spy and reach a checkpoint. There is no way through for the spy but if you switch to the 
 sniper this all changes. You get in to position, take aim and fire. Quickly one by one you take 
 out the guards at the checkpoint, you switch back to the spy and quickly make your way through 
 into the barracks kill the general and take his uniform, this lets you walk around unnoticed unless 
 you see another general or higher ranking officer who will see you as an imposter and raise the 
 alarm. The levels all pan out similar to this in one way or another and this does give an extra 
 edge to it all. But then the AI goes and spoils. In one of the levels your under heavy attack from 
 the germans and you have control of the green beret and the sniper. You use the green beret for 
 close quarter combat and use his machine gun, then you hear the general say "shoot the officers 
 to stop the german onslaught". So you make sure the green beret is behind cover and swap to the 
 sniper, you start to take out the officers and then you get the message that a comrade has fallen. 
 You have to run to him and give him a health pack to revive him, but as soon as you let the computer 
 take control again over the green beret he hardly ever protects himself and keeps getting shot! 
 So it's never ending race to keep your 2 chaps alive. Once again the AI lets you down. But even 
 with this flaw and the outdated graphics there lies are pretty good game. The levels are really 
 good and really fun to play and for me this was it's saving grace.
  So overall this could of been alot better but it's still worth a go. I don't know whether it's 
 worth the 30 ($45-50approx) that I paid for it and it's not that long either, I finished it in 
 about 12 hours. So, if you see this game and it's been reduced then buy it but at full price I 
 would wait, there are plenty of other WW2 shooters out there that do it better. If Pyro had spent 
 a little bit more time on the AI and graphics this could of scored alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: friobo
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Nothing is perfect. Also this game. But very very promising.
  
  But certain entities are inspired. 
  This means that certain games have potential. 
  Game play 
 needs polishing. MOH, COD, any of this sort, are very-very well scripted. This game doesn't, but 
 notwithstanding, also is cute. 
  
  Sequences tend to be sluggish, not very well resolved. BUT ... if the scripting is polished it 
 can be a clear absolute winner, by his great general conception: stealth, collaboration, atmosphere, 
 history, and the general idea. I smell a great future.
  We must remember that the original Commandos was belittled by critics and some gamers, becoming 
 latter an all time winner, surpassing and beating ALL strategic WW-II games, so admired in the 
 moment, but easily forgotten. NOT WITH COMMANDOS, STILL SELLING PREVIOUS VERSIONS EVERYWHERE IN 
 GOOD NUMBERS.
  
  I think that with these new Commando, things can be superb, as time goes by and future unfolds. 
 This depends strongly on ironing the game sequence scripting.
  
  Long, and wondrous life to the Commandos Series!
  
  PIPEINX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 16, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  I was waiting this game as something that will make the revolution depending to the other three 
 versions, but it had dissapointed me. The game is toooo easy, your enemies are such a stupid soldiers! 
 They cannot notice me when I am standing on right or left fron em. It looks like they have a very 
 narrow eyescene. Plus they are dump too. When you are in the battle, it seems like they sometimes 
 just don't want to notice you. you can just stand in front of em and they won't shoot. Same when 
 there are a lot of soldiers around and none had noticed that I had killed their officer.
  Now about good: The game is good at the thing that it is finally became a first person! Plus the 
 amount of three agents is enough for striking through! Plus the way of you can elliminate your 
 enemies is sometimes very interesting but not chalenging because of their stupidness.
  And I still don't understand for whom the multyplayer is? It is reality that none is playing it!
 
  Hope that there will be a better version of it in future, as it was said the first try never count!
 
  Tahir "Yazon" Tillyaev. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flux_punK
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 4, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  The graphics are crap. I'm serious: They all look like armageddon. The models have sharp edges, 
 and there is no music in the cutscenes. Speaking off the cutscenes: They are incredibly boring. 
 Most often it's just totally quiet, when two guys fight or a car chase another. And keeping stealthy 
 is very difficult. The game is too hard to do on normal ways, so i had to fight my way through 
 using weird bugs and holes in the AI. Even the gameplay has problems, like too low mouse speet 
 while in scope, and bad animation which makes the game very unrealistic. And on top of that the 
 history is also crap. It's about three guys who are like "heroes of the universe" in WWII.
  
  Please, don't waste your money here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy667
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  I have played none of the Commandos RTS games. But i still enjoied this game alot. I like the abilty 
 to switch characters by hitting one button. I personally like missions with the Sniper and the 
 Spy. The Green Beret is too much like other games, while the Sniper and Spy are.... different. There 
 is an online, but there is rarely any servers. There are three modes, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 and Sabotage. DM and TDM are like all other games, but sabatoge you have to get codes off enemy 
 players and then arm a bomb. If you find a server, there is not a high likelyhood of there being 
 many players on it however, which is dissappointing. The graphics are alright, not the best, not 
 the worst. I really like the sound, better than most games. Overall, i just think the game is underrated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funmesh
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  Good game... but has a few graphic problems.... good A. I. Could have been better if more stealth 
 was involed... Story is nothing much .. just an ordinary mission based game... Overall its a decent 
 game... action fans would probably have fun .... Pyro could improve on this game.. the open shooting 
 sequences aren't that good.... the game also seemed very short to play...
  
  The fact that you have 3 different characters to play with & every character has it's different 
 ways & weapons to accomplish the missions.. is entertaining... but the simple graphics spoil the 
 effect...
  
  On the whole the game looses on details, and the feeling that it ends where it should get going... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanoush86
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was a major step from strategy to first person shooter, Pyro studios could of done better, 
 but they should stick to the strategy version of the original sequence of the game. Graphics are 
 not bad, sound quality is fair and gameplay is fair. I spend around 20 hours give or take playing 
 it, and now I feel that I wasted 30 dollars. It is not an addictive games, one of the ups in the 
 game is that you can switch to characters during the game unlike other FPS. The special talents 
 are good in the game, such as the spy, sniper, etc... My advice to any one who is planning to purchase 
 this game, DO NOT. It is really not worth playing, I have played all the commandos series and I 
 must say that this is the only one I was disappointed in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seckoc
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 15, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  althought i played and loved all other games of commandos series, that one was a real shame for 
 pyro studios. A game with unclear objectives, try and fail then retry scenarios, and a lost soul 
 of old times. Even there are better stealth-action games and there are more than a lot first person 
 shooters why wasting time with tons of loading and saving each step you take. yes you may buy that 
 game and it may satisfy you but there are lots of game worth to play and commandos strike force 
 is not one of them. Once commandos was a great game which combined real time action and strategy 
 in a breath taking way. But that one is really sinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevizhorn
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  In the making of documentary the director of the game states that the game is "an unfinished 
 piece of business." To some part I have to agree with him, because the hyping of the game talked 
 a lot about the three characters, and being able to switch between them on the levels. Sure this 
 is true, some levels do feature all three characters, but you will not be able to switch between 
 them all during these levels, but just two at a time (as the third character arrives later, one 
 has to leave etc.) This is probably the biggest letdown of the game since you sit waiting for that 
 ultimate end level were you will be able to utilize the full skills of the three characters, but 
 then suddenly, in what feels like the middle of the game, its over. The story feels like it's hardly 
 started and the game gives a kind of odd and uneven aftertaste. 
  
  This does not however mean that this is a bad game. In it's best moments this game sometimes reminds 
 heavily of the Hitman games , especially when you take the role of the spy. And there are a lot 
 worse rule models out on the market then Hitman. The game levels that is in there are actually 
 really good, good mix of sneaking and action, that gives a good feel of pace, sometimes patient, 
 sometimes insane. The only in-game stuff I'd have to complain about is the fade bodies, but if 
 that doesn't bother you, you'll probably like the game.
  
  As for the story, there is one, but as stated earlier, it feels like it never really starts, but 
 then again, when game-play is this good you don't really need a story that good. The game features 
 ok voice acting, except from the Green Beret that sounds quite exaggerated. Good sound effects 
 as well, though I had some problems with sound disappearing from time to time, which also gives 
 a kind of unfinished feeling.
  
  The games strongest points though, are its gritty and dirty, but yet very good looking graphics, 
 which really gives a good WWII feeling. That, along with the games excellent music score gives 
 a very authentic feeling of actually being there.
  
  On the whole the game falls on details, and the feeling that it ends were it should get going. 
 It's worth your money though, if you're into this kind of game, because if you see through the 
 actually quite few flaws there is a really good game in there. A really good game that could have 
 been superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasser_mh
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  well this is a very good step for Pyro Studios to take.
  
  if i were in the manager of this company i must have taken that step, and for every one who is saying 
 it's boring or the graphic isn't that good for a FPS i would say you're right but just take a look 
 to the previous products from Pyro Studios and compare them to this product and you'll see that 
 this company is advancing really quick for a small development studio.
  
  as for my opinion for this game that it's well development for the commandos series and i would 
 say just give this studio some time and they will make a excellent product next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blademast0r
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  This game has to be regarded by its fun factor. The game isn't especially beautiful, well balanced, 
 long, atmospherical or anything the likes, but it's solid. It has a difficult job delivering the 
 Commandos concept to an Ego perspective game and it didn't do too bad. Both the spy and the sniper 
 are fun to play. Ever dreamt of having one of these stylish uniforms? grab them and fool the whole 
 Wehrmacht in the building, before strangling a general and escaping through the window.
  What was quite unspectular was the green beret. the open shooting sequences aren't as cool as in 
 "real" shooters. However, there are not that many boring things in the game to stop playing it. 
 It does entertain and is certainly worth playing . The question is rather whether to buy it. You 
 could just as well rent the thing and try to get through it quickly, it's not that difficult and 
 can be done in some hours. (Unlike the old Commandos games, if you remember :) ) 
  
  Conclusion: solid game, but think twice before buying it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss33
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  
  yeah commandos strike force is good first person shooter with good graphic, good gameplay, and 
 new style in fps games and i tell you if you like 
  battlefield modern combat with selecting a other allies to help you and use their abilities to 
 make things round and complete the missions youre on right place and you can enjoy of playing this 
 game.
  in one mission you can select between three soldiers one spy one sniper and one heavy armed man 
 to do business and you must use them in orde to complete one mission.
  the battlegrounds are made so good with lot of variety and this means you can enjoy more. 
  personaly 
 i think graphic is not the important thing always and one good game needs a good storyline and 
 good gameplay and commandos have them for enough.
  
  at the end if you like to experience a new fps with some new things you have good choice and its 
 commandos strike force 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dork69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  The game brings a great experience putting you in the hands of 3 sons-of-a gun commandos, allowing 
 you to have a first-person shotter in various styles (Sniper/Green Beret) , and at the same time 
 making you have to use strategy and cunning to achieve your objectives, and that is what makes 
 this a great game, the mixture of the gameplay you where used to see in other Commandos games, 
 and, the adding of the first person view, although i was a little disapointed since it has only 
 3 playable characters: Sniper, Green Beret and Spy. I would say that for the game to become even 
 better it could use a little more diversity, like in the playable characters, and the scenaries, 
 not to mencion the work it needs to be done in the sound department and the fact that when you 
 finish all the levels and missions that the game has it doesn't offers a lot to do next. Overall 
 i enjoyed the game very much and, dare i say, its a recommended experience for all of WW2 games 
 fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amrsayed30
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  if you want play game play (Commandos Strike Force) realy its good game
  good graphic good sound very good control and story not bad the bad thing its short you can olay 
 this game it is same call of duty
  the game contect 10 stage its prety
  you olay in france and mascow you can ammo 3 wepons only
  + exaplasive and r. b. j
  you play 
 with 3 charcter
  sniper, commandos and spy
  evry one have amission in game
  evry one must succsed in heas mission if fail you wil replay from cheak point or save games or 
 quicesave
  no wait go go go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PET_
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was very interesting. The missions when you use your SPY are the best. The sad thing 
 is that you are NOT forced to be on stealh. Manny times I start firring, soldiers coming after 
 me and me waiting after the wall, shooting everything that appear. So stealth is not really the 
 only option. It's like in the first Hitman. YOu can just start and shooting everything.
  
  As I said. The missions when you are the SPY RULZ. It's simply amazing. So much feeling. I recommend 
 playing the game... i'm also waiting for the sequel...
  
  P. S. To bad that the "team" isn't the old team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  I was a little doubtful about how the much lauded Commandos franchise would translate to a First 
 Person Shooter. The Genre is already overwhelmed with titles and typically developers are better 
 off sticking with what they know best. However, I have to say I was pleasantly surprised and glad 
 that I bought this game afterall. This is an FPS where you cannot just act but actually have to 
 take a second and think before you frag. Situations have multiple ways of being handled and the 
 ways you can go about them can be creative. The characters have good personalities even if they 
 are a bit stereo-typical. Having the ability to switch between you commandos real-time to accomplish 
 your goals such as switching to your sniper to take out searchlights so that you can then move 
 your green beret forward certainly gives a refreshing element. 
  
  Most of all you can see they guys at Pyro really put their hearts and soul into this game (if there 
 are any doubts check the making of video in the game) and I think that gamers should really support 
 developers who try to break from the mold and do something different. At $29.95, its a good deal 
 but the gameplay does not feel like a budget title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gemi_hk
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that the Commandos has adopted a new method of controlling I thought it will be a 
 revolution in the Commandos series, but it seems that the this was on the account of everything 
 thing else, I wasnt intending to make destructive criticism but I cant help it, when I started the 
 game the graphics were bad even at maximum graphic settings with a XFX 6600 GT Graphic card !! 
 Call of duty 1 looked better !!
  There were repeated and recycled faces, all enemy characters of same ranks looked the same, AI was 
 not that great, Some enemy units may run into u without shooting or pause for a while without doing 
 anything and when you switch characters the unused character doesnt play any vital part, just stand 
 still I think.
  The stealthy part doesnt rise to games like thief, I made stealth kills right beside enemies without 
 hearing the action or at least notice the absence of the victim. AND SO FAR U DONT MOVE OR HIDE 
 BODIES, BODIES DISAPPEAR WHEN THE SPY TAKE THERE CLOTHS.
  Further more u play with 3 main characters only (Green Beret-Spy-Sniper)
  Where the Heck are 
 the other guys, In the last mission of commandos 3 all the characters were available and it was 
 a massive blast.
  There are lots of other bad stuff to mention but I guess thats enough for you guys out there to 
 think carefully before buying the game.
  The only exception is if you have played every historic 1st person shooter ever known and desperately 
 looking for something new (different)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-MASTER
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the good things about this game.
  The game is very enjoyable & highly addictive. You have 3 different characters to play with & every 
 character has it's different ways & weapons to accomplish the missions.
  The missions with "the spy" will remind you some sort of the "thief" games
  so everyone who likes 
 stealth games will like it.
  But the thing that make this game unique is that in some missions you play with more than one character 
 & you can switch the character.
  
  & now for the bad things.....
  The graphics in this game are not that bad, but it could have been better.
  It's maybe not ugly 
 graphics, but it looks so simple.
  In the missions that you take control of more that 1 character the character that you don"t control 
 doesn't shoot / hide / move on his own & that is annoying because most of the time it get's killed 
 & when you want to switch a character you realize that you have only 1 character
  
  The thing that worse of all is that the game is "Painfully T-O-O S-H-O-R-T !
  There's total only 
 14 missions...
  
  I'v finished the game in less than 2 days, but I'm still not disappointed because this game is 
 a great fun.
  And I still recommend it !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wasdy1
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Crappy frame rates even at the lowest setting possible, game is way too easy, even on hard difficulty, 
 Strike Force does not live up to previous Commandos titles, graphics are very primitive, the AI 
 is very dumb, you can do "Stealth Kills" right beside another soldier and he wont notice a thing 
 the only thing that is not so bad is the story, but thats it... Eidos have really dissapointed me 
 with this 1, the previous Commandos were very challenging and a lot of fun, u had to think for 
 minutes about your next move, in Strike Force you dont have to think a lot... Its just another quick 
 fix to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krayman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game sucks from the beggining and it aint ambitious... it's like the creators didn't care about 
 this game when they were creating it... it sucks really bad.. the Graphics aint right, damn the first 
 Medal Of Honor game got better graphics... and the sound sux... stealth in this game is fine u gonna 
 play max 2 hours and then u get tired of the same missions and objectives u do so u choose to watch 
 TV instead... I mean the creators didn't think about making this game a litte more effects... better 
 AI and better GRAPHICS goddamed it aint right... they ruined the Commandos series 
  
  That's my opinion of this game... like it or not... play the older commandos games instead of buying 
 a crap game like this one!! Noth worth the wait, money and playing.. dissapointing!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
