-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer The First Decade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandconquerthefirstdecade/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Brings 12 different C&C products together onto one disc.
 Games appear and play almost exactly how you remember them.
 Lots of then-groundbreaking FMV is included throughout the series.
 Kane is still amazing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Minor bugs and omissions here and there take away from the early games' impact.
 Not enough Kane (never enough Kane, really).
 Bonus DVD isn't terribly insightful or interesting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.8, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 2,497 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Dreamworks Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 7, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A lot of what made Command & Conquer great comes through in this package, but a few rough edges 
 make it all seem a little sloppy. 

  Back in 1992, PC developer Westwood Studios released a PC game called Dune II. The game was based 
 on the Dune universe, but in the end, the licensed sci-fi setting really didn't matter. The gameplay 
 was what really sold it. Dune II was, in many respects, the game that launched the real-time strategy 
 genre. But it sort of remained in a niche. That niche exploded into a full-blown genre with the 
 release of Blizzard's Warcraft and Westwood's next game, which ditched the Dune license in favor 
 of an over-the-top, near-future sci-fi story. That game was 1995's Command &amp; Conquer. Over 
 the years, Westwood, which was eventually absorbed into the Electronic Arts collective, has released 
 a whole lot of games with the C&amp; C name on them. Command &amp; Conquer: The First Decade collects 
 almost all of them into one package and includes a DVD that covers the series' history.  

          Watching Kane and his minions plot to destroy civilization as we know it is still a lot 
 of fun.     

  Most of the Command &amp; Conquer games are recent enough that the originals still run on modern 
 operating systems without much work. That, in some ways, makes the first couple of games -- Command 
 &amp; Conquer and the alternate history spin-off, C&amp; C Red Alert -- the most interesting games 
 in the whole collection. Released in 1995 and 1996, respectively, the above-mentioned games have 
 been updated to run under Windows XP, but that's really about it. By today's standards, the video 
 that gave the series so much personality looks absolutely awful -- there are fake scanlines running 
 through it and it's compressed with what was probably cutting-edge technology 11 years ago. For 
 some, it will be a nostalgic treat; others will probably wish that the video was cleaned up. And 
 people who run into a bug will probably wish that Red Alert played the between-mission cutscenes 
 on the Soviet side. But everyone who remembers these old games will probably wish that the install 
 sequences were included.  

  Many of the Command &amp; Conquer games had long, drawn-out install processes that were deeply 
 immersed in the look and feel of the C&amp; C universe. Here, you're treated to the standard Windows 
 installer. And since you're going to be installing up to 12 games off of the collection's dual-layered 
 DVD, the install process is long. Like,  long. The cool-looking 
 install processes were one of the things that set the C&amp; C games apart from the pack, and it's 
 disappointing that they aren't included here.  

  The first two games in the series do have Internet multiplayer in there... somewhere. Unfortunately, 
 this is another part of the package that wasn't updated. When you click on the Internet play button 
 in C&amp; C or Red Alert it simply asks you to install Westwood Chat, a client that Westwood released 
 with the games that served as its player-matching service (Westwood Chat isn't included with the 
 package, though) . Some enterprising players in the community have cobbled together a way to get 
 it all working. But it's sort of lame that players would have to jump through this many hoops to 
 get it going, and it shows a real lack of concern on the part of those who were involved in putting 
 the compilation together. Sure, players are probably more likely to be playing the more recent 
 games in the series competitively, but slapping the warning of "Online play for games in this compilation 
 may be discontinued and is not guaranteed" on the box and hoping for the best doesn't cut it. The 
 early games in the series certainly don't look like they got much attention, even though this is 
 a package meant to honor some of the greatest games ever made.  

          The general here has some mission objectives for you.     

  Of course, all of these 
 complaints are about the things that surround the gameplay. The gameplay itself is as you remember 
 it. Command &amp; Conquer pits the G. I. Joe-like forces of GDI against the evil forces of the Brotherhood 
 of Nod. Each side has two different, but functionally similar, sets of forces at their disposal, 
 and you can play as either side. This is real-time strategy at its most basic. Waypoint systems? 
 Intelligent pathing? Check back in a few years. While it's true that some of the things that aren't 
 as polished in the early C&amp; C games may annoy you if you've been keeping up with the RTS genre, 
 the old stuff still holds up pretty well.     

  C&amp; C Red Alert takes the concepts of the original and uses the same engine to put out something 
 entirely new. The story is completely different, since this is an alternate history tale. Back 
 in the World War II days, Einstein applies his mind to figuring out time travel... and succeeds. 
 So he flings himself back into time and assassinates Hitler before his rise to power. This singular 
 act recasts all of the 1940s, and it's Stalin and the red threat of the Soviets that instead rise 
 to power, setting up an epic conflict between the Soviets and Allied forces that's marked by tesla 
 coils and other crazy retrofuturistic technology.  

          Renegade let you get all the way down in the muck and take out NOD forces all by yourself. 
     

  C&amp; C: Tiberian Sun is the true sequel to the original game, returning to the GDI versus Nod 
 conflict with an upgraded engine. Tiberian Sun sticks relatively close to the original, and at 
 that time it was seen as a fault, given the way the RTS genre was diverging. Taken out of that 
 environment, the game works nicely as a sequel and goes bigger budget on the talent by including 
 Michael Biehn and James Earl Jones in its cast. But yet again, the real star of the show is Joseph 
 Kucan, who reprises his role as Kane, the evil mastermind behind Nod.  

  From there, things took a dramatic sidestep outside of the real-time strategy realm. Command &amp; 
 Conquer Renegade is a first-person shooter that attempts to meld the action-based gameplay of an 
 FPS with the real-time strategy found in the C&amp; C universe. It's sort of a weird way to look 
 at Command &amp; Conquer, and the game does a pretty good job of fitting in the different units 
 and fiction associated with the series. That said, this game, originally released in 2002, perhaps 
 looks the most dated of the bunch. First-person shooters just don't age well.  

  The natural follow-up to a proper C&amp; C game is, of course, another game in the Red Alert line. 
 Red Alert 2 and its expansion, Yuri's Revenge, used the same engine as Tiberian Sun to deliver 
 a quality follow-up and more crazy FMV, this time including Ray Wise as the president, Kari Wuhrer 
 as the allied commando, Tanya, and the always-creepy Udo Kier as the crafty Russian psychic, Yuri. 

  After that, we get into more modern territory with the most recent games in the series, Command 
 &amp; Conquer Generals and its expansion pack, Zero Hour. These games took the real-time strategy 
 series to a polygonal world, giving you more control over your view of the action in the process. 
 Generals doesn't go back to the GDI versus NOD conflict of the original series. Instead, it goes 
 for the "ripped from today's (well, 2003's) headlines" thing by putting the USA versus China versus 
 a fictional terrorist group called the GLA. It also broke away from the full-motion video that 
 defines much of the rest of the series. It was a quality real-time strategy game in 2003, and despite 
 some rust around the slightly outdated graphics, it still plays just fine.  

  In most cases, in fact, the gameplay holds up well. Even though the feature sets have changed and 
 things like pathing and build queues improve from game to game, just about all of these games are 
 still a lot of fun. If you're nostalgic about the older games in the series, then you'll probably 
 have a good time playing those as well, although they're not perfect ports.  

          Collecting the first decade together, at times, seems more like a ploy to get people excited 
 about what's coming next rather than a genuine nostalgia piece.     

  In addition to the games, the bonus DVD attempts to provide a little historical context with a 
 number of short, edited features and interviews with various EA employees. But very little of it 
 feels "inside," since Westwood shut its doors and some of its staff migrated to another EA studio. 
 Instead, for the most part, you get to see people that are responsible for the Generals games talking 
 about the first time they saw a Command &amp; Conquer game and how that made them feel. Really, 
 all this DVD needed was full-quality versions of some of the cutscenes, a few bloopers or deleted 
 scenes, and an exhaustive "Where Are They Now: Joe 'Kane' Kucan" feature, and it would have been 
 great.  

  This package is long on great gameplay, but it doesn't seem like the developers responsible for 
 collating everything onto one disc took a great deal of care with the materials. If you're willing 
 to overlook a few bugs and missed opportunities, you'll find some of the greatest real-time strategy 
 games ever made here. But given the series' pedigree, The First Decade deserved a little more polish 
 than it got, making the whole thing seem like a sort of "don't forget about C&amp; C" product that's 
 intended to drive interest in a new sequel. Let's hope that the team working on the second decade 
 of C&amp; C is a little more respectful of the legacy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (118 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Green44
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Throws together all the great games from the series on to two disks and lets you play them to your 
 hearts content. It has a few bugs but nothing to the patches did not fix and lets you get online 
 for multilayer action as well as all the same features as the games in their original form.
  What else could a fan of C&C ask for.
  All in all a good deal that will save some space in you 
 game collect as well as the trouble of looking for the right disk all the time.
  Keeps me wanting more though, hopefully one day there will be a second decade disk or they will 
 remake and release updated versions of all the old favorites.
  Looking forward to getting a copy of red alert 3 just as soon as I have some cash. HAZAH for great 
 old games.
  I also didn't realize I would have to right an essay to review the game but I guess this makes 
 sure that only people who have some useful information will take the time to do a review. I think 
 this is long enough now. Great game though, totally worth the trouble. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyhawksP8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  The First Decade is best in the Command and Conquer Saga pack that will include every game except 
 for C&C: Sole Survivor which EA has presumably disowned for good reasons too. 
  
  A First Decade List of games included: 
  
  Command and Conquer (The original game of C&C)
 
  Command and Conquer: The Covert Operations (expansion)
  
  Command and Conquer Red Alert
  Command and Conquer Red Alert: The Aftermath (expansion)
  Command and Conquer Red Alert: Counterstrike 
 (expansion)
  
  Command and Conquer Tiberian Sun
  Command and Conquer Firestorm (expansion)
  
  Command and Conquer Renegade (FPS)
  
  Command 
 and Conquer Red Alert 2
  Command and Conquer Red Alert Yuri's Revenge (expansion)
  
  Command and Conquer Generals 
  Command and Conquer Generals Zero Hour (expansion)
  
  This 
 pack boasts being the price of one game but is now sold for up to $80 but if you're like me you'll 
 find Command and Conquer Saga for $24 on Ebay. On to the review, all of the games are patched up 
 to their latest update but people without graphic cards may find Red Alert 2 and its expansion 
 will not work properly or won't install. The other great thing is that you don't need a disc to 
 play most of the games.
  
  You'll get to experience Kane through the ages C&Cs infamous character who is seen in the Tiberian 
 universe, it includes games that are impossible to find these include games like the original C&C 
 and Renegade and Renegade is the only FPS-RTS game of the series (That Tiberium one got cancelled) . 
 
  
  The package also includes a bonus DVD that has loads of features on it; however they all feel like 
 a demo of something bigger making the anniversary compilation a bit dry. The installation process 
 lacks any of the looks of C&C installers and the manual compared to my collection of Generals manuals 
 looks bland and lacks any background info or anything it just includes unit info making the whole 
 thing feel rushed.
  
  There isn't a lot to say about it actually except for that all RTS fans must have this compilation 
 in their collection even if there is a rushed feel about the package and the fact that you have 
 to type seven codes in. I'll do reviews each one eventually meanwhile check out some of my other 
 reviews they may still need editing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Du1araki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  My very first computer game that was not reader rabbit or something was red alert 2. I loved it. 
 But alas my game broke and I never got around to buying it. I saw this and I was like.. HEY!!
  
  I bought it. Its a good buy to get all the classics for 30 bucks. 
  It has all the old games 
 that everyone knows. so I do not need to go into game details. 
  
  I would say that the work to put the games together was a bit crapy. I blame EA games. As I always 
 do. It took me a bit to get them to work with some crazy stuff with vista, long boring story. But 
 went to a forum.. changed a property of a file or two and it works fine. 
  
  I would recommend this to anyone that just wants to go back to the old days for a little while. 
 It is a good buy. Only wish EA did not trash the product somewhat. Other than that, its great. 
 
  
  -Dularaki 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JXGMR23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Nothing new here, all the command and conquer games, and a bonus dvd with extra features, behind 
 the scenes and previews of upcoming titles. But, Being a huge command and conquer fan, I really 
 liked the convenience of having all my command and conquer games on one dvd. The original command 
 and conquer games and red alert games make for a neat feeling of nostalgia, but that's about it... 
 as you'll find yourself playing more red alert2, tiberian sun, and generals. I also like that Renegade 
 was included because it was really fun, but not exactly the most popular C&C game. It's easy to 
 appreciate a compilation like this for the sheer cost vs. quality ratio. When I bought it, it was 
 the price of any other new pc game, but includes every C*C game up to C&C 3 PLUS all the expansions. 
 So if you missed one of the games or expansion packs, just pick this up and you'll get it all. 
 That, in my opinion, is a great value. Aside from a few minor bugs, this is an awesome compilation 
 and would recommend it to any true C&C fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_M_Tz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  The Command & Conquer franchise first originated in 1995 with the original game "Command & Conquer 
 which appeared on Windows 95. It was produced and managed by a small studio (which also created 
 the Dune series) called Westwood Studios; and was eventually bought by giant games publisher EA 
 (otherwise known as Electronic Arts) . 
  
  If you are new to the Command & Conquer franchise; then this part's for you:
  The Command & Conquer 
 storyline falls under three different universes. The first one is about two factions known as GDI 
 (GDI stands for Global Liberation Army) and represents modern day Coalition forces; and another 
 called "The Brotherhood of Nod"; which is... well, the evil one. It sets in modern future, set 
 around mid-late 21st century. The GDI's job is to get rid of this green alien-origin substance 
 (which they call Tiberium") which came from a small comet that crashed into the Earth, and also 
 defeat the "Brotherhood of Nod" whilst they are at it. Nod, tries to revolutionise the world by 
 using the Tiberium crystals to make money - and use it as weapons. (When the Tiberium substance 
 is raw, they can also kill)
  
  The second universe (or storyline) takes place during World War II and in the post-World war period. 
 Where history has changed involving Time Machines and futuristic weapons used to make an alternative 
 history. It features the Allied Forces and the Soviet forces; this is because due to the succession 
 of Einstein's Time machine - Hitler has been assassinated, but now that he has, it's Stalin that 
 wants to rule the world. 
  
  Lastly, the third universe is set in present time; presenting modern warfare alike. It centres 
 on three factions: USA, China, and the GLA; with the use of well-known weapons such involving Nuclear, 
 Anthrax and firestorms. 
  
  Now, let's talk about what "The First Decade" actually has to offer for us. The First Decade features 
 a double DVD pack which offers all of the 12 games and expansion packs released since 1995 for 
 the price of one game, that's right only one. But is it really worth it? (We'll talk about that 
 in a bit) , the second DVD features bonuses including commemorative videos, interviews alongside 
 with tribute videos which can be cool to watch on the first go, but afterwards it just seems to 
 dry out. 
  
  All the Command & Conquer games are in there, from the original Command & Conquer, Red Alert 2 
 all the way up to Zero Hour; even though it's been released to celebrate the first ten years of 
 the franchise's existence - nothing is missing, nothing extra is added, no wicked-exclusive patch 
 is even in there. Everything is still original end of story. The online severs are still down, 
 you still have to search the net for that add-on that allows you to play the first few games online 
 (However, as of this date I have recently noticed "Generals" and "Zero Hour" lobbies becoming increasingly 
 more empty, allowing less matches and wars to be played online) . However, The First Decade seems 
 to be missing something absolutely crucial to the installation of the game. Gone are the special 
 wow-looking effect of the unique Command & Conquer installation screens; it's just a normal Windows 
 XP setup installshield pop-up now. Not very entertaining at the least. 
  
  First Decade's a little buggy but worth it if you want to own the game that started the franchise. 
 But if you do already own it, then this compilation pack is not for you. The Video and Documentary 
 bonus DVD isn't really worth watching so... you're better off buying "Command & Conquer Saga" which 
 goes for the same price, except this time instead of a bonus DVD, it also features "Command & Conquer 
 3: Tiberium Wars". My advice: Buy Command & Conquer Saga, not First Decade. (May I also point out 
 that you online gaming with these games are not guaranteed.)
  
  
  Michael Tran,
  
  
  Minimum System Requirements:
  OS: Win XP.
  Processor: 800Mhz.
  Memory: 256 RAM.
  Video 
 Card: 32 MB with TGL.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzeram
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Not enough can be said about Command & Conquer. It defined a genre, gave us fun and addictive game 
 play, and of course who can forget the spectacular cut scenes. 
  
  The First Decade includes every Command & Conquer game from Command & Conquer: Tiberium Dawn to 
 Generals: Zero Hour. Every single game and every expansion pack packed onto one convenient DVD. 
 Although EA's presentation of this may be a demerit to some, I personally think that this is an 
 amazing collection.
  
  The early games of the series really show their age in 2008, but nonetheless, a fan of the series 
 will adore this collection for being able to go back and play Red Alert on Windows Vista. That 
 being said, I believe that this collection will only appeal to die hard fans of the old games. 
 People new to the series may be turned off to the old games after playing Command & Conquer 3 or 
 any new RTS game, but one must remember that these are old games, and if someone would like to 
 get to know Command & Conquer better, this is the best way to do it.
  
  There is a bonus DVD included, on it you will find interviews and the developers' and fans' reaction 
 to the series and other interesting extras. All in all, it is worth a watch because of the insight 
 into the series, and how people respond to the games.
  
  Command & Conquer: The First Decade is a fine collection of games for a great price. Weather you 
 are a loyal fan, or you want to be, this is a great place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urgotripeye
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  If ya dont have the first games, get this pack, make sure ya got the space, install'em, get patches 
 and what not (cause you'll need em) many o errors in these. Then start kickin it old school. Believe 
 me these games still hold up from the test of time, and still a challenge. To top it all off you 
 get a whole lot of bang for your buck, hours of game play where you can scream at NOD to go back 
 to whatever hole they crawled out of. Or you can scream at GDI to stop dropping bombs on yer head. 
 Or scream at Allies for there hiding tactics, and finally scream at Soviets for there shock therapy. 
 And the ever classic scream of defeat as they march into your well constructed base and blow it 
 all away, and the vise a virsa scream of that scenerio. Either way your gonna lose your voice, 
 and celebrate your victories with ice cream. Good times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobra_fox
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The First Decade is a good all round box set but its lacking still.
  
  In this box set you get all the Command and Conquer Games that were made in the first decade (everything 
 up to CNC3 Tiberium wars basically) and if you don't own many or any of the first versions then 
 you might consider getting this set but it still has its flaws unfortunately. 
  
  The biggest flaws fall in with the older command and conquers mainly the very first command and 
 conquer and red alert. There are a few things missing manly a few cut scenes and music files, there 
 is also a few bugs that still remain from the original versions, there is a patch that can fix 
 the missing video and music files but the main bugs don't seem to have been fixed. Also if you 
 like playing over a LAN you can't as it seems to have been removed you click the button and nothing 
 happens this applies to all the games apart from Renegade, Generals and Zero Hour, those are the 
 only ones that you can play over a LAN (and they are exactly as reliable as the original versions 
 were) .
  
  Other than those major issues its a good game set you get all the classics that run fairly well 
 on XP and XP only, its just that the set feels more like quick slapped together job to get it to 
 work with XP, mainly removing the LAN on the older games (or that it doesn't work either way it 
 could be better in that area) . You also get a small poster of an Ion Cannon render and a GDI tank. 
 The bonus DVD is fairly good to watch on the first time but its nothing too spectacular it has 
 a few interviews players and developers of the series and a small documentary of how this set was 
 made.
  
  Overall an ok set but it still needs more work mainly the bugs from the old games and the LAN play 
 issues but its unlikely EA will make another patch
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  command and conquer the first decade is 12 command and conquer games in one half of them expansion 
 packs it contains all three universes (tiberium red alert and generals) the games are command and 
 conquer 1 plus expansion. red alert plus 2 expansions. tiberian sun plus expansion.
  renegade. red alert 2 plus expansion. generals plus expansion. most of the games look and feel 
 like the original but the older ones still have the bugs in them and some missing music . The oddball 
 one is renagade because instead of being an rts its a fps which is interestingbut not for everyone
 
  the other problem is that it takes ALOT OF SPACE 9.8gb so it may take a while to install also 
 when installing you have 7 serial codes to read out which is annoying. Despite that its great value 
 for money and will keep you busy for months and its great having games from 1995 working on xp 
 and vista. it also has a bonus dvd which is surprisingly short about 30 mins but is very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer is one of the best REAL TIME STRATERGY games ever out even better than lord 
 of the rings. COMMAND & CONQUER first deacde gives you the best game trilogy ever to come out on 
 the pc and even 360. 
  
  
  Play one of your fave command and conquer game from tiberian sun or renegade (fps) all the way up 
 to generals or the expansion pack of ZERO HOUR and do preety much what you want to do or even who 
 you want to do (kill) play as the typical GDI or NOD all the way up to china, america OR the global 
 liberation army (talibans) . 
  
  fight single player campaign which is really good but does tend to get a bit boring or fight online 
 to see overall who is the best in the world. To be honest there is nothing wrong with the first 
 decade so this really is a must buy RTS game on PC .
  
  personally tiberium sun is the best game in the trilogy and i cant wait until the new tiberium 
 FIRST PERSON SHOOTER
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bran20022
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  To anyone who does not have this, I highly recommend you go pick it up, Any die hard C&C fans should 
 already have this, and if you don't then you need to go down to your local game store now! because 
 you will spend 100's of hours and maybe even more, playing these classic and awesome games!
  
  These games are to be loved and treasured always, no matter how old they are, they will always 
 be truly great and classic games.
  
  The games and expansions included with this are:
  
  Command & Conquer
  -Command & Conquer  The Covert Operations 
  
  Command & Conquer: 
 Red Alert 
  -Command & Conquer: Red Alert  Counterstrike 
  -Command & Conquer: Red Alert  The Aftermath 
  
  Command & Conquer: Tiberian Sun 
  -Command 
 & Conquer: Tiberian Sun  Firestorm 
  
  Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2 
  -Command & Conquer: Red Alert 2  Yuri's Revenge 
  
  Command & Conquer: Renegade 
  
  Command 
 & Conquer: Generals 
  -Command & Conquer: Generals  Zero Hour
  
  
  FYI: There are some bugs with this, but there are patches to download to fix these problems. You 
 will have to manually download the patches. 
  
  * EA announced they would resume a long time awaited patch after they're finished with patching 
 C&C 3, which is kind of disappointing to see it's not getting a lot of priority , especially before 
 the release of C&C 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladin125
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Most of the games included in the First Decade won't even work on Vista... but as far as I've seen, 
 they are pretty good. Generals and Generals: Zero Hour are especialy fun. On Lan, it is a great 
 game to play, especialy because it is possible to play with the same disk and CD code. I belive 
 that the other games included in this pack are deserving of about a 7.5, but back in their day, 
 probably an 8.5 - 9.0. In my opinion, Generals is more fun that C&C3, but C&C3 is pretty close, 
 especialy because of the graphics. I think I don't like it because of the fact that it is too much 
 like other RTS games of today, and because since Company of Heroes is the best RTS I've played 
 yet. There is no comparison for that game. The campaign on Genenerals and Zero Hour are both very 
 addictive and fun to play because you always want to get to the next cut scene and part of the 
 story. (that is the same in all of the C&C games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: athenian29
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Let me say it outright: this is flat-out the best compilation ever. The Orange Box barely comes 
 close. Okay, now that that's out of the way, let me get on with it.
  Command and Conquer: The First Decade is a compilation of every Command and Conquer game before 
 C&C 3: Tiberium Wars. It includes 6 games and 6 expansions:
  
  -Command and Conquer + Covert Operations
  -Command and Conquer Tiberian Sun + Firestorm
  -Command 
 and Conquer Renegade
  -Command and Conquer Red Alert + Counterstrike + Aftermath
  -Command and Conquer Red Alert 2 + Yuri's Revenge
  -Command and Conquer Generals + Zero Hour
 
  
  The games themselves are fun. I got this for X-Mas of '07, and at the time I wrote this I have 
 only played C&C + Covert Ops, C&C RA + CS + AM, and C&C Renegade. However, from what I've seen, 
 the games are fantastic. It forced me to think harder and faster than usual (I'm a more slow RTS 
 kinda guy (*cough*Age of Empires*cough) ) , but it's fun. Everybody loves a challenge.
  Bear in mind that when I rate C&C: The First Decade, I give it a 10/10 because of value, not because 
 of one game in particular. A compilation is only as good as the stuff inside it, and if the stuff 
 inside is crummy, then so is the product. The games in this box are all fun despite the dated graphics, 
 to the point where it's almost more fun to play the older games just because it's so cartoony. 
 The bonus DVD is fair but not memorable, but that's not what I got it for. I got this box to play 
 a shipload of fun games, and that's what it gave me. There is no weak link in this compilation 
 (unless you count the bonus DVD) , and the fact that you can get this baby for $29.99 on Amazon 
 means that nobody should ever miss this game. You'd have to have a computer older than dirt to 
 have trouble running this since the games are just as old (read: Windows 95-era) . Get this game. 
 Seriously, quit reading this and go get it right now. If you don't have it already, I laugh at 
 you for torturing yourself in this way. Get a move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  It's been about a year since this box was launched, and prices are down to a very interesting price-point 
 where this bundle is the best deal around for the money, dispite beeing a quite old franschise. 
 Compelling all previous games and expansions into one DVD was a genious move, since certain of 
 these games are still crowded online so you will have all the campaigns and most of all the multiplayer 
 components still more than intact, with exceptions for older C&C games which servers and account 
 systems died out with EA: s move on Westwood. 
  
  Since I bet everybody here has played atleast one or two Command & Conquer games I won't say much 
 about the games itself, but you can make the game what you like it to be; you can play longer, 
 strategic, games or play in the less flavorable rushes which is the biggest plauge what Command 
 & Conquer really defined which stupifies most of the online-games. But after a few games you'll 
 be ready to defend yourself against early attacks, or host them yourself. 
  
  As I mentioned, this is all about value as it is also very convinient to have all 12 games on one 
 DVD rather than on their own respective discs. On the positive side overall: Fantastic value, Bonus 
 DVD, includes basic poster, excellent looking case and terrific Multiplayer support, does not include 
 Tiberium Wars as it would ruin the box with its pressence. Negative: Certain games has its Multiplayer 
 expired due to shut-down Westwood Servers (games before 1998) , Bonus DVD isn't appealing to anybody 
 since it doesn't give much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retwakm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I am kind of a noob at command and conquer games. this one had me the instant i started playing 
 the original. The really good thing about it was that I played through every campaighn for every 
 game and spent about a half dozen hours on skirmish for each of them and I calculated over 450 
 hours of gameplay. Sure, they are old games ( except generals) but it is really fun and an average 
 player will probably not beable to finish it in less than a year. The only bad thing is that the 
 multiplayer \has been shut down for every game but generals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissRiotmaker
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  As if Tiberium Sun wasn't enough, Red Alert made an appearance. And if Red Alert didn't ease your 
 hunger Red Alert 2 popped out and brought a whole new perspective to the RTS industry. Then Westwood 
 had to go and touch bases in the FPS sector, creating Renegade. Generals made an appearance shortly 
 after and redefined the meaning of an RTS at it's peak.
  
  Every game had it's perfection and every one had it's flaws. Some were classics and some were failures. 
 The First Decade brings it all together in one of the greatest gaming package ever.
  
  All I can truely say is, if you're a C&amp; C fan and you're looking for hours upon hours upon hours 
 of excitement, involvement and massive replay value; The First Decade is there for you.
  
  A defining ten in my books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col-Neil
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are just as good as I remembered them when I first played each game the 
 only problems I ran into where with the first C&amp; C game and the first Red Alert game which kind 
 of made things harder to play.
  
  Game Play: Getting the chance to play through the C&amp; C History is just as fun as it was as well 
 as challenging again and with 12 games in total youre not going to get bored easily with the first 
 decade Sound: Westwood made sure to have all the original music in game which was a really great 
 movie because the C&amp; C games I feel have had great music which made things more fun while playing 
 through the missions and with the cut scenes as well they made sure to give us the best possible 
 sound Value: I picked up the first decade for about &pound;20 from GAME so yeah its safe to say 
 &pound;20 for 12 games your getting your moneys worth especially if your a fan and even if your 
 not its not a bad deal
  
  Overall: Normally I dont bother with collection games like this but vie been a C&amp; C fan for 
 ages I couldnt pass it up like I said at the start this is defiantly something for all fans and 
 even if your new to the series its still worth a look in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  C&C The First Decade is a collection of all 10 C&C games (not including the new C&C 3) . I will 
 review each game seperately:
  
  -Command & Conquer:
  This is the original game and the story is excellent. You play as either GDI or NOD. There is a 
 big variety of missions to play here including 'destroy all enemy units', stealth missions and 
 more. It's one of my faveourite C&C games but unfortunetely, the game has no skirmish mode so you 
 can only go through the campaign. Score: 9/10
  -C&C The Covert Operations:
  This is the expansion to C&C. There are 15 tough missions that prove a challenge and you can choose 
 them in any order. Only real problem here is that some are literally just, well, impossible! Score: 
 7/10 (already done a bigger review on this game)
  -C&C Red Alert:
  This is one of the greatest RTS games ever! Instead of controlling GDI or NOD you command the Allies 
 or Soviets. Red Alert features way more buildings, units, bigger maps and battles than the first 
 C&C but the graphics are identical except for some different textures. Skirmish is awesome in Red 
 Alert! This is a great improvement on the first C&C. Score: 10/10
  -C&C Red Alert Counter Strike and The Aftermath:
  I am reviewing the 2 expansions as just 1 game. 
 Like Covert Ops, you choose what mission you want to play in any order. they are still a challenge 
 but not as hard as C&Cs add on. Unlike The Covert Ops, these 2 expansions feature more units and 
 buildings meaning that skirmish is better than ever! Score: 9/10
  -C&C Tiberian Sun:
  This is the sequel to the original C&C and it has a futuristic setting. GDI and NOD both get some 
 really interesting units and buildings- but GDI seem to be so much better than NOD. The missions 
 are good fun and skirmish is god too... it's just not as good as Red Alert. I was always seem to 
 run out of money on this one. Score: 7/10
  -C&C Tiberian Sun Firestorm:
  This is more like it. Firestorm brings loads of new units and buildings to the game! Campaigns 
 are not as good but skirmish is fantastic in Firestorm! Score: 8/10
  -C&C Red Alert 2:
  An instant classic, Red Alert 2 is just a truly great game. theres so much new things you can do 
 and all the things for Allies and Soviets are perfect. Story mode is probably the best out of all 
 the C&C games. Skirmish is great too becasue you can choose what country you want to be and each 
 one has their own super unit! Score: 9/10
  -C&C Red Alert 2 Yuris Revenge:
  This is it. the definitive C&C game! This add on is perfect and its the best add on for any game 
 ever! Definitely my fave C&C game. The story is great, you fight Yuri and even Allies and Soviets 
 work together to defeat him. Skirmish is the best thing- you can be Yuri so there are 3 armies 
 and so many cool new buildings and weapons! Score: 10/10
  -C&C Renegade:
  OK, well this isnt an RTS, its an FPS/3rd person shooter set in the C&C universe. It's a decent 
 game, but I would like it a lot more if you could be more than just the GDI commando in story mode. 
 However, the multiplayer is great and addictive. Campaign is pretty good. Score: 7/10
  -C&C Generals:
  I dont like the new 3D concept- the armies are good but I just think Generals 
 is not great. The skirmish mode here is good I suppose but its just not the same C&C gameplay. 
 Score: 5/10
  -C&C Generals Zero Hour:
  This is much better than the first Generals. Loads of new stuff and cool skirmish and campaign 
 modes make Generals finally makes Generals a welcome addition to the C&C series! Score: 8/10
  
  Overall score: 9.8/10- it's a great collection of the best RTS series to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Several great things about this package:
  
  1. You can play Tiberian Sun and previous titles in windows XP now. That's a treat!
  
  2. You 
 can play the classic C&amp; C and Red Alert without the disc!
  
  3. Bonus footage and multimedia disc containing satisfying enough materials for fans, from fans.
 
  
  4. Just one DVD to bring along with your laptop if you plan to work/study overseas for some time.
 
  
  5. (optional) You can discard all the previous copies to clear a huge amount of storage space now 
 that you own the ultimate collection - in a single box.
  
  6. You can forget about sleep again.
  
  What can I say? 12 game titles for a single title receipt. 
 A worthier buy if you missed a few original copies in your collection. It even includes a cool 
 but small poster. Well, only one downside is that you need to additionally install a main menu 
 with its own individual cd-key that takes up some space on your disk even if there's no actual 
 game installed yet, but it's not a big deal now given the ridiculous giga amounts of harddisk space 
 in current pc sets.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Games have gone a long way. Simply glancing at C&amp; C The First Decade is proof of that fact. 
 Most of the games found in TFC are outdated graphically, but one thing one will notice is that 
 the core RTS-style gameplay still remains (with the exception of C&amp; C Renegade, which is a FPS) .
 
  
  The bad - 1) If you're running this game on Vista, there are numerous bugs (such as minor crashes/failure 
 to load..) that might make you bang your head but hopefully there are workarounds/fixes. In other 
 news, TFD forces you to typed every single CD-key of the games that you want to play at the installation 
 screen.
  
  2) It should be noted that several of the games (such as the original C&amp; C;12 games in total) 
 have no online play, or online play doesn't exist unless you install some other unofficial third 
 party components. 3) Numerous games are rehashes of the previous ones, with no worthy additions.
 
  
  Overall, TFD is a great set to have if you want all of the older C&amp; C games in one place. If 
 you have never liked C&amp; C or simplified RTS games, this package probably isn't for you. If you 
 get easily turned off by outdated visuals, don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenEmu
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 22, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  This definitely was the game series that got me hooked to RTS games in the first place, so I have 
 many fond memories of the hours of playing the games. However, after installing and trying to play 
 the old game, you see exactly how far RTS have come, and how dated the old ones are.
  
  It's a great primer game for those who have little experience with RTS games, or C&amp; C games 
 for that matter. And some have a fair bit of replay value (mostly the sequels) , but the originals 
 seem very slow, hard to look at graphically, outdated, and frustrating for those who enjoy the 
 new features like garrisoning troops and veterans.
  
  That aside, it's still a great blast from the past, and I'll play it all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonOfSparda018
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  C&amp; C games have always set a standard other strategy games imitated. Since the very first installments 
 this series showed some very good promise. Then Red Alert came, and it was the talk of strategy 
 gamers for quite some years. And what about Tiberian Sun? Ah, I almost forgot the awesome C&amp; C 
 Generals!
  
  Well, to cut it short, just go out and buy this compilation, casue it will surely be worth your 
 money at the end. Ok, some games look a bit aged for todays graphics, but still they are very much 
 enjoyable. My personal favourite is Command &amp; Conquer Generals, cause it features some very 
 cool fighting and abilities. I like to play the GLA Army. It's got some unique and memorable characters 
 that will keep you coming back for more. There's also the option of playing multiplayer skirmish 
 games against your friends, which makes for an even bigger experience.
  
  The games are quite challinging, especially for newbies. But you can customize the game to suit 
 your capabilities. You can also tweak with various settings (graphics/sounds/etc) so you can make 
 the game run properly on almost every pc.
  
  One thing I suggest is downloading the patches (which are available on gamespot) that fix some 
 music &amp; other minor problems.
  
  If you are interesting in strategy warfare then do a fvour to yourself.. check out this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shane2k7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  in the command and conquer the firstb decade their are two disks, one is the game disk an the other 
 is a bonus dvd disk.
  on the first disk witch is the game disk their are evey command and conquer since the first ever 
 command and conquer to command and conquer generals zero hour witch in my opinion is one of the 
 best on the disk. also on the first disk are: c&amp; c witch is the first ever command conquer ever 
 to immerge from westwood studios in america.
  
  c&amp; c covert operations witch is the extention pack for the first command ad conquer.
  
  
 c&amp; c red alert witch is thefirst of a mini series of command and conquer games.
  
  c&amp; c red alert the aftermath witch is second part of the mini series called red alert.
  
 
  c&amp; c red alert counter strike witch is the third part of the epic mini series called red alert.
 
  
  c&amp; c tiberiam sun also known as tiberium wars witch is the first of another mini series called 
 tiberiam wars.
  
  c&amp; c fire storm also known as tiberium wars two witch is the second part of the mini series 
 called tiberium was.
  
  c&amp; c renagade witch is a one off in the command and onquer univerce because it is a first person 
 shooter rarther than an rts.
  
  c&amp; c red alert two witch is the forth part of the mini series called red alert.
  
  c&amp; c 
 red alert uri's revenge witch is the concluding part of the mini seres called red alert.
  
  c&amp; c generals witch is the beging of anoher mini series called command and conquer generals.
 
  
  c&amp; c generals zero hour witch is the concluding part of the generals mini series.
  
  in command and conuer you are in command of an army and you can build that army to make it 
 strong enough to defeat your enamy while trying to defend your own base against the attacking enamy 
 forces.
  in my opinion it dosent take that long to learn how to command your army i understood the controls 
 and was on to the second single player mission within the first thirty minutes. dont worry the 
 missions get harder as you progress through the games.
  
  if you like rts games (real time strategy games) you will definatly think that this is the best 
 one that you have ever played.
  
  related games: command and conquer tiberiam wars 3 (xbox 360 / pc) command and conquer red alert 
 (playstation) command and conquer red alert 2 (playstation)
  
  remember you dont have to buy the box set if you want all the command and conquer games because 
 you can buy them seperatly but i would advise you to buy the box set because it is a lot cheaper, 
 its only twenty pound for the box set but it is like ten pound a game to buy them seperatly.
  
  hope you enjoyed my reveiw and i hope you found it helpful.
  
  please leave a comment and 
 tell me what you thought. thanx.
  
  ps... sorry for all the spellin mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fearog
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  How anyone can not like this bundle is beyond me. Granted you get the games that everyone hated 
 as well as the great classics, but it is so worth it. I mean $50 for every Command and Conquer 
 game ever made! The bonus disk does suck for the most part which is a down side. And it dose include 
 Renegade and Yuri's Revenge but I'll forgive them as they did carry the C&amp; C name. The best 
 part of this bundle is still the original Command and Conquer brought me back to when I first started 
 getting hooked on computer games back playing with my best friend online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_reardant
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  The first decade, the ultimate collection featuring all 12 C&amp; C games (not including the recent 
 tiberian war) I have pre-ordered every single C&amp; C game as soon as it was available, i have 
 at least 2 copies of every single C&amp; C game, it's loaded on all my computers and I constantly 
 play as many as I can, screw all these next gen games (excluding C&amp; C3) the old-school games 
 will never die, Command and Conquer was epic my only childhood memories are of playing old-school 
 games like C&amp; C and doom95. Red alert and expansions were a masterpiece in the series, there 
 was so much hype back then, complete classic. Red alert 2 is probably my favorite, I bought it 
 the day I joined secondary school in 2000. Many days spent fighting with the allies and soviets, 
 was a brilliant follow up to C&amp; C red alert.
  Yuri's revenge; the sequel was a bit disappointing but still had a great single player campaign 
 and hours of fun to be had on new skirmish maps, however Yuri's team was heavily unbalanced disrupting 
 the allied and soviet skirmishes. Tiberian sun and expansion firestorm was a big leap from the 
 traditional C&amp; C setting and I think it was off putting for many, although it was a big change 
 it became an instant classic. C&amp; C renegade was the first and hopefully last FPS C&amp; C, It 
 was another interesting command and conquer experiment, possibly attempting to lure the FPS market 
 to C&amp; C but as far as I know everyone I've asked disliked it, including myself. However the 
 multi-player side of renegade was apparently quite entertaining for some.
  Command and Conquer General and Zero hour expansion was an entirely new approach to C&amp; C. Generals 
 was 3D, no side bar, new teams/units and multi-player skirmishes. Essentially EA games butchered 
 Westwood studios classic series and turned it into a generic RTS. Generals was a huge let down 
 and it took me a long time to accept it, now I like to have a game of generals now and then but 
 it's just not the same.
  
  First decade also includes bonus features, all expansions and extra materials for the real hardcore 
 fans of C&amp; C. This is a worthwhile package to purchase, with hour and hour of game play and 
 enjoyable online gaming features inc.
  
  As for the future of C&amp; C the new tiberian wars it will be arriving to many homes around the 
 world (including mine) where RTS and C&amp; C fans will play to their hearts content. And i assume 
 they will have reverted back to the classic C&amp; C side construction bar. HURRAH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  The Command &amp; Conquer franchise is one of the most popular real time strategy brand names in 
 the gaming industry. This compilation which arrived shortly before C&amp; C 3 was announced includes 
 all C&amp; C games (except Sole Survivor) , and their expansions on a single DVD. This review will 
 be of the compilation itself, if you want my opinion on each individual game in the collection 
 I have already reviewed them previously.
  
  The First Decade includes Command &amp; Conquer, its mission disc Covert Operations, Red Alert, 
 its mission discs Counterstrike and Aftermath, Tiberian Sun, its expansion Firestorm, Red Alert 
 2, its expansion Yuri's Revenge, Renegade, and Generals along with its expansion Zero Hour all 
 on one DVD. For the most part the games work fine under Windows XP, but there are some very significant 
 bugs out of the box.
  
  The largest of the bugs is the lack of Soviet movies in Red Alert 1, and the lack of music added 
 by the C&amp; C and Red Alert mission discs. There were two patches that fixed these major problems, 
 but you need to install both patches separately as 1.02 does not contain the fixes from 1.01.
 
  
  The First Decade comes with some bonus features, but they're not really worth watching since they 
 don't offer any useful insight into any of the games in the compilation except Generals.
  
  If you want to install all of the games included in the compilation you need a lot of hard drive 
 space, as everything including the movies is installed. The First Decade takes up 10 GB if you 
 install all games, not counting saved games and mods so make sure you have plenty of hard drive 
 space left over.
  
  Is The First Decade worth it? Only if you're a newer C&amp; C fan who wants to play the older games. 
 Veterans who already own most if not all of the games in the package do not really have any reason 
 to buy this compilation. Still, the C&amp; C games are excellent so it's a great deal for the newer 
 C&amp; C fans, and the future C&amp; C fans who get into the series with C&amp; C 3... just remember 
 to download both patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tirasus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  The important thing to know about the C&amp; C games is that they are older games. For some reason 
 the reviewer of gamespot decided that he would rate part of this because there wasn't enough Kane 
 and because of 'minor bugs and omissions'.
  
  I'm sorry but the first two paragraphs after here have to be a rant, so skip them and read later 
 if you wish to read the review:
  
  Now Kane I know, is an awesome character, but there is just as much Kane in 'The First Decade' 
 as there was in the originals, because this is a pack of the originals. You can't rate it down 
 because there's not enough of him, especially when at least half of the series doesn't have anything 
 to do with GDI and NOD (with Kane) .
  
  Minor bugs and omissions.... these (at least the first lot included) are old games that used to 
 run on much older platforms, of course there's going to be minor bugs and omissions, but if they're 
 minor then it doesn't matter, right? Man I love the thought of playing the first Red Alert on Windows 
 XP because you sure as hell couldn't before, so 'minor' bugs don't really bother me.
  
  These, are classics, they are games that were great for their time, and are still great to play. 
 To play through all the old games as they once were on the computers of today is a great experience. 
 'The First Decade' allows you to see the progression of the series and why they are so well known 
 in the RTS world.
  
  To me, this is a pack of great value, in all senses to the word, so I have rated it a 9.0. Why 
 not higher? Because it is from the small reductions in rating for each of the individual games. 
 Yes, I can admit, that each of the originals weren't perfect, but that doesn't mean that I'm going 
 to rate this product a 7.6, it is a great pack, it is a great deal, and it is worth buying and 
 worth playing. .... oh and 'sloppy' is definitely a word that I won't be using to review a game 
 like this, unlike the gamespot reviewer, I'm sorry but I see no reason to call this and the history 
 that it holds 'sloppy'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oger1
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game because you get every Command &amp; conquer game to date. So people who 
 never played any of them can now play them all. Which gives you a lot of hours of game time. Plus 
 it includes a dvd which talks about 10 years of Command &amp; conquer, Westwood, and fan art, which 
 was really cool. The only thing that got me really mad was you couldn't play online with the older 
 games. But people should still get this because they could learn the back round of the Command 
 &amp; conquer universe before the Command &amp; conquer tiberium wars game comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  If you've played any real time strategy game, it's hard to ignore the impact of Warcraft, Starcraft, 
 and Command and Conquer. All series have been great improvements and have spanned for years. EA 
 has attempted to put together a large collection of some of the most memorable games made by themselves, 
 and Westwood Studios into one compact compilation.
  
  With twelve games, this collection shows off what games were like in 1995, up until now. Command 
 and Conquer 95, also known as gold, is the earliest of the games. If you've tried to install this 
 game on a windows XP computer, it will not work and that is highly unfortunate. With these games, 
 they are all updated and all games will run fine on any XP computer. Red Alert and all it's expansions 
 are on the disc as well as well as some other games such as Renegade, a FPS that doesn't do a great 
 job with recoil but it can be fun for a little while.
  
  Some of the cut scenes are missing from the disc but that can be rectified with a patch download. 
 Some other odd things involve older games trying to install Westwood chat. If you're not aware, 
 Westwood chat was the old internet venue that allowed people to connect to each other. Obviously, 
 these are not usable and it would have been nice if they allowed you to play some of the older 
 games on the internet. The collection's sounds and music are intact and some of the most memorable 
 parts of the games are the music. Not only are they catchy, but people remember them for years 
 to come.
  
  This collection is definitely worth getting if you're a Command and Conquer fan. If you're not, 
 and only want to play the games with the snazziest graphics or the best gameplay, this one is not 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmandude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is one of the games I would put on my top ten list. This has 6 games, Command and 
 Conquer, Command and Conquer Red Alert, Command and Conquer Tiberian Sun, Command and Conquer Renegade, 
 Command and Conquer Red Alert 2, and Command and Conquer Generals. It also has one expansion pack 
 per game with two expansions on Red alert and no expansions on Renegade. All are Real-Time strategies 
 except Renegade, a first person shooter. So this pack appeals to pretty much everyone. This has 
 games from 1995 to 2003 so the graphics vary but they were excellent graphics when they came out. 
 Red Alert, Tiberian sun, and Red Alert 2 are pretty much the best RTS games you will ever play. 
 Renegade is a rather decent shooter and Generals, although not true to the unique Command and Conquer 
 style of play, is still good compared to other games such as Rise of Nations and Age of Mythology. 
 All the games except Renegade and Generals without the expansion all have live cinematic with many 
 B-actors and special effects. The stories are a sort of cross between Back to the Future, WWII/ 
 Cold War, and a slight hint of Star Trek. All things considered, the stories are very entertaining 
 and creative. The songs are very good quality and are very catchy. It is a form of techno/rock/metal. 
 All the characters have a different voice. They say things related to their cause such as the Russian 
 super tank saying Armageddon is here when selected. The controls allow you to make your units have 
 pinpoint strategies laid out and followed. You can select a unit half way across the map instantly 
 and control armadas with ease. The AI is somewhat predictable in its attack routine but with the 
 limited technology of 1995 it is VERY good. Buy this game now! It is one of the best collections 
 of games ever! Stop reading this and go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven6
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I think Gerstmann is being too critical of a great collection of games. First of all, I actually 
 liked not having to look at pictures during the install process. If you have big fat pictures of 
 the game on the screen during install, it makes it difficult to do other things while it's installing. 
 And so what if the install process was long? It is TWELVE games and about 9 GB of space your putting 
 on the hard drive, you know. And it actually didn't last longer than 10 minutes on my computer.
 
  
  And yes, maybe they could have spruced up of the videos a little bit. But they don't really have 
 to, you know. In fact, making digitally remastered versions of the movies might drive up the cost 
 of the product.
  
  Finally, I really don't think EA Games is going to spend tons of money setting up servers for 10-year-old 
 games like Command and Conquer and Red Alert, so forget about the possibility of multi-player with 
 those games. Besides, we still can do Tiberian Sun and later in multi-player.
  
  Don't listen to this guy. Buy the First Decade. I'd give it a 9.0. And I'm giving Gerstmann the 
 7.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer The First Decade is probably the best compilation of games from any genre all 
 in one DVD. The C&amp; C series started back in 1995 with Command and Conquer, which at the time 
 was one of the few, if not the only real-time strategy type games. They paved the way into gamer's 
 hearts offering not only exciting game play but offered titles that had great graphics, compelling 
 storylines, exceptional acting and fantastic sound effects and music. These attributes provided 
 the groundwork for some of the best titles in the industry and a fan base like no other.
  
  There are 12 titles in the collection spanning over 10 years from 1995-2003. Not quite a real 10 
 years, but seeing as there has not been a release of any C&amp; C games since 2003 it's close enough. 
 Twelve titles in nine years is still pretty remarkable and shows that Westwood Studios kept working 
 hard to keep the fans happy. The bonus DVD is certainly worth viewing. It goes on about all the 
 development of all the games and into some detail about how the fan base grew as the series progressed. 
 Has about an hour of content and I highly recommend watching it if you purchase this excellent 
 title.
  
  Command &amp; Conquer The First Decade will combine the following titles: Command &amp; Conquer (Aug. 
 1995) Command &amp; Conquer The Covert Operations (April 1996) Command &amp; ConquerRed Alert 
 (Oct. 1996) Command &amp; Conquer Red AlertThe Aftermath (Sept. 1997) Command &amp; Conquer 
 Red Alert Counterstrike (Mar. 1997) Command &amp; ConquerTiberian Sun (Aug. 1999) Command &amp; 
 Conquer Tiberian Sun Firestorm (Feb. 2000) Command &amp; Conquer Red Alert 2 (Oct. 2000) Command 
 &amp; Conquer Yuri's Revenge (Oct. 2001) Command &amp; Conquer Renegade (Feb. 2002) Command 
 &amp; ConquerGenerals (Feb. 2003) Command &amp; Conquer Generals Zero Hour (Sept. 2003) Visually 
 you can definitely see the progression of technology as you play through each of the titles noticing 
 how the graphics and game play improved over the years as computers advanced over time allowing 
 for better visuals and more in-depth game play. Though the earlier titles may not be as pretty, 
 they still provide some awesome gaming that any RTS fan will surely enjoy. Personally, my collection 
 only involves Red Alert 2 through Generals Zero Hour. Now I was able to play the earlier titles 
 to see how the series evolved over the years. Wow, was I impressed. I have always loved the fact 
 that the games involved real actors - some of which you have actually seen in real Hollywood movies. 
 I have always felt in any game that when you use real talent it always helps the storyline in any 
 genre. It surely beats bad voice-overs from the local college trying terrible foreign accents that 
 you know you yourself could do better at. Just one more accolade to add to the long list of paramount 
 attributes in the development of a great series. All the titles have top-notch sound effects and 
 the music is still the best I have ever heard. The voices were great and I always liked the different 
 sound bytes you would hear when selecting a unit. I. e., Tanya with her Shake it Baby  and yes 
 she is still smoking hot! When you have 100 units doing different tasks, planes flying over dropping 
 bombs, guys being blown to oblivion, buildings pumping out units or being destroyed was like overload 
 to my ears because it sounded so good. Its a wonder that my ears didnt bleed. The sound effects 
 had me so immersed in the game that when I heard the nuclear alert go off I wanted to hide under 
 my desk. In short, these games all had unique qualities and pushed the envelope at the time of 
 their development. If there were not hardware limitations it would interesting to see what else 
 they could have come up with.
  
  All the storylines were so creatively done its a wonder that Westwood or EA has not jumped on 
 the bandwagon and gone Hollywood. I could see how some of the titles could certainly be spun to 
 be a box office hit. Heck, cast Kari Wuhrer (Tanya the gorgeous agent from red alert 2) in it and 
 I would sure be at the box office! In all seriousness the creativity was second to none and I surely 
 hope that in 10 years we will be looking at a second decade of hits.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  After the initial set up its a snap to get on with the gaming. All the games are on one DVD, which 
 eliminates fumbling around with different CDs. Even if you own a few of the titles it's worth 
 picking this up and having them all. I have always been a fan of the series because playing was 
 very easy with a small learning curve and adjustable options. The storylines are epic in their 
 own right and Westwood has made it a practice to use some real Hollywood actors, which proves that 
 they take great measures to make a good game into a great game.
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  Keep in mind that some older games are on the disk so compared to todays graphics they dont even 
 hold a candle to them. Some of the more recent titles like Generals still look good despite being 
 a couple of years old. C&amp; C has always pushed the envelope to invoke new technologies in their 
 games. This used to be a bear on older PCs. Today's PCs can take the abuse these titles hand out 
 easily, which make playing them now pretty much trouble free even on the highest visual detail 
 settings.
  
  Sound: 9.0
  Still sounds great after all these years. I do not believe that any of the games are surround sound 
 supported, but still sound good in stereo. The music from these game is some of the best I have 
 ever heard.
  
  Difficulty: Medium
  You can toggle many of the settings to make the game as easy or as hard as you like. Experienced 
 players will find the multiplayer useful for those all-out slugfests. Concept: 8.0
  I like what EA has been doing with some of their legacy titles like the Sims and the C&amp; C series. 
 For those who might have tried a few games on the disc, it makes purchasing this compilation worthwhile. 
 Multiplayer: 9.0
  Still one of the best multiplayer games I have ever played. Overall: 8.8
  One of the best values around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kabam87
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  As I kid I grew up playing C&amp; C. From Red Alert all the way to Generals, I played them all and 
 can't wait for C&amp; C 3. Anywho, this all-in-one collection features every C&amp; C game and expansion 
 pack that has been released for the past 10 years. Running off a computer with Windows XP, it is 
 sad to say that I cannot run the older games on my computer. What this collection does is update 
 the old school games so they can be used with newer versions of Windows. As a whole, its fun to 
 be able to play the old school games once again. Red Alert, Tiberium Sun, even Renegade, are available 
 to play. The games are the same in their entirety as they were X years ago, making it a truly nostalgic 
 experience. My biggest complaint is the installation process. It took forever and I had to enter 
 a CD key for each and every game, which didn't make a lot of sense. Other than that, if you lost 
 the game CD's, never played the C&amp; D franchise, or your collection isn't complete, you might 
 as well get this collection for $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luykus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  When a Command and Conquer player goes out to buy this what might they think. My, what is this, 
 is this all the games I use to play and maybe grew up playing on my computer. Well, that would 
 be the most likely thought anyway. Seeing all the great Westwood CandC games all in one nice little 
 package was a very cool thing. I could look past the things that they cut out of the CandC games. 
 (For the most part.) And the Bonus disk was one of the most pointless things I have ever held 
 in my hands. But for any one that wants to have all the CandC games with out finding and buying 
 them all individually should look into this nice little bundle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: future_dreamer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 10, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  EA just released the ultimate package, for any Command &amp; Conquer fan and strategy games fan 
 alike. Youll get all the C&amp; C games released to date, ranging from the first Command &amp; 
 Conquer released in 1995 to the last Command &amp; Conquer General Zero Hour, including all expansion 
 packs, in a total of 12 games! The package also includes a special bonus DVD, with several interviews 
 with the developers, behind the scenes stuff and a C&amp; C The first decade Poster. With a price 
 tag of around 30$ (Or exactly 30 in Europe) , youll get excellent value for your money.
  
  On the technical end, the games remain on their original form and by that I mean there are no remakes. 
 So dont expect for over the top graphics and effects in C&amp; C 1 since it was released 10 years 
 ago. As for compatibility issues with Win XP, I havent found any, and all the games look really 
 stable. Besides all this, you have the on-line multi-player modes. Even though I went to some trouble 
 to configure it, mainly because you have to use your EA account to play, and I was trying to create 
 a new account with Westwood broken servers. After you set it up correctly though, it works perfectly.
 
  
  Overall this package, including all the extras, single and multi-player modes, will give you countless 
 hours of fun and enjoyment. Just go out and get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chmykhalov
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  this is the best thing that every happened to inCommand &amp; Conquer. thay put them all in one 
 big box that you can spend days plaing and not get bord or have to by a new game. the only one 
 little thing that i did not like is that on the first red alert they put all 3 vershion of it in 
 in one game. that was the only thing i did not like about it. for that was the reason i bout the 
 game for. to play the red alert aftermath. so aside form that i loved it. cant wate for more to 
 come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair29
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 24, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was well worth the $30 I payed for it. It includes all thirteen games in the C &amp; 
 C franchise. The online modes are fun and I haven't noticed any cheaters yet. The first command 
 and conquer game sucks though. It may take a while to get used to the controls, but it is totally 
 worth the wait. With this disc, you won't need extra discs for extra campaigns either. The graphics 
 are pretty good, but as with most pc games, the higher you set the graphics, the slower the game 
 becomes. If you have bought the games on this disc before though, don't buy it. If you are new 
 to the series though, then go out and buy it. It totally pwns LOTR BFM2, and star craft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyAMax
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 16, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  If you have the Command &amp; Conquer Collection in your posession you would be pressed to think 
 twice before buying this collection. Let's go through the stats:
  
  + Pros
  
  &gt; 12 games on ONE DISC, that means no changing or nada, AND the DVD-ROM takes little pauses 
 to read the disc as regular CDs
  &gt; Your pretty much getting the entire C&amp; C experience both past and recently present (Generals) 
 plus they include some nice interviews from the makers if you wanna get your geek on.
  &gt; All 12 games play just as good as they would on individual discs with little or no glitches 
 (for me at least)
  
  - Cons
  
  &gt; HD sucker, like +9 gigs of space if you want the whole bananna.
  &gt; This is a biggie: 
 Original games kinda suck... yes I agree they are classics to the end but we're talkin bare bones 
 RTS here. No waypoints, no guard mode, NO multiple unit training (big one) , and the AI pathing is 
 full of glitches (Try ordering your men around a field of tiberian without marching through it)
 
  
  So yeah to sum up... I ONLY recommend this collection to the die hardest of C&amp; C fan, yes the 
 originals are a classics but hella frustrating. If you don't have the patience for lack of features 
 go with the much much cheaper C&amp; C Collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valherran
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  I had finnaly got my hands on this evil collection of RTS games of Command &amp; Conquer, i had 
 played and beaten them all within a week, (i am naturally good at these games) and i saw a lot 
 of things that didnt get fixed, for example, the cut scenes in most of the games were very tragic 
 looking still. The first C&amp; C 95 did not get a skirmish mode. The games in general still had 
 fatal data errors at random occasions. The Map editors that originally came with the some of the 
 games dont work, and is almost impossible to use and play around with the famous TibEd editor, 
 due to its different coding. Plus the one final thing that jerked my chain the most, was that the 
 old C&amp; C games still CANNOT BE PLAYED ONLINE!
  I really liked this CD, but i am also greatly dissapointed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shauncg
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 28, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  I was recently tremendously pleased to discover that I could snag myself all of the Command &amp; 
 Conquer games for a mere twenty English pounds. This was especially good given that I'd long ago 
 sold or passed on my copies of C&amp; C and RA, and had never actually played the respective sequels. 
 When it arrived I beheld what is a rather elegant piece of packaging, and dug out the DVD extras 
 disc. Yes, I watched that first, both to remind myself why these games were classics - and to raise 
 my anticipation to fever pitch. I'm like that, you see.
  
  I won't go on and on about what I have and haven't played. I'll keep this review brief: it's a 
 user review, so I doubt anyone reading it cares too deeply about my opinions. In short, I'm disappointed 
 with this package. This is not down to the games - in the last few weeks I've completed Tiberian 
 Sun and Red Alert 2 and have thoroughly enjoyed both of them. I'm currently dabbling in the add-on 
 pack missions, and they're fun as well. So why the disappointment?
  
  The main reason - and it's a biggie, this is a god-laying-the-smack-down apocalyptic end-of-days 
 sort of thing - is that Command &amp; Conquer and Red Alert, those original, beautiful, Win95 classics, 
 don't run on Windows 2000. And EA didn't bother even attempting to patch them, preferring instead 
 to proffer an extended middle digit to anyone still using this common OS. Well funk you kindly, 
 Electronic Arts, for your consideration.
  
  Okay. Let's leave that gross, glaring cock-up alone for now. Maybe it'll be patched, eventually, 
 either by EA or by the strong fan community. What else? Well, the extras DVD is a bit rubbish. 
 There are a few fans babbling about the cool lines some minor characters had, or getting over-excited 
 about the talents of the chap who plays Kane - more memorable than other C&amp; C characters, but 
 that's not saying much. There are some snippets of fan videos, some of which are a bit funny. And 
 there are a few meagre minutes of retrospective summary and nostalgia from those who developed 
 the games. It's utterly paltry and smacks of corporate disinterest.
  
  From here on my niggles become more minor. The install process has no charm or character, and every 
 time I add or remove any game or add-on pack I have to re-enter serial codes for games that I'm 
 not adding or removing. Tedious. C&amp; C: Sole Survivor is missing from the package. That's not 
 a big loss but it's still a shame. Multiplayer for the earlier games reportedly involves farcical 
 hoop-jumping. I don't tend to play RTS games multiplayer so, hey, okay.
  
  I've spent a lot of time complaining. This isn't entirely fair. I've gotten a lot of enjoyment 
 from this package. Unfortunately, with most of the games included being at least five years old, 
 it's clear that this sort of round-up can go two ways - a decent package, supported by its developers, 
 and put together with love and respect; or a shambles, held together solely by the strength of 
 what has been collated. The First Decade, sadly, is the latter. Try harder, EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeeater015
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  its like going back in time
  i dont know about you but me and all my friends with the original games either lost them or they 
 got somehow scratched (one of em got their disc burned by accident....?) and we dont have credit 
 cards so we cant get them online and stores dont sell the old ones anymore, this is perfect if 
 u are like me... cant stay organaized and lose all your games cause its all in one convieniant 
 disc.
  there are multible difficulty settings for begginers intermediate players and expert players.
 
  a good buy if u like real time stratagy (and one fps)
  its fun, you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markihenry
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 8, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  This Game is totally addictive, I have been playing for about 6 years now when it first came out. 
 Why I think this game has so much staying power and a leader by which all should follow is:- The 
 fact that you can control each individual unit or machinary with such nibblness. They actuall speak 
 back to you after you give them a command. The vast weapons and the close to life scenario is so 
 cool.
  When I was a child I used to play with those little green plastic soldiers,
  and I wish that somehow they would come alive some day so I could be their General and give them 
 commands. Well my dream have come true, in this Game and so as a result I am definately hooked.
 
  Moved on to Red Alert 2 Which I love very much acutally more then command and Conquer. I really 
 like playing the Soviets, becuase those Ballons are killer!!
  I really wish I could find the time and place where this game is played online, you see I live 
 in the Islands and so I don't know much about online gaming if anyone reads this please tell me 
 where I can play online.
  Markirwinh@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I would say that since all the command and conquer games are awesome, this compolation 
 of every command and conquer game is good as well. Obviously if you are looking for something new, 
 hold your horses and wait for command and conquer three. For those of you who wish they still sold 
 all those classics, get this game. There are no problems with the single player on any of the games. 
 My copy wont start read alert 2 or the yuri expansion, but that seems to just be my problem, not 
 a problem with the game. The one down side is that, while these games are now xp compatible, they 
 are not any easier to play multiplayer. What I mean to say, is that red alert still cannon be LANed, 
 it must be played multiplayer just like it was played in 1996. Since this is ten years later, I 
 would expect at least a little addition like LAN capability. I really sucks the fun out of the 
 whole thing when you have jump through hoops just to play with one other guy. I dont always want 
 to play over the internet, a place filled with nerds who play the same game over and over again 
 untill they suck the fun out of it for themselves and everyone who plays with them, I want to play 
 with my buddies too. It seems to me, like there wasn't much effort put in to making these games 
 more playable in an era more modern then when they were first released. Still worth buying however. 
 Oh yeah, and be prepared to get re-used to that old school interface, it kind of through me for 
 a loop for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: in-somnia
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  All the games, all the fun and all the memories of when Westwood used to rule the roost. Even when 
 you're playing the original CnC and Red Alert you realise that good gameplay outstrips graphics 
 in a world where you need to throw a few hundred credits at video cards, xbox360's and HD tv's 
 to actually play 1/2 the games in the market at the moment. 
  
  Great to have all the games on one DVD, altho get that eyesight checked before you have to enter 
 the enless serial numbers for each game!
  
  Raise a glass to the old school of Westwood and the days when they actually listened to us, the 
 gamers, and continued to evolve with us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tombfyre
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  When I saw that my local EB Games had only one copy of the Command and Conquer: The First Decade 
 left on the shelf - I had to pick it up. With Command and Conquer 3 coming soon... I figured why 
 not play the classic C&C games and get re-acquainted with the Story. 
  
  I have to say, its unbelievable how little has changed from the RTS of 1995 and the RTS of 2006. 
 With of course the exception of graphics, these games play just as well as any of your new RTS 
 games. Its very easy to see how C&C played a major part of in laying down the rules for every 
 other RTS game that followed. 
  
  The missions are as challenging now as they were then, and nothing really beats sending armies 
 of little 8 pixel tall soldiers into battle only to have most of the squished by 1 tank. Its also 
 impressive to see how much farther game cinematics have come since 1995. 
  
  I did say above that this boxed set included 11 of the greatest games ever made... I say that because 
 I like to forget that Renegade even exists... what a boring game... C&C should have just stayed 
 as an RTS. I did notice there was one game left out of this pack (for obvious reasons) . The absolutely 
 horrible Command and Conquer: Sole Survivor... which I unfortunately bought years ago. 
  
  This is a great buy if you can find a copy... if not for the memories... get it for the Mechanical 
 Man song. :) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deshields538
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 2, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  This game is mixture of great highs and headache inducing lows. This is every single C&C game for 
 the PC (bar sole survivor thankfully) . Instead of reviewing each game in-depth Ill just give a 
 summary of it. Please note glitches noted here may note affect all computers.
  
  Command and Conquer + Covert Operations
  
  This is the command and conquer that started it 
 all. Gameplay is as fun as ever and with the same hard as nails difficulty (for me any way) . But 
 thats what it was all about for me. Attempting that same mission over and over again until you 
 complete it and youre on top of the world. All the movies and music (with a patch) is here. Who 
 care if theres horribly scan lines, its FMV and Kanes there. Havent experienced any glitches 
 with this yet.
  
  C&C Red Alert + Counterstrike + Aftermath
  
  This is one of my favourites. Gameplay is great and the music is better. Same hard difficulty but 
 as always thats what makes these games what they are. You do however need a patch to get the movies 
 though. Expansions are great too except for a really bad glitch in the giant ant missions where 
 it simply stops after mission 2.
  
  C&C Tiberian Sun + Firestorm
  
  This is the sequel to the original. It has great, challenging and inventive gameplay. Better quality 
 movies and fantastic acting. Not a big fan of this ones music but Im sure it pleases some people. 
 Great story too that is continued well into the expansion. The expansion adds new units and two 
 good campaigns as well as extra music and an update for TS.
  
  C&C Renegade
  
  Where as the C&C series is known for its strategy games this gem of a FPS is overlooked when it 
 shouldnt. Gameplay is fiercely similar to the series which actually makes it a better game than 
 youd expect. Shooting is smooth and fun with great enemy death animations and screams. This is 
 based on the original and set in that time period with a good solid story. Difficulty is variable 
 but the later missions are still challenging on easy. Music is catchy and has great rhythm which 
 really gets you in the mood. Online is where this shines. However when it comes to online some 
 people may find the infuriating serial number error come up. I know of one person who doesnt have 
 this problem but I have it so be where.
  
  C&C Red Alert 2 + Yuris revenge
  
  Probably the best C&C to date. Fantastic fast paced gameplay and two sides that play completely 
 differently. Very detailed graphics and a solid score of music. A bit easy but thats okay because 
 its just so fun to play. Story is great and adds a villain to rival Kane. Yuri. The expansion 
 is a very good addition. It adds 2 new campaigns, new units to the existing sides and whole new 
 army in multiplayer. One of the best expansions I know. The whole package is worth it for these 
 2 games.
  
  C&C Generals + Zero hour
  
  The first C&C to use the sage engine. Completely 3D and very detailed terrain and units. Gameplay 
 is good and the AI is improved but this is let down with very shoddy death animations and lack 
 of atmosphere. Where as all C&Cs had FMV and a story, this game has no such thing. It doesnt have 
 a story which drops the atmosphere and generally pulls the whole thing down. The story is basically 
 thwart the terrorists. Do we have to? Still gameplay is good in multiplayer with a good difference 
 between the sides and inventive units. Difficulty is just right but the music is very bad and very 
 irritating. Basically the same tune the whole way through with slight differences. Zero Hour however 
 is much better. Story is improved by real actors telling the story this time. Some new units and 
 a generals challenge mode which is actually extremely good. No changes to music which is another 
 let down.
  
  This collection is what every command and conquer fan needs. However it is let down by some major 
 bugs and many errors on EAs part. Namely if you have invalid serial numbers from them then your 
 in trouble if you want to play online. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razman55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer: The First Decade is an awesome game with a major value, but comes with a cheap 
 price.
  
  In this great package, you get 12 games in 1, yes...12 games for $40.
  These are all the old Command & Conquer games that we used to play and loved very much.
  
  
 This game has to be revolutionary by bringing you all the classics you have played before into 
 a nice little package and brings you joy and happiness to see these games again and it feels great.
 
  
  These games are based off of RTS as you play multiplayer skirmishes where you build up your base 
 and get more people (Vehicles & Infantry) and destroy the opposing force, or do single player missions 
 which follow the same way, but have certain objectives to accomplish.
  
  The exception in the series is Renegade as its a 1st/3rd Person shooter where you command a person 
 to destroy others, but has the same overall feel for the series.
  
  If you have ever played any of these games before then this game is for you, or if you are new 
 to the series, then you should check this game out since it has 12 games and is worth every penny.
 
  
  If you like RTS games, then go get this right now... you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCPsyWarrior
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  C&C: The First Decade (TFD) has been getting quite a few "adequate" or "mediocre" reviews because 
 of the laziness of EA. TFD doesn't update multiplayer on any of the pre-Generals titles, and so 
 playing your fellow Commanders online in the Tiberian universe is next to impossible. This is disappointing, 
 as I missed the multiplayer from Tiberian Sun completely (I was on dialup at the time) , and now 
 it looks like I'll never get a chance to crush my friends with a battalion of Titans. There is 
 also a complete lack of any new content and there were a number of bugs pre-patch, which caused 
 no end of irritation to loyal Command and Conquer fans.
  
  That said, TFD still does exactly what it says on the box: It gives you every Command and Conquer 
 game in existence so far, updated to work on Windows XP, which means you can once again play through 
 the original games. It also includes all of the expansion packs - a definite bonus for those of 
 us who have been searching for a copy of Tiberian Sun: Firestorm for years. It gives you the complete 
 single-player campaigns and skirmishes, which means a chance to relive your original C&C experience, 
 or for those of you unlucky enough to have missed it the first time, to catch up with one of the 
 most important strategy series' in existence.
  
  The real selling point of TFD is not what's in the box, however: It's the price you get it all 
 for. The entire Command and Conquer series is available for the same price as just one of the games 
 contained within when released. That's more or less six games and six more expansions for the price 
 of one. Even considering that the price of these games has depreciated over time, TFD is still 
 good value for money.
  
  It is unfortunate that EA were so sloppy with this, as it really could have been worth 9.0 or 9.5 
 with the right attention. Unfortunately, my irritation at EA in general remains constant, even 
 as my admiration for Westwood's games increases. 
  
  If you don't own a significant proportion of these games, this is a worthy investment. However, 
 those of you who already own most of the games in this pack should seriously consider if you want 
 to throw your money at EA. The games in TFD definitely deserve respect - I'm just not sure that 
 the publisher does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bewarethehorns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Im going to assume that most C&C fans already have this collection or its on their wish list, 
 so this is going to be more for those who never got into C&C or missed out on some of the installments. 
 
  
  First of all, the set is an amazing value: $40 for a dozen games, this alone makes the set a no-brainer. 
 True that many are dated - graphics look just as they did when the games first hit the market - 
 but that doesnt stop the fun. Good story telling, solid game play, multiplayer/skirmish modes 
 (which allow for quick and satisfying battles) , as well as interesting, fun, and broad unit and 
 build options make the game playable for hours upon hours. 
  
  If youre looking for challenging game play where victory is determined on finding a balance of 
 power and strategy as per your situation Command & Conquer: The First Decade will easily complement 
 your PC game collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: urluckyday
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  I can't really review each of the 12 games in the pack, so I'm just going to review the pack as 
 a whole. First off, all of these games can now work with stability on Windows XP which is great 
 because I've had some trouble getting some of the older C and C games running on the system. The 
 great part about this pack is that you don't have install every single game if you don't want to. 
 You just decide what you want on installation, and it'll do the rest. Also, at any time you want, 
 you can just pop in the disk and install or uninstall any one of the games you want. Good stuff.
 
  Overall, each game delivers in its own nostalgic way, and they are all pretty good. I can't really 
 say anything about the graphics since they're all from different time periods. But if you're worried 
 you won't get those cheesy live-action movies, worry not.. they're still intact and still hilarious.
 
  There is also a good amount of bonus material here. There are several montages, interviews, movies, 
 etc. all on one bonus DVD. While there is a lot there... the video quality on all of these things 
 is just disappointing. It's just not up to par.
  Overall, this is a good pack if you like Command and Conquer, but not really worth it if you don't 
 enjoy these games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrus21
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 11, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I like this game pack. I've spent time since February playing Star Wars: Empire at War, LoTR Battle 
 for Middle Earth II, Civilizations III Complete, Galactic Civ 2, and eventually I had to come back 
 to good old school ra2. Having never played the originals of C&C I have found these classics to 
 be what I have needed to cover up the utter disappointment of not only the said abovoe RTS and 
 RBS games but even Generals and Zero Hour. For those of us who haven't had a chance to play the 
 originals and find only a weeks entertainment in the new "next generation" RTS's get this pack. 
 When companies aren't producing what us gamers want its not a bad idea to go back to the genre's 
 roots. It also works well as a time filler between Generals and C&C 3. Honestly, I would be stricken 
 if EA craped out an expansion pack of lack luster quality as a filler. Though they could of done 
 the pack a little better, everyone has to remember they are also working on C&C 3. Let's worry 
 about what they do on that more then what they put together for this. That's all I got to say about 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad-Religion
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Westwood did a good job experimenting with other types of games other than strategy, C&C Renagade 
 is an amazing game along with the rest of the games in the series, its best to start playing the 
 oldest game and work your way up. I skipped Red Alert 2 because it looks like their trying to take 
 the masterpiece of RA 1 even futher just to make more money (which didnt work) . The lack of graphics 
 in the older games arent much of a big loss and the sound is average, except for the quotes the 
 infantry say, their pretty funny somtimes. The gameplay is better than most of the other games 
 in its class, its closest competetors are Starcraft and Warcraft along with Age Of Empires. Out 
 of the C&C series the only let down was Red Alert 2 but still a fun game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanehunter24
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Not only is this game at a decent price, it's also so darn fun. This is the perfect RTS for PC 
 gamers. Even if you've never played an RTS or if you're a pro, you should pick up this game. The 
 good things: well, the gameplay is awesome, the units are cool, the videos are good, and the stories 
 are well scripted. The negatives: some of the missions are too near impossible (enter NOD mission, 
 12 or 13, I think) , sometimes the gameplay also gets boring after a bit, and some of the unit quotes 
 are cheesy ( like the soviets in Red Alert one. HOLY BAD Russian accent!) Point is, this is an awesome 
 game. If you ever get this game, and want the REAL story, I recommend playing the games in the 
 following order:
  
  Red Alert (Allies or Soviets)
  
  Tiberium Dawn (GDI)
  
  Tiberium Sun (GDI)
  
  Adios, Amigos
  
  "You come for the toxins, but you stay..... BECAUSE 
 YOU'RE DEAD! Heh, heh, heh.) -Dr. Thrax (Generals: Zero Hour) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaineFH
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 6, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  I bought the pack, bcuz of commander and conquer - generals. But I had happely forgotten one thing. 
 It lags, and it lags BIG time. In my opinion its even worse now. I've turned ALL graphics of and 
 still it lags big time, and my computer is a high-end computer.
  Still the game is great and is one of the best ever made in this genre.
  But it sure does take 
 ALOT of the pleasure when it lags so much.
  I did not regret spending money on the game, but I sure wish they would have made it lag that much, 
 its.... well its just sad.
  If you cant live without C&C, buy it otherwise Ill recommend you spend your money on flowers for 
 your wife or girlfriend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer-145
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I played most of these games... the top strategic game was generals but renegade was a good idea 
 (tiberium sun at 3D) but graphics was not so good and sound are weard... the gameplay is perfect... 
 red alert is a very cool game when it was released it was the top stratgic game I used to play 
 it 10 hours a day (im serious) but it got really old and then C&C released generals... but its not 
 worth buying if you played Renegade\red alert\Generals cus its waste of money.... take my advice 
 and dont do the mistake of bying it cus its stupid to a collection of old games !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samsalek
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  Well, it's a good collection of the best EA (Westwood) classic strategic and memorable games during 
 last 10 years but the question is why? Does it contain any new level or objects? NO! So why they 
 put theses game together and sell them again? It's like to situation that EA make a collection 
 CD for Fifa games since 1998! Will it make any sense to you? 
  
  The games are good enough but it is so obvious that strategic games fans want new games not the 
 collection version of what they've played for many years even until now, something that fascinating 
 them not only remind them of the old happy days! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccgod
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  The C&C decade is a collection of 11 of the best RTS's every made and 1 amazing FPS. C&C came out 
 in 1995 and was amazing the game was difficult and challenging and made you want to play it every 
 waking moment. The series just got better and better till EA took over West Wood and made generals, 
 but generals is still a good game. C&C IMO are the some of the best RTS's ever made and having 
 them all on a single disk and able to play multiplayer against other people adds a lot of depth 
 to the game.
  
  A graphics upgrade on the older versions would have been nice and digitally remastered videos would 
 have been nice also 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkoftheElite
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  I have been with Command and Conquer since a friend of mine first allowed me to play it. I had 
 been enthralled by the way the game played and so began my journey into a new venture that is still 
 in library of games.
  
  This time, I have one disk for them all and this is more than convenient. I no longer have to shuffle 
 through the several disks to choose which game to play. I simply choose one from the interactive 
 menu and play.
  
  The menu itself is also a time line of the games themselves. Starting from the original, it goes 
 all the way down to the last installment Generals: Zero Hour. I have always wanted to know what 
 the order was for the games and the menu makes this trivia task more easier for me.
  
  The Bonus DVD that comes with this collection is more than a brief history and review of the last 
 ten years, but is something for the fans. Though it is limited in that aspect, I still feel it 
 has a lot to offer those of us who have ever been wanting to know a little bit more about the game 
 we love and have cherished.
  
  On the downside, there have been a few bugs I have found and found some connectivity issues with 
 some of the games. I expect EA will have patches readily available.
  
  All in all, though, it is a great commemorative to one of my favorite games and the ease of having 
 them all in one disk is a much needed convenience. The Bonus DVD is lacking in some aspects, but 
 is overall informative and quite a joy to watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shasam712
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Before there was RTS, before you played your games online against everyone in the world and before 
 their were truly FMV's Westwood had it all going on in Command and Conquer. Being a fan of C&C 
 from the beginning I have grown up along side the game, and boy... has it grown up! Progressions 
 from one game to the next is definitely more obvious here than it is in most games out there.
 
  With 12 titles for less than the price of most games it is definitely great value for money. Just 
 taking part in the Generals online community is fantastic for both new and experienced players, 
 and going back to replay some of the earliest challenges in the RTS genre shows how revolutionary 
 this game really was.
  Despite the loss of some, only some though, FMV's from the game the ones that truely got your heart 
 pounding are still there. All your favorite units are still there making bangs and making a statement 
 ("Got a present for ya" words from the great commando himself) . Small bugs and loss of minor content 
 doesn't matter when looked at alongside the games that you get for your money. 
  However this collection of games, however awe inspiring they are, should just be the beginning. 
 Non of the games so far are perfect, you can't play all of them forever and there is definitely 
 room for Westwood to make the perfect C&C experience. So the way for these games to stay truly 
 revolutionary and become one of the greatest franchises of all time is for there to be an emergence 
 of a second decade in their history.
  So for a game, or a series of games, that will last you a heck of a long time... you need to buy 
 this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davexenobane
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Finally someone brought all of the command and conquer series together into oen box, for only 25 
 the 12 games and expansion packs are AMAZING value for money, i havent stopped playing and ive 
 had the game since the day after it was released in the UK. There were alot of complaints about 
 numerous movie files being missing but this was recently fixed when a v 1.0 patch came out adding 
 the missing files. Ive made it my mission to complete every single level from each game and ive 
 so far only got about a 3rd of the way. The multiplayer options provide even more hours of gameplay 
 and the range of games provides something for whatever mood you're in. This is well worth every 
 penny spent and has provided me with many many hours of entertainment, and will continue to for 
 as long as it takes me to complete the hundred or so missions... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaiKhulud
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  This is just great! Like any other RTS fan i LOVE C&C...
  But i never played Red Alert 1 fully. Now i can do it.
  In some games like C&C1 they make resolution 
 higher... Whatever, this is C&C! Once again, once more, but C&C! (Ghola-Cola - always&again&again&again....)
 
  Very beautiful box and exclusive poster... All's great...
  But bonus DVD is not so good as i expect....
  
  I've just waiting the First Decade cuz of Klepacki 
 interview (no, i really dreaming about this) ... But... Looks like Klepacki never work's over C&C 
 franchise... This is really rude.
  And where is Matt Bostics and other's guys from Westwood who CREATED (not produced....) C&C?
 
  I think after that i'll start to call EA as a "Fat Pigs".... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Before buying The First Decade I had never owned a C&C game and hadn't played much of them. Actually 
 I had only played the first C&C game at a friends house long ago. 
  
  I was interested in buying Generals and it's expansion pack Zero Hour which was going to cost me 
 $40 dollars. Before I picked them up EA released The First Decade so I spent the same $40 dollars 
 and now I got 10 games instead of 2. Since I had only played a little of the first C&C game I don't 
 know what was left out of the games like GS and other members of GS have mentioned. I haven't had 
 any problems with bugs yet but I haven't tried to play the game online and I have no plans to play 
 the game online. I have been enjoying the game alot and so far I've played through most of the 
 games except for Rengade, I have no interest in playing it. I've been enjoying the older games 
 more just because I like the storylines better, the game I have enjoyed the least is actually Generals. 
 It looks the best, plays great, but the modern war setting is boring to me. 
  
  This game is hard to recommend, it seems really hit or miss with alot of the reviews I've read. 
 I guess I would recommend it to someone who has never played a C&C game, someone who hasn't played 
 them in a long time, or someone who just needs a quick RTS fix filled. Oh, and someone who will 
 be playing the game mostly offline since it sounds like the multiplayer has some bugs. But as a 
 warning for those of you who haven't played a C&C game you might not find it enjoyable, with the 
 exception of Generals most of the games have a old-school feel to them which you might not enjoy 
 after playing modern RTS games. But this is really the case with any collection that features older 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: datbush
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  EA can't do anything right can they. I have been a cnc fan since the old days. This was a good 
 idea but ea screwed up again. Most of the games have some serious bugs in them in some cases its 
 unplayable. broken copy protection errors and bugs that worent even in the originals are present 
 because ea can't be bothered to properly test and fix. i almost took it back for a refund. Some 
 of the games mainly the new one work fine and its nice for them to be all on one dvd. Its your 
 call if you want to risk all the bugs in this would be great compilation. if Only they werent greedy 
 and bought out westwood. (or just werent all around lazy) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayEightyNine
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Yes, while there is always the case of the multiplayer issues with the earlier games, I never found 
 it to be a huge problem. I didn't really want to play online in the early games anyway. Plus, as 
 Xwis has taken over the old westwood servers for online play in games like Yuri's Revenge it made 
 it a whole lot better for play. The single player campaigns have been fun to go through also, very 
 nostalgic too for those C&C Veterans. Graphics of course, well though they are all old, I thought 
 the dated graphics just added to the feel of the game and made it a better play. Worth the buy 
 for sure! Not even $50! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  Okay, first off, I'm a big fan of Command & Conquer, I was even crazy enough to go out and get 
 Command & Conquer Gold although it was just a game ported to the windows in super VGA resolution. 
 Unfortunately, the game package doesn't offer much except a rehash of the whole Command & Conquer 
 line. This would be a great gift for anybody who haven't play any RTS games or for Blizzard fans 
 to see there is more to life then Warcraft. Unforturnately, for fans like you and me, save your 
 money, nothing here to see. Good thing I managed to sell the game to someone else and got some 
 money back because for fans who have Command & Conquer to Generals, there really isn't anything 
 in this box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  Well certainly everyone knows the famous C&C story that goes back more than 10 years and contains 
 12 discs with mission packs and so on. And now the all in one package on a single dvd arrived, 
 with the latest patches automatically installed. For anyone who is still missing a C&C game, i 
 can only recommend this package. Also it is a must for every Strategy fan and persons that want 
 to play cool games but that do not have a new pc (if you look at the system requirements, I couldn't 
 stop smiling because they are so low :)
  However if you alreyhave all th games, i wouldn't recommend buying the first decade just for the 
 bonus (it would be a serious waste of money, just to see a 30 min interview) . For everyone else, 
 what are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sctrchps
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  if your the type like me that actually masses 1,000 troops and screams at the monitor at them to 
 attack then u will love this series 8-] red alert the first one was and still is my fav.. the latter 
 ones had the distance detection that your tanks etc have to detect enemies reduced for some stupid 
 reason and the latter games have arcade looking giant units to play with. 8- [ ... i found that arcade 
 stink and i wont buy tham at all... the first red alert was a true thrill. i beat the game 12 times.. the 
 movies are road rash ps1 fun type, the units you command are steller fun... in ending this rehash 
 is great. and a good fair price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sokuni
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  Please note, that I'm only reviewing this collection, not the separate games. Thanks.
  
  One beautiful day, I browsed a Finnish web store and bumped up this nifty little collection. So, 
 I looked at it and thought "Damn, what a nice collection but I wonder the price's pretty high". 
 Then I saw the price. Meh? 29 euros and it's brand new! I started shaking and immediately clicked 
 the "buy" -icon. Wow.
  
  You know, I already owned the original Command & Conquer and The Cover Operations. Just only a 
 few days before I ordered the collection, I had a desire to play those old RTS games again. There 
 was only one problem, even the installer didn't load up in Windows XP. So, meh.
  
  Here's the best thing of this collection: Every single game works in Windows XP!
  
  I was kinda 
 lucky. I sold my old Command & Conquer and The Covert Operations in an online auction and got 16 
 euros from it, so I patched up my expenses a bit. Neat.
  
  Okay, so I got the box then. As I opened it, it smelt like a new car. Cool. Instantly I placed 
 the dvd into my driver and started to install stuff. I'm kinda keen on those older C&C, the stuff 
 before Tiberian Sun. The original C&C is the Win95 conversion, so it has the same graphics as the 
 Win95 -version of Red Alert. That's very good in my opinion.
  
  The collection has 12 games, and as the price is so low, everyone should have it. Everyone. Get 
 it, know.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Many of us were younger gamers when the first of the Command & Conquer games came out. 10 years 
 of Westwood Studios/EA's fantastic series of strategy games gets all rolled into one DVD disc. 
 Now everyone can play all of the C&C games of the first decade, from the 1995 original, to the 
 Red Alert Series, to Generals, and Renegade, right on their Windows XP system, among others.
  
  Coming with a $40 price tag may deter some of the younger gamers today, but for older veterans 
 like myself, it's a big bang for the buck. First, you have all the classic C&C strategy games and 
 all of its expansions. Second, one can see why Renegade was an innovative effort by EA that didn't 
 quite catch on with C&C Fans. Third, you can bring out your traditional RTS gameplay into Generals 
 and show others who's the superior of generals.
  
  My individual reviews of the C&C games:
  
  1995 Classic & The Covert Operations: 7 / 10
  
 Gamers get the chance to experience the original and its expansion, of the classic battle between 
 the Global Defense Initiative (GDI) & The Brotherhood of Nod. Those familiar with later elements 
 of the C&C games will find this one to be very primitive and its graphics very lacking, save for 
 the cinematics. For its days, though, where computers had much slower 386, 486, and Pentium I chips, 
 this was an innovative game.
  
  Red Alert 1, The Aftermath, & Counterstrike: 7/10
  Similar to the original in its technicalities, only set in an alternative cold-war era world between 
 the Allies and the Soviet Union.
  
  Tiberian Sun & Firestorm: 8/10
  A relatively newer game engine that made the C&C genre of the time one of the best, a real competitor 
 to StarCraft. Again, it's GDI versus Nod, set in a futuristic Earth. The cinematics were very nice, 
 and the graphics, in its days, were spectacular. It may take some gamers awhile to get used to 
 its mechanics, since funds are used in intervals when building units and structures, so you really 
 have to be careful with your building plans. Otherwise, the game has a wonderful duo of storylines, 
 and a good skirmish mode.
  
  Red Alert 2 & Yuri's Revenge: 9/10
  This was my first venture into the Command & Conquer Genre, and this was the better of the Red 
 Alert type. First of all, the units had their own series of voice lines, and some of them even 
 had some very humoristic ones, whether it's the Soviet Desolator with their radioactive guns that 
 want to make things glow, or the Allies' Tank Destroyer with its German commander wanting to split 
 an enemy tank. Yuri's Revenge added more customization to the unit voice lines, making the unique 
 units stand out in humoristic voice lines. Many times, one could hear the Allies Battle Fortress 
 commander roar out a battle cry, or a Soviet Tesla Tank sparking their curiosity. The storylines 
 on both campaigns stood out nicely, even though you could not control Yuri's forces in the expansion 
 campaigns. One of the best C&C games around.
  
  Renegade: 6/10
  This was the only time that EA/Westwood tried something new with the franchise. This one was a 
 FPS, where you control a GDI commando who goes by the codename "Havoc", and those familiar with 
 the GDI campaign in the 1995 classic will be most familiar with his catch phrases like "Keep 'em 
 Coming!" and "I got a present for ya!". The single player for this one was alright, you could head 
 shot a Nod infantrymen, control both GDI and Nod vehicles, and go inside an enemy building and 
 C4 the control center of the building or just blast it with brute force off a tank, or even set 
 up a beacon for a Nuclear Strike or an Ion Cannon. 
  The SP campaign was decent, but it was the MP that was mediocre at best. In MP, players split up 
 into two teams, either GDI or Nod. Each team had a certain amount of tiberium to use for "changing" 
 into a special unit or to buy a vehicle. The key was to destroy or disable all enemy buildings 
 to win the match or score more points when time expires. It was a decent effort to bring a classic 
 C&C genre to a FPS view, it just did not catch on well.
  
  Generals & Zero Hour: 8/10
  USA v. China v. The Global Liberation Army; doesn't this remind you of today's modern world? Anyway, 
 that was pretty much what it was, under a new engine with traditional RTS mechanics of left clicking 
 to select a unit, then right-clicking to move and/or attack. The campaigns are short but ok, but 
 the MP and skirmishes were decent enough. By gaining experience through building and taking out 
 enemy units, you can call up a Chinese Artillery Strike, a couple of Warhogs, a Fuel Air Bomb, 
 or hack into systems to acquire more money for China. Whatever it was, the objectives was still 
 the same. Outrush, out fox, or just particle cannon/nuke/scud storm the heck out of your foes. 
 Very decent game, even if it's not the best C&C game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace_176
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  These 12 games together with all their features make for a perfect ten's worth of R. T. S. gameplay. 
 The original Tiberian Dawn was an instant classic and is the game that revolutionized the strategy 
 genre. From there the Red Alert series provided another innovation in the series with and alternate 
 set of storylines and game-play. Tiberian Sun provided more in the way of storyline for the original 
 game. The resurrection of Kane can only be seen as a positive in the eyes of true C & C fans. The 
 2nd Red Alert brought about very significant improvement sin the graphics for the Command & Conquer 
 series and Generals wrapped up The First Decade flawlessly by instituting a new 3D environment 
 coupled with breathtaking graphics. The series has continued to innovate and bring enjoyment to 
 gamers everywhere for these past ten years and The First Decade is a great way to pay homage to 
 the series accomplishments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkusMcGee
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the C&C series, so when I first heard about this, I was excited. I already own 
 all of the C&C games, so I thought this would be an improvement on them. Got the game, but it was 
 nothing that I expected. Same games, which wouldn't normally bother me, but the multiplayer that 
 they lacked and bugs that were added didn't help. This is a ploy by EA to bring in more money, 
 and that isn't an issue with me either, because hey, everyone wants money. But the problem is, 
 they didn't even make an effort. They just stuck all the games together in one package, made it 
 compatible with XP, and shipped. I'm disappointed with the compilation and I'd suggest it only 
 to people that only have a few of the C&C games, or none. If you have most, then search Ebay or 
 ask friends, because it's cheaper than $40. 
  
  One Positive note: I still love the music. Thank you for the music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llothos
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for remakes of the originals then your out of luck! These are the games in there 
 original formats, I have noticed no enhancements over the originals at all. I haven't even touched 
 the "bonus features" so i won't even say anything about that. The bonus features were not the reason 
 I bought this pack at all it was for the games, I already owned most of them but there were some 
 that were hard to find and this just makes it all easy. One disk pick a game and play it, you don't 
 even need the cd for some of the older games it's just generals and tiberian sun i think.
  the rts games are great, surprising how far they have come since the first c&c, I personally can't 
 say much for renegade from what i've played of it just makes me want to uninstal save the HD space.
 
  By todays standards the graphics are way outdated obviously but this is not a new game so it's 
 forgivable to rate it low because of todays standards is stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Well instead of going out and picking up scratched CD's and preying the patches for the games are 
 still hosted... scrounging around the internets virus filled Key generator sites... There is a game 
 we can all huddle around and enjoy, FIRST DECADE gives us ALL the Command And Conquer games in 
 a tightly nit package! which rox
  
  i've tested and played them all and they all run fine! infact you can slowly start to see when 
 EA's influence started destroying Westwoods creativity with the games! lol
  
  I havent gone online with any yet, but if the online modes DO work then the game deserves a 10 
 out of 10 due to the great history of C&C or RA but if not, then ill give it a 7.0 due to no extra 
 features to sink your teeth into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryjames
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  Although I don't agree with some of Gamespot's review opinions, that does not infer they have no 
 merit. Removing each of the game's installation graphics, animation and sounds DOES seem like a 
 big deal and admittedly WERE a really neat aspect of the C&C franchise. But now ten years later, 
 I am glad this package arrived. There were a couple C&C games that I hadn't played and even though 
 I keep all my PC games bindered and databased, it's nice to install them from one DVD. Personally, 
 I enjoyed the bonus DVD and don't judge one way or another of it's presentation quality. It was 
 fun to watch all 3 times I watched it. As for the games themselves, it is cool that I can replay 
 any of the C&C games on my XP computer. Another feature I think is worth mentioning is the title, 
 "The First Decade" which [to me] infers the C&C franchise will be continuing and the idea of that 
 is exciting. If EA was done with C&C I just don't think they would have used the verbiage, "The 
 First Decade." All in all, if you like RTS, this is a must buy. Even if you have played all of 
 these games before, they are fun to replay. Admittedly, Red Alert 2 and Yuri's Revenge certainly 
 were my favorites but then again I never did play the "Firestorm" expansion pack for Tiberian Sun, 
 so I actually am looking forward to replaying the entire Tiberian Sun series. Although I did kindle 
 fond memories about the C&C "install routines" which were nothing less than wonderful, I enjoyed 
 the one step install for all 12 games. I read in other reviews there are some missing elements 
 which could be considered major ordeals such as no cut scenes if you play as NOD, but this does 
 not affect my feelings about this RTS megapak. I even enjoyed playing Renegade this time even more 
 now that my PC has the power and the out dated graphics did not ruffle my feathers whatsoever. 
 The only adjustment I personally made was slowing down the game-scroll-speed to stop the screen 
 slip-flopping back and forth across the screen. Of course in the latter C&C games the cursor controls 
 can be used which both then and now make moving around easier. Now that I am playing Tiberian Sun 
 I almost forgot that it was a challenging game. And even though this game's graphics is not up 
 to par with Generals, Zero Hour or even Act of War: Total Action, the missions and cut scenes still 
 make for FUN hours of PC game play and that's what it's all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeomatrix
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  i have bought the orgineel fist C&C pack and i think its still the best one because i have wainting 
 for the new renegade (reborn) and i hope they wil still make it for all c&c players that they have 
 promised it... so ea game make a new renegade so all die hard players can play the game again in 
 a new version and take the game level.... i think ea game must do it and c howmany off the new 
 renegade they can sell i think it wel sell good there a so many renegade players that have or are 
 waiting for renegde reborn to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Presentation
  The essence of boxing has been captured really well by the developers, comes with a nice A3 poster, 
 manual & a bonus DVD with interviews & fan movies.
  
  Graphics
  Excellent graphics for every era that each game came from. Top-notch FMV sequences throughout the 
 Command & Conquer Universe.
  
  Sound
  The game's soundtrack is great and the audio effects actually really good, but if you plan to replay 
 the games for a very long while the music could get slightly annoying.
  
  Gameplay
  Amazing gameplay mechanics, most games stick to the formula that works, and thats a great thing.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal
  Multiplayer will keep you coming to this game forever, the gameplay balance and essence of fun 
 is amazing, the single player of all the games are well worth a second run through, although the 
 FPS game Renegade will get you tired extremely quickly due to extremely stupid AI.
  
  Last Word
  Each and every strategy C&C game has something to offer, Westwood has created a truly 
 amazing saga. Now how about Command & Conquer 3? ;)
  
  8.2/10 - Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalbloke
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  My god. I really have to thank EA for getting all the C&C games in the one package and they are 
 all great games but whats the go with "Patching" the games. Has anybody else yet seen what happens 
 when you build a Microwave tank on ZH. What a joke. Also they didnt fix C&C95 or Red Alert so that 
 you could multiplayer on a LAN. Couldnt they have had the patches in different install package, 
 so that if you do LAN Generals and ZH you dont have to try and find the patches. I Think that was 
 a big mistake. I really miss not being able to LAN Red Alert and C&C95. They were 2 of the very 
 best that Westwood brought out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TiagoMDR
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  If you like RTS games, but dont like to spend hours of your life just to create a house for population, 
 take 4 to 6 kinds of resources to create someone to attack, this is your game to play. 
  There is no population thing here, it is just create as much soldiers/tanks as you can in the fastest 
 way possible and go to war and with one kind of resource.
  For new CnC players: before saying something about the game, PLAY IT! You will like! I am sure 
 of it... just try to understand that this game it is not like AoE3 or AoM... CnC is better!
  For old CnC players: One more time we have the chance to play the real RTS game, the father ;) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, if you are buying this you are basically buying it for the first 2 command and conquer 
 games. Red alert and command and conquer. Maybe generals. Guess what parts have they screwed up 
 on releasing it.??
  
  Red alert and command and conquer.
  
  I loved these 2 games. Loved to blow up the parthanon and do some multiplayer over the internet. 
 Well, ya cant. Because EA didnt bother including this feature. The cutscenes are broken in Red 
 Alert as well. I think the GS review made some great points. They appear to have done this homage 
 to command and conquer by butchering the first 2 games!! 
  
  My friend bought this game so I checked it out. The funny thing is the versions of c&c and red 
 alert I have run better on xp!! (with messing around with compatability) . 
  
  Would it have taken so much longer to make a release for the fans of the game? Re compress the 
 cutscenes at a higher-res and include working multiplayer? I guess so. 
  
  Dont waste your money, go pick up a used version on ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GfoLyfe
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Are we forgetting??????
  C&C not good???
  C&C created the base of RTS....
  The one that pretty much started it all....
  Dont compare the games to todays technology...
 
  A true gamer recgonizes the time period in which the game was/is created and compares it then...
 
  Can you remember those countless hours on windows 95' blowing away the enemy....
  GDI and NOD going at it??
  Sure the games have glitches??? but think.... back then our computers 
 weren't all that great.....
  What?? about 2000 is when we saw the good stuff breaking through
  C&C to this Date is still one 
 of the leading RTS's...
  No population cap
  All out war...
  Sure you say its just a game of who can build the fastest....
  Well then your reflexes should 
 be getting better huh??? 
  Starcraft and Warcraft are still great!!!
  But this game is about taking their HISTORY and combining it to show how far they have come...
 
  These games aren't just games.....
  they are a memory
  a place in a gamer's heart...
  When you play, the old memories come back....
  This game that you may spit on is spittin on all 
 12.....
  The history of RTS
  The orginal...
  Retro...
  The father of RTS...
  I think everyone that isn't appreciating the game is taking advantage of what we have today......
 
  Good computers...
  Excellent graphics...
  Awesome sound....
  High processing speeds....
  All this came from a history...
  A past that when we look at it 
 now we say "that sucks"
  How do things get better if they don't learn??
  C&C started out great (in their time...) learned and adapted and still are
  They evolved.. just 
 like everyone else, with everyone else....
  And by my predictions they will never change....
  C&C will grow, stay a dependable RTS...
  
 C&C had no withstraints...
  We as gamers are watching C&C grow with times...
  So before you say this game sucks... 
  Your saying all 12 suck...
  Because without a past their 
 is know future...
  So give C&C a break...
  They need it...
  Because just watch....
  The next game they come out with....
  You're going to get it....
  You're going to play it...
 
  And you're going to appreciate it!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinjetsu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  As the review says they didnt update it much but if you want to know about the games in the series 
 look below.
  
  Tiberian Sun :- An interesting cash system and the A. I isnt to bad -- the game is not so long and 
 very simple, a classic! [choose between Nod (realities equivelent to the German Nazi's) and ~forgot 
 name~ (equivelent to Allied Forces) .
  
  Red Alert & Red Alert 2 :- Red Alert is basically the same as TS, a few minor changes and increased 
 A. I ability -- still no major changes.
  
  Red Alert 2, very beautiful cut-scenes and CG's, for an oldies, a larger selection of units than 
 the other games and so many teams to choose from your head will be spinning; from United States 
 to Yuri himself (note: you need expansion pack for Yuri's team) , the greatest part about this feature 
 is that each team has its own special ability (U. S has paratroopers and Britian has snipers, and 
 so on) . Which will keep you interested for atleast 20 hours just figuring out which team you want 
 to use! :D
  
  Generals :- this game is fun, but the additions made arent enough to really make the game special -- 
 still, there is some good and difficult missions to play not to mention a few sweet CG's ^^
  
  Thats all I know~ the game pack is enticing, if you can and care enough buy them all seperately 
 then do so ^^ otherwise go for this :D plus online game play puts the icing on the cake, the game 
 is always fun when you play online and kick the crap out of other players -- not to mention it add's 
 difficulty to the game; and clans are fun to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quad6
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  WORST collection, they actually degraded the game play, but these are the BEST (retro) RTS GAMES! 
 . This appears to be a sad attempt to create new revenue from old product without spending enough 
 to do it right. May also be a blocking release aimed at Petroglyph's release of Star Wars: Empire 
 at War.
  
  But these are the BEST (retro) RTS GAMES (yeah, Blizzard's Warcraft ranks with them, maybe) so 
 if you don't buy stuff on Ebay, your friends don't have them and you NEED these historic masterpieces... buy 
 it.
  
  Or Petroglyph's release of Star Wars: Empire at War.
  
  Gamespot's review hit the mark.
  
  Gamespot review synopsis:
  
  "disappointing... Minor 
 bugs and omissions here and there take away from the early games' impact... games have been updated 
 to run under Windows XP, but that's really about it... wish that the video was cleaned up... wish 
 that Red Alert played the between-mission cutscenes on the Soviet side... wish that the install 
 sequences were included... it's disappointing that they aren't included."
  
  "The early games in the series certainly don't look like they got much attention, even though this 
 is a package meant to honor some of the greatest games ever made." 
  
  "The First Decade deserved a little more polish than it got, making the whole thing seem like a 
 sort of "don't forget about C&C" product that's intended to drive interest in a new sequel. Let's 
 hope that the team working on the second decade of C&C is a little more respectful of the legacy." 
 
  
  So, lots of "wishes" from Gamespot but it is C&C so they rate it 7.6.
  
  What is suspicious is the 9.3 rating from 490 voters. I'm guessing APOC's fingers might be sore 
 from over-rating. Or is the old C&C magic just THAT strong? Hummm... but no sale here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grobe
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  I grew up with these games. I still remeber the 8 hour sessions I put in with red alert. These 
 were so addictive I couldn't sleep for weeks. Everything about these games, from the cheesey FMV 
 sequences to the DOS graphics was endearing and gave it substance. These are a throwback back to 
 an era were gameplay meant more than fancy graphics that everyone so adores nowadays. 
  The shooter of the series, renegade was a great game as well and I had some great times playing 
 online with it. It's a shame Westwood was assimilated into the EA collective and put out a sub-par 
 politically correctisized game intending to cash in the CNC liscene known as generals. But the 
 others were so good it still remains a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jannajjannaj
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  This Game is the best mix of games you need to play!!!!
  If you played this and don't like it. YOU HATE THE RTS GENRE
  
  One less point is that the 
 graphics of the older games (RA1 and c&c) are not quit as good as they were.
  
  The 12 games that the pack contains are all Soo good! I like Renegade en c&c generals the Most. 
 But play and Feel the strenght of older games
  
  JUST BUY IT JUST 30$
  
  And chek the extra DVD video disk also a time. 
  
  Not so inovating as they say on the box, 
 but Chek it
  
  
  THANK YOU WESTWOOD!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  To me, this is a very odd release. There hasn't been a new C&C product in quite a while, and while 
 I recognize that there is a very dedicated fanbase, I don't see why these games needed to be "ressurected". 
 Lets face it, RTS' come out almost constantly, and the genre has been improved since C&C. 
  While I too have fond memories of the games, they are best left as memories. These games age well, 
 but they have aged, and better RTS' are out there now. Frankly, I think that this is just a bit 
 of a money grab by a publisher, and not a real game product at all. That said, if you're a die 
 hard fan, of course you'll like this, but for the rest of us C&C is history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chasgn1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 14, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  This compilation was long overdue. The CnC franchise is probably the most venerable of all rts 
 games and has contributed to what we now call the RTS genre more than any other series out there. 
 The storylines in all the universes are gripping and fun (except for Generals/ZH) , and the FMV 
 videos make this even more so.
  
  The Tiberian series is probably the best due to the Kane factor. He's quite simply the coolest 
 bad guy ever. The struggle between GDI and Nod is what first defined CnC and launched it into legend. 
 The Soviet onslaught against the Allies and later Yuri's attacks have made RA/RA2/YR an intensely 
 fun series with crazy weaponry and entertaining FMV cutscenes.
  
  The graphics have always been original and inspire in CnC. From the sometimes funny idle behavior 
 of soldiers to the brilliant flash of light and debris of an explosion, the games have never been 
 lacking. At the cost of soul, Generals and Zero Hour did an excellent job with visual effects, 
 with the exception of infantry, which had horrible detail. Red Alert 2's infantry looked better 
 than Gen/ZH's did. 
  
  Command and Conquer just wouldn't be what it is without Frank Klepacki. He has composed what are 
 arguable the greatest game soundtracks of all times. His scores have even warranted separate sales 
 from the games due to their popularity. From the chilling sound of an Obelisk of Light charging 
 up to the crushing sound of Mammoth tanks opening up, or the Commando/Havoc's one-liners, CnC has 
 always brought the war to your ears with good detail. We can't ever forget the "squish" effect 
 from a roadkill, either.
  
  All in all, it's a good deal. Aside to a few minor bugs, you're getting almost ALL of the CnC games 
 ever made for practically nothing. I may seriously have a grudge against EA since Westwood's demise, 
 but there's no fighting the value in this package. It's a good way for a new comer to CnC to learn 
 the roots of the legendary series, as well as a way to get in touch with a very strong and live 
 community. Naturally, it's a good trip down memory lane for us vets, too. 
  
  Keep 'em coming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baloo93906
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I have read the complaints, and while they are very valid, the games are still awesome. If you 
 have ever played C&C, re-playing the first couple of games will be pure nostalgia goodness. If 
 you have never played C&C, this is one of those must own games in your library. This game defined 
 a genre for a good reason. I had forgotten how much fun Red Alert 2 was to play. The tongue in 
 cheek humor is absolutely the best. And in todays world with the threat of terrorism, it is nice 
 to have a huge in your face enemy like the old Russia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWRocks
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer: The First Decade includes 12 games in the Command and Conquer universe and 
 brings a nostalgic timeline of one of the best Real-Time Strategy universes ever created. The first 
 few games were, for all intents and purposes, perfect. However, as the series progressed, small 
 faults and occasional deviations from the Command and Conquer formula marred its subsequent releases. 
 Also, EA failed to deliver a few features such as online play in the original and Red Alert and 
 a litany of bugs and problems, which severely hamper the overall product. Nevertheless, the pack 
 brings us back to the universe that we are all particularly fond of.
  
  The Command and Conquer universe arrived with its first game in August 31st of 1995. It was developed 
 by a quiet little developer called Westwood Studios, whose previous effort of notoriety had been 
 Dune II. Command and Conquer added one of the definitive games of a then fledgling Real-Time Strategy 
 genre. The game mixed excellent game play, with unprecedented graphics and a cinematic driven story 
 line that compelled the player to keep playing, effectively captivating and hooking players into 
 what would become ten years of excellent and addicting RTS games. The original Command and Conquer 
 incorporated the age old battle of good versus evil, in the form of a conflict between the Global 
 Defense Initiative (GDI) and the Brotherhood of NOD. This ultra-reality universe that Westwood 
 created captured players and pulled them in with unparalleled immersement. The original game was 
 then followed up by a short Expansion pack dubbed The Covert Operations. The pack simply scanned 
 a few extra missions which fleshed out the GDI and the NOD stories and continued them father. The 
 pack was seen as a disappointment, as very little actual originality was added to the original 
 release.
  
  What was great about Command and Conquer was the great fun that it includes. Although seen as an 
 arbitrary word, perhaps fun is, ironically, the most fitting of them all. Although its graphics 
 were good, Command and Conquer's was not excellent. Likewise for its video and sound. However, 
 the game play was what made everything up in spades, and this was the selling point of the series.
 
  
  With its follow up in 1996, Westwood decided to bring a new focus into the series, upon World History, 
 especially the era of the Second World War and the Cold War. With the premise of "if Hitler had 
 been killed prior to the Second World War, how would the world have turned out?", Command and Conquer 
 Red Alert overtook its cousins shadow and became the definitive Real-Time Strategy game. What was 
 nostalgic about Red Alert was the fact that it mixed both historical facts with pseudo reality. 
 Abilities such as Iron Curtains, Gap Generators, and Telsa Coils were welcome additions to the 
 franchise and bring about excellent game play and strategies to what would have been another World 
 War II game. Likewise with the original, Westwood released two expansion packs: Counterstrike and 
 The Aftermath which both add new levels and a few new units. Although the game play was for the 
 most part unchanged, the levels and units brought about something fresh for gamers to try out.
 
  
  The next reiteration of Command and Conquer arrived in 1999 with Tiberian Sun. Tiberian Sun revisited 
 the premise of the original Command and Conquer conflict between the GDI and the Brotherhood of 
 NOD. However, despite a graphics overhaul, the underlying game play was unchanged, and this detracted 
 from the overall appeal of the game. With advents such as Warcraft II and Starcraft from Blizzard, 
 Tiberian Sun was believed to take the RTS genre to another level. What was released was an excellent 
 game in its own right, but nowhere near the genre defining game that the original Command and Conquer 
 had been.
  
  With popularity fading, Westwood took another stab at Blizzard's now monopoly of the RTS market 
 in 2000 with Red Alert 2. Immediately people were buzzing because with the onset of the new Millennium, 
 Red Alert 2 brought fresh new content and an excellent premise. Boasting some of the best graphics 
 to date, Red Alert 2 intertwined the old Red Alert formula into real and current world affairs. 
 Rounding out its attributes was an enhanced online service to play with others, Red Alert 2 became 
 the definitive o the Command and Conquer franchise. Yet, it failed to distinctly renew the genre, 
 and was simply a solid release. Its subsequent expansion pack, Yuri's Revenge added a new twist 
 to the game play, by adding a third playable race led by the unique Yuri in Red Alert 2. This spurred 
 the franchise to a new level, adding excellent new game play and reinvented the strategies that 
 players had to use.
  
  Then in 2002, Westwood and EA released Command and Conquer Renegade, first person shooter set in 
 the world of Command and Conquer. Touting excellent game play and the ability for players to experience 
 the Command and Conquer world in a brand new way, the game seemed to be a breath of fresh air. 
 Although unique and fun, it did little to test the multi player behemoths of Quake III Arena and 
 Tribes. EA's support of Renegade was short lived, and it was arguably the only true flop of the 
 Command and Conquer franchise.
  
  Finally the last game to be included is Westwood and EA's release of Command and Conquer Generals 
 in 2003. The game brought the world of Command and Conquer to the 3D era (with exclusion of Renegade) , 
 and brought beautiful graphics and a complete overhaul of the games factions. Whereas Renegade 
 was to be the supposed breath of fresh air, it actually turned out to be Generals. By completing 
 ridding itself of the previous factions of the GDI, NOD, Axis, and Allies, Generals was able to 
 invent its own characters and premises. Coupled this with balance and game play on par with Blizzard's 
 Starcraft, Generals proved that the Command and Conquer franchise was still alive and kicking. 
 The game encouraged decisive, action packed battles interspered with excellent cinematic and powerful 
 story telling. It and its subsequent expansion pack would be the defining game of the Command and 
 Conquer franchise.
  
  With all the games taken care of, a few faults of the entire franchise must be told of. First of 
 all, the franchise after Red Alert never was able to overcome the shadow of its cousin Starcraft 
 and Warcraft II in the RTS genre. Secondly, the franchise always failed to bring an excellent online 
 mode. Whereas the majority of the online and LAN play was decent and sufficient, nothing was really 
 outstanding. Finally, the same general premise of the original Command and Conquer was upheld for 
 a long time and only did Yuri's Revenge start to reinvent the franchise. Despite all this however, 
 the games hold up to culminate in one of the greatest RTS franchises ever.
  
  Summary:
  
  Included in the pack are:
  
  Command & Conquer (August 1995)
  Command & Conquer The Covert 
 Operations (April 1996)
  Command & Conquer Red Alert (October 1996)
  Command & Conquer Red Alert The Aftermath (September 1997)
  Command & Conquer Red Alert Counterstrike 
 (March 1997)
  Command & Conquer Tiberian Sun (August 1999)
  Command & Conquer Tiberian Sun Firestorm (February 2000)
  Command & Conquer Red Alert 2 (October 
 2000)
  Command & Conquer Yuri's Revenge (October 2001)
  Command & Conquer Renegade (February 2002)
  Command & Conquer Generals (February 2003)
  Command 
 & Conquer Generals Zero Hour (September 2003)
  
  Final Word:
  
  Although the games were not all perfect, one cannot argue that this set is perfect and a perfect 
 companion to any RTS fan. Whether you have never experienced the Command and Conquer franchise 
 before, or have been a long time fan, this set is the place to start.
  
  ***NOTE: Because of the unique nature of the game, this review will highlight each games contribution 
 to the Command and Conquer universe, what was great about these games, and the small faults that 
 can be found with them too. Because twelve games are included, the review score takes into account 
 each game and is an overall impression on the entire pack.
  ***
  
  ***EDIT: I have just noticed (as I had not played fully through the original, Covert Ops, and Red 
 Alert) that there are some large issues with the product at hand. For example, online play has 
 been completely taken out of the original Command and Conquer and Red Alert, and there is a litany 
 of bugs and issues that has been released with it. In this light, the review has been changed to 
 better reflect the truthful nature of the product. I apologize for any inconveniencies*** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScorpioXIII
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  It is a great idea, but was messed up by EA. The Soviet Campaign's FMVs DO NOT WORK, and the C&C 
 1 (Tiberian Dawn) IPX STILL DOSEN'T WORK. EA Said they were going to "UPGRADE" and "UPDATE" these 
 games, it seems like a DOWNGRADE! EA claims they are going to fix this with a patch, thats great, 
 BUT its the fact that they need to do a patch for such MAJOR problems. Honestly after this, I am 
 Boycotting EA untill they completly fix this problem. I say WAIT on getting this game collection 
 unless you don't want to play C&C TD online and the RA1 Soviet Campaign. Otherwise, it is flawless, 
 except it dosen't include Sole Survivor, and I got this collection mostly for the Classic games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate_puccio
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  this game looks sweet I cant wait to buy. the best games know all in one thats the best. the rates 
 are great the graphics are great hey evry thing about this game is great. so all you gamer fans 
 try this game or your crazy. it might not be fun at the start but once you get into it youl be 
 set. 
  
  P. S. get this game sa soon as possible or it will be gone hurry  
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackice07
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  After reviewing all parts of this collection, I this its fair to say its a perfect 10!!!, Now I 
 understand that there are still some bugs and glitches that I hope EA will fix in a patch soon 
 but its still deservers a 10. There is one downside, If you expect to play multi-player on the 
 original/ RA1/Tiberian Sun its not supported and the LAN won't work either but EA has a help section 
 that worked for me to get LAN working!!! To get so many games for such a cheap price its hard not 
 to turn down. so cheers to another great release!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asuryan2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  These games are not updated (just maybe patched) and do you really wanna pay $40 for all the games? 
 C&C, Red Alert 1 & 2, and Generals were amazing games (C&C getting me started on strategy and having 
 my first taste of multiplayer through good old 28.8kbps modems and Red Alert 1 & 2 being my favorite 
 games) . Score explained: Gameplay: Amazing, its kind of self explanatory though they include some 
 bad games such as Renegade and Tiberium Sum (which disappointed me a great deal since it was about 
 7 years in the making [at least thats how i remember it] , they really dropped the ball) . Graphics, 
 ummm, more of a booster so the score for this set is more fairly. I personally like the graphics 
 on these games, even C&C (for the time they pretty good and i loved how you could have hundreds 
 of units in C&C unlike in Warcraft) . Sound, pretty standard stuff, nothing super amazing but still 
 good. Value? I am not sure if its worth $40 personally. If you never played these games I would 
 almost recommend it but many people still probably have these games (i know i do) and why not just 
 ask a friend and borrow it and play it see how you like it. The extras seem hardly worth it. Fan-made 
 videos? Cant you download those from the fan sites? Yea, I know its 12 games, but only a hand full 
 are worth it and only Generals I guess would jack up the price since its hard to find the pack 
 for less than $20 tho i havent looked in a while. Expansions werent that great except for Red Alert 
 2 and Generals (from what i remember) (and i thought i was just like buying a whole new games, 
 but for only $20 when it was new) Tilt: Just an equalizer I guess. Dont get me wrong, i love the 
 games and would recommend them to anyone (especially those who love RTS) , its just the bundle and 
 price i kind of dont agree with. Mmmm..... a review after 36 hours and no sleep. Hope some of it 
 made sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonely188
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  If you were looking for a revised versions of the previous games such as the expected networking 
 to work on older CNC games... they didn't change. EA is just looking to make some extra profit 
 off previous games that were made by Westwood and nothing more. It's terrible to see such awesome 
 games from the past be flooded with filth from EA. I would highly not recommend buying this all 
 in one pack... unless you don't own any of the games or only a few. Also on red alert, they got 
 lazy and couldn't figure out how to get both sides movies working on a DVD for Allies and Soviets... 
 so only Allies works. 
  
  In conclusion: Save your money for other great games that are being released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: star-stratus
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  We continue to see it. The line of generic RTS games that are mere clones. Mere clones of the revolutionary 
 masterpiece C&C.
  
  C&C is my alltime favorite game. It has innovative and revolutionary gameplay, awesome FMV videos 
 that gives atmosphere and a fantastic sci-fi story. 
  
  Reviewing all the games would take too much time, but if you're missing just some of these games, 
 I would recommend buying this package.
  
  Only thing lacking is descent multiplayer support for the old games. I guess EA (i hate them) didn't 
 want alter C&C, and then just put all the games in one pack to make some more money.
  
  Which is also why I don't give it a perfect 10. The Value is decresed because of EA, not Westwood. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebluelizard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  There was no one game that could compare to what the original C&C. Two complete strings of missions, 
 NOD and GDI. This was practically the biblical fight of good vs. evil, pitting NOD vs. GDI. In 
 any case, C&C and its followups have to be one of the greatest series of any RTS in gaming history. 
 The era of "new gamers" would not understand the significance of this, since their first experience 
 with C&C was most likely Generals (which was a good game, but did not strike at the foundation 
 of gaming as did its grandfather, the original C&C) . For those of us who remember the release, 
 and instant genius that C&C showed in relation to the future of RTS. Anyone who claims this as 
 "overrated" is not only wrong, but are unfortunate to not have experienced the series in first 
 hand as a lot of us did. I agree with the others when they call it "classic". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jyzlgtblb
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  Command and Cnquer over the years has become one of, in my eyes, the best series of RTS games ever 
 released. . .although i believe that the best company Westwood was bought out by the worst EA, 
 they have acheved even greater things with the Generals series. The only thing i will say is that 
 the only game in the command and conquer series that was less than perfect was Renegade. . . . 
 no more of them in the future. . . .I personallly am not a fan of the 3D command and conquers as 
 i believe the majority of games are 2D therefore they should continue making the 2D games that 
 some of us love. . . but i am not a developer. . . .Also what happened to the, in my eyes, the 
 longly awaited Tiberian Twylight? Where is the completion to the tiberian series? What happened 
 to Kane? What happened to what was left of Cabal? Where did the Tacitus lead GDI? What happened 
 to Earth? What about the Scrin? So many questions! So much potential for another hit in the RTS 
 Series. . . .So anyway this compilation is the best cluster of games ever made and therefore is 
 the best product EA have ever released!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golonghorns
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This is an AWESOME collection. I mean, seriously, for 40 bucks you get every C&C game made so far 
 on one DVD! I have every C&C game except the original C&C and some expansions for other C&C games... i 
 have been looking for the original for months with no luck... and, good news, all the games work 
 on win XP! I personally like RA and RA2 the best cuz they have a great story and challenging gameplay... 
 I didnt like generals that much though..... i mean, it was an entirely different story than other 
 C&C games... Renegade is ok.... i really like the FPS feel of that game.... Tiberian sun is alright, 
 i played a little bit of it but it didnt interest me cuz i wanted 2 play the original C&C first 
 because of storyline and stuff. 
  
  i am going to buy this collection ASAP... i would suggest you do too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigagp
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for fans of C&C. It has all of the classic gameplay and some great new additions 
 that i think will make it a masterpiece for a long time to come. It has a great mix of stradigy 
 & fsps that mixes really well together. if you like to play in a open world where you can make 
 anything possible. if you know how to play this game. if you don't it won't take time to learn 
 how to and become an expert at it. I think that you will enjoy this game very much. You can play 
 with evry toy in the game from the Mammoth tanks to the Stealth tanks. Ea has greatly improved 
 on the graphics. & on the gameplay as well. The controls are very easy to get used to. You will 
 have so much fun blowing things up that you will lose track of all time. Now lets talk about multiplayer. 
 you will get lost in the awsome graphics & gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imac12
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  C&C: TFD seemed like a great product on the shelf. All my favorite C&C games bundled together, 
 XP compatible. I figured I could finally go back to play the original and Red Alert with my friends. 
 
  
  Was I ever wrong. There is NO support for LAN games in Red Alert. Not even an option. The 3.03 
 patch that allowed 4-8 players over Westwood online isn't compatible with TFD release. It just 
 ends up giving you unresolvable registry errors when you try to play after patching. 
  
  The graphics are absolute crap as well, but that is to be expected I guess. I wasn't expecting 
 1920x1200 widescreen support for a 10 year old game, but finding a way to get it up to even 1024x768 
 would have been nice. 
  
  EA has been amazingly silent on this... there are hundreds of angry game owners out there posting 
 left and right on the EA forums about all of this... yet not a single post has been made by a developer, 
 project lead, support team member to address any of the issues. 
  
  Bottom line... if you bought this to play C&C original or Red Alert, you're better off getting 
 a copy on Ebay for a few bucks and using the 3.03 patch. I can't give it all ones because the rest 
 of the games work without issue... but hell, i have all of those and they already work on XP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ase33
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  At last the games I grew up on are here.
  C&C The First Decade features 12 C&C games.
  Including the game I grew up on :the red alert series.
  The collection features 12 Command & 
 Conquer games including:
  
  Command & Conquer
  Command & Conquer The Covert Operations
  Command & Conquer Red Alert
  Command & Conquer Red Alert Counterstrike
  Command & Conquer Red 
 Alert The Aftermath
  Command & Conquer Tiberian Sun
  Command & Conquer Tiberian Sun Firestorm 
  Command & Conquer Red Alert 
  Command & Conquer 
 Yuris Revenge
  Command & Conquer Renegade
  Command & Conquer Generals 
  Command & Conquer Generals Zero Hour 
  
  Even if the graphics don`t improve or the games dont 
 change at all it still is 
  a classic must buy.
  
  I just wonder how long it will take it to get to  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rslieb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The first computer game I ever played was Command and Conquer Red Alert. One of my fathers co-workers 
 got the game for me as a present when we got our first computer. I played this game religiously 
 for over 2 years with out buying any other games. Once Microsoft came out with Windows XP I could 
 not play the game any more and it destroyed me. By this time I had all the Command and Conquers 
 that were out except Renegade. Once I found out this collection was coming out I went crazy. I 
 called all my friends that had played it and told them to get it. With that said I am obviously 
 a huge fan of what EA has done, but even if you are not familiar with this series it is definitely 
 something to pick up. I mean it is $10 dollars lower than most RTS computer games and this is not 
 one game it is twelve amazing games that are all similar and different. And before you go thinking 
 that this is basically the same game many times over think again. Many of the games control differently 
 and have many different features. Any fan of RTS games should stop reading this and go to their 
 nearest game store and buy it. If you are not a hug RTS fan, but have always wondered why so many 
 people like them then this is the series to get you hooked. It is without a doubt in my mind the 
 best RTS series ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilbert80
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  About time EA made The First Decade. I was hoping since Zero Hour was released that a collector's 
 collection pack for C&C would be made. The pack is missing Sole Survivor tho even though I know 
 the online servers for SS has been shutdown for a while now. = (
  
  Unfortunately, I have read quite a bit about how some movies will not play properly and other minor 
 issues. Check out Plant C&C's forum at http://www. forumplanet. com/PlanetCNC/forum. asp? fid=1911. 
 The minor issues is why I would think the C&C newbie would not enjoy The First Decade because I 
 would think the new guys to C&C would find all the minor issues to be quite huge issues.
  
  As a fella who actually owns all of the C&C series except for Tiberian Sun Firestorm and I lost 
 my bloody disc 2 for RA2. heh. Anywho.
  
  As a collector, I know I am going to enjoy The First Decade quite well (just ordered it about a 
 hour ago) from experiencing all the extras.
  
  Honestly, $39.99 is too cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistaman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Perfect Perfect Perfect. All the memories that came with my game playing teenage years - started 
 with C&C! It has everything that threw me into PC gaming. Warcraft, Starcraft were just clones 
 of C&C!
  
  Problem is - the thing that got it the .2 off of perfect is that there is no LAN play for C&C and 
 RA1! WHAT? this can't be true.. but it is.. so get ready to be disappointed people.
  
  Buy this collection set and watch as we progressed in the game development industry... We even 
 have a first person shooter thrown into the mix. C&C Renegade :)
  
  But in the mix RA2 and Generals are my favorites.. wait wait.. damn.. all of dem games peeps.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalertgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Damn this is the best game ever. All 12 C&C games all into one cd. I am loving this. Ever since 
 I saw the commercial I've been hooked. Although I was disappointed in EA because they bought out 
 westwood and westwood is nomore and they put thier logo on it like it was thier own game, I still 
 liked it and went to buy it. The C&C series is still goin strong. I love the classics, but they 
 don't work on my new windows xp computer : (. But I don't care now cuz now I have them on a new 
 cd that is compatible with xp :) . I would recommend this for the hardcore C&C fans out there like 
 me who really love the classics. And the people who have the classics and it wont work on thier 
 comp.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AiWolf
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  The game has a big problem it will not work on my computer. It doesnt work on Windows XP Media 
 Center Edition 2005. I meet all of the requirements for the game. I actual meet the requirements 
 above and beyond the call of the requirements. So I call EA tech support and this is what they 
 said. We are sorry for the problem but the game does NOT RUN WELL on Windows XP Media Center Edition 
 2005. This &*$#. They should put this on the box... I put the disk in and it comes up and says 
 no win 32 support. I really love these games. I hope that they get this fixed some time soon. But 
 for now I am going to give them a big thumbs down on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMW_GTR
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  The C&C series has been one of the RTS legends of the gaming history. No strategy game is even 
 close (NO OFFENCE TO THE DEVELOPERS) but the RTS hall of Fame will most definetly contain the names 
 of the C&C titles. When I first bought C&C Red Alert 2, it was so good that I couldnt stop playing 
 it for hours (ocassionally getting ass-whooped by my parents) and I have finished the game atleast 
 5-6 times in each difficulty. Then I bought Yuri's Revenge and finished that 4-5 times. The First 
 Decade absolutely follow in its predeccors steps of being a RTS legend. This game shows marvelous 
 graphics and excellent sound. I dont normally like strategy games but i cant just stay away from 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenwaiy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  
  So its the return of the origional and more. After seeing the preview i wanted to shed a tear. 
 I've spent more time playin Westwood Studio games than any other firm. Not to mention all the money 
 ive givin the company (hope you enjoyed it) . Also, i appriciate westwood adding Renegade to the 
 genre even though it wasnt a big hit (multiplayer was fun) . Is it just me or does it seem that 
 modern day RPG's fall in C&C's shadow? The benchmark for RPG. And, i didnt read up on this subject 
 completely so.. is it on a couple of CD's or perhaps a few ( less is better) ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer is one of the best strategy games ive ever played... sure star craft is a classic, 
 sure warcraft is great, but i think C&C is on a much higher level ^_^! A collection of all 12 games 
 and expansions spanning a decade of gaming all for the low release price of 40 bucks... how can 
 you beat that? The only problem i have found with any of the games is the low resolution. EA decided 
 not to change them for some reason, so now you must play the game on a resolution that doesnt fit 
 the screen! Sometimes part of the bases and some of the letters from the text are going off the 
 screen, but i really dont care too much. Since the gameplay is not affected too much i feel it 
 shouldnt lower the rating too much. The game comes with all the latest patchs and updates so no 
 downloading. Just a small warning for those of you with a small hard drive though, the game takes 
 up a whopping 9.8 gigs! Seriously thats a ton of space, but its well worth it since its all on 
 1 neat dvd with 1 icon and a neat menu which you select the game from. For any strategy game fan, 
 do yourself a favor and buy these 12 amazing classics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan223
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  When I was young I went to this little place called "Game Shack" there was this appealing title. 
 It was called Command and Conquer, I decided that I wanted to rent it. I put it into my playstation 
 and instantly fell in love with it. The graphics were wonderful, the enemy ai was quite intelligent, 
 the variety of units and structures to obliterate your enemies was amazing.
  
  Command and Conquer X is a must buy for anyone that loved Command and Conquer. It's going to include 
 all the titles that you loved and the ones that you perhaps didn't enjoy too much. I'm still anticipating 
 an entire new Command and Conquer from Westwood. I'm not sure if one is in development or if they 
 just decided to stop, none the less Command and Conquer X will be worth your hard earned money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrioremperor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Great to have all the c&c packed into one, but I think it s a distraction for the next c&c, still 
 it is great, i. e. We loved all the c&c generations till now, we will still love them all together, 
 but I wonder when we will see the surprise. I mean what is the goal behind this, just to say it 
 is time to have a new release on the market is not an answer, I mean c&c gamers are still awaiting 
 this next big thing, and let me add: as usual. But I have another question Is it a way of saying 
 goodbye to the previous way of playing? A try to eliminate the Been there done that?
  Simply put: what is next?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keabard
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  So its the return of the origional and more. After seeing the preview i wanted to shed a tear. 
 I've spent more time playin Westwood Studio games than any other firm. Not to mention all the money 
 ive givin the company (hope you enjoyed it) . Also, i appriciate westwood adding Renegade to the 
 genre even though it wasnt a big hit (multiplayer was fun) . Is it just me or does it seem that 
 modern day RPG's fall in C&C's shadow? The benchmark for RPG. And, i didnt read up on this subject 
 completely so.. is it on a couple of CD's or perhaps a few ( less is better) ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFreed22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  To have all three universes of C&C on one DVD is a masterpiece. "Greatest hit" doesn't begin to 
 describe Westwood's and EA's game prowess. I'm ecstatic! I've loved C&C since the very first, back 
 in the Tiberium days. Red Alert only improved on it, with a completely different universe, and 
 I still go back and play Generals from time to time for it's up to date weaponry and futurisitic 
 battle scenes. Over the years, I've been impressed by the actors brought in to do the movie scenes 
 (James Earl Jones as general, anyone?) and the animation cut scenes are so realistic, you think 
 you're watching a news brief, not playing a game. This would be a must-have for hardened C&C fanatics 
 and newcomers to the genre alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooCad
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  They first give us a rusty gun,
  then they give us the evolution,
  the dream, the fun, 
  all the hours without sleep,
  the laughts, the anger,
  defeat and victory.
  
  Now planning 
 the future, 
  with no remorse, 
  they give us history, 
  memories of those great days.
  
  I have sure iam not going to forget this buy, i just need to wait till it finds it's way to 
 the lost country of Portugal. I can wait a hour, a day, a week, a month even a year, i dont care 
 it's C&C, and it rocks, the sound of the weapons, the enemy running not to be eliminated well there 
 is old things that never change.
  
  Be cool, 
  VooCad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kxtreme
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  The Best Strategy Games Ever made! IN ONE BOX.. OMGSPLOSION!!! Westwood is on of the best game 
 makers ever!! Command and Conquer IS STRATEGY at ITS BEST!!!!! Using actual people for cutscenes 
 was one of the best ideas ever.. It actually got you into the game.. It made you really HAte Or 
 Love Kane... When you think command and Conquer.. the Next words in your head is "THE BEST DAMN 
 GAME EVER! I cant wait to play the original.. This series got me into the scene of computer gaming. 
 I've been loyal to Westwood and command and Conquer ever since.. This is defientaly a Must Buy 
 for all Strategy lovers out there. If you Love Strategy you must have played Command and Conquer 
 somtime in you life.. and if you havn't.. Shame Shame on you. Overall this SErIES ROCK you OUT 
 of yOu Boots into Greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WBao
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the must buy greatest game. The new Command and Conquer decade can support windows XP. 
 So this is the good chance to review and play all the Command &Conquer games. It's imaging. Now 
 EA has remembered Command &Conquer series again. Therefore Command and Conquer 3 or Red Alert 3 
 is not far away from us. Alough I already have all the Command and Conquer games, I also will buy 
 it if it is comes out. Commmand &Conquer forever! Command &Conquer fans forever!
  
  I also expect the next generation of DUNE. This is also a good series to play. But I do not think 
 EA will develop it soon. Because EA do not want to mention that greatest name:" Westwood Studios". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qazwsxedcrfvqwe
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  C&C THE FIRST DECADE 
  
  The name says it all; it is 10 years of gaming all packed together in one bundle and in the form 
 of 12 games. You love the C&C franchise then you will love this. if you love retro gaming, sci-fi 
 storylines, or hyped up graphics with a modern story line, then this is the game for you. Its not 
 all just RTS, there is also one FPS in the pack to. The games by themselves are awesome beyond 
 belief. If you own a Command and Conquer game, you would know that this franchise has well over 
 100 mods for it and every game has at least 20 mods, including the FPS. 
  
  You also get a free bonus DVD and a poster with a few other trinkets as well, all at the sweet 
 price of just 40 bucks. Not only do you get to see the best of RTS gaming glory, but you get to 
 also see the most dedicated fans do some crazy things on the DVD, also you can lay claim to over 
 100 mods to try out on any of your games with well over 10,000 people playing each game everyday 
 online! 
  
  You are bound to find at least 3 games in the pack you will love. If for some odd reason you dont, 
 then go on the internet and download a few awesome mods! Do not make the mistake at passing this 
 up, this owns
  
  the difficulty will very from game to game, the learning curve is easy for all games. if you are 
 not careful, you will feel like you are realy in the action!
  
  My scoring, 10/10 long live COMMAND AND CONQUER! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theman3788
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok, the first game I ever played was when I went over to my friends house and he just got this 
 new game called command an conquer. over 10 years and 12 games later I am inspired and awed as 
 to what CC did to the gaming industry. Red alert was the first truly, in my opinion anyway, first 
 networked lan game that thoroughly followed through, by allowing that many multiplayer and so many 
 options. The newer generation has lost some of its appeal, however Red alert two is still quite 
 possibly the greatest game ever made. Not only that, I got the soundtrack when I bought RA2 and 
 it is easily one of my favorite game soundtracks of all time. Kudos to Westwood! Sorry about the 
 whole EA buy thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patton101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer has always had a special place in my heart. I have been playing through the 
 series since they first one came out on the PC. I loved it. I was obsessed with it playing it all 
 the time I could. The first one is still the hardest of them all to me. Great fresh storyline, 
 cool characters and set the tone for RTS's to follow. Then came Red Alert. This game blew me away. 
 Possibly the greatest RTS of all time. Again, magnificiant story. Great FMV's. Uses real historic 
 figures such as Stalin, Einstein, Hitler (for a brief moment) . The music was rockin. No one can 
 forget "Hell March". Tiberian Sun was next and went in a very different direction. Probably my 
 favorite of all the Command and Conquers. Although it did take time to build on me. After Tiberian 
 Sun, Command and Conquer would never be the same. Red Alert 2 was released and got very mixed reviews. 
 I for one enjoyed it although the story was disappointing to me. Still a fun game. Loved the zepplins 
 and the "Hell March" remix. Renegade seemed kinda lost and forgotten in all this. Very different 
 game. 1st person shooter in the Tiberium universe. Kind of refreshing in some ways. Generals. Well. 
 To be honest, I was a little disappointed. Not much at all like the Command and Conquer's that 
 I grew up with and loved but still a great game in its own. Well theres my overview of the series. 
 Can't wait for more in the future! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
