-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer: Generals
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandconquergenerals/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 11, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.5, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 7,215 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Pacific
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 10, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Generals is easily one of the best Command & Conquer games yet. 

 Though it wasn't the first game of its type, Command &amp; Conquer became synonymous with real-time 
 strategy gaming when the very first game in the series was released in 1995. Along with Blizzard's 
 Warcraft II, Command &amp; Conquer helped build the foundation for one of PC gaming's most beloved 
 genres, defining many of the real-time strategy conventions that are used today. And though Command 
 &amp; Conquer has seen its highs and lows over the years, the series' quirky, politically incorrect, 
 comic-book-like take on modern warfare has remained intact all throughout, and it is upheld in 
 the latest entry in the series, Command &amp; Conquer: Generals. More importantly, Generals is 
 easily one of the best Command &amp; Conquer games yet, with the impressive visuals and highly 
 refined and accessible gameplay that have come to characterize the best entries in this genre. 
 Die-hard fans of Command &amp; Conquer may lament a few of the departures Generals makes from the 
 series' roots, and the game does have a few rough edges, but Generals is still one of the best 
 real-time strategy games around.           The USA owns the sky with its gunships, fighters, and 
 stealth bombers.    

  Generals' fictional premise puts the USA, China, and a terrorist group called the Global Liberation 
 Army (GLA) at odds sometime in the near future. You can play as any one of these factions in its 
 own brief single-player campaign, in skirmishes with computer opponents, or against other players 
 over a LAN or using the game's online player-matching service. Those who played the previous two 
 Command &amp; Conquer RTS games, Red Alert 2 and its expansion pack, Yuri's Revenge, will note 
 that Generals is highly reminiscent of those games, despite its much improved appearance and its 
 seemingly more conventional array of infantry, tanks, and aircraft. Like in Red Alert 2, battles 
 in Generals are often quick and decisive, largely due to the immense power of many of the game's 
 units, the presence of devastating super weapons on each side, and the generally fast pace. Also, 
 while each faction has a good variety of units at its disposal, you'll likely get the impression 
 that the number of unit types per faction was limited so that each unit type could play an important 
 role in most any fight -- and also to leave room for an expansion pack. The lack of seafaring units 
 in the game is a disappointing omission, given the importance of ships in most previous Command 
 &amp; Conquer games (not to mention in actual modern warfare) , but the designers have still done 
 an excellent job of imaginatively differentiating the game's three sides.   

  Despite the fact that the game's central conflict involves the USA and an obviously Middle Eastern 
 terrorist group, the action in Generals is either over-the-top enough or abstract enough that, 
 for better or worse, it shouldn't offend anyone's sensibilities. In fact, as if to drive home the 
 sense that "Hey, it's just a game," there's really no story at all to Generals. The motivations 
 of the respective factions aren't made clear, and their arsenals are far enough removed from reality 
 that Generals seems much less inspired by current events and much more so by the current fascination 
 with war in our popular culture. Movies like  The Rock  and  Black Hawk Down  certainly played 
 a bigger part in inspiring the game's look and style than anything on the nightly news. It bears 
 mentioning that almost all the mainstays of the Command &amp; Conquer milieu can nevertheless be 
 found in Generals -- fans will be glad to see huge, double-barreled tanks, crack-shot commandos, 
 nuclear missile silos, flamethrower tanks, and other such C&amp; C mainstays back and looking better 
 than ever. Many of the twists added to Red Alert 2 remain intact as well, such as the ability to 
 garrison infantry in civilian buildings and the ability of units to gain experience levels by defeating 
 foes.           Even a small squad of Chinese forces can be dangerous. In large groups, they're 
 deadly.    

  Other aspects of this new Command &amp; Conquer are decidedly different. C&amp; C fans may not notice 
 right away, but Generals lacks a few of the series' signature elements. For instance, Command &amp; 
 Conquer games always did a nice job with their installation programs, many of which put you in 
 the mood of the games even before you could begin playing. But Generals has a boring install program, 
 just like every other game. Also, previous Command &amp; Conquer games made prodigious use of full-motion 
 video cutscenes to move their stories along. Featuring recognizable actors, hammy performances, 
 and surprisingly good production values, the full-motion video sequences of Command &amp; Conquer 
 have always been a distinguishing feature of the series -- but the FMV is out of the picture now, 
 too. These complaints hardly bear mentioning, but considering Generals' heritage, they're not irrelevant. 
            What the GLA lacks in technology it makes up for with sheer tenacity. Its buildings 
 are the hardest to destroy.    

 Not all the game's departures are cosmetic. Debates used to rage on the Internet as to whether Command 
 &amp; Conquer or Warcraft II had the better interface, and as if to settle the score once and for 
 all, Generals retreats away from some of the C&amp; C standards in favor of the Blizzard school 
 of thought. The signature right-hand interface from previous C&amp; C games is replaced by the signature 
 Blizzard-style interface situated at the bottom of the screen. The signature C&amp; C fog of war, 
 which provides you with unlimited line of sight as soon as you explore the map, has been replaced 
 by the signature Blizzard fog of war, which limits your ability to see enemy positions outside 
 of your forces' field of view. The signature C&amp; C base building, which allows you to erect new 
 structures almost instantly but forces you to place them adjacent to your other structures, has 
 been replaced by the signature Blizzard base building, which allows your worker unit to build new 
 structures pretty much anywhere. These are all sensible decisions that make Command &amp; Conquer: 
 Generals more strategic and ultimately more entertaining, but it's still odd to see the series 
 have a change of heart after all this time. One aspect of Command &amp; Conquer's traditional control 
 scheme that does remain intact is that mouse controls revolve entirely around the left mouse button, 
 which is used both to select units and to issue attack orders. The right mouse button is only for 
 de-selecting things, and those accustomed to recent games that use the right mouse button for move 
 and attack orders may find that this scheme takes a bit of getting used to.   

  The gameplay itself is what you'd expect from a Command &amp; Conquer game -- it's fast, responsive, 
 and filled with lots of great explosions. There's no dillydallying about, just a quick-and-dirty 
 setup process where you slap down a few key structures and then move on to cranking out a good, 
 mixed group of forces. Numerous, unique upgrades are also available to each faction, competing 
 for your resources. Resource gathering, while slightly different for each faction, is fully automated 
 like in Red Alert 2. The US helicopters, Chinese supply trucks, and GLA workers will all make a 
 beeline for the closest batch of "supply," which is basically a big stockpile of valuables just 
 sitting there and waiting to be collected. As in all Command &amp; Conquer games, a viable strategy 
 in Generals is to attack the enemy's all-important gatherers, though the buildings in the game 
 can't withstand much damage, either. You can't build walls, base defenses are pretty flimsy, and 
 a lot of the buildings are quite large and vulnerable -- so the game definitely favors an aggressive 
 style of play. Overly defensive play will merely land you front-row seats to the fiery destruction 
 of your own base.           You can see visible damage on units. This Raptor won't make it, but 
 its pilot will eject in time.    

  Regardless, a few interface issues may get in the way of your efforts. While you can manually set 
 formations for your forces, unit formations aren't handled nearly as well here as in some other 
 recent real-time strategy games, resulting in battles that are often very chaotic. Your forces 
 may frequently drift away from each other, so you'll often have trouble focusing your fire on individual 
 targets. The pathfinding for your units is generally good -- they'll conveniently move out of each 
 other's way, but sometimes you'll see a unit of yours sustaining damage without returning fire, 
 or maneuvering weirdly around buildings or other obstacles. The game's menu screens look rushed 
 when compared with the polished in-game graphics. None of these are major problems, but they're 
 noticeable, and they might give you the sense that they could have been fixed with just a bit more 
 time.   

  One of the game's new features is the "generals" ability system, which is basically an experience 
 system that lets you unlock new units, technologies, and powers as you rack up kills. Much like 
 the experience system used for heroes in Warcraft III, the experience element featured in Generals 
 lets you spend points earned in successive victories on new abilities for your faction. It's a 
 good system that adds to the number of viable strategic options in the game, letting you concentrate 
 on some of your faction's key strengths or gain an ace up your sleeve in the form of an artillery 
 attack or bombing run.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (156 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: joedgii
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:02 pm PT
Review:  This is my kinda game as I love strategy and imagining myself as a (hopefully more than) competent 
 commander, and one day General/Admiral/Emperor type gamer. I probably need a better video card 
 but the chipset is state of the art (for 2006) . Next, is 'Zero Hour' and then probably 'Deluxe' 
 but my studies have me feeling a bit like the time spent should be for my GPA - wow, I really must 
 need the future money. I actually believe in the B. S. (in I. T.) , but seriously this is my genre 
 from way back to the original tiberium gathering massive tank rush of whenever... probably in the 
 90's right?! This is the only review where you have a word minimum and keep sending us back to 
 bring more enlightenment to our belief in our game selection... to the gamespot staff, you folks 
 need to lobby for the more concise review or just some lighter and less stringent protocol of requirement.
 
  
  Thanx and keep moving us forward to the VR stage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 6:17 am PT
Review:  Generals is ambitious. It uses high end graphics but with a very lame gameplay and storyline, it 
 ends up in deep soup. Three playable sides - USA, China and Global Liberation Army (Terrorist) 
 or the GLA. Each of them have their own powers and abilities and the campaign mainly focuses on 
 the war between GLA and the others. It uses a gameplay similar to the other series. Now the other 
 series were occurring in fictitious universes but they seemed quite likable. Generals on the other 
 hand addresses a more plausible issue with the same tone as with handling the fantasy ridden storyline 
 of the other series. This major blunder on the part of EA makes the game distasteful which otherwise 
 could have outshone the other series. The game uses an Urban warfare scenario, but unlike Red Alert 
 (which also uses an Urban Warfare scenario) there are Civilians running about everywhere.
  
  The graphics of the game is similar to Red Alert 2 or any other C&C game, only with a 3d touch. 
 That, if you play the game you will understand, makes it absolutely worthless graphics.
  
  The General verdict is that it is good buy if you are a real RTS fan and don't mind a few bumps 
 while playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyhawksP8
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  
  Command and Conquer Generals was the second Command and Conquer I have played. The first thing 
 to say is Command and Conquer Generals definitely needs Zero Hour to be fully appreciated without 
 it; it can get quite boring quickly. This is the third universe of Command and Conquer and is my 
 favourite to date.
  
  The game has a nice arsenal of modern day weapons like the Crusader Tank and Raptor (Aircraft) 
 as well as three unique sides (China, GLA and America) more on those later. The game includes typical 
 RTS features like a supply carrier but this is different as you will have near to your base area 
 a rectangle containing boxes and barrels of various sizes the supply gatherer will use these as 
 a money source. This is different from the Ore and Tiberium of the other two C&C universes. 
  
  Secondly is the pre-setup (A command centre) and you will use dozers (America and China) or 
 workers (GLA) to build buildings anywhere. The Red Alert and Tiberium universe had a vehicle that 
 converted into your basis structure where buildings where built in near proximity of. 
  
  Thirdly individual side bars unlike the others which had your right side consume by a big side 
 bar (Generals is at the bottom of the screen) . Fourth you can move buildings around (Drag and rotate) 
 until they fit, screen is moveable (Click, drag and rotate) so now you can see previously hidden 
 buildings and units no longer hinder you from parking buildings.
  
  Fifth the Generals point system will be usable as a way of having extra powers, there are lots 
 more units and upgrade as well as three whole new sides I mentioned before. The GLA stands for 
 Global Liberation Army (GLA) this side promotes slavery, cheap tanks (Scorpions) and sneaky rebel 
 ambushes; China has the Overlord Tank (think Mammoth Tank with two turrets) , nukes/napalm and the 
 infamous Red Guard pair and finally America has the Chinook, Colonel Burton (hero unit) and the 
 repair/spy drones that can be bought to go with vehicles.
  
  There are three really short campaigns each side with unique though sometimes repetitive and don't 
 live up to C&Cs well known great storylines.
  
  There are its faults though China lacks spying ability, unit choices feel limited even though they 
 are broader than the simplistic early C&Cs and America lacks a second base defence. There are many 
 more but these are the ones that come to mind first. Simply put with Zero Hour it's great without 
 it can get boring quickly like within a year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Setting: 
  Takes place in the present to near future. Consists of three factions. The high tech USA, the powerhouse 
 China, and the fictional guerilla GLA. 
  
  Gameplay:
  A little different than other Command and Conquers. You start with a command center and have to 
 build units responsible for building construction. Beyond that handles like your typical C&C. Gameplay 
 is the strongsuit of Generals. 
  
  Story: 
  Weak story. Three seperate campaigns that have no connection to each other. No cutscenes between 
 missions. Limited to in-game cutscenes. 
  
  Graphics:
  Good yet bad. Infantry are very poorly designed. Basically stick figures with guns. Vehicles, buildings 
 and landscape very polished. Nuke explosion very cool.
  
  Overall: A very good game. Strong gameplay and good graphics make this an excellent addition to 
 the Command and Conquer franchise but a weak story prevent Generals from getting a score higher 
 than 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MO-SHUN
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The things about this game is Great graphics and new 3d engine - Fun gameplay, new gameplay innovations 
 wrapped around solid RTS core - Good unit variety - Good single player and multiplayer value now 
 the bad things are - Heavy-duty system requirements - Interface isn't very flexible or comprehensive 
 and lacks some details - No settable AI behaviours - Standard linear single player story - No network 
 play "spawning" - each computer requires a unique CD key, even for LAN play. This game definitely 
 caught me by surprise. I was pretty unimpressed with Command and Conquer: Renegade, and although 
 they're two completely different games, I wasn't expecting too much from Generals. Of course, the 
 game will definitely go through a period of post-release patching, as has become the norm for almost 
 every PC game. Almost certainly, we can expect to see a variety of tweaks, fixes, and updates that 
 will result in the game balance changing, perhaps significantly. Stay tuned for updates on that 
 one. 
  
  For the fans of the Command and Conquer universe, this is definitely one worth checking out. Anyone 
 into strategy gaming will also want to give it a look, especially if you're getting a bit tired 
 of the swords and sorcery games that have really dominated the RTS scene in recent months. A good 
 game that I look forward to playing some more. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MohamedU3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Generals is one of these games. I stayed all night playing it. although I was thinking that the 
 game would be very boring, I found myself playing it level after level till finishing it the next 
 morning. Something strange about this game made me continue playing it without a single hour of 
 sleeping. The Game is neither very easy nor extremely hard. The difficulty of the game is suitable. 
 For every situation there exist an appropriate unit to deal with it. Once you find this unit, you 
 proceed to the next obstacle.
  No, it's not an adventure game but you may play it that way to reach the base of the enemy and 
 destroy it. Yes, reaching the enemy's base will not be so easy each time and the idea of preparing 
 a great army may not be the solution every time. the prepared army should be well prepared which 
 means that it consists of nearly all units to deal with different situations.
  I think this a game that should be played by all of those how adore the Command & Conquer series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffinthraka
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  ... this game just did not do it for me. The first problem is the lack of any cinematics, the second 
 is that this game lacks the excitement of Red Alert 2.
  
  The first problem is my graphics card, although it a decent card (128mb, Directx 9.0c ccompatible) 
 it has problems with games that rely on 3D accelorators, which causes the game to slow down. The 
 effect is somewhat random, only a small number of games seem to do it ad it seems unrelated as 
 to whether the game says "Reguires 3D Accelorator" on the back, but a have confirmed it.
  
  So to begin with the game was a bit stuttery, but I was willing to put up with this. Annoyingly 
 the options allow very little tweaking (in Halo the above 3D problem disappears simply by switching 
 off spectacular, yet the game still runs well on high) .
  
  I really don't know how to say it, this game just doesn't feel as fun as Red Alert 2, the graphics 
 are better but the missions are boring, the music is rubbish and you get thrown into the game with 
 little idea of what to do (there is an introduction bt so much is left out) .
  
  There is also a sense of being nannied as a computer voice gives you new objectives, this game 
 makes you feel like you are playing a game. Red Alert 2 made you think the people were real (thanks 
 to the CINEMATICS) .
  
  I await Red Alert 3 (I'm upgrading my PC especially for it, something I can't be bothered to do 
 for this game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_06
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  I have always been a war movie freak. Well in CnC Generals you get to be a part of your own war 
 movie. Its just plain simple fun. Destruction never felt so good. Though there are only a few races 
 they all have 3 generals each with lots of unique powers and units which adds a lot of variety 
 to the game.
  The campaign is pretty good. There are a lot of skirmish maps, the best according to me being Death 
 Valley and Hostile Dawn (get these from the mod "CnC All Stars") , then uninstall the mod (the maps 
 will stay) . Its extremely entertaining (especially when you fight against the GLA) . I have been 
 playing this game for a long time and trust me it'll turn your world upside down. Well, the Rangers 
 could have had a bit of a more military look.
  It would have been more challenging if the GLA had a few aircraft, and superweapons could have 
 been more devastating. Overall the game is an excellent experience and all RTS fans should play 
 it atleast once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiNoNaX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I can't mention how many times I have broken keyboards at LAN parties playing this game. Just out 
 of sheer frustration. 
  
  Kernel Burton abuse that just can't be stopped, and if you put enough resources to remove the Burton 
 threat your just gonna get rushed the hell out of the game. 
  
  And by todays standards 5 years later prior to the games release it still fails to play smoothly 
 in 4v4 games and prolly even 3v3, and 20-30 minutes in the game someone is bound to get kicked 
 due to synchronization issues. Cmon thats ridiculous. Bad coding is all I can say.
  
  The balance in this game is just non-existant which in my oppinion is one of the more important 
 aspects of an RTS, not a good game for competitive play if you ask me. Evidence to this is how 
 EA decided to expand China, USA, GLA into 3 different types of generals each, which is actually horrible. 
 Playing USA Air General against China Infantry with equally skilled players is just lol. Each General 
 has his counters. Proving my point. Easy way to escape balance issues.
  
  The only good thing about this game is the single player campaign and particle effects this game 
 introduced. Horrible online competitive play and horrible system reqs.
  
  My 2.5 cents
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Generals is now a dated game but is still one of the best Command and Conquer games out there. 
 
  
  The story to the game is very well done and I have to say, one of the best in the series. Putting 
 the Chinese army against the USA and throwing a little bit of that army known as the GLA into the 
 fold makes for one awesome game compared to most RTS games out there. This is a game that still 
 stands tall in the face of newer RTS games even being released now-a-days.
  
  The game in some ways feels a little different to other Command and Conquer games due to the fast 
 that EA took out the sidebar that all us C&C lovers loved. They instead gave the game an Age of 
 Empires feel which I though, was a very bad move. Although they messed up the way to build up your 
 army and base the game more than makes up for it. 
  
  Sheer fun with awesome units and still very good visuals this is a must own game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  =Preview=
  
  This is a one of all CnC series, who success with his RTS products. with three fraction u can choose 
 and play in single player campaign or multiplayer also.
  
  =Gameplay=
  
  A familiar CnC find on this series, with a few improve like generals promotion, and upgrade to 
 each units who can be strongly and deadly. U can play as a america with hi-tech and strongly infantry. 
 or u choose china with impressively Nuke instalation and strong armor and infantry (if many) . Maybe 
 u choose GLA, with lo-tech, but have a strong MOD and building. There are single player campaign 
 to each fraction with three difficulty mode. or skirmish with a various map. but it's very interesting 
 if u play multiplayer with ur teammates.
  
  =All performance=
  
  with 3D graphics, and amazingly explosions of nuke. it's much better on this game released. i almost 
 not find any major bug, its stable to ran on pc with minimu requirements, at last pentium IV its 
 better. but sempron nice better, with 1 GB RAM (512 RAM will slowly this game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  EA now own westwood the people that made command and conquer and have made command and conquer 
 generals which is surprisingly good even though it was made by EA and have made a great game with 
 great graphics sound and style
  
  The story is just about the war in Iraq but with some good humour to make sure it doesent get a 
 little bit political even though it was banned in Germany. There are three campaigns usa, china and 
 gla all about 4-5 hours long to get people warmed up for the fast paced skirmishing.
  
  The graphics are amazing and detailed and would be considered great even to today's standards and 
 will have plenty of wow moments especially when you nuke a enemy army and seeing bright orange 
 all over the screen the only complaint i would make is that infantry and just little smudges and 
 don't look very detailed, in terms of requirements most computers should be able to play it no problem 
 the minimum graphic requirements is a 32mb geforce 2 and works surprisingly well on low settings 
 on one
  
  You will be able to control huge army's with weapons such as flame tanks stealth fighters and humvees 
 and some battles can look spectacular with a large screen and big speakers.
  
  I could recommend this to almost all rts lovers and new comers alike with only minor bugs and glitches 
 now and again.
  
  gameplay-9
  graphics-9.5
  sound-9
  value-10
  story-9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorro
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  At first glance, this is not an ordinary Command & Conquer game. That's because it isn't, EA started 
 everything from scrap and made a total overhaul from the series. Generals has no hints reminiscing 
 it's predecessors. Everything is entirely new and fully inspired by popular modern war movies.
 
  
  The game's graphics is beautiful rendered. The terrain looks good. Shadows looks crisp. The environment 
 looks nice because of all the details. Unit ragdolls are also present that gives ground troops 
 flying through the air when hit by a massive explosion. Explosions is very realistic even up to 
 this day. Sometimes you might even forgot that you are commanding an army because of the breath 
 taking battles. 
  
  The games sound is quite nice. Some in-game music are also inspired by popular modern war movies. 
 Music tracks are also set for every faction you pick in the game, allowing different mood each 
 and every time.
  
  There are three factions playable on both single player and multi-player. These factions are based 
 on real modern super powers in which each side has different style of gameplay. Each factions is 
 design distinctly from each other, like building constructions to gathering resources to styles 
 of warfare.
  
  Each factions is provided by a number of unique units, each with it's special abilities and weakness. 
 Each side is also blessed by a number of powerful units that is designed for the best on their 
 purpose and their ability to destroy is superior to normal units.
  
  Special weapons are also given to every faction. A handful of special weapons is given to each 
 in which they are so over powered that it creates adrenaline and makes the game fast pace because 
 of the massive destruction it leaves in the battlefield. 
  
  Skills are also given that allows the player to choose abilities that creates another level of 
 strategic importance. There are a number of skills available for each faction and can be upgraded 
 for a much more powerful ability. But only a few maybe selected in each game allowing the player 
 to concentrate on a single part of the skill tree.
  
  Fans by the series will surely be disappointed by the fact that Generals is made entirely by people 
 that did not take part on the past series. There are many parts of the game that takes it away 
 from series, such as the boring installation which is different from the Command and Conquer style 
 installation program that features entertainment scenes while installing the game.
  
  The game's single player campaign is relatively short and easy. Although each faction gets it's 
 own campaign, but there is no story attached, no motive, and no video cutscenes or movies which 
 is found on other Command and Conquer games. All missions can easily be finished using no strategy, 
 just build up a massive force and march them straight to the enemy base.
  
  There are many aspects of the game that is borrowed from other games and remove from the series. 
 The players ability to build structures anywhere on the battlefield are also recognizable on other 
 games, but not on Command and Conquer series since the game does not allow the player to build 
 structures away from the base.
  
  Game controls are also different from other Command and Conquer games. Most buttons are place differently.
 
  
  Command and Conquer: Generals is recommended for all real time strategy gamers that likes fast 
 pace and pack with action. Because of the lacking aspects of what makes Command and Conquer series 
 so strong, this is not recommended for all hardcore CnC fans. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomSky
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  At the time of writing of this review Command and Conquer 3 and its expansions are already out 
 and Red alert 3 is on the way it may be easy to forget EA's contribution but for those who have 
 yet to play Generals is a fun, rather crazy RTS that is worthy of the C&C name.
  
  the factions included are new to C&C theres no GDI or Soviets here just 3 armys based off modern 
 powers, first theres the powerful but expensive USA, the massive armys of china and fictional GLA 
 which is best described as a middle eastern coalition of terrorists and warlords. As you can expect 
 the armys are very differnt from each other, USA can build supersonic bombers, GLA can scavenge 
 weapons to upgrade their vehicles and build modified tractors armed with deadly bio weaponry and 
 china can fire nukes and create infernos of black napalm, as you can imagine the battles can get 
 very crazy, chaotic and fun. 
  
  There is only one resource in Generals and that is money you get money normally by taking your 
 resource gatherer (if its a supply truck, worker or cargo helicopter) to a supply depot and taking 
 some supplies and delivering them back to the supply center the unit will do this automatically 
 but they will run out, but all factions have alternate methods for getting money, USA can call 
 in supply drops, China uses hackers to hack the Internet for money and GLA gets profits from the 
 black markets it builds but if you there are oil rigs on the map you can capture them with your 
 soldiers and get money there are also other buildings on the map that can be took for benefits 
 such as hospitals to heal your troops.
  
  There is a campaign in generals but the story is rather weak and there is not much explanation 
 to how it all started however the campaign does try and stray away from the "build base and destroy 
 other base" type campaign and trys to make it unique such as starting riots in a city or using 
 limited troops it should incite you to keep playing. Skirmish is as you can expect a custom battle 
 where you set the rules of who is who and a good choice of maps you can have big team games or 
 1v1's the AI is good and they scale up well.
  
  Generals looks quite nice but the graphics are ageing now but the 3d shadows are there and it looks 
 quite crisp. The music changes depending on your army and has correct cultural tones and gets you 
 into the game.
  
  Overall Generals is a nice quality package, 3 unique races with fun gameplay, excellent skirmish 
 and multiplayer and a campaign worth a play, anyone who enjoys RTS should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zertos
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  to all true command and conquer fans you all know this was the worst command and conquer game ever 
 made and did you read the gamespot Critic review saying it was one of the best what was he smoking 
 when he said that. now this game was the start of command and conquer downfall when EA toke over 
 and westwood was no more a sad day for all us TRUE command and conquer fans they did make some 
 progress since this game was made but not enough to be honest now i know i'll get some bad marks 
 from wan abe command and conquer fans those people who jump in a games series half way through 
 then buy all the merch and the one dvd disc that has all the games and class themself as a hardcore 
 fan but i don't care what they think there no body to me they have no true voice on C&C.
  
  the story line they made to base it on current events which didn't work and was boring and the 
 campaign was long short and boring but it did have some fun missions i'll give it that.
  
  skirmish i think is what you would play most on this game cause it is fun to play and you can drag 
 the game out if you like long epic battles.
  
  graphic's aren't that bad consider that C&C was most 2D looking it did give you more to look at 
 in C&C with new ways to look at battles.
  
  all things considered this was C&C dark past which it would like to forget so lets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raistlarn
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 8, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Pros: You play the same way as you do in most C&C games, GLAs teleport structure makes quick movement 
 possible, Unit veteran levels
  
  Cons: No cinematics, Cheating A. I., for me I had a black screen as terrain the whole time, no super 
 weapons, missing good music from Red Alert & Red Alert 2, No naval units without the expansion 
 pack, Unit bar, not made by Westwood Studios
  
  Generals in my opinion was the absolute worst of the whole C&C series. The first thing you notice 
 right away when playing this game is that there are no Videos, the game just drops you in the middle 
 of combat without giving you much of a reason the fight is going on. Of course the only video was 
 portrayed very poorly in my opinion. The A. I. will cheat a lot in this game and will do so right 
 in your face. Another major disappointment was the fact that they didn't add any naval units or 
 any of the soundtracks from Red Alert or Red Alert 2. It is in my opinion that if this game was 
 developed and designed by the founders of C&C a. k. a. Westwood Studios instead of E. A. Games this 
 game might have come out a lot better than what it is today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geniustiong
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  OK. Straight to the topic here. Some of you from Malaysia who subscribed to SYC might know that 
 we started rating games on December. As we brought in both C&C Generals & it's expansion pack, 
 we thought it should be good because..... well, because it's C&C. But we ended up disappointed. 
 For one thing, there's no planned storyline, no cutscene! You just shoot down the enemy and in 
 the end you end up in a ******* parade. And boy those CGI animated ones suck. An explosion or 2 
 and you ******* win? For this sole reason, this is not C&C at all but there are more reasons and 
 they get more and more ridiculous. Now let's take a look at the interface.
  
  Instead of giving you a sidebar, it gives you a ******* toolbar that blocks your view of the action 
 and i have to ******* disable that ******* toolbar to see the battle clearly! That's all? NOT. 
 When you want to send in reinforcements to the firefight, you have to take your eyes off the battle. 
 Do we want to miss that action of defeat? ******* NO! Hey, nice **** off EA now let someone else 
 DO YOUR JOB. Otherwise, STOP messing around trying to buy Take 2. Let's take a look at the generals 
 promotion thingy.
  
  Wow. I love new tech in Generals. NOT. If you take a look, the Generals Promotion tab is a waste 
 of time. Why do i have to keep upgrading my repair levels? By the time i finish with it, Game's 
 Over man. Easy as that. Repair level 1, repair level 2, repair level 3........ **** off! I'm sick 
 of this!
  
  Conclusion: Addicting, but it's so not C&C at all. You want this, you're better off with the now 
 famous WOWIII and remember, get DOTA with it! :D: D: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aslag94
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer: Generals is supposedly a C&C game, but if it wasn't for the title you probably 
 wouldn't know it. This is mostly because Generals has absolutely nothing to do with with Nod, Kane, 
 tiberium, alternate futures, or any other staple of the C&C series. Even the gamplay is different! 
 But this is what really sets it a part from the C&C series: 
  no more sidebar! EA has decided to go with an Age of Empires/Starcraft bottom bar. In order to 
 build structures you have to click on a builder unit and select what you want built and for units 
 you have to click on the corresponding stucture. Small thing I know, but I just find it strange 
 to remove it. Aside from this, the game is great. Graphics were good for the time, and the factions 
 are diverse. The gameplay is pretty good and managing your economy is simple, the only resource 
 is money, which you get from supply dumps scattered about the map. This means players can hold 
 back and turtle forever as their supplies will run out if they don't go out and fight for more. 
 Other features from Red Alert 2, such as putting soldiers inside buildings for cover and your units 
 gaining experience as they fight are also here. As long as you don't expect a strictly C&C type 
 game, Generals can be pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadhouse
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Like before I bought this game before I had a pc bought it paid $70 for it. But it was well worth 
 it. Enjoyed it from beginning to end. Very impressed with the GLA was a great addition to the game. 
 However found it too easy don't know if it was due to the easy controls. Skirmish maps were simple, 
 don't know if maybe it was just my tactics. It was to easy to build an extra dozer and send it 
 alway to the enemies base and building a barracks in there base once done it was only a matter 
 of time and game over. Liked the structure placement you can build anywhere. General Points rock. 
 Still wasn't impressed with super weapons they still appeared weak. A few mods could fix that. 
 Great game would recommend it over C&C 3 TW any day. However I am a C&C nut so I will be getting 
 the expansion and I am looking forward to Red Alert 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcouches
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game. The strategies work well with each army and each army really plays out 
 well. Long matches are great and the visuals are excellent. Seeing that the game was released in 
 2003, I am very surprised. However, you will need a pwnage computer to run it smoothly or you have 
 to turn down the graphics. Online is great as well but tends to be very choppy at times. It sucks 
 when someone on your team leaves as it can make victories very hard. If you are new to RTS, practice 
 the hell offline! You need to think fast and act fast. There has to always be something going on. 
 The complexity is simple which makes control much easier. There should be a zoom out option on 
 the game as well. It can make arranging much easier. But hey, its was 2003. I recomend all gamers 
 to buy this game. I believe you can now buy it for 9 dollars. That is a bargain for sure.
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Primus9999
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  General is a great strategy game. Although the game is somewhat lacking in terms of graphic, it 
 makes it up by having a great storyline and even better game play. The game follows three groups, 
 the protagonists are the Chinese and the Americans, against the GLA, a terrorist organization bent 
 on destroying the two superpowers and create a new world order. 
  
  The three factions uses different tactics and weaponry to accomplish their missions. The Americans, 
 have the most advanced weaponry, such as the F-22 and the Paladin tank. the Chinese have technology 
 that is much less advanced but makes up for its short comings with heavy firepower, such as the 
 overlord tank. The GLA has the weakest of all armies, but the units are cheap and includes the 
 suicide bomber, a great threat or nuisance depend on your level of development.
  
  Overall, the game has continued the great legacy of the C&C series, and it lived up to the standards 
 set up by its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Generals' fictional premise puts the USA, China, and a terrorist group called the Global Liberation 
 Army (GLA) at odds sometime in the near future. You can play as any one of these factions in its 
 own brief single-player campaign, in skirmishes with computer opponents, or against other players 
 over a LAN or using the game's online player-matching service. Those who played the previous two 
 Command & Conquer RTS games, Red Alert 2 and its expansion pack, Yuri's Revenge, will note that 
 Generals is highly reminiscent of those games, despite its much improved appearance and its seemingly 
 more conventional array of infantry, tanks, and aircraft. Like in Red Alert 2, battles in Generals 
 are often quick and decisive, largely due to the immense power of many of the game's units, the 
 presence of devastating super weapons on each side, and the generally fast pace. Also, while each 
 faction has a good variety of units at its disposal, you'll likely get the impression that the 
 number of unit types per faction was limited so that each unit type could play an important role 
 in most any fight -- and also to leave room for an expansion pack. The lack of seafaring units in 
 the game is a disappointing omission, given the importance of ships in most previous Command & 
 Conquer games (not to mention in actual modern warfare) , but the designers have still done an excellent 
 job of imaginatively differentiating the game's three sides. 
  
  Despite the fact that the game's central conflict involves the USA and an obviously Middle Eastern 
 terrorist group, the action in Generals is either over-the-top enough or abstract enough that, 
 for better or worse, it shouldn't offend anyone's sensibilities. In fact, as if to drive home the 
 sense that "Hey, it's just a game," there's really no story at all to Generals. The motivations 
 of the respective factions aren't made clear, and their arsenals are far enough removed from reality 
 that Generals seems much less inspired by current events and much more so by the current fascination 
 with war in our popular culture. Movies like The Rock and Black Hawk Down certainly played a bigger 
 part in inspiring the game's look and style than anything on the nightly news. It bears mentioning 
 that almost all the mainstays of the Command & Conquer milieu can nevertheless be found in Generals -- fans 
 will be glad to see huge, double-barreled tanks, crack-shot commandos, nuclear missile silos, flamethrower 
 tanks, and other such C&C mainstays back and looking better than ever. Many of the twists added 
 to Red Alert 2 remain intact as well, such as the ability to garrison infantry in civilian buildings 
 and the ability of units to gain experience levels by defeating foes
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  when i first saw this game i thought "oh no, another one... AND NOT EVEN FROM WESTWOOD!!!" so i 
 sought other games at the time. when it was released though and chewed through the demo, i ate 
 my own........ hat.
  the vanilla version of the game was good, then it was patched to fix bugs and add some new units 
 and i thought it was really good, then i found out people were making almost an unnecessary amount 
 of mods for it and i went "woohoo!"
  the story is... well, a story. the gameplay is classic C&C, either tank rush or turtling. and they 
 have a mix of modern military units that exist, and some that just wont. like all the tanks are 
 pretty basic, the troop carrier then the overlord tank.. hhmm slightly made up.
  there are three sides, the USA, China and the GLA (terrorists) . as you would expect, USA favours 
 air power and powers, China favours tanks and nukes and the GLA go for stealth and suicide bombings.
 
  it really gets going if you can find a good mod for it. there are loads out there, some just add 
 new units, some add revised old units and a few are almost total overhauls, changing everything 
 from buildings to general powers. the best one ive used so far would have to be the modern combat 
 mod coupled with total combat (same devs) so you have 3 new sides to choose from and makes it more 
 like a high graphic RA2.
  i will make a seperate review of Zero Hour as i class them as two different games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  No, Command & Conquer: Generals has nothing to do with Command & Conquer, which shows a instant-fail 
 from EA Games side once they brought Westwood all up. But nevertheless the game is still very solid, 
 and has exceptional visuals for its time that still has their good moments today, same thing with 
 audio and especially the voices which at times still surprise me how good they are. 
  
  Campaign is all bad, nothing is connected with anything else. EA Games just wanted to promote the 
 Middle Easterns as common terrorists (aka. to refer to sucide bombers and muslims, not really to 
 terrorists in its true definition) where the Global Liberation Army, GLA, is attacking China while 
 beeing attacked by USA for no real reason given. Very American and lacks content, but can still 
 be fun when you play as the very characteristic and personal GLA that is a real interesting twist 
 with great possibilities and mobility and ambithions. But it's still the Multiplayer that makes 
 this game shine. 
  
  For multiplayer you have a few different choices, basicly LAN or Online, with a competative leaderboard, 
 matchmaking, costum games and ability to play on costum maps either from EA Games or the quite 
 solid fanbase. You will be able to play on a quite a bunch of well-detailed retail maps as either 
 the Global Liberation Army or as China or USA, all with their unique units and tactics. But one 
 of the most important features that defines the game is the Generals Promotion, where you can select 
 special abilities from a certain tech-tree for you to dispose after fighting. You can unlock special 
 units and everything up to EMP: s, Carpet Bombers or Anthrax Bombs depending on the faction you 
 play with and which promotions you select as you cannot utilize all features at the same time since 
 you're limited to a certain amount of "Generals Promition Score". There's a solid variety of units 
 and balance between them is quite exceptional for beeing a "Command & Conquer" game while it is 
 not very realistic; Rocket Infantry is strong against regular tanks while tanks doesn't do much 
 damage against infantry but has the ability to roll over the infantry instead, and there's units 
 to tackle everything. 
  
  Generals is a terrific game with alot of characterism and correct music for each faction to give 
 a strong unique feeling of each faction. Visuals are very solid and voices are quite awesome along 
 with very potent Multiplayer performance and potential. I'd recommend this game to about every 
 RTS-fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fleetlordavtar
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  You have to be masochist, drugged induced, mentally ill or at the least in nostalgic denial about 
 this C&C game to say it doesn't suck. Needs to be re-stated about the total lack of plot, super 
 weapons, or at least the videos that made the originals charming. Menu as usual takes up too much 
 screen space, was frustrated because i got bogged down having to click new units because of the 
 9 unit limit per building (not young or as patient) , in a 2003 game it's ludicrous!! On top of 
 all the negatives the freaking AI blatantly cheats. Need to download the demo for C&C 4 and hope 
 for better days, thank GOD i borrowed this and actually spend any money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shimowini
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquers General is easy one of the best strategy games at date Great Campaign but 
 for me the Challenges Vs others Generals its an Awesome Idea Pure Strategy. Also another exiting 
 thing of this game is the possibility to chose your General all of them have different abilities 
 that will help you vs some generals but also sometimes you will be in disadvantages for example 
 Infantry General vs Tank General and that makes the game a lot harder and Exiting at the same time 
 , you will going to Test all of this generals just for fun. This game is exelent for strategy lovers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phenom_piano88
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing, although perhaps it may a be a little easy, you don't have to 
 manage your resources that well as in games like Starcraft, cause you'll only be using or two workers 
 to bring your resources back and forth.
  
  There may also be a balance issue, as infantry are not as useful as vehicles. though they can be 
 mounted on them. 
  
  putting that aside, the weapons at your disposal are absolutely mind blowing. Nukes, air strikes, 
 SCUD missiles, Tomahawks just to name a few. You can even fire nukes and SCUD missles at anywhere 
 in the map. And the graphics are so amazing especially when you see lots of missiles flying around 
 at the same time.
  
  The storyline may not seem like much, but it's a good excuse for war.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  This game adds a new level of fun to the game because it can be closely related to real life. The 
 armies are great, the skirmishes being just like what you would expect form Command and Conquer. 
 Set in the not-too-distant future, Generals finds the U. S. and China struggling to fend off the 
 threat imposed by a reprehensible terrorist organization called the GLA. Each side gets its own 
 seven-mission campaign.
  The USA is great at being filed with high specialised troops and high-powered weaponry. The Chinese 
 are great at being a giant steamroller type army that can have hundreds of troopers and tanks. 
 The GLA is great for hit-and run attacks, specialising in stealing enemy equipment and troops.
 
  The gameplay is good. It has some nice features like the "general" part of it. The more experience 
 you gain, the more bonuses you can get. (like free cash, paratroopers, special units, etc.) The 
 veterency factor like many C&C games is a excellent feature. Air fields and all airplanes are lots 
 of fun to use. The super weapons are both annoying and nice.
  The graphics are really good for early 2003. The buildings are nice. The vehicles are ok. The terrain 
 is very good. And the explosions are excellent.
  The sound is average, nothing special. The musics fit's the game well. The weapons fire is good. 
 The unit speech is standard C&C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron3i
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  What do you think about a strategy game? May be not sure. But I encourage you that you will find 
 all of shebangs of strategy in this title. C&amp; C is best for making units and this is another 
 example. Now C&amp; C becomes a modern political war games where you will fight against USA, CHINA 
 and a Rebel group. However there is some serious disappoint things available but trust me this 
 is one of the best strategy games ever created. Here is a short look-
  
  GOOD: Three opponents with different kinds of units and tactics. Wide range of units &amp; they 
 are really impressive. Physics is well. New option added (ex: General Power) . The effects is really 
 good (ex: Super Weapons, Carpet Bombing) . You need dozer or worker to create buildings (that's 
 new) . Graphics &amp; sounds is well. Excellent for multiplayer.
  
  BAD: Where are the full-motion-video? Weak story line (bad really bad) . AI sucks. There is no installation 
 movie.
  
  Finally, If you are a strategy fan and know what is C&amp; C series then don't care who said what 
 about this game. This is another successfull of C&amp; C series. So, start play right now. Later, 
 you will thanks me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Much better than all the other command and conquers even command and conquer 3 as it as so much 
 strategy in this command and conquer. Really fun campaign and skimishes. Probably one of the most 
 fun games to play online as nuking each other and parachuting men into enemy bases is really fun 
 : ) The graphics are spot on although there will be no more patches for it : ( damn you EA. Anyway 
 the teams are perfectly balanced. The generals that gain advantages depending on which one it is 
 was pretty cool aswell. In conclusion get this game for real fun multiplayer and singleplayer campaign. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squidsquiddily
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Excellent game.. easily tweak-able if you like a little twist on things, also ideal if you feel 
 like taking out some frustrations on an enemy opponent, load it up and obliterate a normal AI player 
 :)
  
  With plenty of Add on Maps and mods for you add, this game stands the test of time.
  
  MY favourite 
 mod is re-labelling the units, you can really have some fun with this, give the enemy troopers 
 names of people you dislike such as your boss. Even the sign posts found in city and village scapes 
 can be changed, all this is done via text based ini files, sometimes a reg tweak is needed but 
 it does add a new level of humour to the game.
  
  One time I tweaked the US bombers to fire their payloads from half way across the screen,, very 
 funny when the enemy doesn't know what's about to hit em, with no planes to shoot down it's a quick 
 death for them.
  
  The only thing I miss form Generals is the ability to build walls and gates, this would have added 
 a better dimension to base defending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  For the most part, Command &amp; Conquer: Generals, the latest entry in the long-running C&amp; C 
 RTS series, is all beauty and no brains. It offers a wonderfully chaotic and visceral depiction 
 of modern-era combat, with Hollywood-style liberties taken to boost the wow factor, but its also 
 pretty damn (Hollywood-like) shallow. Sure, its fun  indeed, Generals is often an absolute joy 
 to play  but dont go probing for any substantial new mechanics, because you wont find them.
 
  
  Set in the not-too-distant future, Generals finds the U. S. and China struggling to fend off the 
 threat imposed by a reprehensible terrorist organization called the GLA. Each side gets its own 
 seven-mission campaign, and the preferred play order is China, then the GLA, with the United 
 States getting it done in the games climactic campaign.
  
  But you can play the campaigns in any order you want and not really miss anything  because, with 
 the exception of a very broad plot that tries in vain to tie the disparate missions together, theres 
 no story to speak of.
  
  For some, this omission may not be much of a hurdle, but for me, Generals misses a key element, 
 especially living in the postWarcraft III storytelling-inspired world. A strong and compelling 
 narrative wouldve infused the strategic jiggery-pokery with much greater tension, especially during 
 the U. S. campaign when the clock is ticking and the GLA must be stopped before they unleash an 
 apocalyptic nightmare upon the world.
  
  As it is, Generals simply presents a series of missions in which each one may or may not have anything 
 to do with the mission that preceded it, and as a result, the apprehension and emotional investment 
 that should be inherent in global conflict are nowhere to be found. You never feel like your balls 
 are on the line and each decision could have world-changing impact.
  
  The missions themselves are often quite enjoyable  if a little on the easy side  and offer a 
 wealth of opportunities to lay waste to your opponents. (Annoyingly, in the We want to make damn 
 sure that you notice our cool effects department, every campaign features a sequence where a dam 
 is blown. We get it, guys!)
  
  TERRORIST TACTICS
  The weakest of the three campaigns is the GLA, and not just because its extremely politically 
 incorrect (which it definitely is  from the character portraits to dialogue to weapons and tactics) , 
 but because of some poor mission design. One of the missions has you stealing U. N. relief supplies 
 from convoys and innocent townfolk, while another has you controlling an angry mob as it razes 
 a city. Tactics, anyone?
  
  The final missions in the GLA campaign are actually well-designed, but its hard to get enthusiastic 
 about guiding a pack of terrorist jackals toward their ultimate goal of attacking China with a 
 biological agent.
  
  The American and Chinese campaigns, on the other hand, are extremely solid especially considering 
 that theres no story holding them together  and each features some blistering set-piece situations. 
 Standouts include the Chinese mission where you must send Black Lotus (think Tanya from Red Alert) 
 to destroy a bridge without having to wipe out every enemy unit in the process, and a tense American 
 mission that has you protecting a convoy of retreating U. S. forces against overwhelming numbers. 
 The final U. S. mission, where you oversee the eradication of the GLA once and for all, is a climactic 
 and desperate battle that provides a great close to the campaign.
  
  THE MECHANICS OF WAR
  The standard build base, annihilate enemy mechanic is definitely at work 
 throughout Generals, but base-building is mercifully kept to a minimum. You start most missions 
 with a functioning base already up and running. Collecting resources is simple  stacks of supplies 
 are scattered around the map and you send vehicles from your supply center to collect them. In 
 addition, as in Red Alert 2, you can capture oil rigs and refineries to generate extra revenue.
 
  
  The core gameplay is essentially unchanged from the days of the original C&amp; C. Certain buildings 
 and units are locked until you meet specific requirements along the tech tree, and you must always 
 ensure that your base is powered. That said, the developers have made a couple of significant changes 
 to how the game plays out.
  
  The first is that you can now build your structures wherever you want as long as you have sufficient 
 power. Its amazing how liberating this switch makes the entire game, as you litter the battlefield 
 with defensive structures and quickly seize control of the maps resources by slapping down supply 
 centers in key locations. In fact, saturating the map with buildings is a crucial strategy for 
 the GLA.
  
  Another change is how units retain their veteran status. You dont necessarily lose a high-level 
 veteran unit when a vehicle is destroyed: the pilot, if he survives, maintains his veteran level 
 even when placed in another vehicle. Some micromanagement is required to successfully place your 
 veteran troops in new vehicles, but its well worth it.
  
  The other big innovation is the addition of the Generals Abilities (see boxout) , a feature this 
 fanboy took to immediately.
  
  TACTICAL DIFFERENCES
  Of the three sides, the GLA is the most original because they rely on shock attacks and subterfuge 
 to win the day. They do employ some standard weapons, such as Stinger sites, but they also use 
 a patchwork of low-budget vehicles that have seemingly been cobbled together from parts found at 
 the local junkyard. The old terrorist standby, the Technical, makes an appearance, as do tanks 
 that get upgrades from the wreckage of enemy vehicles, as well as tractors that spray the battlefield 
 with a deadly green chemical spray. The GLA have no airpower, but they can create suicide bombers 
 who can turn random cars into speedy high-explosive kamikaze vehicles.
  
  The Chinese and American forces are much more conventional, with the standard tanks, artillery, 
 and jet aircraft all available. The Chinese have a heavy reliance on nuclear-powered weaponry (theyre 
 also the only side that has access to a nuclear bomb) , while the U. S. can access high-tech planes, 
 such as Stealth and Aurora bombers, which can decimate an enemy base.
  
  Its when the forces of the three factions are hurled at each other that Generals real genius 
 is revealed. The battles take place on a grand scale, with massive explosions rippling across the 
 battlefield and pieces of smoking debris flying in every direction. Much of this impact has to 
 do with the games graphics, which are phenomenal and jam-packed with detail, but its the little 
 touches that really make the action stand out.
  
  For example, when you blow up a Technical, it doesnt simply explode  it erupts in a magnificent 
 fireball, flips through the air, and catapults the rear gunner skyward, his limbs flailing desperately. 
 Similarly, when a plane is shot down, the pilot will eject and parachute to the ground. The super-weapons, 
 such as the nuclear missile or the fuel air bomb, pack a tremendous wallop and completely obliterate 
 anything in their path. Brilliant stuff.
  
  UNDER THE HOOD
  As seems to be the norm with too many RTS games, Generals pathfinding and unit AI both have problems. 
 Units wont always take the shortest path through urban settings, and when theyre under fire from 
 an enemy ranged unit, they simply sit there and take it. This inaction, in particular, stuck under 
 my craw because it meant I had to constantly baby-sit parked units.
  
  Along those same lines, the Chinese artillery are damn near worthless because even when an enemy 
 unit is in their range, they wont automatically fire. After a few missions, I stopped building 
 the damn things.
  
  Besides its single-player campaign, Generals also has skirmish and multiplayer modes; the game 
 hosts 22 maps playable in either mode. Skirmishing against the computer is a lot of fun, especially 
 when multiple humans play against multiple AI opponents, but the dearth of options and gameplay 
 modes means that veteran RTS players will quickly master the computers routines, and after a few 
 missions will be challenged only on the highest difficulty setting.
  
  Aside from limited multiplayer options, other technical issues haunt Generals launch. Even after 
 three patches, I still experienced problems connecting to games  both on my work and home PCs 
  and its not uncommon for Westwood Online to simply become unavailable. In addition, the multiplayer 
 interface is horribly designed, and its often impossible to find a specific game.
  
  Also, depending on the horsepower of the hosts machine, games can slow to a crawl. EA will surely 
 continue to patch the game, but right now online multiplay is something of a mixed bag  if it 
 works, its absolutely wonderful, but otherwise the experience can be extremely frustrating.
  
  Theres no doubt in my mind that if Generals had shipped with a more compelling story and more 
 skirmish/multiplayer options, Id be calling it one of the greatest RTS games ever made. Even in 
 the absence of those things, though, Generals is a lot of destructive fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosa922
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun game, if you like RTS games you will like this one. Well if you like RTS's you 
 know the Command and conquer series. In this one you can only choose three armys, and you can go 
 on campaigns. there is of course a skirmesh mode in which you can go against the computer or other 
 players through the internet.
  
  The flaws of this game are noticable.
  You can only choose three army's, and the maps for the skimeshes, arent really good.
  
  But 
 this game will have you coming back again, and again. It's just a fun game to play, even with those 
 faults it's still fun to play.
  
  I recommand buying this game, this game is basically for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusOfLycea
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I've played Command and Conquer since it first came out. I own every single one of the games to 
 date (with the exception of Tiberian Wars, which I only have the demo of) . As such, I have a fairly 
 good grasp on what a Command And Conquer game is like.
  
  I just recently bought this, as I had read a lot of reviews about it saying it was horrible, not 
 on par with the rest of the series, or whatever. It turns out that a lot of people neglected to 
 mention that although it does stray from the series in some aspects, it breaks the mold enough 
 to be original and at the same time, follows closely enough to the other games to make you feel 
 right at home.
  
  First of all, the gameplay was quite impressive. In previous games in the series, you built one-two 
 buildings at a time, because you could only ever be building one of any type of unit/building at 
 once. You could queue up extra units behind a currently produced one, but even if you had thirty 
 war factories, it was one tank at a time until they were all produced. While I appreciate that 
 this was the case, straying from the formula doesn't bother me at all. It plays a bit more like 
 a traditional Real Time Strategy game in this area, but that's about it. Most of the rest of the 
 game feels like Command and Conquer to me. It was enough to make me think about the first time 
 I had ever played any of the games in the series, which happened when I rented Command and Conquer 
 for the N64. I bought it recently just out of respect for that game pulling me into it all. This 
 game fits well along with the others.
  
  Graphics are fine, and exceptional for when they first came out, but there's nothing huge here. 
 I play Medieval 2: Total War, so if you want something with a lot of kick, go for that. However, 
 the graphics do well for the premise, and they help keep in involved.
  
  The sound is nothing special. It works like most RTS games.
  
  The value of this game is incredible. 
 It is a $10 game now, and I bought it in the EA Strategy Games Collection for $20 along with its 
 expansion pack, Black and White 2 and its expansion pack, and Battle for Middle Earth. That makes 
 this particular game $4 when you buy it! If that doesn't make any game worth getting, I don't know 
 what does. And, a game like this, although older, is definately worth up to $10 if you have to 
 buy a standalone copy.
  
  Overall, I would not recommend a lot of the other reviews for this game. It seems a lot of people 
 felt some holy ground had been trampled by this game when it came out. My recommendation is to 
 play it. If you are new to RTS games or Command and Conquer games in general, you'll love it. If 
 you've played older Command and Conquer games and are willing to 'open your mind' a little to enjoy 
 a game that strays from some of the concepts of previous games, then you'll love it too.
  
  Give it a chance before you make a judgement on it. If your reading this, you probably have ten 
 bucks to spend, and you are on a site where you can download the demo. Try it out first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob9999999999
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 9, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  I love the command and conquer series. While i am a die-hard Starcraft fan, I have always loved 
 Red Alert 2 and all of the other Westwood titles. However, Generals was a huge disappointment. 
 The gameplay requires far too much micromanagement for each unit. You can have your best unit destroyed 
 by a couple of the worst enemy units because of an annoyingly high advantage / disadvantage system. 
 Even having multiple types of units with different strengths and weaknesses won't help because 
 the enemy will send in a fast / long-range unit and take out a few of your units. Then you're a 
 sitting duck. The veteran status is also annoying. If your unit survives several battles (mainly 
 by luck) it will be able to heal - making it about 10x better. A little balance would have been 
 nice. The AI is also poor, making what could have been a decent but annoying game into a bad one. 
 I feel bad saying this but I'm glad Westwood didn't make C&amp; C 3, which was actually good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  C&amp; C Generals the game that doesn't belong in the series. Like Need For Speed XVI 2D Extreme 
 Explosion Street Racing. The good thing is EA Vancouver or Black Box that makes NFS hasn't done 
 it. This game is one of the most backward revolutionary games ever made to stray far from its roots. 
 Why? C&amp; C always has story cut scenes. This game there is no cut scenes. All the mission star 
 out with 1 to 2 minutes of explosions and people getting killed and there is no good ending whatsoever. 
 Each side has 7 mission and when you beat the campaign well troops are marching. Wow no one tells 
 what's going on whatever factions and geo- social-ethnic- political motivations and what you achieved? 
 Its like playing a Middle Eastern FPS and there is 2 minute intro of cut scenes of people getting 
 killed and blown up, and all you do it shoot until all of the enemy is dead and at the end of the 
 game you're in a parade.
  
  Reason two, you need money in advance if you want to buy a unit or build a structure. In all the 
 C&amp; C games before. Let's say a tank cost $600. You only have $300. You build it and it stops 
 halfway. When you get more funds production starts back up again. Now you need all the money in 
 advanced this makes building you're top tech structures 5x longer than Red Alert 2. The production 
 queue was 30 in RA2 and now its only 9. That is not an innovation. This leads to micromanagement. 
 To beat this opponent you need to click this pattern/combo this fast to repel the enemy. You want 
 to build some tanks but don't have the money then an enemy comes and now you have the money but 
 you can't forget so you click on the war factory and build some tanks before they arrive. Reason 
 3, D. 3D did not help Generals nor did the graphics. Sure the graphics looks cool and stuff but 
 they didn't help get me into the immersion. If the graphics don't help the gameplay it doesn't 
 matter how good it looks.
  
  The sound please. The Chinese side, oh my the voice acting was awful thank you for keeping the 
 Chinese English stereotype. NOT. Seems like they were going to say Wanton Soup Charge!
  
  Avoid this game if you played previous C&amp; C games. The bang boom boom bam bam formula doesn't 
 work for RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killa25
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer: Generals is a pretty good game so far. I haven't played it much and still haven't 
 figured out how to get ships and that kind of stuff. As lots of games do, it gets boring after 
 awhile when playing on your own. I haven't tried it yet but i think this would be a great game 
 for Multiplayer LAN. I like that you have to rank up to get more stuff, such as; better tanks, 
 air strike, Emergency repair, etc. I plan on playing more and learning more about. Overall i think 
 it was worth the $20. I would recommend it to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooke66
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  Despite it's benchmark predecessors, C&amp; C Generals is to be the new standard by which all new 
 RTS games are to be measured. It's simple enough for a novice RTS player to grasp, yet has the 
 diversity that keeps vets coming back for more. It's basic principal is sound: Make a game with 
 a good graphics engine, recognizable components and make it's interface as natural and intuitive 
 as possible. A good tutorial accompanies the single player mission set, and as in any great multiplayer, 
 once you've mastered the AI, you're ready to take on all comers! It doesn't take long to fall in 
 love with this game and it's Zero Hour expansion, and you won't find yourself fumbling around with 
 control mapping cards and unit description sheets (although they are provided) because it all is 
 apparent as you play. I can only hope EA and this game's producers don't overlook what a great 
 game they've created and what a dynasty it is becoming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  At first I was quite sceptical about Generals since it doesn't relate to the C&amp; C universe that 
 we were so fond of, but upon experiencing it, I realised where the efforts of the developers went. 
 A new concept was brought in and that is the Generals's powers. They are in the form of bonus abilities 
 that you can utilise to gain an edge over your enemies depending on the factions you chose, such 
 as A10 Thunderbolt airstrike for the US, arti barrage for China, and Anthrax bombing for the GLA. 
 This General's Powers attempt would be the highlight of this surprisingly successful game.
  
  C&amp; C Generals sought to touch on reality by calling on real life military characteristics 
 of existing countries, namely the USA (air power) , China (manpower) and ambiguously, a middle-eastern 
 terrorist organization who called themselves GLA (think Gulf War) . So, this lets us try out a new 
 turn in modern RTS strategy with the testing of the Generals' powers concept without compromising 
 the original C&amp; C story.
  
  High production values including much anticipated 3D graphics and dramatic soundtracks brings out 
 the shine in this new concept and thus perhaps could strengthen the support of original C&amp; C 
 fans. However, the single-player campaign is a tad too short and the rest of its value depends 
 on skirmish play.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon0
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 26, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Generals is not C&amp; C, I'm sure EA's going to come up with a half-baked explanation like this 
 is what would have happened if the events in Red Alert never occurred but that is exactly the event 
 that set in motion the events of the entire C&amp; C world. There is no Tiberium, Nod, GDI or even 
 anything from Red Alert, this is a generic RTS, make no mistake, but it is defineitely a good one. 
 First take everything you know about C&amp; C and what makes it unique, replace it with a realistic 
 military styled Warcraft, polish it and you pretty much have Generals. The sidebar is at the bottom 
 of the screen, queues are shown in full portraits rather than numbers and you have worker/peon 
 units rather than the slick interface in past games. The aim was clearly to cash in on the name 
 rather than explore new ideas. The three factions rather than being run by madmen and corrupt politicians 
 is simply the US, China and a terrorist group. Some may be offended on its similarities to the 
 Desert Shield incidents but it is abstract and undeveloped enough that it is nothing serious. What 
 eventually manages to overcome its complete lack of personality however is its gameplay. Despite 
 being generic, expanding forces, climbing up tech trees and coordinating attacks is rarely done 
 so well. Like any other RTS (starting to see a pattern?) Generals offers factions with a few differences 
 (though, surprisingly in the tradition of Red Alert they feel far more different than normal) where 
 you get worker units to build structures from simple barracks that pump out soldiers to nuclear 
 silos that can spell doom for your enemy in a few seconds. There is one campaign for each faction 
 that may be a bit shorter than they should be but are otherwise fine that generally offer missions 
 that are a slight variation on wage high-tech war on your enemies until they blow up) as well as 
 a token online mode. The general's superpowers do break this up occasionally but they don't do 
 enough to change the game that there are any real differences. The story is going to be the sore 
 point for most fans. Apparently a terrorist group is rising and the UN needs to blow them up. Even 
 with this simple premise the 3D rendered briefings do little to accentuate the motivations of each 
 faction. Again the biggest problem is that it completely ignores the developed and interesting 
 sci-fi lore that made the old games so interesting. The FMVs that fans have come to know and love 
 are replaced with minimalist briefings and very badly affected accents. The simple fact that there 
 is no Kane is the game's single greatest flaw, but all but the most diehard fans will partially 
 forget as they delve into what is otherwise one of the most enjoyable and balanced RTSs of the 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worting
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Generals is the new product and brother of the C&amp; C series. Here take place in the Present taking 
 some examples modern warfare against the terrorist clans. Here are 3 factions - USA , China and 
 GLA ( Alliance of Terriosts) . In this game use advance 3D Engines and physics to give the game 
 a unique style. These factions has up and down like USA got more hi-tech than GLA but China has 
 more man power. The game is good and to play online. The skirmishes are very fun and fast, lending 
 to the modern theme of the game. I would highly recommend this game to anyone, which is very easy 
 to do seeing as how its price is now so low, you can get it in the ea strategy pack or for as little 
 as five dollars in some places. That should be enough to warrant anyone into trying this game out.... just 
 for the old school taste of nostalgia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a very solid game. I'm going to cut right to the chase with the reveiw, tho.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is good. It has some nice features like the general part of it. The more 
 experience you gain, the more bonuses you can get. (like free cash, paratroopers, special units, 
 etc.) The veterency factor like many C&amp; C games is a excellent feature. Air fields and all airplanes 
 are lots of fun to use. The super weapons are both annoying and nice. It depends on your preference.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good for early 2003. The buildings are nice. The vehicles are 
 ok. The terrain is very good. And the explosions are excellent. I would give Graphics a 10 , but 
 I didn't because when you look at the infantry, they look like crap, there is almost no detail 
 at all.
  
  Sound: The sound is average, nothing special. The musics fit's the game well. The weapons fire 
 is good. The unit speech is standard C&amp; C: ANNOYING. I get tired after training each of the 
 12 missile soldiers, I hear Got my missile launcher right here. in this really cheese voice. But 
 after a while you will get used to it and it won't be a very big deal.
  
  Value: The replay value of this game is ok. The campaign isn't too long and it doesn't really feel 
 like a campaign.
  
  This is an excellent example of a C&amp; C game. It is finally a C&amp; C that has good graphics! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 9, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Shameful. THe producers obviously spent no time. The infantry look like stuff from the previouse 
 C&amp; C but much worst. How could they possibly sell this game when the infantry r texturless, 
 their assault rifles look like bazookas (no joke) and half the time u can't tell what they r doing. 
 I like C&amp; C but this has just put me off it. I'm hoping C&amp; C3 has decent textures. now for 
 the other words to make up to 100.  
  
 it says rubbish game btw. damn words not letters. damn words not letters. damn words not damn words 
 not damn words not damn words not damn words not damn words not damn words not damn words not damn 
 words not damn words not damn words not damn words not damn words not damn words not damn words 
 not damn words not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  In Generals you can play as the Chinese, U. S. or the G. L. A. (Global Liberation Army) . Each army 
 has its own strengths and weaknesses, offering wildly different ways to engage in combat but still 
 managing to remain well balanced with their counterparts. What makes this game so disturbing is 
 the G. L. A. a sort of revolutionary armyand their style of combat. Instead of relying on masses 
 of infantry and swarm tactics like the army of China or technology and wealth like the U. S., the 
 G. L. A. relies on the tactics of terror. Thats rightyou can lob Anthrax laden missiles at enemies, 
 sneak in suicide bombers, disguise yourself as enemy units and travel the map near instantaneously 
 through a network of tunnels. The fact that this so closely mirrors the world we find ourselves 
 in today and the dangers we face, both in the Middle East and North Korea, instills both a sense 
 of horror to the game and grudging respect for EA. Generals is about modern warfare and like it 
 or not, you cant create such a game without including the tactics of Al Qaeda, Iraq, and China.
 
  
  The other new element Generals adds to the C&amp; C franchise is the ability to promote a general, 
 earning him certain powers such as the ability to call in air strikes or instantly create a band 
 of armed peasants. This greatly enhances the feel of the game and makes for some interesting military 
 Hail-Marys near the end of a skirmish.
  
  The graphics are just incredible, offering beautifully rendered units that literally blow apart 
 when destroyed, sometimes even hurtling drivers in the air. Sounds too, create a sense of wonder 
 with the echoing staccato of machine gun fire and deep wumph of grenade impacts. Multiplayer is 
 slick and fast-paced with little to no lag, awarding 3 points for wins and nothing for losses so 
 you can keep track of how your score compares to others.
  
  Command and Conquer manages to once again make a spectacular franchise even better, adding a much 
 needed sense of realism to a game of war and beefing it up with eye-grabbing graphics and soundnone 
 of which slows the always fun pace of real time warfare 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REd_toe
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: For the time it came out, the game looks pretty good.
  
  Sound: The music is alright but the unit voice acting is kinda bad. they say the same thing over 
 and over and when you are in a heated match it can kinda get annouying.
  
  Gameplay: The formula is still the same from other RTS. There isn't nothing extremly ground breaking 
 . Even though the races are very well balanced thats pretty much it. The single player isn't very 
 good only being a few levels for each race and you can finsh each one in about 10-30 mins. The 
 online multilplayer isn't very speical. Overall: This game doesn't belong in the C&amp; C universe 
 and needs to be called something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GangstaGamer20
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Generals is one of the best RTS I ever played though not the best of the best. This 
 game is mostly modern weapons and age but a little bit over. This game has some negatives though. The 
 weapon choice is small and the buildings were underrated. The game is easy and the game is short, not 
 a really good AI. The positives are the online play system is great. I have to say the classics were 
 better. Generals plot is like what were doing right now, fightting terrorists. The game is cheap so 
 you could find it at Wal-Mart for $9.99. The game is great fun so try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbracascade
Rating: 2.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  The stereotypes have been downplayed by reviewers i believe. This game is awful, no plot, no nothing. 
 Just another generic rts. I can't bear to touch it even with a 10 meter stick. I hate it and that's 
 a first. I've found games boring, but i hate this god awful junk of a game. I absolutely loathe 
 it.
  
  Gameplay wise, it may appeal to someone who hasn't been already flooded by the mess of rts games. 
 It's mediocre, somebody might like it somewhere but i hate it. It's stupid, there seems to be no 
 point to the missions, you kill this you kill that and there' s no real reason for doing so. Objectives 
 seem morally ambiguous for all the sides, and it's just... crappy.
  
  Graphics- I nod to the graphics. They look ok. Buildings are nice. Units though are generic again. 
 Still terrible, but it becomes really irritating sometimes for a newer player to get into the game 
 because every unitlooks like every other freaking unit. Sound- I don't like it. Disagree with me 
 if you want, i just think this is some brainwashing millitary recruitment music though.
  
  Value- I guess some people would play it online. I found this to be a hassle because of some techincal 
 issues though. Still i find this game to be extremely bad so i wouldn't play it again if a shotgun 
 was pointed to my head.
  
  Tilt- Do i really need an answer to this. I must have told you i detested this game a few times 
 already. If not, i'll say it again to make it clear. I hate it, i hate it, i hate it, i hate it, 
 i hate it, i hate it. There that should do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer has done it again. Another brilliant RTS game from the people at Command and 
 Conquer. This game adds a new level of fun to the game because it can be closely related to real 
 life. The armies are great, the skirmishes being just like what you would expect form Command and 
 Conquer. The USA is great at being filed with high specialised troops and high-powered weaponry. 
 The Chinese are great at being a giant steamroller type army that can have hundreds of troopers 
 and tanks. The GLA is great for hit-and run attacks, specialising in stealing enemy equipment 
 and troops. The campaign is great fun, filled with loads of little missions that test your mettle 
 as a Command and Conquer playing general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dograzor
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  Yes, i do know where I'm talking about, i finished the game + Zero Hour, but it would have been 
 good if it was simply called Generals and not Command and Conquer: Generals, since this game does 
 not deserve the Command and Conquer name in any way, it is NOT connected in ANY way to the famous 
 Command and Conquer Red Alert/Tiberium story line (i played all of them, so no need to lecture 
 me) , and is simply made cheap by letting out the movie scenes where command and conquer was so 
 famous for.... a shame a VERY big shame.... EA has just been cheap with this... Westwood you will 
 always be remembered.....
  
  I will have to admit that the gameplay and graphics where good for 2003... but there is not much 
 more then that.... No brilliant plot or superweapons and units....
  
  And yes... most people rate it high since they have never tasted the real Command and Conquer, 
 and i bet they never played the Mother off All Command and Conquers, the original Command and Conquer 
 from 1995... cuz believe me... that game... beats Generals in every aspect... Go and play the oldies... 
 Red Alert... Tiberian Dawn and Sun... and then come back and rate this again... its such a disgrace....
 
  
  and:
  
  Kane Lives In Death!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  The Good : Gameplay --- 3 armies to choose from &amp; play, with each of them having his own Campaigns, 
 units, tactics, &amp; powers . USA, GLA, China, these 3 armeis come to fight as the USA represent 
 the developed &amp; technological war machines , while the GLA comes in the form of those who you 
 sneeky attacks &amp; poisin (anthrax) with weapons &amp; arm gadget that looks to be made from 
 the old days , &amp; China comes as the country that hold the Soviet Logo , with it's own units 
 that show deicipline &amp; honor as they fight , it's arms &amp; tech gadget deppends on the Fire 
 Weaponry that their tanks &amp; airplanes have . You get to play as USA as they struggle to spread 
 their democracy to the Middle Eastern &amp; Middle Asian Countires, but it comes to get in a strong 
 fight with the GLA who are the land honors &amp; wont rest untill every US invader is gone. Get 
 to play as GLA who found them selfs separated after the USA as they come togather &amp; reunit 
 their nations &amp; the USA once again so that they Will Take What Is Rightfully Theirs . Or play 
 as China as they fight to bring peace &amp; it's own order as it expands to cover the lands that 
 were sized by the GLA armies after their fights with e US armies are over. Simply the gameplay 
 cant get any better. The skirmishes offer a wide range of stratigical depths that lets you command 
 your armies across wide fields &amp; get to conquer territories &amp; destroy other armies . Graphics 
 --- pretty much great graphics for a game that is deveoped by a different developer than the od 
 C&amp; C games !!! as this newlly graphic engine will be the core for future C&amp; C games as the 
 old graphical from the old developers were not used in thi one (Westwood developed the 1st 3D RTS 
 C&amp; C game Dune: Emperor - The Battle For Arakis, but this one was developed by EA themselves 
 even if they are under the name of EA Pacific) . Any way with this new graphic engine this game 
 hade a lot of hopes built into it , yet its graphics comes to be great &amp; even good for a 1st 
 time 3rd game from them , they done their job well. Sound --- it is even better , with sound tracks 
 that changes as you change your armies between USA, GLA ,China , the soundtracks also get to change 
 between them as well, for the USA you get to hear music similar to those of the U. S. &amp; for 
 the GLA you get to hear Mid-Eastern Asian Music, and for China you get to hear music that prepares 
 you for war &amp; prepares you for a United Nations or United Soldiers/Units . This is Great.  
 Bad : Even though this game is great &amp; outstanding, yet it have some flows that should have 
 been noticed before it was to be released , the campaigns were very short &amp; uncomplete which 
 made you know that there was deffinetly a new sequal coming out after a while (thus comes C&amp; C: 
 Generals - Zero Hour the Expansion Pack) , but these are still good though. As to the graphics , 
 it recomended requirements aren't as acurate as they are , yet since now we are in 2007 any hardware 
 will be able to play this game at full options with no wory for frame rates to be decreased (after 
 all, it had been 4 yrs , all the hardware since 1yr are able to fully play it) but it shows how 
 you the game has very good graphical potentials according to its time . As for the Sound there 
 is nothing bad in it , no even the over done (boom) sound that really need the bass of your speaker 
 or soundcard to be activated in order to get to really taste it , but it will get annoying sometimes 
 , yet it will still look good . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 Some Notes --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 1 - The Game's music is 1st of it's kind in any C&amp; C game since each faction now have his own 
 musical themes . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 2- the graphics are great &amp; superb even though it is the first time for EA to develop this 
 game themselves without Westwood . --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 3 - You can play this game at it highest settings thesedays &amp; you wont feel any remorse for 
 buying this one . --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 4 - I played it on the highest settings with full options on . --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 5 - Even though it is 4 yrs old , yet you might need to download the latest patches for this game 
 in order to get uptodate &amp; get the best performance out of it . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 At the end I would like to say that this game is a very great game since it offers a solid new 
 graphical feature for Future RTS games to be developed from EA , espacially the C&amp; C series 
 is no were near getting over &amp; now with a new story &amp; armies are deliverd to it's book 
 , you cant expect it to be over any time soon , so you might still be able to get that feeling 
 out of this game if you manage your self to get your hands on it . This game provides Solid bases 
 for Future RTS Games since it Graphics were very great &amp; very uptodate but they will deffinitly 
 be upgraded or re-developed with time for Future RTS games . This Game is Solid ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crawford1990
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  i love this game because it hours online play killing noobs or in my case get kill by noobs lots 
 of play in this game. lean new strategy :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
 :) : ) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
 :) : ) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
 :) : ) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
 :) : ) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
 :) : ) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
 :) : ) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  I hate to trash a game from a good series but this is the worse of the series. In my opinion EA 
 made one fatal mistake and that was closing down Westwood Studios!
  
  The graphics in the game are quite blocky and square for a game released in 2003.
  
  The games 
 sound effect are the best of the series but that's more to do with the improvements in overall 
 sound quality in games rather than the game itself.
  
  I was major disappointed with EA's first attempt at a Command and Conquer game. Mainly because 
 after i'd finished it with all three sides I didn't feel like I wanted to play it again. That was 
 the first time i'd ever experienced that with a Command and Conquer game. It's as if something 
 is missing, the game just doesn't have the feel of the previous games (hard to explain) .
  
  If you're a die hard C&amp; C fan then get the game but if you want some of that classic Westwood 
 C&amp; C feel get C&amp; C Tiberian Sun (still the best C&amp; C game in my opinion) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiquidSnake2212
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Great game the best one yet. This is one of the best commanding type of game I have ever played. 
 erbne buiebviuhgfbw b bwbvuwb b ywbuvcb ubwyrbv wuby ub ub ybwoyvbo buy buywbvy bvbbywb ubvuyb 
 wvbfu bu buvbuwyb ub bvyubvuyrbv uybvuwbv bvybvvf bg b t bthbnsrhyb gfb fgb gf bg b gfbrtgb b gfbg 
 bhg h t hg bgbyhgf gfb gfhy dhgd hty h f gbg dh gfdhtyhhfgdhtyh fghyh gfh tyrhfgdty hgfd hty hjjniu 
 nunbu iuh hiuhsdin ib niub ibi ubiub iub iub itbib ijtbjitr gb bh fvbuysfhvubfu ifubvi hibfyrv 
 buydb iuwefb ifbiyebviy bh bh b biy bidsb ihsfb is r gwhfydhetyh g bftg hbrt hg d het rgb y d be 
 trbthgthgt hst hrt hb t hfd b yt g reh tr hy bt h tbythhbtrgn tgwtrhtrgtr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  There are 3 universe of Command and Conquer that you must now know because it is very excellent 
 and popular games: * Tiberium - Future
  * Red Alert - Past
  * Generals- Present
  
  Generals is the new product and brother of the C&amp; C series. Here take place in the Present taking 
 some examples modern warfare against the terrorist clans. Here are 3 factions - USA , China and 
 GLA ( Alliance of Terriosts) . In this game use advance 3D Engines and physics to give the game 
 a unique style. These factions has up and down like USA got more hi-tech than GLA but China has 
 more man power. The game is good and to play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoZbaNaToR
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is an old one, and I have finished every expansion pack or sequel for it, I 
 thought it deserved a good review since it turned out to be such a good game that I still enjoy 
 playing to this day...
  
  It's known that in strategy games, you command it all. You have to build up towns, cities, villages, 
 bases, etc... This game enables you to play war the modern style. Red Alert was an entertaining 
 and revolutionary game of its time, but it offered military equipment that were ahead of it's time.
 
  
  Command and Conquer Generals puts you in the front seat of the modern art of war. With the realistic 
 weaponry and game-play. There was only one weapon that made me raise my eyebrow which was the Particle 
 Cannon (weapon of mass destruction for the USA) . You have three countries in which to play with: 
 U. S. A, China, and the GLA (supposedly Iraqi forces or something) . Each have their own weapons, 
 attack strategies, and weak points. The USA: King of the sky. They rule the skies with their high-tech 
 Raptors, Apaches, and Super Sonic bombers. They also have good tanks when it comes to ground assaults. 
 Their defenses are made of Patriot missiles. Land-to-Land and Land-to-Air defense. Enabling them 
 to defend the base from areal and ground assaults. Their weapon of mass destruction is The Particle 
 Cannon, a weapon that emits a very strong laser ray from the skies to take out vast armies and 
 buildings. You can control the lasers' movement just like any units'. To target what ever you want 
 on the ground. It has a short duration but does the job with efficiency. It also has the best spying 
 units and buildings. China: A very strong country, if played with wisely, it can defeat the USA 
 with ease. They air strong air and very strong ground units. Its MIGs are capable of napalm strikes 
 on ground and on areal units. But lack bombers and helicopters. Their tanks are the strongest in 
 the game. They have the Overlords. A very high-tech and humongous tanks capable of lethal blows 
 with one strike. They have the ability to crush smaller tanks because of their size. Thier shells 
 can be upgraded to hold a slight dose of nuclear radiation. Easily damaging any unit on the ground. 
 They can be equipped with a gattling cannon (later discussed) , bunker, and Speaker towers. These 
 towers can be built inside bases and near defense lines to heal ground units if a minor strike 
 was established. Instead of building new units, this tower fixes the tanks and heals soldiers that 
 have taken blows but survived. China's defenses are somewhat impenetrable if built with efficiency. 
 The same gattling cannons that can be placed on Overlords can also be built as defense. They are 
 best for infantry and light armored tanks. Bunkers are somewhat a shelter for infantry, where they 
 can fire on incoming tanks and infantry with minimum casualties in their lines. Bunkers are best 
 suited for rocket launchers. These units make toys out of any tank if properly used. For China's 
 weapon of mass destruction: Yes, you guessed it. Nuclear Missile. This baby will annihilate anything 
 in its radius making the ground a scorched earth filled with nuclear radiation. Not as accurate 
 as the Particle Cannon, but this thing is worth the name of Weapon of Mass Destruction. China has 
 many more units and buildings.
  
  GLA: They have low-tech units and use very old weaponry. But they get the job done. Their tanks 
 are limited to a Scorpion. They also have buggies capable of launching a few missiles from a distance. 
 Including pathetic pickup trucks with a mounted machine gun. But also have scud launchers that 
 can destroy units from a distance. Their defense is a nest inhabited with four RPG units. They 
 are capable of Land-to-Land and Land-to-Air assaults. They have the Scud Storm for a weapon of 
 mass destruction. It has the same effect as the Nuclear Missile but with various missile strikes. 
 They also fight to the end, their units come cheap and you like they are always expendable, knowing 
 that you can make much more.
  
  The games' graphics enable the game to be amazing. They put you in a realistic view of the modern 
 war. You can command it all. It is with such RTS games that the true strategy gamer can show his 
 talents and rule. I advise anyone who loves strategy games to get Generals. It's a game that shouldn't 
 be missed. It was made for multi-player game-play. You will spend countless hours either playing 
 it alone at home, or with the friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epsilonfett
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  What can I say? The graphics are not worth getting the feel of. It hurts my eyes to look at the 
 screen, really. The gameplay is SOOOOOOOOOO slow, I can finish a Final Fantasy game by the time 
 I'm done through one mission. I really never liked those complicated RTS games, like Star Craft 
 or Age of Empires, where you have to keep collecting endless amount of resources of different kinds 
 to keep upgrading one unit over and over again. Games like Tiberian Sun and Red Alert I really 
 enjoyed because all you needed was Tiberium and if you really had nothing better to do, some Tiberium 
 waste. The units were powerful as a group, and the gameplay was smooth. No upgrades, no OMFG SUPERWEAPONS, 
 etc. I'm getting sick of even typing this much about this game, I'm done now :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfer_1844
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  the game plays at a much more frantic pace and this is a welcome change to me. It brings back the 
 standard of the old time RTS games for both the hardcore and casual gamers. While the campaign 
 can be a bit tiresome at times, it has its memorable moments. My only complaint is that you are 
 almost always fighting the GLA, unless you choose that faction.
  
  The skirmishes are very fun and fast, lending to the modern theme of the game. I would highly recommend 
 this game to anyone, which is very easy to do seeing as how its price is now so low, you can get 
 it in the ea strategy pack or for as little as five dollars in some places. That should be enough 
 to warrant anyone into trying this game out.... just for the old school taste of nostalgia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahandil
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer was a revolution. Continued with Red Alert so far. But that&acute; s a heavy 
 backpack to carry, always trying to get something new. Generals evolves as actually evolved war, 
 that&acute; s it including street fighting against small groups of cheap and badly trained and equipped 
 troops who can actually wait for you in any corner and blast your ultimate-technologically-armed 
 tanks with a couple of wall aimed rockets and then disappear. Anyway, although quite entertaining 
 the first few hours the campaign mode gets quickly repetitive and boring. Skirmish is just the 
 same as always, get a bunch of troops and send them to destroy the enemy base; tactically very 
 poor, like most strategy games. Factions have some unique units that gives a few points more to 
 multi-player, each one giving some strategic aspects to exploit. Liked the older ones, give this 
 one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer: Generals is a RTS with a different storyline than any of the other games in 
 the series. This game takes place in the near future where there are 3 world super powers. These 
 are the USA, China, and the GLA (Global Liberation Army) . Each has their own brief campaign and 
 a unique style of gameplay. While China relies on massive amounts of firepower, the GLA require 
 sneaky tactics to rise to victory. USA and China have aircraft and the GLA don't. But the GLA has 
 suicide bombers and bombing trucks. You can see there are 3 very different styles to pick from. 
 The old C&amp; C engine is no longer in use. Remember that little bar on the side of the screen 
 that you used to buy units and buildings? Gone. Now it plays just like any other RTS. There is 
 kind of a triangle of combat here. Regular infantry get slaughtered by tanks with machine guns 
 but dominate regular tanks. Tanks will turn a machine gun tank into scrap but will receive a beating 
 from infantry and so on. Maybe the only disappointment to me was there were only ships in like 
 one or two campaign missions. Along with campaigns there is a skirmish mode with a lot of maps 
 to play on. Graphics are pretty nice but not phenomenal. The sound was awesome and made me feel 
 like I was on the battlefield. Combine this with a great multiplayer, and you have got an awesome 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glordit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  I remember the Firts C&amp; C. Aah goo times! Old-Skool Just swos how old I am! :)
  
  So, C&amp; C generals is the next installment of the C&amp; C series, ussaly you would see only 2 
 Factions GDI and NOD, but they have flipped that Idea on the heap and kicked it out the door!
 
  
  Yes, There is now... to put it plainly... America, China and the Middle East! so three new factrions 
 to play, They are not set so you can choose who ever you want to play as first, but ussaly you 
 will sorta get confused as the story goes on.
  
  The graphics has been over hauled since Red Alert 2! Dynamic shadows, particles, better explosions 
 ect. there are a host of new units to go along with the new factions, Tanks, Humvees, Buggies, 
 Snipers and a whole lot more, superweapons are also back! SCUDS! ussaly the best!
  
  The Story has sorta somehow lasted [for me] most will think the story in the game stupid but i goes 
 along.
  
  Well thats all i gotta say, enjoi! or wait for Tiberium Wars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Like a 3D version of Red Alert 2. C&amp; C style gameplay, great. But Generals also provide 
 a stupid AI for gamers. This make gamers hard to control a lot of troops at once.
  
  Graphics: In high detail environment, Generals provides a great quality of graphics and animation. 
 Prefect!!!
  
  Sound: Fair. Nothing surprise or great in sound section. This makes Generals no more prefect. Value: 
 This is OK for a nice game. It also got lengthy campaign and a skirmish mode let u play for a lifetime.
 
  
  **** A great game for RTS gamers! P/S: Generals only need a low-mid com to play in high detail. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newlemming
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best in the series. While it disbands older C&amp; C games ability to create 
 buildings from a Command Center, it does allow more than one building to be made at a time through 
 the Dozers or Workers of the armies.
  
  The factions participating in battles have several good points no matter which you choose, USA 
 has it's effective infantry and air forces, China is an economy massive, and GLA has their amazing 
 ability to manage a relatively quick recovery from each attack (provided some circumstances of 
 course) .
  One of the things that can be said as a weak point of Generals is the fact that the game can be 
 a bit slower as graphics are increased.
  
  Some innovative additions to the genre that are appreciated but most likely underused are the replay 
 functions. You can watch your most victorious battles or watch your crushing defeat in order to 
 learn how to win your next battle. It may not be as flashy, but replays are a good function.
  
  All in all the game is generally a great war game and should be given two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaheo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Generals is a fantastic game: good graphics, interesting units and fantastic gameplay. Missions 
 are interesting, and the videos before them are great. Downside on videos are that you can't skip 
 them. A good variety of units but there should be more in the game. I also think that there should 
 be more missions and more teams. Command and Conquer have a very bad habit of having only 2 or 
 3 teams in a game. This game completely creates a new storyline from the other Command and Conquer 
 games made. The other storylines were the Allied and Soviet forces, GDI and NOD. Now C&amp; C have 
 completely created a new storyline: The USA, China and GLA forces. Not a bad thing but they shouldn't 
 make anymore fdifferent storylines for a while.
  
  Overall, this game is fantastic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsan224
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This an awesome game! Great graphics, great explosions, great music, and more good things about 
 this game! It's also easy to play. The only problem is, that sometimes ur armies are stupid. When 
 ur enemy attacks u, ur guys don't attack them unless u set the guard button. The skins arent that 
 great though. Like the american soldiers are in white helmets and blue jumpsuits! And the GLA are 
 wearing this wierd suit. The Chinese are pretty good though. The missions are pretty hard also (but 
 that's just me) So aside from the small problems, I don't regret getting this game. But the graphics 
 sometimes look kinda bad, but its pretty good overall. just the soldiers don't look that good. 
 I still think red alert 2 is better, but not buy a long shot. This game isn't that long, but its 
 not too short either. You can probably beat it in about 15-20 hours. Overall this is a great game 
 to your PC collection. Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jokul
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  Ive always been a fan of RTS games on the PC and I think my first game was C&amp; C the original, 
 the game play was brilliant, the graphics (at the time) were great and the ability to play a skirmish 
 on a selection of multiplayer maps made the game one of the most played on my PC.
  So when C&amp; C Generals was released I was straight out of the house and into the shop to get 
 myself a copy of the latest instalment and from the moment I read the blog on the back of the case 
 I knew this game was going to be good.
  The game has some changes to the regular C&amp; C engine, in this version their only three major 
 factions, the GLA, the US and China. Each army has their own distinct set abilities that can be 
 unlocked by working through the game and gaining experience points. Because each army is distinctly 
 different with GLA representing terrorist groups like AlQueda and Hamm as, this army doesnt rely 
 on heavy artillery like tanks to win but can produce distinct units like an Angry Mob which can 
 if used correctly swamp an enemy position and cause a lot of damage. US and China are similar and 
 yet different again, both armies have aerial support in the form of fighter planes and both armies 
 have an assortment of different tanks and vehicles to use, however the US strength lies in offence 
 while China are the one if the more defensive armies.
  The first thing that struck me dumb was the new graphics for C&amp; C, sharp and clean and then 
 the ability to move the camera 360 degrees almost knocked me off my seat! The core game play hasnt 
 changed much since the original C&amp; C and the extra elements like Super Weapons that were introduced 
 in previous releases such as Yuris Revenge have been altered so that you cant just build a Nuclear 
 Missile, you have to earn it with experience and its not just limited to Nuclear weapons, you can 
 have carpet bombing, A-10 aerial strikes and the terrorists get their own special upgrades as well.
 
  If you enjoyed the C&amp; C line in the past or even if you are new to RTS games, Generals is a 
 very good all rounder for any player from beginner to C&amp; C master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpepper244
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for years now but have only just got round to writing a review for 
 it, what a shame that is because this is one of the rest games i have ever played on any console 
 or pc ever.
  
  I love the use of the different units. I have played all of the games in the series and have loved 
 to watch them evolve over time. I have currently replaying red alert 2 as well as Gerneals and 
 i am loving how far the games have come in just that space of time. I think that anyone who is 
 into stratergy games should play this one. The expansion pack of zero hour is also a must and i 
 love playing on both of them.
  
  The only problem i have with this game is the lack of water battles, I have also been playing red 
 alert 2 and found the water based missions very good and give the game that extra edge, however 
 i think that should not detract from what is a fantastic game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMP-Hunter
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the best strategy game ever... the masterpiece of command & conquer... but in not long 
 time the best game is gone be tiberium wars :P, and well this game is cool... amazing graphics 
 and realism in the maps and graphics, the take off of the planes... the cannons, and more... amazing...
 
  
  i recommend too... 
  
  Joint Task Force...
  
  generals needs more things, like ships, other fliying units and more... but for me its perfect 
 :D
  
  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Well, all this started back in 1995 with the original C&C. Along with Warcraft II, C&C started 
 the RTS rage phenomenon that ripped the PC gaming industry in the late nineties. Now we are in 
 2003 and RTS isn't what it used to be, but maybe for the better. C&C: Generals isn't a typical 
 C&C game in the way that it plays more like an expansion pack. It has no real plot, just a string 
 of missions, and gone are those really nice CG scenes. But those are only minor changes, in the 
 end the gameplay is the only thing that makes a game good or bad! 
  
  Plot: Well the game takes place in 2020 and the world is in turmoil. The Global Liberation Army 
 (GLA) , a terrorist organization is causing some major ruckus around the world. On a bigger scale, 
 China finally rises to the rank of global super power, joining the U. S. in their global oppression. 
 So this time you have three sides, but the thing is that three sides are rarely involved at the 
 same time. Most missions are about one of the super powers having to deal with the GLA; or the 
 other way around if you're playing the GLA. So in the end we have 3 sides that have around 7 missions 
 (I only finished the US right now) , and no real plot other than ''the bad guys are there, let's 
 get them!''. 
  
  Gameplay: well C&C fans will be let down by this game, Westwood decided to go Warcraft style for 
 the interface. Gone is the construction yard, now you have workers like in Warcraft who build. 
 At the bottom of the screen is the main task bar where almost everything you need to know is displayed: 
 unit special orders (use grenades, deploy troops and so on) , the radar, your money, units selected 
 etc... So for those of you who have played Warcraft III (amazing game) , you get the picture: it 
 has the same interface. Like in Warcraft, some buildings will let you upgrade your units (armor, 
 speed and other various things) . On the bright side, the three sides are all very different and 
 well balanced. The US uses technology and air units, China uses massive tanks and it's massive 
 army to swarm the enemy combined with propaganda (a bit stereo-typical no?) and the GLA can't really 
 rely on conventional warfare so they end up using guerilla tactics. The GLA is the most interesting 
 side, it uses debris from enemy vehicles to upgrade their own, they have the terrorist unit: a 
 man rigged with TNT all over him that can easily take out a tank, they can get angry mobs and arm 
 them with Kalashnikovs (the angry mob is the most powerful unit in the game, it's ridiculous) , 
 rely on black market and bounty hunting to get money and have an very useful tunnel network system. 
 However, one of the typical C&C trademarks is still around: the super weapons. The U. S. uses the 
 uplink particle cannon (ion cannon with a cooler name) , China has the nuke and the GLA has the 
 scud storm (9 biological missiles are launched) . 
  In the end, this isn't like Red Alert where the Allies are much more powerful than the Soviets. 
 All sides are equally powerful and have different ways of playing. Bravo Westwood! And the last 
 little addition to the game is the General system. As you kill enemy units you gain experience 
 and once you get a level you're promoted (however, you're still a general) , this promotion gives 
 a general point. GP are used to get bonuses related to the side your playing with: all sides can 
 get at least one additional unit with this, you can get money by various methods (bounty, stealing) , 
 you can even get some very impressive heavy weapons support (the US gets the very powerful Fuel 
 Bomb and A-10 strike) . 
  
  Visuals: make no mistake, this game is very good looking. Everything except soldiers are well rendered. 
 The best looking part of the game has to be the massive explosions. The Nuke looks amazing and 
 the Fuel Bomb produces are very nice massive explosion, think of a hydrogen bomb. You can even 
 see your mechanized unit's trail in the dirt! Seeing a plane get shot down is also a very nice 
 site. 
  
  Sound: Like every C&C game (except for Tiberian Sun) , Generals has a heavy rock theme. I find it 
 fits the game pretty well. While playing though, the three sides have their own kind of music, 
 once again stereo-typed. some units are pretty funny to listen to: the GLA units are amusing, but 
 the US has the best lines ''doing what's RIGHT'' has to be my favorite line in the way that's it's 
 supposed to be serious. Sound effects are very well done, nothing to say there. Maybe the accents 
 given to the Chinese construction worker is a bit ridiculous, but what the heck, it sounds funny. 
 
  
  If you're a fan of the RTS genre or even just a fan of the C&C franchise, you should give this 
 game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This is another Command and Conquer game from a long line of others. The time setting of this game 
 may or may not appeal to some gamers because it is set in the present, so some gamers might miss 
 the sci-fi weapons they were accustomed to in the last Command and Conquer games. The AI in the 
 game is fairly smart, but at times I notice that my grunts would get confused and get stuck especially 
 when traveling in large groups. One of the biggest things that bug me about this game would be 
 how some units look in the game. For example in the United States Army Ranger doesn't even look 
 like one. It looks as if hes carrying a large metal pipe on his shoulder rather than an M4 or M16. 
 This game overall is pretty good and stacks well against the other RTSs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemkeer
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  I would rate this game as a 8 on the fun scale its challenging yes but fun to see how may different 
 ways you can destroy your enemy's. 
  A a word of advice I would say that the chineses campain is the best, how ever the American campain 
 is much easyer because of the arour bombers and the chain gun tanks. Then again you can always 
 capture an enemy's base and make it your own. 
  Over all this is is a good game and I would suggest it to any one looking for a hard core startagy 
 game to past the many hours of the night and the day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  This is another great game in the C&C series. This game is now set in a more modern day version 
 of the world. It has good graphics and good sound. Each army is unique and has different advantages 
 and disadventages. The only problem is that even with the current patch my game won't work online 
 at all. My advice would be to buy this game and the expansion pack for it: C&C Generals Zero Hour. 
 The armies in this game are the US, China, and the GLA (Globeal Liberation Army, a terriost orginization) . 
 The US goes against the GLA and so does China while the GLA goes against them and more people (including 
 unarmed civilians and the UN) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geom1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  the command and conquer series never fails to impress and in this instance it doesnt. what a game. 
 i thought nothing could beat ra2 but this does. three factions which feal very unique and are fun 
 to play. its nice to play as terrorists in some games and then the americans to see how the story 
 differs. the storyline is good but like all command and conquers its not exactly its strength. 
 i bought this game ages ago and still play it today and will continue for a long period. you should 
 have bought this game by now and if you havent then you would be foolish not to. an instant classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepit56
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I looked at the box and thought WOW! a new modern RTS, however when I opened the box I found one 
 of the worst games ever!
  
  The graphics are so bad that distinguishing between a tank and infantry is nye impossible.
  
 
  Sound is essentialy the same explosions interupted by voice acting that sounds like a bulgarian 
 monk imitating a seashell coming out of a monkeys anus.
  
  Gameplay is restricted to build, attack, resupply, build, attack, resupply. they developers did 
 make the speed of gameplay fun. you can launch a large scale invasion in literally seconds and 
 then pull out. this doesn't give you much time to think, but its alright as long as you plan ahead.
 
  
  This game is NOT worth the price!!! It seems like the developers pushed this thing out the door 
 and into the box before they evern THOUGHT about graphics, that along with an old gameplay style 
 and terrible voice acting make this game really, really bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: envomtonix
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  With a name like Command & Conquer, one could easily look back at those glorious days when Westwood 
 had the rights to this franchise, however lately it seems like EA is back to take control of these 
 games.
  
  Command & Conquer is not as it once was and this change is not good. The graphics are an OK achievement, 
 but besides that; everything else is crap.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are fine but nothing spectacular.
  
  Controls - The controls are fine 
 as well as any RTS game. So they're OK.
  
  Gameplay - Quite possibly the worst thing the game has to offer. Enemies cheat at any chance it 
 can get to run over your troops with a vehicle, which makes the camera controls very annoying. 
 The fighting was fine but the AI brought the gameplay to a horrible 2.
  
  Value - Honestly, I understand how this game received such a great rating for an abhorrent title 
 such as this. Value, that gets a 2 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I really like C&C generals it was the first real great strategy game I played .
  
  Game play: The game play is really fun and you can play as one of the 3 teams :USA ,China or the 
 3rd one I dont remember what its called but I think they are Iraq terrorists .
  
  Graphics: The graphics are excellent for that time ,EA did a great job .
  
  Sounds: The sound 
 are great you can clearly hear the gunfire ,explosions ,voices .The soundtracks are really great 
 i loved them .
  
  This game is amazing , one of the best strategy games in my collection .If you like RTS games then 
 you should get C&C generals and the expansion pack Zero Hour .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: corlorde
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  Playing only First person shooters since the 90s (I know, I know) I picked the generals series 
 up last fall and have been playing ever since. Generals was my very first rts, and what a highly 
 addictive, fun, and worthwhile adventure. Yes, I absolutely love this game! Ive since played other 
 rts games (Act of war comes to mind) but I keep generals and the expansion Zero hour permanently 
 nestled on my hard drive. Its a great game to fall back on and play when you are waiting for the 
 release of other games. You can blow through most first person shooters in a matter of hours with 
 little or know replay value. I guarantee you will not just blow through a good rts game and there 
 lies the main attraction to games like Generals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelILL
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Since Westwood is now gone and EA owns what they started that means that we have a piece of crap 
 Electronic Arts rehashing! YAY!
  
  Difficulty: Campaign missions are short and ridiculously easy to beat. AI opponents when not scripted 
 build endless hoards of units and throw them at you before you even have a chance to see. The game 
 is filled with cheap ways to win the game and isnt close to being fair. 
  
  Learning Curve: Play's like any command and conquer game but has major gameplay differences when 
 it comes to units. Many hardcore command and conquer players will feel betrayed once they pick 
 this game up.
  
  Gameplay: Single player campaigns are short, pointless, and far to easy. Highly scripted AI isnt 
 even a challenge. There are three sides: USA, China, and the GLA. If you've played Red Alert 2 
 USA is like the allies, China is like the Soviets and the GLA is sort of like Yuri minus the psychic 
 abilities of his forces. 
  The sides in general feel like crappy rehashes of the old sides. The game has a really bad story 
 that has nothing to the Red Alert or Tiberium storylines. Instead it throws in a generic War on 
 terror story which is told to you in several news reports before each mission. If EA really wanted 
 to make a third storyline they could have made it good and with substance. Generals has no actors 
 or live action movies like all the other command and conquer games had and no real point in playing 
 the Campaign.
  Many of the units are overpowered. When I say that I truly mean it. With just a few snipers protecting 
 your base as the USA ANY AND ALL INFANTRY ATTACKS ON YOU WILL FAIL. The sniper in RA2 had a much 
 less rate of fire, seeing distance, and was visible so you had to protect him with other units. 
 In Generals the sniper kills any and all infantry units instantly from ridicules ranges in one 
 hit and fires almost on full auto when they are at there highest levels. There also sheathed so 
 you need special units to find them. And you can put them into buildings. The list just goes on. 
 This would be ok if there was a way to counter it but only the USA has snipers. The GLA has Jaromen 
 Kell which is a sniper that can kill the crews of vehicles. But you can only have one of them. 
 
  Among the overpowered units there is also the Aurora bomber. It is totally impossible to shoot 
 it down until it drops its payload and you only need three or four of them to destroy any building 
 of the game. The structures are also overpowered. The Chinese have the old gattling towers but 
 WAY WAY more powerful. Just one tower can down a whole squad of fighters in seconds. Anyone who 
 says this game is realistic should consider that. If you make ten or so your base is almost completely 
 impossible to attack from the air and by infantry so the only way to win is tanks. 
  With so many ways to wipe out vast amounts of air and infantry units the only real option to play 
 this game is with tanks. China can build tanks so fast they come out of the war factories like 
 water and the USA has super powerful tanks. But the most ridiculous unit of all is called the overlord 
 tank. With just one of them with the gattling tower upgrade you can destroy entire air fleets, 
 platoons of infantry, and just about anything in the game. 
  Graphics: The graphics are in full 3D and look ok. But when you zoom in the look like crap. Infantry 
 are like seven feet tall and have rectangles for guns. 
  In the end EA has destroyed the Command and Conquer series. This game is nothing like the other 
 command and conquer games, has almost nothing in common save for units and is about as imbalanced 
 as having a young Iraqi boy throw a rock at a Abrahams tank going down his road. 3.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrifing
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  the game was boring dull and unchallanging 
  the concept could have been even better the units structure could have diversified more, the whole 
 game was a waste of quality disc space and a tarnish on command and conquer 
  
  the simplicity behind it was almost childish 
  the graphics were good 
  the sound was good 
 
  the game was rubbish 
  
  the land could have been used more wisely 
  the unit structure was simplistic 
  
  although the buildings ewre different they offered even 
 less than what you expected 
  
  one good touch was the terrorist threats 
  genuin surprise there 
  
  very unappealing 
  
  sorry guys its absolute crap 
  
  my 
 opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangofett
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  When you first get the game, it seems great and you are hooked immediatly. However, after the first 
 week, when the new game feeling wears off, you start to see all the faults in the game. 
  
  It is a decent game, and for someone who hasn't played the other command and conquer games, it 
 would probably be a good game, but for a strategy game player who has played most of the games 
 in the genre at one point or another, it simply doesn't compare well.
  
  The first thing is the different setting from the other command and conquer games. While a new 
 setting isn't necessarily bad, it becomes aparent that they are better at making fiction settings, 
 than ones modeled after real life. Many of the missions seemed unrealistic in the problems, such 
 as the GLA, a terrorist group, being a world power able to go head to head with U. S. or Chinese 
 forces. Sorry but a homebuilt tank is going to lose against a M1 Abrams.
  
  There was also the introduction of the Star or Point system. While somewhat creative, this really 
 didn't add much to the game and frusterated many people including myself. It was frusterating to 
 have to alter your tactics so you could get a better army, and that your access to things was limited, 
 and at the end of the game, you couldn't access everything.
  
  Other than that, it did have good graphics, and was over all a decent game, but for true C&C fans, 
 it just didn't compare to Red Alert, or Tiberium Sun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abyssion100
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  the game is really cool i didint know i could get that game so easily with just downloading ^^, but 
 im dissapointed with the graphics, its somehow nintendo 64 graphics but at some places its good 
 like the explosions! one bad thing too is that it doesnt got so many missions but so long there 
 are something to do then game rocks! its so cool to blast down a tower so it collapses on a enemy 
 apache helicopter! (also can hit on ur own units) and the slow motion thingy is really cool, makes 
 the game more interesting and want to play it more :) sounds are nice enough but the china dudes 
 have stupid sound. . . . . . . multiplayer is ofc enable but i cant do and i dont know why aaaaaaaargh! 
 ! ! ! well great RTS but maybe too old now so theres better now comed out :D not SUCKY game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancestorm117
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  The best of its kind BY FAR 
  They all seem to get better as the series goes on. I love C&C because its not just about fighting 
 you need to use your head to spend money wisely , and dont just one big army because you will 
 get wiped like and 4 year olds **** arse, you have to send it in waves but still give them no time 
 to recover 
  
  Time less classics like war hammer and war craft have there own specialty but C&C has more that 
 charm it has pertetchal to entertain for unlimited hours with its truly awesome multi-player
  
  ITS HIGHLY ADDICTING AND EACH TEAM HAS ADVANTAGES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Well, if your are a Command and Conquer fan, then you will have a good picture of the whole game. You 
 can play as the US, China and the GLA which I think is the Iraqis. Basically what you do is establish 
 your own base, reinforce it and prepare yourself a good squad to invade the enemy, let's not forget 
 defending! There are three modes: Singleplayer which consists of Missions and Skirmish and also the 
 online multiplayer. In the single-player missions, you need to accomplish different goal with the 
 resources you have and it isn't always the :" establish your own base, reinforce it and prepare 
 yourself a good squad to invade the enemy" kinda tactics. You sometimes need to defend your retreating 
 allies from enemies.
  
  Graphically, it isn't the best, but still decent and has improved from previous Command and Conquer 
 games. Controls in this game are not to hard and you can earn medals by finishing single player 
 campaign, winning 3 times in a row ,built 50 tanks and 20 aircrafts and other kinds of medals. By 
 the way, they are called Honours.
  
  Sounds in this game.. err, not too good as there a ot of repetitive dialogs from your army, background 
 music will keep on playing and the length of the music is not that long .For those avid Strategy 
 games you won't go bored over this game and a new experience for new gamers and worth it.
  
  So, get this game .. NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucknumber1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  Well i have only had the game for like a day or to but from what i have seen it is really good. 
 There are some bad points like that there are only 3 countries to choose from and it takes a while 
 to build things. I like the additions to the vehicles and the detail put into them. The graphics 
 are really good which doesnt effect the gameplay in anyway. The game my run a bit slow on some 
 computers and jump when its at movie parts. Over all this is one is deffently one to pick up and 
 it is cheap so it is really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watermelon_head
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game offers what RTS games from Blizzard doesn't : Realism. Once I got tired of Starcraft, 
 I was looking for a game with better graphics. I used to think that C&C series was those games 
 where you just have to build millions of units to defeat your opponent - that's not true. Actually 
 the game is faster paced than the Blizzard games so you have to take your time but at the same 
 time, you have to react quickly. 
  
  What I mean is, I was playing the 5th China campaign and you start out with $15,000. This is the 
 most money I had so far in the game so I just started by making two war factories and making mass 
 tanks. Then I would take the tanks and about 50 Red Guards and start blitzing the targets. What 
 I noticed is that even though the AI only had two stinger sites my units would take heavy damage 
 along with the buried bombs I had to watch out for while I was on my way. The correct way to play 
 the stage was construct an army that was balanced and meet the AI on every step with a unit that 
 meet or beat his units. This got me to thinking! So I built Battlemasters to help with his light 
 vehicles, Flame tanks to meet his foot soldiers and lots of tank hunters and Red Guards for support. 
 Also I built a Black Lotus to detect enemy units in the buildings and bombs under ground. With 
 the Black Lotus I could see the bombs and just blow them up with a tank. Then I would use a Nuke 
 bomber to blow up the stinger sites which would take out so many of my troops if they were in range. 
 What ended up happening was a mission that was long and drawn out. Lasted me about an hour and 
 a half! It was fun. 
  
  Another thing I liked about C&C generals is that there isn't a lot of options. This is good because 
 you don't have to worry about making wrong decisions when it comes to upgrading : Basically you 
 do it or don't.
  
  So I compared this game to the last RTS games I was playing which were Warcraft 3 and Starcraft. 
 Although I think Starcraft is my all-time fave but I have grown tired of the aging graphics. I 
 couldn't really get into Warcraft 3 because of the whole sword and magic premises and the whole 
 fantasy setting complete with over acting with polygonial characters and praying to false gods. 
 Also because the cut scenes showed characters who I thought were basically corny with all their 
 over acting. Although I had some really good times battlenet on Warcraft 3 and Starcraft, I found 
 playing through the missions on C&C generals refreshing. For the most part, you're just told what 
 you have to kill and why. You're not forced to watch some corny plot (yawn) and corny characters 
 to get you involved. It also has allusions to real world affairs, such as the GLA being terrorists 
 and China being communists. 
  
  Now if only Blizzard would make Starcraft as their next RTS game and can SC: Ghost that would make 
 me extremely happy. But if they do it like they did WC3 I would be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Generals is a absolutely amazing and highly addictive RTS game which everyone knows is the best 
 Command and Conquer game yet!
  
  Gameplay: This game is really fun! It's fun to use the USA. GLA AND Chinese armies to manipulate 
 and trick then CRUSH your opponent!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are brilliant! You can see EA games put a lot of effort into the next generation 
 of C&C games!
  
  Sound: The sound is great- you can properly hear all the battle noises, gunfire, explosions and 
 all the people talking, shouting and screaming!
  
  Value: This game is going to be one of the best in your collection if you are a RTS gamer and if 
 not, it's still a unforgettable game to buy!
  
  Tilt: This game is one I really like! I hope you'll like it too! Buy this one, it's a must have! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Damain1113ACS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Hard to believe we have come this far from those days of StarCraft, C&C is a game with a true obsession 
 with the realism, making this a must for any respectable strategy gamers collection. Though not 
 many units, that only ups its attributes of being a more modern combat RTS, emphasizing true combat 
 strategy and realism (SunTzu say he very Happy) .
  It's Campaign mode has an alomst historical accuracy of what happened in Op. Iraqi Freedom but, 
 wether they modeled this game after it or not (I do not know) , thats still how I dreamt it would 
 look like. But a few missions in, the geme seems to lag a little I eventually had to get up to 
 take a pee, something I could never force myself to do with Starcraft. 
  Time for the Ugly, I am going to have to pick on the selection of combat units. In the oldin' Days, 
 C&C stock piled on the filler units (Ex: no need for a flamethrower unit, its only fun to burn 
 someone in real life or Unreal Tournament) but, in todays C&C we've got the basics. Though this 
 helps with speedy games, on the edge RTS, & it keeps the Noobs in check; it leaves games linear 
 into how many ways you can win. For this reason you wont be playin this game forever.
  This game is like a cross eyed hot chick, its got small problems. the games difficulty settings 
 seem to me a little uninspired it goes from ridiculously easy to easy to the legendary settings 
 on Halo. A good things for noobs I suppose.
  All-in-All, buy it. Buy it, Master it, command and conquer (man thats good stuff) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_janus_ex
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  los buenos juegos se caracterizan por la consecutivisdad de una historia este juego se limita a 
 una destruccion basas en la teorias comunoes de guerra donde los buenos son un gobierno estable 
 que quiere el bien para todos resaltando entonces con estgu una realidad falsa que enseguese a 
 todos....
  
  ya entrando el juego puede agardar a los que solo les gusta la destrucion masiva y sin sentido 
 con un objetivo de matar al enemigo sea cual sea el enemigo.
  
  al final de cuentas lo importante es jugar y salir de la realidad no dentrarnos mas en ella...... 
 a final el juego es agradable pero para mi gusto 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedron33
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer: Generals was the very first RTS game I played in my life a couple years ago. 
 When I went into Wal-Mart to buy a game, I saw this. Just looking at the box, it made me know that 
 I needed to buy it.
  
  After I was done installing C&C Generals I started to play. The game was AWESOME. It has three 
 campaign's. An American, a Chinese, and a GLA (Global Liberation Army) campaign. Each general (one 
 for GLA, America, and Chinese) has their own different buildings, units, and different strategies. 
 For example, the GLA does not require power plants to power any buildings or units, however they 
 dont have a air force. But, the American and Chinese do require power plants to power everything, 
 but they also have an air force.
  
  C&C Generals also comes with a world builder, so you can build your own maps. There are a countless 
 number of objects you can put in there, from fences to houses. And to make the game even more fun, 
 they added ONLINE MULTIPLAYER! You need this in a RTS and C&C delivers. There isn't any lag at 
 all, although you may get a drop in FPS if you have a crap computer.
  
  The makers of C&C sure know how to make a great compaign mode. Three different compagins for three 
 different factions. This requires tons of strategys, and a single mission lasts from 30 min to 
 a couple hours on easy difficulty!
  
  The gameplay in the game is great, there are an infinite number of ways to defeat your opponents. 
 I played the game over and over again for hours, and I am still finding new ways of victory. The 
 graphics at the time are unbelievable! Everything is detailed to the very pixel, especially the 
 enviroment (trees, buildings, water) I also love the sound, from the sound effects to the voice 
 acting. The Americans, Chinese and GLA actually sound and act they way they would in real life 
 (I really like how the GLA call America and China infidels :D)
  
  The value, deserves a 10. You can never stop playing, there is a long campaign and there is a skirmish 
 mode too. And with a expansion pack on the way, it will be even better.
  
  If you haven't played this game yet, you should buy it right now (its not much) Even if you campare 
 the graphics to todays games, you wouldent care. The voice acting is better in this game then any 
 other game I played. The gameplay cant get any better in a game either, if you think im wrong, 
 think again. C&C Generals to me, is the game of the year for the rest of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessOfFate1
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok apparently people on this site cant understand English and why this game sucks so ill make 
 this review easier to understand.
  
  This game sucks because the missions are completely scripted meaning the enemy constantly gets 
 free units until you do a certain thing in a mission and they dont need money as well be being 
 totally liner and not flexible and unpredictable like a real war.
  
  The other reason is that its impossible to play online because theres a stupid mount of hackers 
 and cheaters. Almost everyone hacks, and there hasnt been any attempt to stop it. The community 
 also sucks, and is filled with idiots and trolls. 
  
  I now return you to your review. If you dont understand the above and still think this review 
 is biased then frankly theres no hope for you. If you do I love you. Thank you for reading.
  
  Thats why this game sucks. Try reading a review before you blindly rate it.
  
  Generals 
 is the most unfair game I have ever seen. It is a great RTS ruined by cheating AI, rampant hacking 
 and annoying unit unbalances. This makes its flaws far more depressing. But wait! Before you dont 
 recommend my review read on and find out why.
  
  Generals revolves around the insanely huge battles of the USA, china and the Global Liberation 
 Army a terriost organization. Each side is modeled roughly after its real life tactics.
  
  The USA has very high tech armies with crack infantry and powerful and expensive tanks. You could 
 call them the good guys. Their units are expensive.
  
  China is very different to the USA. Its units are cheaper and not as powerful. Chinas tactics 
 involve flooding the enemy with impossibly huge numbers and emphasizing this is the horde bonus 
 that china gets. When enough of the same types of unit are near each other such as Battlemaster 
 tanks or Red Guard infantry the whole group fires faster and does more damage. They are pretty 
 much on USAs side and fight off the GLA as well but could be called neutral.
  
  The GLA are Middle Eastern terriosts. Their armies are outdated and bargain basement, bought through 
 the black market and can be pulverized by the other teams more professional forces but are incredibly 
 sneaky with the ability to salvage parts form defeated enemies to upgrade their own units and use 
 tunnel networks to deploy forces. They also make liberal use of evil weapons like anthrax bombs 
 and other toxic weapons.
  
  Multiplayer is huge and deep with a thousand tactics possible and its easy for a battle to sway 
 back and forth and to be lost due to a single mistake. Its tense and gripping without getting 
 too overwhelming like any good RTS should be. Infernally there are lots of hackers which almost 
 ruin multiplayer and EA hasnt lifted a finger in ages to stop them meaning multiplayer can be 
 just as annoying as single player. If you arent playing a hacker multiplayer can be huge amounts 
 of fun even though it is very hard, and takes a long time to get good in any sense. Your stats 
 such as wins losses disconnects win streak loss streak and battle honor medals are all saved on 
 the server side and carried over from game to game with each player assigned a rank based on stats 
 such as sergeant or major. Battle honors can be awarded for things like building a certain number 
 of main battle tanks or planes against enemies, winning lots of matches in a row, rushing your 
 enemy and defeating him quickly or playing fair by not disconnecting from 90% of your games. 
 
  
  Graphics wise Generals is amazing for the time. Everything is so detailed with battles taking place 
 in dense, realistic looking forests complete with trees catching on fire and being bashed over 
 by tanks, beaches with pebbles and seaweed washed up and waves rolling in and towns with loads 
 of small details such as wells and broken roads. Generals environments are some of the most beautiful 
 in an RTS. Flame effects look amazing with napalm whooshing out of cannons realistically and some 
 great lighting effects making it look ever better. Buildings hit by napalm burst into flames, and 
 damaged building give out great looking explosions kicking up dust and rocks in all directions. 
 Nukes too look amazing with the classic mushroom cloud and some incredible looking lighting, complete 
 with damaging fallout left in its wake. There are dozens of cool little effects that just add heaps, 
 like how tanks shake and get kicked back when firing and how infantry limp when badly injured.
 
  
  Units are varied and imaginative with things like standard rifle and rpg armed infantry to napalm 
 tanks, makeshift battle units with high caliber guns, chain gun tanks, the ever classic humvee, 
 ambulances, high tech tanks armed with anti-rocket lasers and many many others. the sides dont 
 share any units, but out of necessity and to have a certain amount of realism each side has a main 
 battle tank and basic infantry yet they are different, For example, the standard USA infantry, 
 the Ranger is armed with a semi auto rifle and able to use flashbangs to cause huge damage to hostile 
 infantry and to clean out garrisoned buildings. The standard Chinese infantry, the Red Guard on 
 the other hand is very cheap, trained in pairs, has a bolt action rifle and has the Chinese horde 
 bonus that makes groups of five or more of them fire faster and do more damage. The GLAs standard 
 infantry, the Rebel, sticking with the GLAs terriost origins is a no frills machine gun armed trooper 
 with no other skills besides being cheap. 
  
  What destroys generals and ruins any strategy is the fact that everything is scripted and unfair. 
 The AI cheats always to endlessly send troops at you that it just magically gets. You can see after 
 the battle on the stats screen that they almost always lost way more units than they ever created, 
 meaning they just got them for free. I saw 121 created and over 500 lost once, meaning they got 
 400 free units. That is simply unacceptable. If EA cant make an AI that can challenge you without 
 the worthless cheating they should just stop making games right now. You see stupid things, like 
 tanks and units constantly popping into existence from nowhere, crushing your forces, they just 
 keeping coming and coming until you reach a scripting point that stops them. Complete crap. They 
 often simply move along preset paths right into your base defense over and over. The only way the 
 AI has evolved from the AI in the 1996 original is the addition of scripting as outlined above. 
 Back then the AI also attacked with small endless groups that walked into your base defense.
  
  Another thing that really annoys me is the way infantry are so weak. A lot of infantry, especially 
 rocket infantry can be pretty powerful but they die too easily since a tank that is dead stopped 
 can crush infantry instantly killing them after moving less than a centimeter across the screen. 
 They dont need run ups or even to be barely moving to crush them. You can lose 20 infantry to 
 one tank this way and, coupled with the cheating AI, is really enough to unbalance the game so 
 completely that I refuse to play single player anymore. Its uncalled for, unrealistic and frustrating.
 
  
  These faults ruin generals completely. They nullify any good points generals has and makes it an 
 annoying frustrating game.
  
  Fin.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  If you really want so real-time strategy, you should try this one. It's much more realistic than 
 the previous C&C games. The fun wont stop that easily, especially if you play with your friends. 
 Fun game, nothing to say, still it might get boring for someone if playing for too long. 
  The graphics are improved quite well. Now parts fly like never before, it's much more fun to watch 
 the battles.
  The sounds sound really realistic in some points, nice job, still there are some sound that could 
 use some improvements. the music plays rarely in the game. 
  the game still remains the same as the others CQC games, and there isn't anything new for the strategy. 
 Still, they are on the right track.
  
  Also some have unfair advantage, like China seems to be best of all them with all those Overlord 
 tanks and Nuclear Missiles. So they could put them in a balanced way. It wouldn't hurt tough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot hit right on the head when they said the best CnC yet. This game is by far one of the 
 best RTS games I've ever played. The new graphics engine is awsome and the ability to choose between 
 China, USA, or GLA is awomse. 3 races = 3 times the fun. The superweapons are done so well you 
 almost have to stop what you're doing to watch what happens.
  
  There are plenty of units to keep you occupied but not too many. I feel just the right mix was 
 added to the game so it wouldn't be too much. Every side has a distinct advantage and disadvantage 
 and the balance is done just right. 
  
  Effects are done well and every missle seems to have a nice sprite on the end to make it glow. 
 Sound is good and many times you'll end up laughing at what each unit has to say. Especially the 
 GLA workers.
  
  If your looking for a game that plays like an upgraded StarCraft with all the fun of CnC universe, 
 look no further.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrackpotGANJ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The only other Command and Conquer that i like better is Red Alert 2 which is amazing perfect 10 
 by the way. This game is definetly and upgrade from the first command and conquer red alert were 
 as this game you dont have a limit on how many guys and tanks that you can have which is very nice 
 exspecially in multi-player. Not only does it have fun and some what challenging campaings it gives 
 you a great multi-player expirence that will want you to play it all the time. The only thing that 
 i would say is pretty games about it is that china pretty much dominates the usa and gla in this 
 game. Also gla is very very bad even though they are very cheap and what i mean is that when i 
 play it 12 overloards with speaker towers and gatlining guns and half dozen migs, well placed nuke, 
 power outage bomb, and cannon morter shots kills you almost every time, but i do have to say that 
 a crap load odf apache helicopter does quite well to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grim_reapez
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  in the midst of alot of new pc junk this games stands out as one of the games that keeps the pc 
 gaming world alive. 
  
  generals is the next game in a long line of great games with new features, new buildings and a 
 never ending fun factor this game is a sure hit.
  
  among games like warcraft is where this should be anybody that says that this game isnt as good 
 as warcraft need there heads checking. this game is as good as wc no doubt the graphics are brilliant, 
 it plays really good and it leaves you wanting more after each session.
  
  before you a tatic kind of person or a all guns blazing because the armies really are alot different. 
 the arabs are more ambushing and send poison and genral sabotage, where as the americans are technical 
 and have all the latest machinary and guns, yes lots of guns and my personally fave china! they 
 will overwhelm you completly they have alot of numbers and can practically overrun a base but dont 
 get them wrong you still have hackers that can steal money, wait did i say steal money? yes i did! 
 (play and see)
  
  the graphics are smooth and it still sticks to a semi birds- eye view. the skirmishes are something 
 that shouldnt be missed with a different fight every time you can have endless hours of enjoyment 
 but wait there is more the missions are brilliant with the same cool real people cut scenes! i 
 had the best time playing multi-player with a bunch of cool people who arent idiots and leave if 
 they are losing so check that out.
  
  this game doesnt define the c&c line but it does add a awful lot to it!
  
  i really hope you 
 guys check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HugoFromBoss
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  I know I shouldn't say this but it is "Better than the originals!" In more ways than 1. Any fans 
 of the C&C series will love this game. It has moved away from the other games more than any other 
 in the past, but I believe all changes are improvements and add vastly to the playability of the 
 game.
  
  It is easier to collect money, which sometimes became tedious in the other titles and it is possible 
 to have multiple build queues and units construct buildings so you don't have to spend all your 
 time protecting your construction yard. These are just a few of the great improvements featured 
 in C&C Generals.
  
  There are 3 main factions: USA (who rely on technological and air superiority) , China (man and 
 tank power really) and GLA (they rely on maneuverability and speed) . All teams require different 
 tactics to play with successfully. This vastly increases the playability in that units from each 
 team are completely different and not just different versions of the same thing.
  
  Another step forward is the way units take damage for other units. Each unit has specific advantages 
 and disadvantages, so that a range of units is needed to win a battle, not just superior numbers. 
 An army of tanks can be obliterated by a few tank hunters if used correctly.
  
  This game should work on any newish computer with and average graphics card. I have had to turn 
 the graphics settings down slightly, but this in no way detracts from the game play, but simply 
 makes you wonder how they could be any better.
  When the single player campaign is over, and you're sitting back in your chair feeling smug, try 
 playing across the internet, and you will soon realise how much there is to this game that you 
 haven't even touched on yet. Multiplayer requires new tactics, and gives the game yet even more 
 hours worth of playing time. Contrary to other reviews an average 56k line will be fine, Ive 
 had no trouble playing with one.
  
  All in all a complete game for any budding military general; and when you feel you need more, buy 
 the add-on Zero Hour; it is the icing on the cake.
  
  Buy this game; it will be one of the best you ever buy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  When Electronic Arts assimilated Westwood Studios several years ago, many voices in the gaming 
 community sounded the death knell of the Westwood brand name. Today, their legacy lives on in EA 
 Pacific who brings us the latest edition of real-time carnage birthed from one of the most popular 
 RTS product lines of all time. Command and Conquer: Generals arrives with three diverse armies, 
 multiplayer support, and three separate single player campaigns. Building on Westwoods successes, 
 EAs latest attempt inherits the look and feel of a Westwood classic. The original Command and 
 Conquer helped define the real-time strategy genre to such an extent that gamers have been plagued 
 with poorly implemented clones for years. Has EA given enough fire-support for Generals to launch 
 an insurrection on the battlefield of RTS combat, or is this a rehash of the same conflict? The 
 three available armies come with a unique look and feel, with individual units of varying strengths 
 and weaknesses that offer differing strategies. The Chinese gain strength in numbers by piling 
 on cheap units available right from the start, while the Americans rely on powerful but expensive 
 units full of high-tech toys and gadgets. Americans have several aerial units available including 
 stealth fighters, Apache attack choppers, aurora bombers, and squadrons of ATF fighter jets. The 
 Chinese can build fleets of MIGs for aerial support, but the GLA has no air force and must rely 
 on ground troops only. The American Humvee, which doubles as a speedy troop transport, packs firepower 
 far greater than the Chinese troop transport  but at a much higher cost. American vehicles are 
 capable of building support upgrades, which can be either remote spy drones to enhance the viewing 
 distance, or combat drones to add increased firepower and an auto-repair ability. One of the most 
 useful unit upgrades is the Chinese ability to build speaker towers atop their overlord tanks to 
 rally troops into fighting more furiously and enabling units within range to self-repair
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is really really good. I stopped playing this game for a while and I just recently started 
 playing it again and I wonder why I stopped playing it.
  
  The gameplay on this game is really really fun. There are not very many good modern RTS games out 
 there. Most of them are bad but not this game. This game is awesome. It combines now stuff and 
 stuff that can be made now but no one has. Something that can be made but isnt it the toxic tractor 
 that the GLA has. It has a cannon thing on the end of it and shoots out toxic gasses/acid and can 
 choke the enemy. It can be very effective but has low armor. This game is a game that has a lot 
 of stuff on it that are really good but can always be defeated if you do something right. It is 
 kind of like the back cover of Battlefield 1942 (read my review on it) where it shows how everything 
 can be destroyed. This game is like that but EA could never do that with this game because it all 
 wouldnt fit on the back cover. There are so many things. You have to change your strategy everytime 
 you switch an army becaue they all have different things that you can do with them. Such as the 
 USA's infantry is awesome but when you switch armies to say the chinese and make a lot of infantry, 
 you are most likely going to be mowed down. Thats what makes this game so awesome. Unlike in Axis 
 and Allies (read my review on it) it is possible to win a skirmish. Its really fun when you play 
 with teams offline because your teamates actually help you and will fight with you. It's great 
 when you are flying over a battle with a raptor and get shotdown and the pilot bails out. You think 
 he has no chance of surviving but then you notice that your teamates are actually winning (gasp) . 
 So you send your guy to the nearest vehicle that is yours and go help your allies. It's awesome 
 to do.
  
  The graphics on this game are awesome. There are no glitches except in the begging at the main 
 menu. That can get annoying because then you think your computer is messed up but then you always 
 find out that it is working fine so you will just start getting used to it. The graphics are like 
 Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth (read my review on it) which are very good graphics. 
 The seonary is not as good though but LOTRBFME has super good scenery. 
  
  The sound on this game is awesome and I have nothing bad to say about it. The guns sound awesome, 
 the tanks sound awesome, the planes sound awesome, everything sounds awesome. 
  
  Overall, this game is awesome and is worth getting. If you already have this game but have not 
 played it in a while, go ahead and try to play it again. Thats what I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god2emperor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  loads and loads of weapon. loads and loads of firepower. loads and loads of nations (actually three) 
 this is by far one of the best real time stretagy game ever made by EA game, there are no gams 
 like this one to the expection of Homeworld 2, which is another great game though harder to learn 
 the curve. the super weapons are great. the nations are u u u u u u U. s s s s s s s s S. a a a 
 a a a A., g g g g G. l l l l l l L. a a a a a a a A. and China (this time protagonist) buy the game, 
 it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  i bough tthe duluxe pack and therefore got the expansion zero hour aswell, from waht i have seen 
 and played i can tell this is a fun game.
  as a true starcraft fanatic i tend to compare all fps's with it, and this is quite good on the 
 scale.
  its definitely worht getting for the online, although when people lagg it gets annoying..... thats 
 the internet for you.
  the graphics are decent for an rts and the gameplay is smooth. the general ranking system is also 
 cool, getting ranked during a round in order to get special air strikes and abilities such as a 
 fuelk bomb and a tank drop.
  units are also evened out somewhat however some have undfair advantages e. g the rocket buggy, too 
 fast, has too big a range and hurts like hell..... you get too many of these bugging your tanks 
 and the only option isd a nuke!!!!
  there are a few other problems too. units travel too slowly, it takes ages to get an army from 
 one side of the map to the other which can lead to frustration and the use of annoying out of range 
 units piucking off your guys before you even ste foot in the enemy base. playing with your friends 
 is fun however, like i said lagg really ruins the game mid battle.
  overall its definitely worht buying for its current price, however, dont expect it to be the best 
 rts you have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berkelear
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  This is game is kind of dissapointing. Because Red Alert 2 (with or without Yuri) was just great. 
 This games misses buildings. How can you go to war by only building like 8 buildings? The graphics 
 are ugly and the sound is kind of monotone and boring. The gameplay is great as ever though. And 
 with gameplay I mean the feeling you get when you play a game. But overall This game misses buildings 
 and naval units. I mean, you can't even have a nice naval war with this game. The map that has 
 the greatest value is that desert map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Briantb_2008
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 4, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Its has a great style to it but it really didn't have the same feel to it as the rest of the command 
 and conquer series. I've spent my fair share of time playing command and conquer games. It had 
 alot of intersesting points to it but overall it was just to easy to play. I had no problem playing 
 it on any difficulty. The online multiply was good as always. But it just didn't have the feel 
 of all the old ones. I'm afird this game will sit on my self and collect dust for a long time before 
 I pick it up again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albel_kasey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  This action-packed Command and Conquer game beats all others. The on line arrangement is awesome 
 while the 3 story lines are too. They did a good job evening out the advantages of the regions. 
 Generals is a well designed game including the world builder which makes levels to play with on 
 on line and skirmish play. This game will get you addicted if you play it enough. Ranking on on 
 line play is a must have addiction. Clans, battles, respect, and honor is all in the game. Get 
 friends, make enemies, team up, get skilled, and joining clans can all add up to your rank and 
 respect. I do recommend playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbahr
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 23, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited when i heard about this game, but i must confess its a total letdown. Sure, 
 the graphics are really cool, but Generals completely lacks the charm of Westwood's prior games. 
 There's no story at all, no movies, just some crappy cutscenes generated with the game's engine. 
 This entry in the C&C series also lacks strategic depth (I could beat most of the missions in the 
 chinese campaign by just massing heavy tanks) and missions are mostly limited to wipe out the bad 
 guys, with no special conditions. I really loved Red Alert 1 and 2, but was so disappointed by 
 this game that barely finished the single player mode. Generals features a lot of eye candy, but 
 almost nothing for a true RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemasta456456
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  In this RTS game you play as eitheir the U. S., Chinese, or Gla. In the us campaign, you must destroy 
 the terrorist threat, a. k. a. the G. L. A, or Global Liberation Army. As the chinese, the Gla have 
 taken over large amounts of china, you must stop their push, and push them... As the GLA, well 
 u need 2 take over ze world!!!!! ya kno the hijacking nukes plan.... In this game, u build and 
 manage a base and your army. You can earn gerneral points to spend on upgrades and other stuff... 
 To get general points you must destroy lost of enemies. The multiplayer is actually good for and 
 online rts since i really dont like those kind of games.....
  
  Pros 
  + Great graphics
  + The sounds of the explosions and voices are nice
  + The variety of vehicles, 
 units, and buildings, are widely ranged
  + The effects of the enviroment, such as snow, fog, and rain, are shown
  + The story line is 
 solid
  + Easy to get the hang of
  
  Cons
  - Some glitches
  - sometimes the ai is not that great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sedoras
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer is not the first RTS, but is was the game that really put the Genre into the 
 media. Sure, Dune II or Warcraft are to mention, but Command & Conquer was a huge success that 
 spawned billions of wanna-be-games of different Quality.
  However, after Red Alert 2, the game felt... aged. Tiberian Sun was a huge disappointment to many 
 (including me) , and Red Alert 2 revived the game, but a new approach was needed, especially because 
 Blizzard's Warcraft III just showed how a 21st Century RTS should look like.
  
  Generals is a truely 3D, so you can freely rotate the camera and zoom like you need to. The Scenario 
 is more mature than before. Instead of the Fictional GDI vs. NOD or the Historical Allies vs. Soviets 
 Scenarios, Generals focusses on a very delicate Scenario: USA vs. China vs. Arabic Terrorists. 
 The Graphics got a lot more realistic - whilist previous C&Cs had a sort of Comic-Style, Generals 
 looks a lot more serious. And it includes "real" cities with a lot of Buildings and People. If 
 you like this realistic touch or not is your decission - it definitely akes the game a lot more... 
 "Intense".
  
  Gameplay-Wise, the game also improved, but it is not a revolutionary change. You still get money 
 by farming something, this time Supply Stashes. You have additional Means of getting money (for 
 example by deploying "Drop zones" where Money will drop every few minutes) , but the whole game 
 just improved basically. Controls are very direct and easy, just as you expect.
  
  Story-wise, the game is definitely far behind Warcraft III. Generals has a nice story, but it is 
 not really catching you. I never felt the desire to play the game just because of the Story (like 
 i did in C&C 3: Tiberian Sun - i just played this game because of the Story) , but it is a nice 
 background for the fighting.
  
  In the End, Command & Conquer Generals definitely shows that the Series is not dead and it remains 
 a remarkable RTS. In my Opinion, it falls behind Blizzard's Warcraft III, but this is a decission 
 that depends on one's Point of view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolve3308
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  yea generals is an unbelievabaly fun game. it does have its flaws dont get me wrong. the map editor 
 was extremely difficult to use when u dont know what your doing, but that really doesnt affect 
 gameplay. another problem was if u get to many people on the screen (around 1000 or so) the game 
 will sometimes crash if not slow down big time, which is really annoying while playing online. 
 my last complaint about the game were the graphics. alot of them were good but the infantry graphics 
 were beyond bad!! how did they screw up with that?? other than that its the same fun as all the 
 other c&c games jus with new excitement and more control over the army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilemma_dood
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:55 pm PT
Review:  couldve used more building options and the different generals seemed sorta silly, shouldve had 
 ingame upgrades which would bend your speciality to airforce or troop or super weapon, and the 
 view was sorta of silly with the way it was tilted, but that seems to be the norm for RTS's nowadays, 
 i liked the different ways to beat the people which each kinds of general
  
  i havent tried the GLA yet because they make me feel dirty because they use underhanded tactics 
 using stealth or hijacking? i think not too sure, and im trying to make this as long as possible 
 well as short as possible because i cant think of too much if yah cant tell, most deffently a game 
 to buy if your computer can run it with great graphics and a lot of units on screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! It combines decent story with exellent graphics, effects and sound. The gameplay 
 has really improved over all C&C games -simply put, it is the best game of this series. You can 
 apply multipe different strategies with a simple goal to conquer your enemy (thanks also to a large 
 unit selection and variety) .
  Combat in this game is like in a war: massive explosion, lots of firefights, bullets buzzing left 
 and right, missiles flying all over - mad!
  As I`ve said, graphics are exelent - expect maybe the soldiers detail is little less good. Effects 
 are fantastic, expecially the effects of energy, toxic and flame weapons. 
  Sounds are mostly realistic, which is good. 
  The control system for units is also easy to use, 
 allowing you quicker responding to enemy attacks etc. Single player missions are also good, expect 
 maybe the size of a towns (they are relative very small) and there are not so much civilians. 
 But that is not so much important - the action will be present in all time, so you won`t probably 
 even bother yourself with that. 
  I recomend this game to everyone, who likes or is interested in RTS - you won`t be dissapointed.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfatmonkeys
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:25 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Generals is one of the best PC games Ive ever played. Its game play is awesome 
 and all of its online play is free. Sometimes though when your online it can have the problem with 
 firewalls, so if you get this game make sure that your firewall is turned off for this game. It 
 does star (****) out any bad words. It does not get repetitive, but thats just me. You can create 
 your own maps with world builder which comes on the CD all you have to do is install it. It gives 
 you a buddy list so if you meet someone you like to play with you can add them so you can chat 
 and play games with. But enough about online it has a really good single player mode, you can play 
 as either China which has Nuke as super weapon (sw) , or United States which has particle cannon 
 as sw, or GLA which is the terrorist group with Scud storm as sw. Which ever one you choose you 
 go on a mission base story kind of thing with different objectives. It starts off very basic teaching 
 you the different things. I would recommend this game it is an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squalcl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 12:38 am PT
Review:  Generals is certainly one of the best strategy games since the Red Alert series . The graphics 
 is certainly stunning, with very nice visuals and terrain designs. There are three factions: USA, 
 China, GLA. Single Player Campaigns are very well designed, but the story line really.... sucks. 
 Despite that, the missions are very fun and challenging, yet not lacking variety. There are many 
 units of distinct purposes and uses; each faction's units have their own uses, so one side won't 
 overpower the other easily. The General Promotion system is certainly one of the new and best features 
 of C&C. The abilities will help you to turn the tides of the battle, like using a 3rd level air 
 strike against a superweapon that is about to be deployed against you will save your butt. So the 
 battlefield of C&C Generals is really dynamic; the outcome is not clear until the last minutes. 
 Disappointly, there are no naval units; I was looking forward to the air craft carriers that RA2 
 had. Many features such as walls, base defense variety are absent from Generals, which is also 
 disappointing. The enemy AI is average, although on Brutal setting the enemies could be really 
 powerful, they'll just keep coming in a pattern. Once you are able to hold out against their repetitive 
 strategies, you'll be able to make a counter attack. Multiplayer online is better in this aspect. 
 Overall, Generals is a great game. It just has to improve the story, variety of some units/structures, 
 enemy AI, video narratives, and NAVY!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skater02468
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Every time command & conquer gets a sequel it does not much to improve on the allready good formula 
 that game brought with it trough the years, except for now. Command & conquer Generals is still 
 command & conquer but with new major uppgrade. Now you dont see the bas on the right as before 
 now there is a more blizzard aproach interface control and since starcraft did it well it does 
 not feel that bad about generals.
  
  The game pics up the 3 new sides, Usa, china and gla, Usa is focusing on high tech wapons while 
 the china focus more in numbers since china is well populated. Gla is a terrorist organisation 
 based on different networks and cells that operates throughaout the world. Generals is inspired 
 by todays middle east problems and will remind you of todays hard situation between middle east 
 and usa. But this game feels more like a game with toys rather than real war so no one needs to 
 take offense on this game. Everything is almost the same as in blizzards rts games, you can build 
 the buildings in almost every part of the map and expanding, generals is more intresting this way 
 and more fun that previous games in the command & conquer series.
  
  Command & conquer was allways known for those very good cinematics between the missions but many 
 fans will be dissapointed to see that they are gone and instead we have in game engine movies that 
 shows you how pretty generals graphics can get and they are also very nice done and the entire 
 engine is very good as well. The problem with those movies is that you can not skip them before 
 a mission begins so it is recommended to save every time a mission starts. There is also a skrimish 
 mode and multy player as well and they work as usual but sometimes i experienced problems with 
 lag on my system even if i have more than the game requires of your computer.
  
  Is generals a good game then?
  well, it is a bit mixed reactions, i wish thet the entire game 
 was more in development and make it more stable and balanced as well, as i played i felt that usa 
 was a bit to powerful, if i had about 8 aurora mombers, then i could do some serious damage do 
 my opponent and then finish him of with my ground troops. I also noticed that gla have some problems 
 as well, early in the game the workers could get wiped out by american humvees and that was a bit 
 irritating. Generals could have spent more time in the balancing area and balance is very important 
 to a rts game and compare it with blizzards starcraft, i dont thing generals is not quite there 
 yet but not to far away either.
  
  Command & conquer generals have the pontential to be a very good one but only if the developers 
 put more time and balance in the cooming patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloader_feni
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Every time command & conquer gets a sequel it does not much to improve on the allready good formula 
 that game brought with it trough the years, except for now. Command & conquer Generals is still 
 command & conquer but with new major uppgrade. Now you dont see the bas on the right as before 
 now there is a more blizzard aproach interface control and since starcraft did it well it does 
 not feel that bad about generals.
  
  The game pics up the 3 new sides, Usa, china and gla, Usa is focusing on high tech wapons while 
 the china focus more in numbers since china is well populated. Gla is a terrorist organisation 
 based on different networks and cells that operates throughaout the world. Generals is inspired 
 by todays middle east problems and will remind you of todays hard situation between middle east 
 and usa. But this game feels more like a game with toys rather than real war so no one needs to 
 take offense on this game. Everything is almost the same as in blizzards rts games, you can build 
 the buildings in almost every part of the map and expanding, generals is more intresting this way 
 and more fun that previous games in the command & conquer series.
  
  Command & conquer was allways known for those very good cinematics between the missions but many 
 fans will be dissapointed to see that they are gone and instead we have in game engine movies that 
 shows you how pretty generals graphics can get and they are also very nice done and the entire 
 engine is very good as well. The problem with those movies is that you can not skip them before 
 a mission begins so it is recommended to save every time a mission starts. There is also a skrimish 
 mode and multy player as well and they work as usual but sometimes i experienced problems with 
 lag on my system even if i have more than the game requires of your computer.
  
  Is generals a good game then?
  well, it is a bit mixed reactions, i wish thet the entire game 
 was more in development and make it more stable and balanced as well, as i played i felt that usa 
 was a bit to powerful, if i had about 8 aurora mombers, then i could do some serious damage do 
 my opponent and then finish him of with my ground troops. I also noticed that gla have some problems 
 as well, early in the game the workers could get wiped out by american humvees and that was a bit 
 irritating. Generals could have spent more time in the balancing area and balance is very important 
 to a rts game and compare it with blizzards starcraft, i dont thing generals is not quite there 
 yet but not to far away either.
  
  Command & conquer generals have the pontential to be a very good one but only if the developers 
 put more time and balance in the cooming patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWalrusBeast
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Overall, C&C Generals is a pretty good game. GLA terroist group is trying to take down the world's 
 2 superpowers (USA & China) . All three sides are pretty evenly matched. The USA dominates the air, 
 while China has superior armored vehicles/Tanks, the GLA excels using underhanded tactics such 
 as stealth and tunnel networks. The multiplayer is fun but it gets boring after a while because 
 it lacks custom games/scenarios like Warcraft III. The other downside is that the gameplay is not 
 very smooth. The units move pretty slow, thus its really hard to save your units when you are in 
 a losing fight and need to retreat. Overall, Generals is a good game but not the best RTS game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I had a really great time playing this game.
  
  Gameplay: You can build your own armys and then go and kick some butt. The armys are strong and 
 this game is very challenging.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. The armys look almost perfect and the areas are unbelivible.
  
  Sound: 
 You hear the same sound as in almost every strategy game so there isn't much diffence.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the army and coquer all the areas in the 
 game. Too bad that there isn't an online feature in this game.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is a really fun game and if you are a strategy fan then you 
 should go and check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Generals exists in a reality separate of all those C&Cs before it. This one 
 takes place in a reality much like our own with the big powers in the game being the US, China, 
 and the GLA (The Global Liberation Alliance) . Each of the separate powers has their own strengths 
 and weaknesses that must be identified and used the best of the advantage of the player to do well 
 in the multi-player and even the single player late in the game. If you are able to identify the 
 strengths and weaknesses of each of the powers you can exploit them to your advantage in order 
 to destroy your opponents with ease.
  
  The game will start off with the standard this is the basics missions for the first couple of hours 
 that you play. You will get the basic feel and as you move on you will get more advanced and powerful 
 units to battle those of the other factions. You will need the tactics that you will learn in the 
 end in order to beat each campaign in the most efficient manner that you can think of. This games 
 takes the standard real time battle that all of the predecessors used to go through the campaign. 
 Usually the last level is pretty straight forward and it is really a matter of straight forward 
 brute strength rather than just a few essential units or tactics being used all of the time.
  
  The game play is a pretty good part of the game. You will not end up spending much of your 
 time doing the single player campaigns on the fact that they are pretty short, somewhere around 
 8 or so missions. A bulk of the game play will be spent on the multi-player portion that comes 
 with the game. This game is perfect for LAN parties where you can get together with a bunch of 
 your friends and blow each other up. Of course the game comes with a skirmish mode where you can 
 battle against up to 7 computer controlled opponents. The skirmish mode will get a little boring 
 after a while because you will learn all of the little tricks that you need to beat the computer. 
 So the multi-player against other people over a LAN or the Internet is where it really shines. 
 I have recently just did the over the Internet multi-player and I was addicted to it for like several 
 weeks playing multiple hours per day for several days straight. For the most part if you are able 
 to get a big enough army of tanks or a big enough army of air units then you can't be touched. 
 Controlling the extra money making units makes things much easier later and can make your opponents 
 beg for mercy. Just be forewarned that these little cash machines will be fought over a lot and 
 it is usually pretty wise to put a pretty big defending force near them.
  
  The graphics in the game are probably the most prominent part of the game over its predecessors. 
 The graphics with which you play are pretty good and the explosions that happen are probably the 
 most spectacular that you will probably see out of a similar game. The only problem is that depending 
 on the system that you are running, when the battles get really intense with lots of units and 
 destruction, the game has a tendency to lock up and freeze for a little bit, which can get to be 
 bad in a lot of situations. Overall the graphics is a very good thing for this game.
  
  The sound in this game is probably one of the weakest parts of the game. During battles the cannons 
 and explosions sound pretty real, but the music that comes with the game is pretty weak. You kind 
 of just want to shut it off, but you really kind of need the sound to figure out about battles 
 that are going on and if you are getting attacked so it is kind of a lose, lose situation.
  
  The value of the game is pretty good if you are a person who has liked the previous C&Cs. 
 You will have to learn some different things to succeed in this universe. It is probably somewhere 
 around the reasonable range. I suggest trying to find some sort of a good deal and getting the 
 expansion pack, with it for a good price before you shell out more than 40 dollars for just the 
 original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taekwondokid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is my favorite strategy game. It is even 3D. You can use China, America or Iraq to kill 
 others. The only problem is there are only three teams as u c! They also has lots of different type 
 of trucks, people and other things to kill or blow up. The game goes very well specially in online. U 
 can have lots of fun in online. The game is also in right hard. However there are some cheaters in 
 online and they can cheat! This is new. I just played online like normal and he started to shot 
 me without anything. So this game is really good and fun. So i would say buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Generals was a pretty fun game which I enjoyed playing in my leaisure time. 
 It wasn't really that hard, but what I didn't like about the game had definately had to be the 
 side bar that they had elliminated. I felt that by elliminating that side bar they had destroyed 
 the entire image that command and conquer generals had to offer, or just the command and conquer 
 franchise as a whole. However the game play was pretty modern and could be considered as quit eenjoyable. 
 Although in my opinion they should add a lot more units into the game with different purposes because 
 a lot of the units that were in the game shared the same purpose which kind of made it a bit bland. 
 Overall it is a pretty good game, I hope that the expansion for the game would improve on all the 
 small mistakes that ther are in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easton-west
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 9, 2005 5:08 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing but with it's lack of a storyline (unlike other C&C games) you get the sense 
 that your just a tool for your country (or terrorist group) . Campaigns are short and pretty easy 
 and skirmishish leave you wonder what the AI is thinking. Worst is team skirmish were most of the 
 time you find yourself the only one left one your teams with 4 AI's bearing down on you within 
 five minutes of the game: and it's still easy to beat.
  
  Overall your better off playing with an intellegent person or persons. But the game is extremely 
 addictive. It is recommended not to use Generals aroung work, school girl/boyfriend, or anyother 
 area that you don't want to fail in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman888
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Thank goodness I borrowed this game from a friend instead of buying it. I had ill premonitions 
 as soon as I set eyes on the three faces on the box. The following review comes from a fan who 
 owns and has beaten repeatedly C&amp; C, C&amp; C2, RA, RA2, all their expansions, and Renegade.
 
  
  A better copy cat of Starcraft than Warcraft III: A story told from three sides, in non-mandatory 
 sequential order, is betrayal of the highest kind. I concede Starcraft (which I also own) used 
 this technique to tell an epic story. However, Starcraft contains three complicated factions with 
 intricate connections. The epic nature comes from Mengsk's inevitable evolution from revolutionary 
 to dictator, Kerrigan's painful mutation into the queen of blades, and Tassadar's unwavering loyalty 
 to the Protoss despite his respect for human life.
  
  On the other hand, whatever epic feel to Generals is destroyed by its three perspectives. The US's 
 motives are painful self-righteous. The GLA never once demonstrate just cause for their uprising. 
 Although I am Chinese, I must ask who really gives a **** about that side. Why then should I be 
 subjected to the goody-two-shoes American morality after I decided to beat the crap out of the 
 developed world as GLA? I never saw the GLA stray from committing terrorism in the name of freedom, 
 did any of you? For that matter, why should I bother with the Chinese in the first place? All other 
 C&amp; C games were epic struggles between two sides: one arrogantly good, the other deliciously 
 evil. From start to finish, we hardcore fans either wanted to save the free world or crush it either 
 in our scorpion claw or under our red banner. We traded Kane for some no namer in a turban and 
 Tanya Adams for some hacker? How pitiful.
  
  A smaller point. The tunnel network used by the GLA was used long ago by Zerg overminds. At least 
 the Zerg had the decency to build only on Creep.
  
  A PLUS: the copying of Starcraft (and Warcraft) interface is an improvement since the original 
 C&amp; C sidebar was not very flexible, though easy to use.
  
  Thoroughly unrealistic background:
  
  Obvious GI Joe is no where near as interesting as Protoss 
 Zealots. Hell, the designer couldn't muster the imagination to make a realistic terrorist faction. 
 If any terrorist organisation dared to build a base in plain sight, even if that organisation is 
 the size of Iraq or Afghanistan, our B-2 would be happy to bomb everything in the surrounding terrain 
 into Lake Freedom. Furthermore, the idea that Middle Eastern terrorists can go into China undetected 
 and be so clever as to smuggle a nuclear warhead into Beijing under the nose of ten thousand Chinese 
 secret police (who make sure not even Chinese citizens can go on the street unobserved before every 
 parade) is ludicrous. A game based on the strategies of Al Qada in Iraq (God forbid) would be much 
 more realistic and innovative game.
  
  Novelty in gameplay:
  
  General points -- truly the shining star of new features; I personally have been waiting for rewards.
 
  Secondary source of money -- black market, hacking, supply drop, kudos.
  Upgrades -- not original but certainly adds depth to unit strategy.
  Propaganda -- both clever and 
 surprisingly realistic for the Chinese.
  
  That is about the extend of new ideas in Generals. Every other unit or structure has been done 
 in a previous game. (I would be happy to answer which.) Though I confess there are only so many 
 designs for a tank. Jarmen Kell is a rip off from Battlezone, but he is just too damn fun to pass 
 up.
  
  Really good quality:
  
  Like I said, the engine is great for eye candy.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  For non C&amp; C fans, I highly recommend this game (also RA2) both are wicked 
 fun that's easy to get into. From a real fan's perspective, the entry strays too far from its roots, 
 making it a decent RTS that does little another game has not already done better.
  
  I gave value a five because it is quite a good deal for the casual player but largely a disappointment 
 for series fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 5, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome cap on the Command and Conquer series. The move from somewhat 3-D real time 
 strategy to 3-D was a good step for the series. The more realistic weapons and such gave the game 
 a whole different feel. I think it was a step in the right direction. What I didn't like about 
 the game was lack of detail in the troops and people. I think they could have done a better job 
 with detailing the people a little bit. The guns the toted around looked almost bigger than they 
 were. But other than that, the game is f-ing sweet, coming from a hard-core C&C fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the latest title in the Command and Conquer series and has a lot to live up to after games 
 such as Red Alert 2 were a resounding success. There are no ridiculous stories this time around, 
 no time-travelling heroics or crazy blimp missions. Infact the Story Mode at times offers players 
 the chance to play through missions that are every bit realistic and reflect modern day warfare 
 perfectly. Story Mode can keep you entertained for a couple of hours and introduces you to many 
 of the units the game has to offer.
  
  The main focus of Generals are the three armies featured in the game, each with a distinctive look 
 and feel. USA, China, and GLA (Global Liberation Army) which can basically be called "The Middle 
 East". The United States has powerful and expensive units on board, including well-armed infantry 
 and vehicles that can heal themselves. Their superior intelligence capabilities and flexible air 
 force allow them to strike quickly anywhere on the map. China, on the other hand, excels at amassing 
 hordes of cheap units and improving their capabilities with bonuses. They have computer hackers 
 who can steal money or quickly subvert enemy buildings and units. Eventually, China can bring to 
 bear monster tanks and fearsome napalm weaponry. The GLA is perhaps the most interesting side, 
 partly for the inappropriate subject matter. There are elements of the GLA that clearly reflect 
 recent events. You can use terrorists with car bombs and truck bombs, suicide bombers with explosives 
 strapped to their bodies, anthrax and biotoxin weaponary, units hiding out in tunnels and caves, 
 and angry mobs of Arabs wielding AK-47s. That isn't the only reason GLA are so interesting, however 
 the gameplay mechanics for this side are the most radical of the three. They require a certain 
 amount of stealth and patience and just a little more skill than the others to keep under control 
 but once mastered can turn out to be the most deadly army of all. They can salvage destroyed enemies 
 for money and upgrades. they have no airpower and no radar unfortunaely but their tunnels and camouflage 
 allow them the opportunity to mount devastating surprise attacks. Rather than employing expensive 
 resource-gathering trucks (China) or helicopters (the U. S.) , they have swarms of workers who double 
 as construction units. I personally think all three sides are well balanced and well thought out, 
 each having their own strengths and weaknesses. There are literally hundreds of ways to play this 
 game with each army and this adds huge lifespan to a somewhat unfulfilling Story Mode.
  
  Each general has what's known as a branching tech tree and this holds many special bonuses and 
 abilities that can be purchased as you gain experience through a battle. This adds a new element 
 to the game and can really turn the tide of a battle if they're used effectively. For instance, 
 you can use your points early to give your units experience and mount an early attack for vital 
 areas in the map. Alternatively you could save your points and put them into a powerful airstrike 
 ability later on, which can totally destroy anything on the map within a certain range.
  
  People who are familiar with Westwood's earlier real-time strategy games will probably understand 
 the inerface fairly well by now and have no trouble creating an army for any occasion, however 
 a few additions to the interface would have been nice this time around. There are still a lack 
 of hotkeys, group selections and auto-formations that would have really made the game easier to 
 control and a lot less frustrating. The AI doesn't really help you either, half the challenge will 
 be micromanaging your units to do what you tell them to, it can be anything from stopping your 
 men from walking through a large cloud of anthrax or telling them to shoot when getting shot from 
 behind. This is were practise really helps because a lot of battles can be won by simply juggling 
 the interface and micromanaging your units quicker than your opponent.
  
  The sound in this game works well, the heroic soundtrack tends to build when in the heat of battle 
 and can really create emotion, the sound-bytes can also add somewhat of a comedic element with 
 quirky comments, catchphrases and inventive war-cries. That's if you pay attention to the sound 
 at all, this game can look beautiful on a top-end machine and can boast some pretty great visuals, 
 however the average gamer will probably find themselves suffering from slowdown in large battle 
 due to the games demanding engine. The artwork for some of the units included in this game are 
 pretty jaw-dropping, you really will appreciate the effort the game designers have gone to. The 
 animations are sharp too, from the trees swaying gently in the breeze to the smoke effects emitting 
 from the chimneys of your many power plants, even the way soldiers get shot looks great and all 
 this adds up to some pretty nice eye-candy. The only downside to all this is the lack of graphical 
 settings players have, lower-end computers may find themselves with considerable slowdown.
  
  The Story Mode isn't the focus this time around and this isn't a bad thing either, they have 
 really made the main focus of this game the Skirmish Mode. You can play against the computer, a 
 networked game with friends or even venture online and face some tough opponents. You may find 
 yourself experiencing erratic problems if you do decide to network your computers together and 
 play with friends unfortunately, for a game that is so focused on it's multiplayer aspect i was 
 kind of hoping it would be a little more user-friendly. The biggest problems will probably come 
 if you decide to play through a router and renders the "direct connect" feature pretty useless. 
 If you do manage to get it working that is where the fun can really start, the highly addictive 
 gameplay and your thirst for victory could have you playing for hours and hours on end. 
  
  Make no mistake about it, this game does have it's flaws but it's clever design, great visuals 
 and addictive play make it all worth while. There is something about this game that brings out 
 your inner-child, controlling your own army of planes, blowing buildings up with nuclear weaponary 
 or just taking out tanks with your infantry units really is fulfilling and very enjoyable. The 
 amount of units, upgrades, abilities and tactical awareness this game has makes it one of the best 
 real-time strategy games around and honours the Command and Conquer name.
  
  Gameplay - Three very unique armies with many units, upgrades and abilities that make the gameplay 
 challenging yet fun.
  
  Graphics - Great visuals, oozes polygons from every inch of the game. Lower-spec computer may suffer 
 from slowdown in large battles.
  
  Sound - Great use of sound-clips and an epic soundtrack provides added entertainment.
  
  Value 
 - Story Mode is good but the real treat is Skirmish Mode. Many medals to acheive against computer 
 opponents here and some of the best multiplayer gameplay around wether you decide to play against 
 friends or online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lithuindian
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Review on Command & Conquer Generals
  By Gaudrimas Matulionis
  
  Command & Conquer: Generals in an extremely well done real time strategy game. Created by EA, with 
 an interesting campaign, great skirmish mode, and multiplayer games that let up to 8 players join, 
 Command & Conquer: Generals is truly a superior game to most of the other strategy games out there.
 
  
  As you might know, Command & Conquer is a very old series. The whole point of the game is to well, 
 Command & Conquer your enemy. Every player constructs a base and creates infantry, tanks, vehicles, 
 airplanes, helicopters, and Super weapons. You create these things by constructing structures such 
 as barracks (infantry) , war factories (vehicles) , and airports (air force) . In the old versions, 
 you can also create naval yards, but Command & Conquer: Generals makes that departure. 
  
  In the old Command & Conquer games, it would be Allies fighting the Soviets. In Generals, USA and 
 China are becoming allies to fight off the GLA (Global Liberation Army) a terrorist group that 
 wants to liberate the world. GLA is very efficient, but has really not much technology, so they 
 rely on toxins, stealth, and bombs. Their super weapon is the Scud Storm, which are 8 missiles 
 full of anthrax.
  USA has state-of-the-art units. Their hardware is very expensive, but very powerful. They also 
 rely on air, which is very useful and makes USA unique. The opposing factions have no such air 
 power. USA uses lasers, airplanes, and their superior technology to survive. USAs super weapon 
 is the Particle Uplink Cannon, which is basically a large laser that fires upon the enemys base.
 
  China is a slow, but very powerful army. They make the biggest, but slowest units. China attacks 
 in very large groups. If you get 5 units together (they must support horde bonus) they gain a Horde 
 Bonus which is very effective in battle. China also loves fire and nukes. Many of their units are 
 based on those things. Chinas super weapon is the Nuclear Missile.
  
  For organization purposes, each category of concern will be listed as follows:
  
  Graphics: 
 9/10 Command & Conquer Generals has great graphics. The vehicles look great, the buildings look 
 great, the environment of the whole game is great, and the particles look great. However, there 
 is one graphics problem, the infantry. Compared to all the vehicles, the infantry looks like it 
 was run of the saw mill. In other words, the infantry looks horrible. The infantry design is based 
 that you can tell that it is a person, nothing else. No expression, cartoon-like uniforms, and 
 primitive looking guns. You can even see this more with the games zoom-in feature. 
  Apart from the negatives, the game has a zoom-in feature and a way to turn the camera in the 3D 
 environment. This game, graphics-wise, is much more superior to any other Command & Conquer game 
 created.
  
  Please note that such a good engine will need a powerful machine. Always check the system requirements 
 before you purchase any game.
  
  Sound: 8/10 Along with graphics, this game also has very good sound effects. Each unit says something 
 unique that indirectly tells you what the unit is when you click on it. When you scroll over different 
 areas of the map, you will hear different sound effects. For example, when you are looking over 
 a town, you will hear people chatting. When you look over a forest area, you will hear birds chirping. 
 However, this game doesnt seem to have that great of music. Command & Conquer: Generals just has 
 an intro soundtrack which is also the menu screen soundtrack. Each faction has two different soundtracks. 
 Seven tracks in total. The music would be interesting for maybe three days of playing, but after 
 that, I just turned the game music off and played music from the media player while I was playing 
 the game.
  
  Game play: 8/10 Game play is critical in a game like this. Every unit does what it is supposed 
 to do 9/10 times. Sometimes the unit goes around buildings and turns in weird ways that are very 
 unnecessary. I also notice that when my units are going over a bridge that is over water, sometimes 
 the game completely ignores that there is a bridge and the units go through it.
  The campaign missions really dont suit you up for online play. If you have played just the campaign 
 and no skirmish, you are far from being good at the game. I think the campaign missions are meant 
 for familiarization of units. 
  Keep in mind that really the game is all about skirmish mode. That is the mode you will have most 
 fun in. Skirmish is all about rushing and destroying your enemy as quickly as possible. Of course, 
 you can turtle, which means to make many defenses as possible first, and then destroy your enemy 
 with a huge force. Of course, if your enemy is smart, he will destroy you before you can even make 
 an attack.
  
  Multiplayer: 4/10 The multiplayer to this game is very fun, with a Quickmatch, which gets you playing 
 right away, and a Custom Match, where you join games that other people make, or you create a game 
 for other people to play in. The game will keep track of your wins/losses and will give you ranks 
 depending on how many wins you have. Also there are things called 'battle honors' which are medals 
 that you get for achieving certain goals in multiplay. However, not many people go online at once 
 and there are a lot of people who LAG. Sometimes you will have to just quit because there is so 
 much. Keep in mind, crashes are frequent.
  
  People are pretty impolite too. They swear, and some of them insult people for no reason. It's 
 okay, just ignore them.
  
  Overall, Command & Conquer: Generals is a great RTS game. You will have a lot of fun playing online, 
 despite all of EA's flaws, and even if you don't play online, the skirmish mode will keep you busy.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morgoth18
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  command and conqueror generals is the game that got me and my friends hooked on the generals series. 
 after this game came out i wanted the next generals to come out. this one was good, but the expansion 
 pac is a lot better. but as this one was out, i was hooked. eventhough the super weapons were set 
 up wierd, i still liked it. eventhough it was a pain in the ass to click on each thing individually. 
 i still remember when it first came out. my friend and i would bring our computers over each others 
 houses and link them together and get a great lan game. then his brother also got the game and 
 we had a three person lan goin, and then through the months it grew up to about four to five people. 
 those were the days of yelling at each other because someone did something stupid. mostly my one 
 friend who would constiently nuke his own team. but it was a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samir_otiv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 4:40 am PT
Review:  It is a really nice game. I have played CNC Red Alert 2 before and this is a better game. The most 
 interesting part is the upgrades for units, General's Promotions, Experience Level and Unit Strengths 
 and Weaknesses. You have to have a mix of units because one gun does not shoot all. I mean that 
 some units are good at shooting air units whereas some shoot ground ground units better. I took 
 about 45 minutes to learn and get used to it. Maybe because I was too used to playing Red Alert 
 2. It is definitely worth playing. It requires logic and tactics. It is an awesome game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 777rak
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 20, 2005 3:24 am PT
Review:  This is the first pc game I got into and enjoyed it. I love war/strategy games. If you are a war 
 game fan this game is for you. You will love it. It's almost modern war fare. Playing this game 
 online is very fun. EA made this game very well. This game has units like: tanks, aircraft, fire 
 tanks and a bunch of other neat stuff. There are even invisible units. And super weapons. Skirmish 
 is very cool. I give this game 2 thumbs way up!! AI in the campaign mode is very smart. This right 
 now is the best war game I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarnivaleClown
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 17, 2005 7:20 am PT
Review:  Generals has all the eye candy needed for a good looking game, but lacks in C&C style. At first 
 glance you will notice the face lift. Graphics are crisp and clean with smooth animations. The 
 first couple of missions is pretty fun and has a good feel to it. Then... you realize, "where the 
 hell is the C&C?"
  
  There is no storyline. What!? That's right. No story and no great cinematics. Yes, I know the old 
 ones weren't "great," but it was great just having them in the game. In place of these full-motion 
 movies they threw in, in-game cinematics. Sure it is a great addition, but it's not really an addition 
 when it is the only thing in the game other than a load screen that tells you the objectives. This 
 game feels like it was being designed in one direction and then the completion date was brought 
 back 3 months. Also lacking in the C&C department is the fact that buildings can be built anywhere. 
 What happened to the good ol' days of building up a great base and then very sneakily building 
 a Mobile Construction Vehicle and building a whole other base. Now you can just build anything 
 anywhere and it just loses the classicness. 
  
  Nonetheless, it is a extremely fun game to play with a wide variety of units. It keeps the great 
 faction unit diversity. "The Terrorists" (Yep, thats what the named them) actually have suicide 
 bombers and cars rigged with explosives. There is one thing that the game is missing in units -- 
 the great navy. There are aircraft carriers, but that's about it. Now the game is probably only 
 $20 and $30 with the expansion pack (Zero Hour) . You and I both know though that single player 
 wasnt the big thing about the C&C RTS games after Red Alert. Skirmish, introduced in Red Alert 
 was the highlight of buying the game and then playing it online against your friend and buddies 
 with that great 14.4kbs modem you had rocking in your computer. Skirmish is the same today except 
 instead of the modem dialing you just load up GameSpy and look through the hundreds of names waiting 
 to start a game. 
  
  While the game lacks in C&C feel it is still great looking and feeling RTS. The only thing that 
 knocks this game to the ground is the lack of single player features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in Generals is simply superb compared to other 2-Dimentional strategy games. This 
 is in full 3-D and you can rotate the camera and zoom in and of course out. 
  
  The music is simply brilliant. The tunes given to the United States are extremely good and makes 
 you feel like you're in an american movie. The sound effects are also great and sounds very realistic. 
 
  
  The gameplay is very good and controlling generals gives you new opertunities. The super weapons 
 are greater than ever and the atomic bomb looks better than ever. Generals is very impressive and 
 is much better than all of the other new strategy game. 
  
  + 
  Great music and sound effects. A lot of new features when controlling generals. 3 totally different 
 teams each with their own special abilities and super weapons. 
  
  - 
  The compaign is pretty bad, cause there is no unlockables or other exciting stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cauldar1971
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 6, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert rocked. There was no two ways about it. When Westwood Studios re-worked the lame Command 
 and Conquer universe and tweaked the game engine just right, they put together an ideal mix of 
 cartoon-plausible units and an outrageously-fun narrative. Red Alert II took the series to another 
 level without abandoning the classic by adding better graphics, and the simple-yet-brilliant feature 
 of garrisons. Even with all their success, I was wary when they announced that this one was on 
 the way. A new graphics engine has ruined many games and frankly, the U. S. A. vs Soviet Union storyline 
 was getting a little ripe.
  
  Well, I was half right. The story of this game is lame. Adding terrorists to the mix doesn't help, 
 folks. Forget the story. The story is an excuse for cool looking maps. Enjoy the maps. This game, 
 is all about explosions and ridiculous units. The great thing about the Red Alert series, has been 
 its ability to strike a perfect balance between plausible and cartoony and this game has kept the 
 tradition alive. RA: Generals knows what it is and pulls out all the stops to make this game sing. 
 After playing the single player game, there are still loads of single-player maps and some fantastic 
 General Challenges to eat your evenings and further-erode your social skills.
  
  Anyone who's ever played a real-time strategy game will be able to learn this in no time. The balance 
 is good and has gotten better with subsequent patches. Newer systems (2003 and on) should be able 
 to easily handle the engine. Although it doesn't look as pretty as the next gen fare, don't let 
 that hold you back. The Deluxe Edition is finally at an affordable price and worth picking up now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadafeig
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 2, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  The Command and Conquer series may be the most well known of all the RTS series, with its stunning 
 C&C Red Alert it has had a following ever since. The question is though can C&C Generals live up 
 to its name?
  
  To start the single player is a bit different than previous C&C games because it doesn't really 
 tell a story, but thats ok because the game is mostly about the action and it does real well at 
 that. The missions are fairly varied also, but the main problem I have with it is that the AI just 
 isn't very responsive or attentive of their forces in the campaign. You just don't get much of 
 a satisfaction when you know the AI wasn't at there best. Overall though the Campaign is pretty 
 good with varied missions and unique looks to environments. The skirmish mode of the game is fun 
 but just isn't where it should be. The biggest problem is easily the imbalances of the game. If 
 your the USA and your facing the GLA and they get one or two stinger sites your planes are almost 
 useless, and since the U. S. A. is dependent on their planes this puts you at a real disadvantage. 
 This and other imbalances really hurt the game. The funny thing is though is that the AI in skirmish 
 just seems to know what your building and alway has its counter. Another problem I have is that 
 unlike the campaign the environments just are not as unique. 
  
  Things are a little better in multiplayer because most people don't cheat unlike the AI in skirmish. 
 The game also creates and tracks unique stats, and I also didn't experience much lag when I played 
 the game. The games technical side is good with nice looking graphics that help make easier disinctions 
 between units and it creates a better since of uniqueness to each side. The sound is solid with 
 units saying a couple of things and battles sounding pretty good.
  
  All in all Command and Conquer Generals may not be as revolutionary as its illustrious predecessors 
 but thats no reason why you shouldn't give this game a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome. That's all there is to it. Command and Conquer Generals was build by EA, the 
 same company which made such classic RTS games like Command and Conquer and Red Alert. Generals 
 is not, however, a continuation of any of those games. Generals is its own universe set up by the 
 game designer's. You won't see any appearances from known characters, except the USA comms officer 
 is named Lieutenant Eva *cough* red alert 2 *cough*. Generals takes place in a futuristic world 
 where three sides are pitted against each other. The USA is highly advanced technologically and 
 has a superior air force, yet is very expensive to maintain. (Similar to Red Alert 2) . China is 
 the brute force faction with powerful tanks and soldiers. (Like the Soviets in Red Alert 2. They 
 also get the nuke.) Finally, there is a unique faction known as the Global Liberation Army, or 
 GLA. The GLA is a terrorist faction that uses unique hit-and-run tactics. Their units are designed 
 to strike fast, then run as they can't take much of a beating from much more highly advanced units 
 from the USA or China. They also use a lot of bio-weapons, such as the SCUD storm. The campaign 
 in Generals is a linear story. It begins with the Chinese military on parade, when the GLA attacks 
 and uses a nuke to level a city block. The Chinese strike back in full force and over the coarse 
 of the campaign, drive the GLA from their lands. Next, in the GLA campaign, you take on the role 
 of a General attempting to re-assert the GLA by performing quite evil deeds such as raiding villages 
 and stealing supplies from the U. N. When the GLA set of a nuke in China, it brings the USA into 
 the game. Across the USA campaign, you must help the Chinese finally eliminate the GLA threat. 
 While the campaign is entertaining, C&C fans might be disappointed at the fact that the game has 
 almost no story what-so-ever. Their are a few elements tieing the plots together, but other then 
 that, nothing really unexpected or plot-driven happens. There are also no cinematics in Generals 
 (a big departure since all previous C&C games used live actors in their cinematics) . The trademark 
 C&C sidebar is also gone, giving way to a conventional interface used in games like Blizzard's 
 Warcraft III. The graphics in Generals are quite good, but for most computers may have to be toned 
 down to allow for faster and smoother gameplay. All-in-all, Generals adds to a long lineage of 
 games stemming from the original Command and Conquer and should definitely be picked up by any 
 fan of C&C or of RTS in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nafe
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 27, 2005 2:38 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain what it is, and that is GRAPHICS. The game itself is BORING. Their is absolutely 
 no story line at all in the game, except "Let's take 3 super powers and make them against each 
 other. Of course how appropriate let's put in Terrorists so people can buy our game and we.. EA... make 
 a profit." I am sick of companies being obsessed with profit and graphics. IT DOESN'T MAKE A GAME. 
 This game is A TERRIBLE EDITION since Tiberian Sun. Since something has amazing graphics does not 
 make an amazing game, and oh wow! The nuke and Ion cannon is back WHAT A CLASSIC. SO WHAT. Nothing 
 will ever beat the storylines of Red Alert 1, and Tiberian Dawn. I have yet to see a satisfying 
 Command & Conquer since those two. Ever since westwood was disbanded, the games have been terrible. 
 Along with Red Alert 2 who of course had the most corny actors and of course a worse storyline. 
 Generals falls right into that category. Now EA is saying they are going to make ANOTHER C&C oh 
 yeah! Now what? Red Alert 3. Why must we keep beating a dead horse, can we actually know what happens 
 AFTER Tiberian Sun, instead of knowing what is before? Generals what just plain ridiculous. "Let's 
 all make a C&C they completely DEFERS from the original C&C storyline. I couldn't figure out where 
 this terrible and most dis-satisfying game took place. Good luck EA with Red Alert 3, I am dreading 
 when it comes out. "We are going to make MONEY YAY!!! Just because it has Command & Conquer in 
 the title!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark123321
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2005 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer games have been out for many years, and they have all been better than the 
 last. Command and Conquer: Generals is no exception, and has come back with a huge list of missions 
 and new items/vehicles. Combined with great graphics and a multiplayer function that will probably 
 never end, this is one of the best command and conquer games out now!
  
  Gameplay - 9 / 10
  The gameplay in Command and Conquer is pretty good. It has quite a lot of 
 missions that will keep you busy for hours on end. But one of the best features of this game that 
 stand out, is the multplayer function. Playing the game on multiplayer via the internet will increase 
 the gameplay for many more hours, and will keep you wanting more! There are loads of new vehicles 
 and maps, you will be playing this game for a while before you finish!
  
  Graphics - 10 / 10
  The graphics are like no other command and conquer game! Each individual 
 vehicle/weapon looks amazingly real, and the special effects in the game add more realistic features! 
 Before you start each mission, you get a little cut scene using the ingame graphics, and it's fantastic! 
 The graphics quality doesnt change when playing multiplayer!
  
  Sound - 9 / 10
  The sound in the game is pretty close to the real thing! Each move the play makes, is added with 
 amazing sound. Every bone crunch, every type mark, and every explosion is met by the in game sound 
 with precision, and it makes the whole game enviroment look and sound a whole lot better than many 
 of the other command and conquer games!
  
  Value - 9 / 10
  The value for the game is amazing! It was let out to the public in 2003, now its 2005 I bet you 
 could get this game a little bit cheaper and it gives hours on end of gameplay!
  
  Overall - 8.9 / 10 ( Great )
  Overall this game rocks, and I recommend it to people that have 
 played any of the other command and conquer games, and most importantly people who love war real 
 time stragies!
  
  Thanks for reading,
  
  Marky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rawoo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the CnC series for a long time. I would have to agree that Generals is possibly 
 the best CnC game so far. Generals takes quite a different approach compare to the previous CnC 
 games. The previous games had video cut scenes with real actors and had a story driven singleplayer 
 campaign. But in Generals, cut scenes are done by the game engine which IMO looks pretty good, 
 and there isnt much story telling. I cant say that it is bad, because it isnt. It may sound bad 
 for an CnC game, but in the process of playing the game I found out that the singleplayer campaign 
 is actually pretty addictive. IMO it's mainly due to the extremely well done gameplay and the balance 
 of the three sides. You never get the feeling that one side is too strong or too weak. The missions 
 arent too hard at normal level. Some levels are pretty challenging but never impossible. It gets 
 quite intense at times especially when the enemy has a scud launcher and the timer is ticking, 
 but in the end good strategy pays off. You will have situations like in the movie "Black Hawk down", 
 when you send a couple of your attack choppers to an urban area to clear it out, and suddenly missiles 
 come out of nowhere and one of your choppers is down and you have to rescue the pilot. One of the 
 other feature I really like is the ranking feature for individual units. It means that when an 
 unit kills a certain amount of enemies, this unit will then gain a higher rank which will make 
 the unit more effective, so when a veteran pilot gets shot down, it's actually very rewarding for 
 you to try to rescue him. There is also a feature for the player to gain special units or extra 
 services from somewhere off-map when the player achieves a higher rank as the commander of his 
 force. You gain experience points by destroying enemy units and buildings, when the experience 
 point bar is full then you've gained a higher rank as a commander. This feature is quite rewarding 
 and it encourages you to go out and attack your enemies. Some of the special service is pretty 
 cool, such as the US EMP bomb which is dropped by a b-52 bomber from somewhere off-map. It powers 
 down all buildings in a radius making it a really good weapon for disabling your enemy's defence 
 before your attack. There are so many other good gameplay features in Generals which I wont mention 
 here. 
  Talk about graphics in Generals. It really blew me away. I can hardly describe it by words, you 
 will just have to see it to believe it. I especially like the animations of the units and the special 
 effects like the explosion.
  Sound of the game. Again it's almost perfect. I have a pretty good speaker system. At the end of 
 the GLA campaign, I could feel my whole table shaking when watching the cut scene for launching 
 of the nuclear missile, it's really an amazing experience. 
  The value of the game is excellent. There is skirmish mode and multiplayer mode with fair amount 
 of maps. 
  Overall I really like this game and would recommend it to any RTS fans or CnC fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwdrums36
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2005 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Being a long time C&C fan I was a little skeptical if this game might be the one that finally ruined 
 the series. However, I'm happy to say that it didn't. In fact I think Generals is the best game 
 of the bunch. 
  
  Graphics: A great upgrade from the others obviously, but pretty good for an overhead RTS control 
 format. Can get a bit laggy if your on the higher Res graphics online.
  
  Sound: Irritating music as always but that's alright...
  
  Gameplay: Good as usualy. While 
 the whole RTS genre hasn't seen a breakthrough element in a real long time it's still nice to see 
 an old franchise that still works to its potential and name. Still sort of lacks a single player 
 game...
  
  Value: OVerall if you like all the other C&C games you'll like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timintheflesh
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 25, 2005 4:00 am PT
Review:  This game could been much more graphic wise and gameplay wise. If you would take a look at the 
 first movies posted here on gamespot, and then take a look at the latest movie, you can see a difference 
 in graphics. EA cut back on this games graphics on the last minute. About 1 week before release, 
 this game was downgraded, from great to, well, not as great. Generals Graphics could of lasted 
 for at least 2 years, but sence they where downgraded, I dont even think that the graphics where 
 presentable in 2001, rather then 2003. This game is still pretty addicting, but it still lacks 
 what red alert had. If EA had kept the game they had in the beginning of this whole mess, it would 
 of been great. Not only the Graphics where downgraded, but EA made the vehicles weaker. Example: 
 In The first version of Generals, it took about 4 tank shells to destroy another tank. The Downgraded 
 version takes about 20 tank shells to destroy a other tank. Why did EA do this? We may never know. 
 This Is a ok game, and any die hard Command And Conquer Fan should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  It brings many new things to C&C games, like the ability to rotate and zoom the screen, which adds 
 a lot to the game play. Another new thing that has been added is that now air-to-air combat is 
 possible, which is another first in C&C history. What I am trying to say is this game brings a 
 lot of new things to the C&C world, but not the RTS world in general. But none-the-less it is still 
 a great game! 
  
  The game play is yet another really strong point for this game. From what I see the missions are 
 pretty good, they are sometimes a bit out of line, but still good. The missions for me are not 
 the big thing when buying an RTS game, when I buy one I look for Skirmish Mode, and Multiplayer 
 Mode. The reason being is because I have just never liked missions because it seems you can never 
 build exactly what you need to get the mission done. The skirmish mode is good on this game because 
 of the fact you can eventually build all of your teams structures, and all their units. And before 
 you even start the mission you can begin changing things around, like where people start, what 
 teams everyone is, and the like. There is also a multiplayer mode, which I think everyone likes, 
 and as far as I know it is the same as Red Alert 2 Yuri's Revenge, only it looks different. Still 
 I was reading through the manual and it looks like they have a different scoring system in place. 
 Like instead of getting a point, or points, when you win you get points for being in the game, 
 and being alive. I think it is so many points per hour you are alive and in play 
  
  The graphics are really well done, and are in 3D as you might have guess, the best thing about 
 them is the fact they are in 3D and you can rotate and look at every last possible angle of a single 
 tank. The tank and troop models are very nice, especially if you are zoomed in all the way, and 
 even when you are not they are something you can marvel at. The buildings are pretty much the same 
 deal as the tanks and troops; they look good even when not zoomed in. And overall it looks like 
 all those delays paid off in terms of the models. The thing I like most about this game graphically 
 is the explosions! They have changed a lot from Yuri's Revenge, and now the tanks actually have 
 "form" when they explode. For example when a tanks blows up instead of just having little cubes 
 fly around as debris you can actually see the parts of the tank "separate" from the tank and fly 
 through the air. 
  
  The sound is another very nice thing this game has, while it doesn't bring anything new to the 
 RTS, or maybe the C&C series, it is still nice. Well for one the tanks sound a lot more real, and 
 they all almost have their own distinct sound. They even added in the engine sound of the tanks 
 and vehicles, so if you get a big army going your enemy might hear it before they can see it! Another 
 big thing for me was the choice of music; I hate playing a RTS game without good music. And I must 
 say, they hit this one on the head! The music matches the game like nothing else, and I recommend 
 if you like good RTS music to play as the USA first, as the other two teams (GLA and China) may 
 not have that good of music, but it is still good none-the-less. 
  
  Overall this is a very great game, and I recommend it to any RTS fan, and especially any C&C fan. 
 And I am sure anyone will like the new things that have come to the C&C World! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2005 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Generals exists in a reality separate of all those C&Cs before it. This one 
 takes place in a reality much like our own with the big powers in the game being the US, China, 
 and the GLA (The Global Liberation Alliance) . Each of the separate powers has their own strengths 
 and weaknesses that must be identified and used the best of the advantage of the player to do well 
 in the multiplayer and even the single player late in the game. 
  
  The game will start off with the standard this is the basics missions for the first couple of hours 
 that you play. You will get the basic feel and as you move on you will get more advanced and powerful 
 units to battle those of the other factions. You will need the tactics that you will learn in the 
 end in order to beat each campaign in the most efficient manner that you can think of. This games 
 takes the standard real time battle that all of the predecessors used to go through the campaign. 
 
  
  The game play is a pretty good part of the game. You will not end up spending much of your time 
 doing the single player campaigns on the fact that they are pretty short, somewhere around 8 or 
 so missions. A bulk of the game play will be spent on the multiplayer portion that comes with the 
 game. This game is perfect for LAN parties where you can get together with a bunch of your friends 
 and blow each other up. Of course the game comes with a skirmish mode where you can battle against 
 up to 7 computer controlled opponents. The skirmish mode will get a little boring after a while 
 because you will learn all of the little tricks that you need to beat the computer. So the multiplayer 
 against other people over a LAN or the internet is where it really shines. 
  
  The graphics in the game are probably the most prominent part of the game over its predecessors. 
 The graphics with which you play are pretty good and the explosions that happen are probably the 
 most spectacular that you will probably see out of a similar game. The only problem is that depending 
 on the system that you are running, when the battles get really intense with lots of units and 
 destruction, the game has a tendency to lock up and freeze for a little bit, which can get to be 
 bad in a lot of situations. Overall the graphics is a very good thing for this game.
  
  The sound in this game is probably one of the weakest parts of the game. During battles the cannons 
 and explosions sound pretty real, but the music that comes with the game is pretty weak. You kind 
 of just want to shut it off, but you really kind of need the sound to figure out about battles 
 that are going on and if you are getting attacked so it is kind of a lose, lose situation.
  
  The value of the game is pretty good if you are a person who has liked the previous C&Cs. 
 You will have to learn some different things to succeed in this universe. It is probably somewhere 
 around the reasonable range. I suggest trying to find some sort of a good deal and getting the 
 expansion pack, with it for a good price before you shell out more than 40 dollars for just the 
 original game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireball91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2005 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Command and conquer generals is by far the best in the series and one of the best RTS games. It 
 is a simple modern war strategy game online or off.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is amazing, simple but in a good way. It is good A. I and its fun doing skirmish's 
 against computer controlled players.
  There is a varity of different troops and vechles to create and loads of upgrades to make them 
 better.
  
  Graphics: Overall graphics are fairly good, the first C & C game in 3D (i think) . But by todays 
 standard there pretty crud. Tanks are brilliant and so is the terrain but buildings are kind of 
 blurry and troops dont look real at all and rairly look like the pictures on the side of them. 
 One good point about the explosions is they are better than most RTS games now, far better than 
 new ones like rise of nations etc.
  
  sound: Sound is good, great explosions, great voices and decent music.
  
  value: now you can 
 get it for really cheap to great value.
  
  overall this is a great modern military game that any RTS fans will love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HALOMONKEY2552
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Starting off I'd like to say , this is an RTS you must have RTS fans! Although the Campaign is 
 a little short or boring sometimes, the control of troops feels like a great powerful feeling. When 
 I'm creating my troops and tanks, it feels like I have Command, I send hundreds of them marching 
 down to the enemy base, with feelings joy. I see them overwhelm enemy positions and destory their 
 vehicles, I must tell you , it feels exhilerating! The Gameplay never ends with the ability to create 
 your own map and choose what side you want. It also has a nice online feature so you can get User 
 created maps by joining games, (which I say , dont go around joining games for the map, its only 
 ok 1 or twice if you need a newer one) and the custom games do a good job of selecting who you 
 want to battle , and where you want to Skirmish. I recommend this as one of the best RTS's, and 
 go buy this and be a General! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people where worried when they heard that their beloved C&C was going 3D. Not because 
 the game wouldn't look pretty, but for fear of the controls becoming clunky or awkward. Fear not 
 though, this game looks amazing and controls just fine.
  
  The game allows you to choose from 3 different factions. Each with their own unique units and weapons. 
 They are the GLA (Global Liberation Army) , USA, and the Chinese. The GLA has suicide bombers and 
 biological weapons. The US has air superiority and more high tech weapons. The Chinese have tanks 
 and nuclear capabilities. This makes for interesting variety in terms of gameplay. You can send 
 in waves of tanks with the Chinese, but if your fighting the US, you may want to bring some rocket 
 infantry to take out planes. If your the US, you can send in some small units to take out the anti-air 
 weapons and units. Then send in your fighter jets.
  
  The Superweapons are also back and now look awesome with the new graphics. The nukes, in particular, 
 look amazing. Each group has a unique super weapon. The US has an Ion Cannon which fires a beam 
 through the air and hits the designated target you've clicked on. You can also drag the beam along 
 for about 30 seconds. The GLA launches a group of Scud Missiles which blow up and release Anthrax 
 killing any units nearby and contaminate the ground. The Chinese have nukes which cause a massive 
 explosion and radiate the ground. The cool thing is with the US they have an ambulance which can 
 go around and clean up the ground to get rid of radiation or Anthrax.
  
  The controls are similar to the other C&C games, so if you have enjoyed past C&C game controls 
 then you'll like this one. The 3D world is easy to navigate through and doesn't feel awkward at 
 all. The game remains true to the tried and true C&C point and click formula. Units also rank on 
 the game according to how many enemies they've dispatched.
  
  Overall the game is great and if you like RTS games then you'll be playing this for a while. The 
 only problem I had is that if you go online make sure you and the other person both have cable 
 or higher. It lagged with me if anyone playing with me had below cable. That was my only disappointment 
 with the game. The game as whole how ever is highly addictive and should keep any one entertained 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1stsnake
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 5, 2005 9:15 pm PT
Review:  C&C Generals is one of the best RTS games around, and it works surprisingly well on even lower-budget 
 sytems. I played the game on my humble rig and it ran nicely.
  
  Gameplay: the best part in Generals, probably. The vast number of units and their uses put you 
 in real strategic positions and evokes some a live-or-die decision-making instances. The new, expanded 
 options add a lot of fun to the game, like building infiltration using choppers to drop soldiers, 
 setting up booby traps and the new aor-to-air combat is featured too. USA, China and the GLA have 
 equally distributed capabilities each with its pros and cons. While this was apparent, the conradiction 
 between the time and damage of some super weapons is obvious; for example, the nuke missile activates 
 in 5mins while the Scud storm (which activates in 4mins) probably does the same or even more damage. 
 However, I'm depressed there were no marine military units and fights as it plays a big role in 
 real-life battles.
  
  Graphics: the new 3D engine does a great job of rendering the games graphics featuring realistic 
 explosions and nice, metallic-looking tanks. The art in the game is pretty good, too.
  
  Sound: a great aspect of the game, wherein each type of unit has its special phrases which cope 
 harmonously with its technical aspects. Buildings also have some sound once you click at them which 
 reflects their nature.
  
  Value: you get pretty much hooked up to the game for a while if you're into RTS games because of 
 the large no. of maps and vast gameplay mechanics that makes it interesting the more you play.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal: I played it for a very long time since a first bought it and it was truely appealing. 
 It depends on you -- whether you're into RTS games or not -- if you are, then be sure that you'll 
 love, and keep loving, this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomic_gamedev
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2005 12:00 am PT
Review:  A RTS game that has been needed for awhile. Great sound, good strategy, and an all out OK story. 
 The only thing missing is better graphics. They could of approved the graphics just a little, but 
 still without this great graphics you can still find yourself lost for months with the campaigns, 
 playing against your friends, and mastering the game. One of the best games and must owned game 
 of the 03 year. This game is best in the category for RTS games. Find yourself as American China, 
 or Terroist fight against each other, and by your strategy dominate the other in a total meltdown. 
 This game also has campaigns, and if you use your head they will be real easy. One campaign where 
 you as American is destroying rocket launchers from the terroist group can easily just send 5 helicopters 
 to destroy, and win the game in just 30 minutes, or spend the whole day controlling everything 
 before taking the final objective. You winning the game is totally up to how well your strategies 
 are. How well can you out smart the computer? The fate of the world is up to you.
  
  Have fun with this game. I spent 3 straight months playing this before Doom 3 came out, and sometimes 
 I can still find myself playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 29, 2004 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This is an improvement from Yuris Revenge in some ways but it is also worse in some ways. This 
 bad thing about this game is that it is very slow paced and takes a long time to do things which 
 is in a way more realistic but maks the gameplay not as fun. The thing which allways annoyed me 
 and the Command And Conquer games was the multiplayer because when you have lots of units in 1 
 game it will run very slow and lag a lot because of other users and their computers, since Generals 
 requires a good pc to run it you wont be able to play a game with 6 players in without it starting 
 to lag because of the other users computers. This game has good graphics but the gameplay is just 
 not as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Element_TAW
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2004 4:44 am PT
Review:  The famed Command and Conquer series once again produces a great game. The variety of units and 
 the quality of the graphics are outstanding. Despite having a ridiculous plot, Generals more than 
 makes up for it with it's entertaining gameplay. However, it seems the game difficulty level has 
 been sliding down hill. This started with Yuri's Revenge and continues on to Generals. While you 
 can select a difficulty level, it does not compare to the challenges that Red Alert 2 and Tiberium 
 Sun dished out. All in all, the single player mode is a fantastic experiece (if a little too easy) . 
 However, the multiplayer experience is just horrendous. EA provides little support for General's 
 multiplayer feature, which has resulted in numerous hacks and exploits in online play (up to the 
 point where it just isn't worth playing with people you do not know) . If you are looking for a 
 good single player game to occupy 20 hours of your time, I would definately recommend Generals. 
 If you are looking for a good multiplayer experience, I suggest you look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fluffy_Assassin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 27, 2004 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is freaking sweet. I dont think I have ever played a game as much as this one. Infact 
 I still play it today well the expansion pack of it but still it's the same core game so whatever. 
 
  
  The gameplay is awesome. Theres 3 armies you can chose from , China, USA and the GLA aka terrorists. 
 There all way different. The US likes to ues technology to win it's battls, while China likes to 
 overpower there enemys, and the GLA is uses sneaky tactics and suicide bombers. The game has every 
 type of battle except water. They have infantry which I belive the GLA is the best with becasue 
 of there suicide bombers. Theres tanks where china has the best tanks with there amazingly powerful 
 overloards. Then of course theres the air force where the USA dominate with there commanches and 
 Aurora Bombers. The one thing bad about the gameplay is the story and the campaings aren't that 
 good but the skirmishes more than makeup for it especially online.
  
  The graphics in this game are really good even on medium which is what I play on becasue my computer 
 is not that good.
  
  The sound is very good especially the sound effects are very well done but I dont much care for 
 the VO in the game and in the story mode but that could just be me.
  
  The Value is limitless, I have played well ove 500 skirmishes and if all skirmishes take at least 
 45 minutes well you can figure out how much time I've playes the game for yourselves.
  
  Overall this is just an amazing game that I recommend to any startegy game fan. Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2004 10:51 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best C&C game (besides RA2) . Before I start about the game, i suggest that 
 you have a very powerful computer to run this game! The graphics in this game are amazing for an 
 RTS, and there are plenty of little graphical effect that makes this game look really nice. Almost 
 everything is polygonal, and if you have a less powerful system, i suggest turning some of the 
 graphical enhancements off! Sound is ok in this game, but no C&C game comes close to the music 
 of RA! The game is pretty simple to play, you pick a side from 3 organizations; USA, GLA, and the 
 Chinese. Everyone has their own specialty, and depending on your perfomance, you rank up (like 
 1 star or 2 star general) ; the higher the ranking, more options you have. The single player mode 
 is a blast, but the multiplayer is something else. Considering you can find a decent non-lagging 
 game, you will have a blast playing this game online! Overall, i think this game is a great pick 
 up for RTS fans, and in my opinion, this is one of the finest C&C game to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocbarry
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 22, 2004 4:24 am PT
Review:  Unlike every previous release in the C&C franchise, this game is actually fun. 
  As a gamer who is not very big into the RTS genre, I did not go into this game expecting to have 
 very much fun with it. I was pleasantly surprised to find that you are not bogged down with resource 
 management (as you are in most RTS games) . This is a good thing because you do not need to constantly 
 keep an eye on your "harvesters." C&C Generals takes care of this by having helicopters gather 
 the resources, refered to as supplies. This allows you to concentrate on the battles, where C&C 
 shines. 
  The game is based in the near future between major factions that are being attacked by some sort 
 of terrorists. Although you have superior fire power (at least in the beginning of the game) , the 
 enemy has the advantage of being mobile and hidden.
  Now that the price of this game is down to 19.99, there is no reason not to buy it. If you've been 
 burned by the C&C franchise in the past, have no fear, the series is reborn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bchick1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 12, 2003 9:34 am PT
Review:  Well.. I know I'm a latecomer to this review but I must say that I must have really low expectations 
 from some of you but I am REALLY ENTERTAINED by this game (that is what it is about?)
  Firstly, I have a custom built 'low budget' Athlon 1.6 Ghz rig with 512 Mb simm ram. At first, 
 with the 64mb ATI 7000 AGP 4x card I had the issues described by some at a good many points in 
 the game and had to severely reduce my graphics. Then I bought an ATI 9600XT, installed it in the 
 same box, upgraded to DX9b and Voila!! its great! Graphics and speed rock! Time... and hardware 
 requirements... march on. (Read: "Who Moved My Cheese"... deal with it)
  Secondly, I do miss the good background storylines (CC Red Alert and Red Alert II and StarCraft 
 most notable) . But when you get down to it, once you were in the mission, I forgot the cutscene 
 (just kill the other guy! dah!)
  Thirdly, I really like the skirmish modes to try stuff. I like the 'Easy settings' to learn, then 
 crank it up.
  Lastly, my son-in-laws (two each at last count) play together with me on my LAN at home (simple 
 100mbs) . No problems there either.
  I have Generals and the Zero-hour add-on. I'm happy. I am getting my money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunk4thSurvivor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 15, 2003 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is SUPERB! I bought this the week it came out in february 2003. I didn't have any doubts 
 that it was a good game. Of course i was correct. This game owns, this game should have gotten 
 a 9.0 + pm gamespot because everything about it is very VERY good. The graphics are very kick ass, 
 especially if you have a geforce4 + because you can max it out and it looks perfectly real! The 
 sound is very very cool, you move your guy and you hear the engine running very slowly (as if your 
 looking down on them and its from a distance) . The gameplay is mainly the thing that kicks ass. 
 you have so much stuff to build and with all the additions and online play and cometitions its 
 flawless. The value of this game is superb also, this game is by far the best RTS game ever! i 
 am going to get the expansion when it comes out soon. 
  
  For the tilt, i give it a 10/10 its just the best RTS game out there you can get today!
  
  
 so, my review is up 9.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furious1116
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 12, 2003 9:04 am PT
Review:  Well, as far as command and conquer games go, this one was quite different. Fundamentally it was 
 the same game with an engine overhaul and many new elementsd and updated graphics. There are 3 
 sides to choose from: China, USA, and Arab terrorists. each side has its own unique units and abilities. 
 All units can be upgraded with research (like Warcraft) .
  
  The problem with this game is that it is so demanding on your system. I am running a top of the 
 line computer just barely under a year old, and the game taxes it so much that i slows down to 
 a crawl during game play. I have seen it run this way on many computers. At work, we just got a 
 load of new P4's, 2.4 gig with 2 gig of ram and Geforce 5 graphics cards, and the game STILL runs 
 like pea soup in areas with alot of buildings and heavy action. Had the game been better designed 
 I would've given it a higher rating, but the severe demands it makes on the system just drag this 
 game down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marvin_Snipes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2003 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer Generals is a fast paces RTS that places focus away from resource gathering, 
 and instead on the combat.
  The three sides are both dynamic and really fun to play. EA pull no punches with the units, ie 
 bomb trucks, anthrax bombs and terrorists, which add to the overall real life feel to the game.
 
  Online play is where the game really shines, and playing against a mate is how this game should 
 be played.
  However the singly player is lacking. It is incredably easy, and rather dull to play - if SP is 
 what you're into, your probably going to feel let down with CnC|Generals.
  Another thing that lets Generals slide is it's support. 5 patches as of writing and they all fail 
 to correct what they set out to do. And also, despite being promised a ladder before the game shipped, 
 the fans are still empty handed.
  
  In the end, even with the games flaws, the brilliant presentation and sound, and the kick ass gameplay 
 online is what makes this game so great. If you looking for a compelling Singleplayer, your going 
 to be upset at what you find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultra_gamer
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 5, 2003 11:25 am PT
Review:  Generals, when I first bought this game I thought it was the best of all rts, it had incredible 
 graphics and amazing sound I found myslef addicted till....
  
  I realizied this game was not what it was planed to be, they did not get rid of previous c&c flaws 
 mostly being repetitve and kiddish, If you zoom in closely enough they all look one colour with 
 no detail. When I bought the game I expected cgi cut scenes but what i got was a bunch of in game 
 flat uninteresting scenes that made me laugh when I saw the matrix freeze frame. I bought this 
 game becasue I love the war theme all my games are about the war from battlefield 1942 and etc... 
 but this game did not feel like a war visious game, its more like a G. I joe cartoon with slapstick 
 phrases, you find yourselve building a massive army and end up using the little nuclear bomb to 
 finish off the enemy. The point system is a refreashing addition to the rts genre, this is so because 
 it forses you to fight more visiosuly so you gain more abiltiys, units and strikes, however the 
 point system forces you to sacrifice many units to attack which usualy ends in a massacer. Now 
 the sound... simply amazing I found myself just playing the game for the sound I love when the 
 game is loading and you just here the war music that pumps you up for battle imagine this music 
 before you play battlefield, the greatist part of the game is that when you start a battle it has 
 such cinamatic ( fading into the game) feel it makes you want to play the whole battle.
  The only reason to buy generals is becasue your a nerd and and the only way to feel cool is to 
 play generals, there is no other reason to BUY this game, you want to impress your friends with 
 game but you find find yourself less impressed the more you play this game PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidmarshall
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2003 4:09 pm PT
Review:  !!! AMAZING GAME!!! i've got to say that I was addicted to it since I started playing it. I must 
 have played this well over 80 hours already. If you're not a fan of strategy games this is still 
 a great game for you, because of its simpleness in using its interface, yet it has so much depth 
 to make it challenging for a master. The online multiplayer is very addictive and will keep you 
 going a long time after you comeplete the single player. The only problem is that there are not 
 countries with unique units as on Red Alert 2. The three teams (USA, GLA terrorists, and China) 
 all have different styles to suit however you want to play. USA are for beginners and are a very 
 solid team. GLA are for masters, have many units, have sneaky tactics, and don't need power stations. 
 China are a strong side that have the solidness of USA but have tactics which will penetrate most 
 defences. My advice is to get a good PC and buy this game, its all you need in life. I give it 
 100%. IT'S AMAZING!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgy611
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 31, 2003 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Westwood was better of left alone and untouched by EA games. EA has ruined the saga. I STRONGLY 
 believe Command and Conquer will die after this. This game is horrible. It has one of the worst 
 story's I have ever seen. The team put all their effort Towards graphics and sound. That you can 
 tell. The game has AMAZING graphics and GREAT sound. Do not for one second think that the game 
 is good from those Videos posted on the Movies section. Mark Staggs talking about how much work 
 was put into it and blah blah blah. All that work is for nothing when there is no story, no cinematics, 
 and a HORRIBLE multiplayer system. It is by far the worst RTS multiplayer system I have ever seen. 
 Average it takes about 20-30 min just to get a game started. Then it will take longer because of 
 the PAINFUL lag. The gameplay system is just a cheap version of the Warcraft 3 menu. This game 
 had great potential but EA (Once again) threw it all away. If you want an RTS get Warcraft 3 or 
 Rise of Nations. Do not waste your money on this junk. You have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bribud
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2003 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I like the game. I really only see value in getting the game to play the multiplayer or 
 skirmish options. It would have been nice to have one more group to pick from (3 is good, but 4 
 would be much better) . The game does have some side balancing issues, but it isn't a huge issue 
 and this can be overlooked. The GLA could have been given some kind of air power to help balance 
 things out, but I guess it wouldn't fit in with what they are trying to achieve. I have played 
 all of the other Command and Conquer games and I do think that they are going on the right direction 
 with this release. If I were EA, I would listen to all of their fans to get as much info as they 
 can so the next game will be nearly "flaw free." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithg1234
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 25, 2003 11:19 pm PT
Review:  If the goal behind this game was a multi-player RTS with three distinct teams to choose from then 
 the goal was mostly achieved. Please do not compare this title at all with StarCraft or even Red 
 Alert 2 with or without thier expansion packs. Those games had storylines. Deep I can't shut my 
 machine down storylines. While this game does very well with graphics there is absolutely no story 
 line. Just because the same voice introduces each scenario, this does not mean anything is at all 
 connected. The game might as well be the U. S. and Great Britain instead of the U. S. and China due 
 to the amount of time spent as allies. Do not purchase this game if you plan to play mostly single 
 player, as ther is nothing different to keep your attention past scenario three. A VERY far cry 
 from Red Alert 2.
  
  Possibilities for storyline were endless. Blown chance. Nothing to make me want to buy a sequel/add-on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackbar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2003 8:44 am PT
Review:  This game tops all of the others in its line and will blow away the competition. It has great new 
 features like all new units, with a new twist to make you earn points for being a great general 
 that you can spend on upgrading units or gaining one shot units. The single player is somewhat 
 the same plot missions but with the new units they are compleated in a different way. There is 
 alot more to do with urban warfare, with US airborne rangers able to do airdrops from chinhooks. 
 The GLA with there powerful mobs, and China with there bio weapons. One neat feature with the GLA 
 is the function to create tunnels. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
