-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer 3: Kane's Wrath
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandconquer3kaneswrath/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some fun new units to play around with.
 A ton of new maps.
 New subfactions add variety.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Disappointing, disjointed campaign.
 New Global Conquest mode isn't very compelling.
 Some of the new units and subfactions are underwhelming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,038 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 24, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's more of a good thing, but a second-rate campaign and an underwhelming new gameplay mode keep 
 this expansion from soaring. 

  Last year's Command &amp; Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars featured a horde of freaky alien units, hammy 
 acting, and lots and lots of explosions. With Kane's Wrath, Electronic Arts provides freakier aliens, 
 hammier acting, and bigger explosions, and mixes them into an expansion pack that doesn't improve 
 the core game in any meaningful way. Of course, it gives us more ways to experience the terrific 
 gameplay, and for that we can be grateful. Nevertheless, Kane's Wrath misses the mark in many ways 
 and comes across as a wasted opportunity.  

           Mechapedes = awesome.      

  The story, such as it is, fills a number of gaps in Command &amp; Conquer history, jumping around 
 like a jackrabbit on speed. For example, the first act takes place between the second and third 
 Tiberium Wars, whereas the second act jumps to events that took place during C&amp; C3. As a result, 
 when Kane and other characters address you during the live-action cutscenes, you're not even the 
 same character each time. Joe Kucan as Kane, God bless him, almost saves this scattershot structure 
 with his usual superb mix of spittled monologues and ominous glares. As Alexa, though, actress 
 Natasha Henstridge misses the whole point by misunderstanding the difference between histrionics 
 and plain bad acting. Her bouncy hairdo is more energetic than she is. We expect cheese in a Command 
 &amp; Conquer campaign, but its taste is altogether overpowering here. With the third act, Kane's 
 Wrath starts hitting the right notes and then comes to a halt, leaving the promise of yet another 
 expansion... the same promise Tiberium Wars left with us. Let's hope that the inevitable second 
 expansion pack makes good on it.  

  Once you take command of the battlefield, things pick up, but not in the ways you might expect 
 from an expansion pack. You play as the Nod faction through the whole of the 13-mission campaign, 
 which is fine, but it fails to capitalize on the pitifully brief Scrin campaign of Tiberium Wars. 
 Nevertheless, this is at heart the same gameplay that made last year's game such a success. It's 
 fast-paced, fun, and eminently playable. When the game emphasizes these strengths, such as in a 
 mission where you have to capture a GDI researcher, the gameplay soars. Other missions just speak 
 to overlooked possibilities. For instance, in one scenario, you're teased with the possibility 
 of experiencing one of Tiberium Wars' best missions from the perspective of a different commander. 
 But rather than delivering on the promise of a heart-pounding battle, the game whips the rug out 
 from under you, and you get stuck using a commando and saboteur -- and then a dinky attack bike. 
 Talk about an anticlimax.  

  Thankfully, all of the issues that the campaign presents are mostly offset by the variety of new 
 toys available. Many of them come courtesy of the subfactions in Kane's Wrath. You can still play 
 skirmishes against other players and the AI as the standard GDI, Nod, and Scrin factions, and they've 
 seen some minor changes. However, you should check out the subfactions if you want access to the 
 best goodies. For the most part, the subfactions aren't radically different from their vanilla 
 counterparts, but they bring some subtle and interesting additions and changes to the battlefield 
 nonetheless. For example, the Nod subfaction called the Black Hand replaces the avatar warmech 
 with a flame-spewing monstrosity called the purifier. The Black Hand has no flying units, though, 
 so this isn't the faction for you if you like to spam venoms. Other tweaks have very little impact, 
 such as the addition of shields to harvesters of the Reaper-17 Scrin subfaction, though such small 
 changes undoubtedly have effects on the overall balance.  

  Some of the new units are available to the main faction and subfactions alike. For example, all 
 GDI players get the hammerhead helicopter, which is invaluable for troop transport and can stay 
 aloft for a while without having to refuel. The Scrin mechapede is a particular (and slightly overpowered) 
 favorite, given that you can extend its length by adding pods to it, and there are four different 
 types of pods you can use. This flexibility makes the mechapede one of the most versatile units 
 in the game, but in the spirit of the Scrin, it requires a healthy amount of micromanagement. The 
 most superficially dramatic units are the new epic units. Each faction and its subfactions get 
 access to a new powerful unit: the MARV tank in the case of the GDI, the redeemer for the Nod, 
 and the eradicator hexapod for the Scrin. How important they are to your strategy depends on how 
 long your matches draw out, which is always a crapshoot in the rush-heavy Command &amp; Conquer. 
 However, should you get to the point where you can create one, you'll enjoy the additional help 
 it provides on the battlefield. They have powerful attacks (even more powerful if infantry is garrisoned 
 inside) , but their other abilities can be helpful as well. For example, if you need extra credits, 
 just drive your MARV over some Tiberium, and it will be added to your coffers instantly.  

           Natasha = not so awesome.      

  And in a sign that Electronic Arts kept throwing 
 different things at Command &amp; Conquer 3 to see what would stick, they've introduced Global 
 Conquest, which is a Risk-inspired turn-based mode similar to the ones in Rise of Nations or Dawn 
 of War. In it, you create strike forces that let you expand across the globe to crush your enemies 
 while exerting influence on cities. It's an interesting diversion, but it's esoteric without having 
 the depth to match. Not only is the gameplay diluted compared to other turn-based games, but the 
 world map isn't separated into distinct areas, which diminishes the thrill of expansion. It feels 
 as if you're trying to take over vast tracts of empty land, and without the geographic and visual 
 divisions you'd expect, you never get that "just... one... more... turn..." compulsion.  

  There are more than 25 new maps to skirmish on, too, against either other players or the AI. All 
 these additions -- new units, a new mode, and so on -- add more ways to play, but they don't add up 
 to an essential expansion pack. It all makes for a broader package, but not necessarily a better 
 one. Sure, the new subfactions give you more variety, but not every addition is significant, and 
 in some cases, they're underwhelming (Steel Talon subfaction, this means you) . Throw in a competent 
 campaign, and you have a good expansion that should have been much, much better.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (82 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Roarzz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 Kane's Wrath is a game that expands upon it's previous counterpart. There 
 are 2 ... oh how to say this? Expansion set type armies for each race, all of the type of armies 
 though have the same super unit which differs from each race. For example, if you choose to play 
 as the GDI you get a superheavy battle tank called a MARV which harvests Tiberium as you drive 
 over a Tiberium field. The Nod get a large walker which has the ability to make units on the same 
 team, shoot each other in the face, or in one occasion I liked, run over your entire Zone Raider 
 squad as they just touch down after you gave them a "Jump here" command. The Scrin, well as much 
 as I like the Scrin I can't say I care for their super unit too much, but he is worth while, if 
 he kills any enemy unit within a radius around him, you get a certain ammount of resources. Now 
 after talking about it, I will be off to play. But I warn you possible buyers, if you didn't like 
 Command and Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars, don't waste your money on this, because I doubt you'll enjoy 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadocka
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 4:41 pm PT
Review:  C&C latest is pretty good considering the extras and the storyline that pretty much reveals every 
 secret in command and conquer 3. the game itself got 3 factions, each one with 2 subs. the subs 
 all suck except the nods black hand and maybe the scrins subs. that makes the so called expansion 
 pretty pointless. the real good stuff is the story. it reveals pretty much everything you ever 
 wanted to know about command and conquer 3. after that is the graphics. i myself played them on 
 ultra high and they look awesome. the only problem is that you cant go over 30 fps because they 
 got vertical sync on to prevent screen tearing. and no you cant change the options to turn that 
 off. the global conquest is pretty good but way to complex in some ways. sometimes its hard to 
 understand whats happening on the screen while you're playing. there aren't any bad things in command 
 and conquer except for the incredibly lot of bugs like the marv firing in the wrong direction or 
 that you can build bases on the other side of the map when there is nothing there. so i give this 
 game a 9.0. very good but not yet perfect. hope they make another one. peace through power!^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 12:45 am PT
Review:  I played this game after Red Alert 3, so this review may be more than a little skewed in its objectiveness.
 
  
  When EA LA announced that some new super units would be made for the expansion to one of the best 
 additions to the Tiberium series, along with the announcement of the return of the the Titans and 
 Wolverines (that enamored some very loud fans) , I was expecting revamped super units such as the 
 Mammoth Mk II and Cyborg Commando.
  
  Thankfully, the said super units did not return. Many of the so-called new units common to all 
 of factions of each respective side are rather poorly designed and are shamelessly sacrilegious 
 rehashes, such as the obvious Sonic Tank clones that lack the armor that the Dune versions have 
 (& rendering them almost as useless as the Nod Beam Cannons) and the rather rigid Redeemer (the 
 most major, unforgivable flaw of which is their inability to be repaired) .
  
  The new factions turn out to be rather bland, at least to me. The Steel Talons, being descendants 
 of the army that the player commanded in Tiberian Sun, retained their Mechs. Unfortunately, it 
 was clear that said Mechs are losing their value on the battlefield rather quickly, as they are 
 not really much better than the units that they replace if the Steel Talons are picked over plain 
 vanilla GDI.
  
  In fact, canon-wise, they were supposed to be replaced by the plain vanilla units.
  
  The Nod 
 cyborgs return, but apparently still have vulnerability to Tiberium poisoning. Granted, Tiberium, 
 canon-wise, has evolved into another form that the cyborgs could probably no longer resist, but 
 this is a poor excuse for what is probably negligence on the part of EA LA in doing proper research 
 and review of the previous C&C games, namely Firestorm.
  
  Of course, there are notable new additions. ZOCOM's Zone Raiders are rather great troops, mating 
 anti-infantry with anti-air into a reliable package, which when used in large numbers can even 
 level heavy base defenses and wreck any vehicles that the women come by. Unfortunately, the Zone 
 Raiders practically render every other GDI infantry useless. The same could be said for the awesome 
 Nod Specters, whose stealth capability and long-range bombardment are fantastic combos. Sadly, 
 the Specter makes the Beam Cannon seem even more useless, rendering the latter as nothing more 
 than sacrificial Avatar upgrades. Likewise, the Scrin Mechapede, with its versatility, could outclass 
 just about everything else if used in groups. In fact, they would be even more cost effective.
 
  
  In other words, the new awesome units were introduced without much thought for the improvement 
 of the others. There ARE upgrades for the original sets of units, but these are faction-specific 
 and clearly intended to encourage the use of said units. A rather good example would be the Hyperpulse 
 Lasers for the Venoms, which would otherwise be the most useless aircraft in the game.
  
  The most disappointing units would be the epic-sized armored ones. The M. A. R. V., while not exactly 
 the revamped Mammoth Mk II that I feared would return, is the most practical of the three, yet 
 it is also the ugliest and concept-wise, the most terrible. A GDI die-hard would hate to watch 
 an obvious up-sized Mammoth tank armed with, of all things, sonic cannons and a built-in Tiberium 
 Refinery, though he would be hard-pressed to ignore its tactical value (which is a lot) . The Hexapod, 
 being Scrin, is the weirdest of the lot. With a teleporting upgrade (by garrisoning the Prodigy 
 or Mastermind in it) , it becomes the most difficult epic armor unit to tackle. Yet, it has disappointingly 
 few slots. The Redeemer is the most impressive of the lot, looking like the big brother of the 
 Avatars and kicking butt as well as anyone would expect. But rather stilted animation tainted it 
 with a touch of goofiness. Its idle animation is even more embarrassing. Moreover, without an upgrade 
 that grants it tactical value, namely a stealth upgrade that is strangely absent, it is actually 
 the most worthless of the lot.
  
  The new Global Conquest mode is a dig at the Total War series. considering EA Games' penchant for 
 copying and reengineering ideas, this did not bring with it as much surprise as it would have, 
 if one considers this addition against the traditional gameplay of the Tiberium series.
  
  Perhaps the most disappointing part of this game is the extension to the storyline, and the very 
 poor map designs that came with them. The acting is as hammy as ever, and with some cutscenes in 
 the expansion containing replays of the original's cutscenes, this is compounded to even further 
 heights of cheesiness. Despite the excuse that much of the new story is set in the desolate Yellow 
 Zones, the maps designed for the campaign is rather stark and bland, looking more like a map designer's 
 work during his lunch hours than the bleak and war-torn landscapes shown in cutscenes describing 
 the Yellow Zones.
  
  EA Games really needs to consider having workshops on generating fresh ideas for the Tiberium series 
 and other sister series in the C&C family. The last thing I and other C&C fans would want is for 
 the (inevitable) Generals 2 to be filled with what would constitute copyright infringements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  While Kane's Wrath certainly improves upon the Commander and Conquer 3 formula, its improvements 
 to the core game don't fix what is inherently a failure to begin with, and a game made worse at 
 some points, via the introduction of super-units.
  
  The extra divisions to the races, although providing a Generals-esque upgrade to the diversity 
 aren't Generals-esque at all in terms of depth. Each subdivision seems to only alter one or two 
 units, whilst providing only one extra unit each. Furthermore, each sub-divison seems to only have 
 one, or at most two viable strategies -- which is a huge problem. 
  
  More than this, the Super-Units, to my mind, actually harm the gaming expirience, especially online. 
 I find that the super-units are both too easy to achieve and are legitimate game-changers, whilst 
 being unbalanced between the two sides.
  
  I don't have too much to say about the expansion more than this, and if you read my review on C&C 
 3 itself, you'll see why this expansion- which adds some shrug worthy additions to a bad strategy 
 game- scored so low.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  My Review of the original Command and Conquer 3
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  A heavy reliance on 'the way things were' makes Command and Conquer 3 a tired, old, and uninspiring 
 strategy experience, that barely houses any strategy at all.
  
  It doesn't get much more unfortunate than this. The Command and Conquer strategy series was once 
 at the forefront of strategic gaming on any gamer's mind. PC's across the globe were once littered 
 with Command and Conquer software, from the original, to the Red Alert series. Indeed, the Command 
 and Conquer series once carried the flag of the RTS genre and waved it proudly for all to see. 
 
  
  Those were great times. But these statements are also all in the past-test, because the fact of 
 the matter-the ugly, unfortunate, and undeniable fact of the matter- is that the Command and Conquer 
 Franchise is a shell of its former self. 
  
  Well, actually, that wouldn't be entirely true, because the franchise essentially IS its former 
 self, to a T. For some, this may be a good thing, but on the heels of wonderful games like Dawn 
 of War, Company of Heroes, and others like World in Conflict, it is very hard to imagine how. In 
 fact, Command and Conquer 3 sticks so hard to its old pair of dusty revolvers that it isn't suprising 
 that it can barely manage to hit its target with any sort of punch. To break down that silly anology, 
 the truth is that Command and Conquer just isn't exciting.
  
  The list of things that Command and Conquer does that are still the same as its past self are frankly 
 exhausting:
  
  Collect Tiberium 
  Build structures off-screen 
  Build and worry about super-weapons constantly 
  Mass up the most powerful units 
 
  Protect Harvesters 
  Crush enemy 
  
  For some of you, this may all be fine, but for most of us, I suspect not, because the fundamental 
 flaw of Command and Conquer 3, one even worse than the fact that the unit models are uninteresting, 
 and that they relate so truly to the old games, and that the FMV's and Campaigns all have a sense 
 of been-there-done-that The worst offense of the C&C franchise now, more than all of this, is 
 that there is no REAL strategy.
  
  For a strategy game, this is its largest failure. In this game, most games come down to who has 
 the best and fastest build order, to who manages the most tiberium, or who defended their base 
 the best, but there is really no on-field strategy whatsoever, really. If you have the better units, 
 you should win. If you have the most money, you should win, but there is really no hope, of interesting 
 strategy, where ambushes, or well placed grenades, or well commanded troops, can change the tide 
 of a war. 
  
  In fact, when you play a game like Company of Heroes, which has men taking cover, lobbing grenades, 
 going prone, getting pinned down, issuing full-scale retreats, capturing and using enemy heavy 
 weapons, and so on, and so forth, the rock-paper-scissors formula that is the lifeblood of Command 
 and Conquer is truly a pitiful excuse for a strategy game.
  
  You cannot equip your units on the fly, you cannot reinforce them, they do not go prone, take cover, 
 or do anything remotely strategic, other than shoot, use a special ability or two, and that's all. 
 
  
  Again, this is just so, so outdated that it isn't even worth playing I cannot express this enough.
 
  
  If you want a real strategy game, that isn't so dull and unstimulated, go somewhere else, because 
 at best, this game is an arcade strategy game, if ever there was one. 
  
  Indeed, to my mind, the game, (and it's expansion too) bring absolutely nothing new to the table, 
 and nothing interesting. What's worse, the half-hearted Scrin race (which is so underdeveloped, 
 narratively, that it hurts) acts as an ear-mark to how poor the developers sense of improving the 
 series is. 
  
  A lame, hardly explained, and poorly modeled raceof insect-machine-spirit things, does not constitute 
 a huge development for the franchise. 
  With a poor campaign that features the same base building over and over, along with unimpressive 
 FMV acting sequences, poor unit models, underwhelming concepts and a laughable excuse for in-the-field 
 strategy, Command and Conquer 3 is well, and I mean WELL behind its comepetion in proving a real 
 strategic experience.
  
  This one is for the kids, at best, and a huge disappointment for die-hard strategists.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jegan234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  It is WAYYYYYYY better than the first game by these 3 points. 1. There are way more factions. 2. 
 There are wayyyyyyyyyyyyy cooler maps. 3. The Nod Militants look way  
 Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha you 
 you you you yo yo yo yo yo it it it it it it i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  I was excited about the expansion coming out, mainly because i enjoyed the tiberium wars so much, 
 not because i am a kane fan boy. I would have to say that i am probably relatively new to the C&C 
 universe, i started at Generals, because i think this is the worst game yet. now that isn't a bad 
 thing, because it is solid, it just lacks the depth of the original, or even generals, as far as 
 stories and extra modes, but i do thoroughly enjoy MARV. i can't get enough of playing skirmish's 
 and i have eventually upped the difficulty to play on brutal, and it just doesn't get old. and 
 if it does for you, you can go online to a vast number of people willing to hand it to you. 
  
  i like the fact that they spent some money to get some recognizeable actors to play evne in 
 the xpansion for the traditional cutscenes, but the story is lacking and too short.
  
  a solid game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight, Command and Conquer are pretty much renowned for making a great Real 
 Time Strategy. CnC3 Tiberium Wars was no exception, and the expansion pack Kane's Wrath certainly 
 follows this trend. Kane's Wrath certainly does manage to keep up the live action cut scenes that 
 (in my opinion at least) make Command and Conquer games stand out from the rest of the RTS games 
 out there, although there is some really hammy acting on some counts, but that's par for the course 
 in my opinion. The campaign can be really confusing, as it takes place before, during and after 
 the third Tiberium War. You only get to play as Nod for the campaign, but the viewpoint is told 
 from many different viewpoints. The campaign is really good, helping you learn about the several 
 different sub-factions available to play with each of the races. The skirmishes are brilliant fun, 
 allowing you to not only play as the old fashion factions, but also as some of the new ones and 
 see the different units in action. Probably the biggest difference is the new "super-unit" each 
 race has. This is a massive construction that you can garrison units into, and when used correctly 
 can become an unstoppable juggernaut that can almost single-handedly win you a match. All in all, 
 this is a great expansion to a great game in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peets83
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  The new expansion pack offers a new campaign for the NoD fans. It gives you 13 missions about the 
 NoD before the Third Tiberium war and during it. The mission are fun to play but the movies and 
 missions aren't at the same path. Which makes it a little confusing at times. The acting is done 
 very well and the movies alone are excellent to watch. 
  
  The missions itself are done right though you can feel a difference in difficulty from each mission. 
 Some will go easily while others require more attention. 
  
  The conquer the world map is a great idea. Though they have some issues with it. The AI isn't that 
 good at strategy, those who are familiar with strategy games will win this easily. 
  
  I haven't tried multiplayer, it's not a part for me cause I'll probably keep losing all the time.
 
  
  For a casual C&C fan, I liked the expansion pack and can recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyOwl411
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Woo, new units! OMG flamethrower faction, mind control faction, metal gear faction (lol) ! Look, 
 epic units! Super strong and scary to watch when they're destroying you! Ok, Ok... Enough. Other 
 than new awesome units, this game has a horrible story that features some of the worse acting I 
 have ever scene. This story is geared towards players who play as Nod. So if your favorite faction 
 is GDI or the Scrin, get over it. The sucker blow in this game is the new global conquest mode. 
 This is a waste of space on the disc. Is this supposed to be fun? I just kept finding myself saying 
 WTF, WTF, WTF!!!!! This mode is so pointless and aggrivating. Other than that, the skirmish maps 
 and the new subfactions make this exspansion O. k. I still play this game nonstop, but I know that 
 deep inside, it's the original game with a new coat of paint. Unfortunatly, it doesn't change anything. 
 Only buy this game if you want an excuse to play C&C tiberium wars again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanDmAN9001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  After getting the Kane's Wrath expansion, I haven't once got bored with it. The new armies, units, 
 and upgrades are amazing, along with the new map editor as well. The expansion, to me, seemed much 
 more flexible and elaborate than TW (obviously) but also cleaner and more efficient. The online 
 play has little to no lag whatsoever, unlike TW's which made me want to pull my hair out. The new 
 units though are what made this expansion truly epic. Detailing from mobile air-defense infantry 
 to armor heavy tanks, they never cease to amaze me. The new armies are great as well. I'm a big 
 fan of ZOCOM, which havs Zone Raiders. They dominate the game (kinda cheap too) . Let's hope you 
 don't run into me as ZOCOM. Overall, this expansion was a great success and I hope that there will 
 be another one sometime in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  The first expansion to Command and Conquer 3 is all about the NOD and it's one and only leader 
 Kane. 
  The single player let's you play a his right hand in his catastrophic plan. Between missions you 
 et to see all new video's as you get closer to the man and his inner circle himself. This is a 
 lot of fun. The game also has new multiplayer maps and some new units, some really big ones i might 
 add. 
  If you liked C&C 3, you are definitely going to like this one. You don't need to have played C&C 
 3, you don't even have to have it, to enjoy Kane's Wrath, but i recommend you do, as the story 
 makes more sense and it's a great game.
  My favourite faction in C&C 3 was the GDI and i was hoping there was going to be a GDI-expansion 
 also, but with Red Alert 3 coming this winter, that's probably not going to happen.
  Anyway Kane's Wrath is great fan service to all those Kane-disciples out there. enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamat0
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  So the commander is thrown back on the battlefield, hoping to experience some more goodies from 
 previous battles. However, it seems like the new goodies aren't as "Good" as they were supposed 
 to be.
  
  Kane's Wrath retains many of the fun gameplay elements as the previous Tiberium Wars did. With 
 the addition of even more features that can create a difference between the original and the expansion, 
 if only the quality of these new features was better. Still, don't get me wrong, the game is fun 
 to play and if you enjoyed the original version, you would likely be amazed by "some" of the new 
 stuffs added in the game.
  
  
  
  The good:
  
  1- The addition of the new global conquest mode, while it's not as good as it is in other RTS games, 
 it's a nice first step for the development team to consider improving in future command and conquer 
 games. A great way to put more taste in the "strategy" category of the game.
  
  2- For Nod fans, the campaign itself is great, offering variety between direct base assault, building 
 base quickly and sneaking missions.... etc. It's also a good way to make GDI and Scrin fans to get 
 used to playing with Nod and not just with their favorite faction.
  
  3- Nice story where there are certain twists and revealing some of the unanswered questions from 
 past C&C games, while the story spans from between second and third tiberium war, during the third 
 war and finally after the third war. You get to know what exactly happened after the Firestorm, 
 during the third Tirbeium war and finally what you can expect to see in future Tiberium games.
 
  
  4- The new subfactions for each of the 3 sides offer some variety of gameplay. They can also help 
 you focus on the sub faction that best matches your gameplay style with the main factions.
  
  5- New epic units are one of my favorite features in this expansion. Not because they are big 
 or look cool, but because of how they need special ways to be constructed and also their combat 
 performance can turn the tide of battle upon their appearance, whether it's through the single 
 player campaign, skirimish or multiplayer.
  
  6- The movies after each campaign is once again the cool live-action movies as it was in the original 
 and past command and conquer games. I've realized that the movies in the expansion seem a bit cooler 
 than the original due to seeing more action and less "Commander, your mission is blah blah blah" 
 scenes. It's still not as cool as the movies in the Tiberian Sun, but still can keep you up and 
 watching them.
  
  7- New units and powers, while some of them seem useless or not so outstanding, are still some 
 great additions to the game. Gaining and losing units/powers depending on your subfaction is another 
 challenge that can help the player know which side is truly suitable for his or her gameplay style.
 
  
  
  The bad:
  
  1- As I mentioned earlier, the Global Conquest isn't as good as in other RTS games. There aren't 
 any rewards for beating it and there doesn't seem to be anything within this mode that can encourage 
 the player to keep on playing. Perhaps some live action scenes even during this mode?
  
  2- As most people complained, the single player campaign is limited to the Nod faction only. While 
 I enjoyed the campaign, it still doesn't put up much value to the other factions when you realize 
 that you are forced to play only 1 faction in the campaign mode.
  
  3- The sub factions don't offer enough variety to the gameplay. Some sub factions might make you 
 feel that there are more disadvantages than advantages to picking them. So many people would end 
 up preferring to stick with the original factions.
  
  4- Once again, GDI and Scrin remain having similar firepower and defensive capabilities whereas 
 Nod are the only faction that seem unique from the other two. Even with the subfactions, they don't 
 offer enough uniqueness from each other.
  
  5- The music, like in the original Tiberium Wars, is not so enjoyable. It's the same old "2 minutes 
 out of combat music and 20 seconds combat music". It's nowhere as good as it was in Tiberian Sun 
 or Generals.
  
  
  
  I was more disappointed than excited with this expansion. I did enjoy the single player campaign, 
 despite it was Nod-only, and the story, but as for the rest, they just fell from my interest pretty 
 soon. It's not a bad game though; just not as good as it was supposed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman_Agent47
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  The game self is fun and the exp adds some more depth and extends the replay value of the game.
 
  It was not as long as i would have hoped but with the skirmish/online and conquest modes it can 
 be enjoyed for a long period of time. (I got my Kanes wrath copy as soon as it came out and me 
 and some friends still play its online often)
  
  That being said there are some disappointments.
  Firstly the EXP only continues with the Nod 
 story, very annoying imo because GDI is also important to know what was going on. Also I like GDI 
 more then nod so its upsetting to just leave them out.
  
  Epic units was not as epic as i was hoping, the GDI MARV is the most useful but they move to slow, 
 the avatars and mammoth tanks move faster than them, by the time it arrives at the target area 
 the support units have already engaged and no doubt died, its fire rate also leave them in the 
 lurch.
  Also the fact that every GDI faction has the same epic unit the MARV and same with nod (redeemer) 
 and the scrin (heixpod?) s upsetting.
  Steal talons for example is based on old tried and tested firepower. (such as the EA info says) 
 So it would make more sense if the steal talons had t mammoth Mk II as his epic unit, On some maps 
 you see dead Mammoth Mk II so the idea and model is generally there and the size of it makes it 
 epic. (MARV sould be Standard GDI only)
  And so forth all other factions getting an epic unit relative to there side.
  
  But enough 
 of all that over all a fun game and anyone that is a CnC fan or Enjoys RTS should try the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  I haven't spent a lot of time on Kane's Wrath, but the time I spent was really great.
  
  The Campaign... what can I say about it? Well, I was properly confused as to where I was in the 
 whole scheme of things. People seem to just talk about stuff that makes no sense. I'm in the middle 
 of a plot I don't understand! Other than that I was impressed by the campaign missions once again. 
 Each different from the other.
  
  The new units are also really awesome! The new factions with their own Upgrades and Abilities and 
 their own special weapon adds another dimention to the game. Each of the 3 factions now have 9 
 extra sub factions making it a total of 9 "factions" to play with. 
  
  Again the graphics and High Def video's are mindblowing and the acting is intense in the Campaign 
 Video's. 
  
  Totally worth the buy, even if the campaign plot sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HufflePuff-TLH
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  the expansion the to great game CNC TW3 ( Command and Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars ) i was looking forward 
 to playing this, but overall it let me down.
  
  Gameplay - Not much has changed here, same as CNC3TW but with a few new units for each fraction, 
 some of then are oki to play and gives the game a new aspect.
  
  Grafiks - Same as CNC3TW, i dont see that they changed anything except a new start screen, but 
 thats oki in my oppinion, because it still looks realy realy nice, and striking for RTS still.
 
  
  Singleplayer - New single player mode, but only playable as NOD, what is up with that, they dident 
 have time to make the other 2 ? GDI and SCRIN ? that was a total letdown.
  
  They allso introdosed something new called Global Conquest (GC) , where you have to take control 
 of the world map with one of the 3 fractions. Well it looked a lot more fun then i was, and i got 
 bored quite quick.
  
  Multiplayer - Well it is still a fun game to play and smach your friends at, and the new units 
 are somewhat also fun and bring a little new tactiks to the table. and thats fine. 
  
  Overall, in my oppinion the expansion need some more dev time, and more content, it builds on a 
 great game and thats is what keeps it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I didn't say much about Tiberium Wars and following that trend, there really isn't much I can say 
 about Kane's Wrath. Basically, the game fills in some parts of the C&C story that Tiberium Wars 
 did not. By this I mean it fills in the time between the Second and Third Tiberium Wars, adds some 
 background into the Third Tiberium War, and does a little followup as to what happened afterwards. 
 All this is done with the same quality of cinematics and characterisation that Tiberium Wars had.
 
  
  The few new units and sects that Kane's Wrath adds allow for a more in-depth feel into the core 
 races, and feel both natural and interesting, as well as balanced. The super units are a take from 
 the Relic units from Dawn of War, but you don't get many completely original ideas nowdays anyway. 
 They also seem to fit in with the story (although the Nod Redeemer seems a little disjointed, with 
 the need being identified, the target analysed, designs and testing done, and then built on field 
 within the one mission) .
  
  The Galactic Conquest mode may not be as fun as the campaign or skirmish mode, but I'm not one 
 to take marks off for an added bonus that isn't quite up to scratch. You might get a little bit 
 of fun out of it, and every now and then a change is nice.
  
  Its pretty much more of the same with Kane's Wrath, and thats basically what you expect with an 
 expansion pack. I give it 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  C&C was once another name for RTS (at least for me) . But now where is it going? Just quick way 
 to gather money and sell some half-product stuff? I was really disappointed with this title (and 
 i was expecting it with joy) . Knew that EA was gonna release an expansion (sooner or later) as 
 it was with C&C Generals (Zero Hour) . That was a great title. And this one, well, the first part 
 was a bit worse than i was expecting (but i could get along) but the expansion is worthless... 
 for MP it's OK, but for SP its utterly crap. I played C&C form first Red Alert title and I was 
 amazed with gameplay. This title has great graphic, but no substance, no gameplay, horrible story 
 Its a really bad expansion if you like SP For multiplayer few new units are ok but 
 the excitement is whipped out with such approach to game development. This title is just flash 
 with no bang. I think EA is going the wrong way with development of its RTS titles which 
 were once the second name for RTS. It would be better for EA to return to their roots and continue 
 where good things have stopped & not to forget to build a good storyline and an interesting development 
 around all flashy units and images The graphics is good, but when you play the game, you 
 feel that somethings missing EA forgot to put the games' soul in this title 
 what a shame hope they do better next time, because C&C is the title I like to play even 
 from my childhood days 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Tiberium wars 3 was a great game and hoped that this expansion will be too. I don't say that this 
 game is bad , but it isn't much fun as the original tiberium wars 3. Storymode was only NOD playable 
 , I wanted to play the storyline with GDI new units or Scrin's new units , but no.
  At first this game looks like skirmish , but some missions were fun.
  Story was quite interesting 
 , but felt kinda short.
  Graphics look like TW3 , didn't change. Or did they?
  Gameplay is always as good as it should be.
  I think they should do expansions like this , first 
 it was about NOD , then it should be about GDI and then Scrin.
  Global conquest looked more fun than it was , tutorial for GC (global conquest) looked promising 
 , but like I said , it wasn't. They should upgrade this mode a bit and it'll be alright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaMohammedCC
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Mostly people say EA destroyed CnC, but what I see, EA improved CnC a lot, especially in the graphics. 
 It is true that Global Conquest isn't that great to some, but to me, I really like it, true there 
 are few bugs, but, if there are bugs and you know them, just ignore them, it wont do any harm if 
 you don't use them. Even though, Global Conquest is new to CnC, so don't complain, because I don't 
 see you doing any better. The campaign was good, but not that good. It kinda confused me a little 
 bit, but the game play and graphics are... Just amazing, the graphics are SO GOD DAMN GOOD!
  This is my criteria of scoring:
  Game play: 10 
  Graphics: 10
  Campaign: 9
  Fun with Friends: 
 10 (should be a lot more tbh)
  Challenging: 9.7 
  Overall Score: 9.7 ~ 10
  CnC still remains one of my best games ever, and it will be. Just wish that Generals had the same 
 graphics :P, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play3r_One
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  I couldn't expect too much after I saw Tiberium Wars, and I have to say this expansion completely 
 meets my un-expectations.
  
  It's campaign in total is even worse than the one presented in Tiberium Wars, and it is just trying 
 to fill in some gaps. Story is accompanied with another worthless ending. Multiplayer is somewhat 
 improved, but in a trully shameful way. This game takes even more from C&C Generals, and it proves 
 that EA games should really leave the legendary C&C series alone before its too late. Global Conquest 
 is a new mod in this game and it is also thrown in like a junk, it is boring and worthless. I heard 
 this expansion was just made to fill in the EA strategy of ''must have 1'' expansion. So the good 
 thing in this sad story is that there will be no more expansion packs to this game, relief I would 
 say. There is only one small bright thing about this game, and that is the new Mechapede unit, 
 I wish there where more of those...
  
  Bring us back our Westwood ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  CnC3: Tib wars was an excellent game and i was very excited about this new expansion. When I first 
 started playing Kane's Wrath, I felt that the game was not offering much in terms of unique aspects. 
 The campaign was also a complete letdown (mainly because I HATE nod) but it just was not long and 
 gripping enough. The ending was also rubbish. The new superunits add a little more to the game 
 but at times it seems like who can build their superunit quiker in order to win the match. I thought 
 this was the case until I built a M. A. R. V and unleashed in with all its garrison pods filled. All 
 it did was harvest about thirty credits going across a tib field and fire its pathetic sonic launcher 
 a couple of times until its was slaughtered by some spectres. Absolutely pointless. The new sub-factions 
 are also a half-hearted attempt at adding something new to the gameplay and have very little difference 
 with their core faction. Overall and unfulfilling game and if you are are looking for and exciting 
 a new experience of CnC then go back to the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  At last the expansion of Command Conquer 3 released, like red alert 2 with his expansion : yuri's 
 revenge. i think yuri and kane i smae lookly bald. the expansion good but not the best. 
  
  =gameplay=
  
  there are alot of map campaign u can play, with many variety units can u create. 
 in skirmish mode u can find many sub-fraction on there, with each unique ability. u will enjoy 
 to playing alot of toys to destroy enemy or defend ur structure, structure not improving but the 
 unit make alot of improvement. all features not improve and just dissapointing to play. but not 
 bad and u will enjoy this expansion.
  
  =graphics=
  
  more explosions, and more light is a plus for this expansion. there are many alien units with strange 
 form can u create, especially in NOD fraction, and sub-fraction too. yeah enjoy and play teh game 
 in hours.
  
  =all performance=
  
  not bad, for the fans u will like the expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of the Command and Conqueror series. Strategies in which the buildings goes down 
 faster then the enemy units are somehow not for my taste. But Kane's Wrath is a big improvement 
 over the original C&C Tiberium Wars.
  
  1. Technical Issues
  2. Graphics
  3. Story
  4. Gameplay
  5. Multiplayer
  
  
  1. Technical Issues - Haven't found and bugs or glitches 
 during my play. But I notice a considerable slower loading times compared to the original C&C. 
 Strange as the engine is the same. There is a slight improvement in the pathfinding 
  
  2. Graphics - As I mentioned - the same engine. But Kane's Wrath is still the best looking strategy 
 game on the market currently.
  
  3. The story.... is a little confusing. I needed a lot of time to understand when and why some 
 thing happens because the campaign covers evens which happened before, during and after the Second 
 Tiberium War. But what is the most fun part of the game is not the campaign (in which you play 
 only as NOD btw) is the Conquest. You have the map of the world and you have to defeat all other 
 fractions. You can make armies, build bases, use strategic weapons and powers to turn the tide 
 in your favor. Personally this was the funnies part of the game for me. It just suck you in. "I'll 
 just make one more turn and i stop playing" - it usually took at least 5 turns, and a few battles 
 before i can stop playing.
  
  4. Gameplay - Each race is now divided at 3 fractions, which are very similar to each other, but 
 each of them, have access to different abilities and units. For example The Steel Talons factions 
 have better Rail gun upgrade, but lack APC and Guardian tanks. The ZOCOM fractions of GDI had access 
 to special infantry but the didn't have Rail gun for their mammoths at all. It is not much of a 
 change but it add spice and more variety of tactics.
  
  5. Multiplayer - Haven't played it but it seems it will be a lot better then the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  The thing that makes this expansion so great is the new sub-factions which brought a lot of variety 
 in the core game. Now there are new units, structures, maps and so many new strategies to try out 
 and figuring out your new favourite faction. {^_^}
  
  Many people said that for the newcomers the campaign in Kane's Wrath will be a little confusing 
 and its true. The campaign is short but interesting. I had a lot of fun playing. The cut-scenes 
 are good as ever and its fun watching them at least the first time. I was told that the campaign 
 fills the holes between the second and third Tiberium wars. Well I am a new fan of the series and 
 I didn't quite catch that but I learned interesting things about the Tiberium Universe. After I 
 finished the game I searched the net and found out what happened in the first and second Tiberium 
 wars.
  
  The RTS games are all about the multiplayer and in my opinion Kane's Wrath is the champ in that 
 category at least for now. There isn't greater delight that seeing two or more players trying to 
 annihilate each other.
  
  The graphics is as great as the TW but there are little differences between the two games and in 
 some cases TW looks better.
  
  The one thing I don't like is that you can't run the game above 30FPS and this makes the famous 
 slow motion thing when there are two many units on the map. The game does not lag but slow motion 
 isn't that much better. People should stick to 1v1, 2v2, 3FFA and 4FFA for smooth game. In the 
 end I will say that I will play Kane's Wrath for a long time alongside with AoC. Respect EA but 
 fix the da*n FPS cap.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  II only gave it an 8.0, meaning it was somewhere between good and just ok. I tend to rate games 
 a little high. 
  It's a Kane only expansion. The main Game Spot review hits it on the head, the storyline goes from 
 bad to better to a disappointing ending. With the engine of CC3 you would expect more. It fills 
 in the gaps of CC3 but I am not so sure that is a good thing. One thing with all these NOD factions 
 is they need to give you a choice between serving Kane and his turncoat, neurotic feme fatal. (Call 
 me a fan of Wing Commander!) Next knock is the acting is the worst overacting I have ever seen. 
 Yes, even worse than Billy Dee Williams last year. I'll take Mike Ironsides over all of them. 
 
  I like this game but if I were you I would wait for 3 more months for it to hit the bargain bin. 
 Pay 20 bucks for this game but not over that. 
  
  Obiken 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFalcon25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Now, Expansion and Addition could be seen as the same thing. However, to me, they are drastically 
 different. An Expansion truly develops and EXPANDS the game play of that specific game, bringing 
 new things to the fold and allocating a variety of fun features to the original. An addition throws 
 a couple of things in just to get people to spend their money. Arguments can easily be made for 
 both sides. But I have to say this:
  
  It's a little bit of both. Speaking from years of Command and Conquer sucking hours from my life 
 (now, those were wondrous hours, mind you) , the campaign has always been a crucial part of the 
 game. I remember all the games and the various endings for each side. Yet, this expansion's campaign 
 was not satisfying at all. Obviously, it was designed to focus on Nod and God bless Joe Kucan as 
 Kane who carried the storyline along with his powerful look that captures your attention. At times, 
 though, the campaign seemed confusing, even to me, as though EA was trying to throw in explanations 
 for everything that was ever left out. Well EA, sometimes not explaining the gaps adds fun to the 
 equation and certainly sparks debate, such as "What happened to CABAL after Firestorm?" and "What's 
 with all the life pods with Kane clones in it at the end of Nod's Firestorm campaign?" Sounds like 
 an addition to me.
  
  Now, onto what Kane's Wrath truly expands upon, that being the gameplay element. The new subfactions 
 add such diversity to the game, allowing players to find their perfect match and delve into a large 
 number of new playing styles. The Steel Talons rock my world, since they have a Tiberian Sun-esque 
 feel and a final steamroller attack style (for me, at least) . The Marked of Kane bring back that 
 heavy hitting Cyborg Infantry in two forms, which initially had me giddy like a little girl, but 
 inevitably disappointed me. Just as a side note, I really wanted the guy who did the voices for 
 the cyborgs in Tiberian Sun to do the voice for the Awakened and then the individual who did the 
 voice for the Cyborg Commando to do the voice for the Enlightened. The other factions continue 
 to add new and unique modifications to their parent counterparts, thus making this expansion less 
 of an addition. The Black Hand provide superb infantry for those of you who love their boys on 
 the ground and have improved flame weaponry, as well as the Purifier Assault Mech, but no stealth 
 units or air units. ZOCOM for GDI have hellish sonic based weapons on a variety of different units, 
 Tiberium Resistant Suits, and Zone Raiders, but no railguns. Steel Talons have no higher tier infantry 
 or Sonic Cannon base defenses, but have heavier armored Titans (which can crush tanks) and Wolverines 
 as well as new upgrades. Reaper 17 has enhanced Reaper Tripods and Shard Walkers that deal devastating 
 damage and have powerful upgrades, but lack Planetary Assault Carriers and Devastator Warships 
 (but they do have shielded harvesters) . Traveler 59 has high speed infantry and warships (which 
 are cheaper!!!) but lack shield generators.
  
  So, for C&C fanatics like me, pick it up! For everyone else, try it first. While these new additions 
 add to the skirmishes and the multiplayer, if you're looking for a great campaign, you may not 
 find it.
  
  One question, though (does not affect score) : Why do people rush ALL the time online? Whatever 
 happened to the days of massive force build ups and then epic battles that decided a match?
  
  Oh well. Maybe I'm too old-fashioned.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 1, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Kane's Wrath is the latest addition to the Command and Conquer universe and sadly its not all its 
 cracked up to be. There are many issues with this game that put me right off but with the classic 
 Command and Conquer gameplay style, outstanding graphics and just my general love for this series 
 keep me comming back for more.
  
  The story line is well told and the HD live cinamatics are as always very well done and look excellent. 
 But the story gets very boring after the first 2 or 3 missions and you may find yourself not even 
 wanting to play it again after completing it for the first time. 
  I think that the whole thing should have been set after C&C3. Starting off from where Kane and 
 his inner circle are in the alian tower, sadly this is not the case for almost all of the story 
 mode. There are about 13 or so new missions spanning from before C&C3, during C&C3 and after C&C3, 
 this may sound good but its really a drag and really doesnt feel like it has the affect that most 
 other C&C games have.
  
  If you can look past the dissapointing story mode you will need to then try and gat past the terrible 
 sub-factions. They are simply horrible and ruin the command and conquer 3 expirience. They should 
 have added new units to the existing races and have done with it. Even that may not have saved 
 it though as some of the units in the game look badass but belive me, there not. While we are on 
 the subject of the new units the new Uber Units suck, there underpowered and just rubish. EA still 
 have the flame units over powered, I was using the M. A. R. V last night actually and it fired at 
 a single black hand soldier and after about 10 - 15 shots I got so bored and ran him over, This 
 is a fact that the uber units are underpowered and the flame units are over powerd, EA sort this 
 out now! Im not asking im demanding!
  
  If you shut out the above stuff the game has outstanding visuals, some of the best I have EVER 
 seen, so amazing. The skirmish mode is excellent aswell with some huge battles breaking out all 
 over the place sometimes. There are loads of new maps to play on aswell and this makes the whole 
 expirience better. There is also a new mode called "Conquest Mode" I have not really played this 
 but I took the time to play about 10 minutes or so of this mode when I first got the game and I 
 didnt like it, it was quite bad.
  
  Online as always is excellent and full of people that spam and rush you in the first couple of 
 seconds with tanks ext. But other from that its a great expirience.
  
  If you can look past the terrible side of this game and focus on the sood side then this game will 
 find a place onto your shelf, but if you cant stand a bad story, bad uber units and bad subfactions 
 then you may want to stay away from this game.
  
  It gets a "just about" 7 from me, outstanding visuals, maps, modes and options make up for this 
 game but its just not enouth to cancel out the many terrible and unnessary options and features 
 in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  - Why it received an 8 even though it should be rated higher - Kanes Wrath is a great game dont 
 get me wrong but I felt disappointed because it could have been so much more
  
  I have been a long time fan of the RTS genre and specifically Command and Conquer. First PC game 
 I ever played was C&C Red Alert the Chronosphere and Tesla Coils... oh those were the days of super 
 low resolutions, blob like units, and windows 95.
  
  Kanes Wrath introduces two subfactions within each main faction of C&C 3 and still allows you to 
 play as the original sides. KW also introduces a faction superunit (in C&C Tiberian Sun the units 
 were the Mammoth (I believe that is what it was called) and Cyborg Commando) .
  
  
  
  *Pros*
  
  - Cutscenes - Good as always in every C&C game. Kane is creepy and... well Kane is 
 an awesome character and one of the main reasons I love C&C. The games story line really ties events 
 together before and after the events of C&C 3 Tiberium Wars.
  
  - New units - The new units provide new tactics, and are fun to play with.
  
  - Graphics - 
 Were good in the last one and well... nothing has changed... still looks good
  
  - Super Units - They vary and can really wreak havoc if used correctly
  
  *Cons*
  
  - Campaign 
 missions - The campaign is short, and the missions are very easy. You start with atleast 15K every 
 mission and youre placed conveniently near tiberium spikes so money flows into giving you tons 
 of units very quickly. That may be nice for some, but I enjoy more challenging RTS gameplay (like 
 the gameplay provided in C&C and Company of Heroes, not gameplay like World In Conflict) . The missions 
 have annoying mission objectives that make you feel like youre saving nothing. In one mission you 
 start with a small area of the map to build your base, and then you have to destroy everything 
 around you and capture a building then defend it from a counterattack. Honestly you just eradicated 
 any enemy within the map and now all of a sudden back up is coming to blow up the building you 
 captured? 
  
  The campaign wasnt terrible but it didnt meet the expectations I had for this game
  
  To me, 
 the missions were fun but too easy. I still like the C&C 3 Tiberium Wars campaign better. Tiberium 
 Wars had more missions, better cutscenes, and harder difficulty in missions.
  
  - Subfactions - The subfactions are fun to play with but they just dont seem to fit the faction, 
 and some feel very underpowered. The Scrin notorious for the best airships dont have a subfaction 
 specializing in airships and one of them allows you to build only one airship because their specialization 
 is ground units.
  
  And come on 2 factions? C&C Generals: Zero Hour gave us 3 subfactions and the original!
  
  
 Overall its a great game but certainly didnt meet the expectations of many. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oninuva
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Overall game is great, the new sub-factions, units, and maps add variety to the game play and new 
 strategies. As of now, there are no factions that are really over powered though some can be argued 
 as better than others. Online the use of the factions are spread out so each faction has around 
 the same amount of people playing them but on ladder rush is still the favored strategies so rush-orientated 
 factions are more used on ranked ladder games.
  
  NOD is no longer the under-used faction as new balances and factions prove them to be way better 
 than before. In rushing and late game teching games. The biggest problem of all is the many disconnects 
 and out-of-sync problems online which they claim to be fixed next patch. There are of course some 
 balances that will be needed to be made but a slight bug should not take off points if they are 
 going to be fixed. 
  
  The single player campaign is great for anyone and starts you right off the bat with some easier 
 missions but none the less fun. They brought back the use of real actors for cut scenes and cinimatics 
 between missions and objectives which is also great. The sound is appealing and the graphics are 
 great on the eyes. You can't take off points for not being able to run the game but if your computer 
 is good then the game is great. Would you rather play a game with crappy graphics or a game that 
 needs a good computer and has amazing graphics. If you chose the first choice, your not a gamer 
 and should not play games. Go buy an xbox 360. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbg
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  Welcome back, commander...
  Is Command and Conquer 3: Kane's Wrath is great game and good expansion?
  + It is hard so you 
 can upgrade your brain
  There new units and new fractions.
  13 new and hard mission
  - 
  Global Conquest is disappointing. I think that EA don't win for it. For example-you can move 
 your army from North America to Europe. I think the war on two on more fronts are good for the 
 game. When you win in Africa you will lose in Europe. 
  In Campaign you can play only with NOD (for me this is good, but not for all) . 
  There are some 
 bugs in game. For example: In second mission when my Scorpion tank gained experience and level 
 up, his new rank was... GDI rank. I dont know whz but all other units have NOD ranks.
  However if you want to be gamer you must play this expansion and of course an original Command 
 and Conquer 3 game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 14, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Ever the showman, Kane makes an explosive return in Kane's Wrath, the expansion to Command & Conquer 
 3: Tiberium Wars. The expansion's story picks up shortly after the Second Tiberium War, where Nod 
 is defeated by GDI's overwhelming firepower, and then traces Nod's return to power and Kane's moves 
 toward ascension.
  
  Instead of playing as an up-and-coming new general, you take on the role of an artificial intelligence 
 named LEGION, which helps as settings jump across time. The story is told through high-definition 
 video sequences, a signature feature of Command & Conquer games, and fills in many of the gaps 
 between the Second and Third Tiberium Wars while providing extra insight on the events that occur 
 in C&C 3. However, Kane's Wrath by itself comes with its own share of plot holes, specifically 
 what LEGION's relationship to CABAL (the sentient AI from C&C 2 that went insane) is, and Alexa 
 Kovacs' (the new mission liaison, played by Natasha Henstridge) hot and cold attitudes toward you 
 and sentient AI's. Special effects are also added so that players feel like they're seeing things 
 through a camera lens, so the actors look stretched out.
  
  The campaign is made up of 13 missions and doesn't take very long to play. Everything is told from 
 Nod's point of view, so those who lack stealth and guerilla tactics may struggle in the beginning 
 but patience soon pays off when the big firepower comes into play, fully exemplifying Nod's motto 
 of "Peace through Power."
  
  Kane's Wrath is like C&C on steroids. GDI, Nod and the Scrin each have two subfactions that come 
 with specialized weapons and abilities. Additionally, they now have gigantic Epic Units like GDI's 
 MARV, a three-barreled monster tank with a built-in refinery that consumes tiberium crystals as 
 it moves across the battlefield. Infantry can be added on to these superweapons to increase their 
 abilities. For example, adding an engineer adds self-repair.
  
  Although these armored giants tend to grab all the attention, the other new units and balances 
 also deserve mentioning. Engineers pause in front of structures for a second or two before taking 
 it over, giving players a chance to retaliate. Additionally, players can purchase laser fencing 
 and sonic walls to protect structures from engineers and commandos. Nod's new stealth long range 
 artillery makes the faction an incredible force to deal with, since they can use stealth tanks 
 and commandos to act as spotters before raining down destruction, tearing down buildings in seconds 
 and obliterating mammoth tanks as they approach.
  
  Lastly, Kane's Wrath introduces a Global Conquest, a turn-based mode where you build up bases like 
 cities and put together custom strike forces in an effort to win global influence. This is the 
 expansion's weakest and least satisfying feature. Players have access to superweapons in turn based 
 mode and can use them to obliterate enemy bases. There's nothing more frustrating than watching 
 a fully upgraded base get wiped off the map by a string of off-turn superweapon attacks and being 
 powerless to react. Furthermore, the tiles representing strike forces often overlap each other, 
 making it difficult to select specific ones. Strike forces can't be combined, even when they're 
 damaged, nor can they be used to launch simultaneous attacks on other units or bases. For the most 
 part, Global Conquest doesn't feel thought out, and ends up turning into a race to produce the 
 most strike forces in an effort to overwhelm the competition.
  
  Kane's Wrath brings the challenge of C&C 3 to a new level with new over-the-top units and an equally 
 overblown campaign. The expansion improves on C&C 3 in every critical area while keeping up the 
 game's fast and furious pace. The Global Conquest is disappointing, but not enough to ruin the 
 game. Those looking to step up their game with gigantic units and incredible power should unleash 
 Kane's Wrath. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarwan_dude
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars was, without a doubt, one of the best "old school" real-time 
 strategy game to be released in years. Entitled Kane's Wrath, this NOD-themed expansion is the 
 best add-on I've so far seen for a C&C game yet.
  
  Kane's Wrath centers squarely on the terroristic Brotherhood of NOD faction and their enigmatic 
 leader, Kane. Rather than picking up after the conclusion of Tiberium Wars, the main campaign jumps 
 back in time a bit and fills in some holes in NOD's rather tumultuous history. The narrative is 
 just a part of the overall equation but it has a sense of depth to it, thanks mostly to the campy 
 yet well-crafted full-motion video sequences sprinkled throughout the game.
  
  Gameplay-wise, Kane's Wrath doesn't deviate from the basic C&C formula. You still harvest tiberium, 
 build up your base, commission units and head out to punish your enemy. The sad news is that NOD 
 is the only faction that has a full campaign: fans of the other two factions will be left out in 
 the cold asides from two new sub-factions each and a few new units. But the missions offer a lot 
 of thrills, with objectives will also prove familiar for series vets-doing the bidding of your 
 charismatic leader Kane, mostly with a far more deft touch than the two other factions. This mostly 
 involves butting heads against the Global Defense Initiative and the Scrin, though you'll also 
 find yourself going against wayward elements of the Brotherhood who have forgotten just powerful 
 Kane is.
  
  There's no doubt that Kane's Wrath has some flaws and unless you're a fan of the NOD, you'll probably 
 feel a little cheated by the lack of a GDI or Scrin campaign. Still, Kane's Wrath is quite impressive 
 nonetheless. It does exactly what a good expansion should - it follows closely in the footsteps 
 of its parent title while also bringing something new to the table. It exhibits the same sense 
 of polish and depth that made the original Tiberium Wars such a classic. RTS fans who can't get 
 enough of the Command & Conquer universe should definitely check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm really an incompetent n00b in RTS games : consequently, I can't evaluate the main RTS aspect 
 of this expansion.
  
  The only reason I bought it, in the first place, is because it introduces a turn-based global strategy 
 mode.
  
  I'm content : that mode seems quite immersive just by itself.
  
  When armies meet on the global map, I select the quick "autoresolve" option, and don't waste my 
 time and n00b energies with the RTS option.
  
  If you enjoy turn-based strategy and already own the basic game, go ahead and get the expansion 
 for at least that Global Conquest mode : it's worth it.
  
  If you are a multiplayer RTS warrior, be wary : the expansion has some major "desynch" issues. 
 Visit the EA-KW forum to learn about them.
  
  On the forum, I learned that in the Global Conquest mode, the alien species was the most difficult 
 of the three factions to play. (I haven't tried it yet.) But it's quite a surprise when the aliens 
 destroy one of your bases by opening a wormhole over it and pouring in troops out of nowhere! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  Single player campaign and story: Through 13 quests in 3 chapters the developers get into details 
 of the Nod's history. The story follows Kane's life since he started to fight against GDI force. 
 Instead of adding new characters and contents, the expansion try to fill in the blanks betweet 
 previous versions of Command and Conquer, which seems to me a failure. The story looks quite incoherent 
 indeed. Fortunately, most of the quests, which require you to make use of both existing and new 
 military units' abilities, are quite exciting and some really challenging. New units mean new strategies, 
 and you can't beat a chapter without swift reaction to sometimes unexpected circumstances. EA Los 
 Angeles continues to use cut scenes with real actors between quests. Broadly speaking, except for 
 Kane, other actors' performance doesn't live up to expectation and lacks of emotion.
  
  Global Conquest, a precious addition: Once again you will run into the mixture between RTS and 
 turn-based strategy, similar to Total War or Soulstorm. The same goal "defeat all" can be achieved 
 in different way by each factor. For example, Nod can organize as many riots at the same time as 
 possible while GDI tries to keep a high proportion of areas in the map. In fact, this mode is presented 
 even better than the Skirmish in Dawn of War - Dark Crusade. You will surely appreciate a comprehensive 
 overview of the world.
  
  As a fan of Command and Conquer series, you may want to have this expansion pack in your collection, 
 just don't expect something perfect like the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chefjr84
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  This game altough having some great new weapons to play with such as M. A. R. V. and the different 
 sub factions but it really lacks much depth at all. I of corse enjoy the new missions but it is 
 only fun for the most hardcore c&c fans. I wish they had added more maps or more missions i am 
 done with the mission and i am working my way through the newly added maps and i actually like 
 them a lot but i be done with those soon and then i think i will leave c&c alone until the next 
 one comes out later this year.... dont get me wrong it has replay value in online but if you are 
 like me and online is well boring to you then the game will give a small satisfaction but as I 
 realized this is sort and not sweet but hey what do i know i am just a gamer who is new to the 
 whle online gaming sceen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albrethsen26
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Ok. with a patch that balances the game, this will be the best RTS game of all time. what im saying 
 is... its AMAZING.. but unbalanced. fr example, the zone raider unit for ZOCOM, costs the same as 
 a zone trooper, and is meant to be the same, but... it should cost more... the zone trooper is only 
 strong vs. vehicle/structure, whereas, the zone raider.. SAYS it is only strong vs vehicles/structure, 
 but they are ACTUALLy strong vs everything... EVEN Aircraft! that is just one of the many flaws 
 in this game, another OP unit is the Confessor Cabal, for the black hand... it only costs 300, 
 and is strong vs infantry... but with a cheap $2000 upgrade, they are strong vs everything on the 
 ground. the whole faction of the black hand is OP. the 2 MOST op factions are scrin, and traveler-59, 
 they both have the warship, which is an aircraft and kills EVERYTHING, EVEN ANTI-AIR!!! so if someone 
 just gets about 25 of those, th2ey automatically win... the reaper-17 is the only somewhat balanced 
 crin faction.... so when your playing, DONT FACE SCRIN, you cant beat them!!-on multiplayer..... the 
 singleplayer in this game is amazing, from the fun, challenging campaign, to the skirmish mode, 
 to the global conquest mode. skirmishes are just the same as in tiberium wars, but there is a new 
 mode, Gloabl conquest, which is like a cnc version of risk. its alot of fun. overall this game 
 is alot of fun though, despite all of the imbalances. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorwang
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 : Kane's Wrath is an expansion pack to Tiberium Wars, it has 13 single player 
 missions , several new units, 6 new sub-factions and the Global Conquest Mode. Those are really 
 good selling points. The new missions can give it a new understanding to the whole Command and 
 Conquer series. But you can only play as Nod, this is one of the weaknesses. The new sub-factions 
 are fantastic, with which you can have more than fun. This is what the Command and Conquer Generals 
 : Zero Hour, which also has got sub-factions. 
  If the sub-factions are great, then the Global Conquest mode is fascinating! Though the review 
 say is not so overwhelming, it is really something you could have fun with. For you can edit your 
 own missions your own strikes forces. You could let everything do what you what, what you want 
 "the world" be like.
  But there's something disappointing is that it's too short. It costs 30 bucks, but it has just 
 13 missions, it's a little bit of a waste of money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2428,0. html
  
  The Command and Conquer series just keeps expanding. With the announcement of Red Alert 3 and the 
 release of Kane's Wrath, EA has been pushing its C&C fever upon its fans. Kane's Wrath is an expansion 
 to last year's hit Tiberium Wars.
  
  To start off, the story in the campaign of this installment is much more disjointed than the one 
 in the rest of the games, as it jumps through several parts of the Tiberium storyline. The first 
 act takes place between the second and third Tiberium Wars, whereas the second act jumps to events 
 that took place during C&C3. While it sounds like an interesting idea, the story is definitely 
 worse than the one in the rest.
  
  You play as the Nod faction through the entire campaign, which disappointingly fails to capitalize 
 on the Scrin. In general the gameplay is identical to previous installments of the series. It's 
 fast-paced, fun, and eminently playable. However, the design of the campaign is sporadic, part 
 of which is great, and another that is poorly designed.
  
  Kane's Wrath's most appealing addition is the new subfactions. For the most part, the subfactions 
 aren't radically different from their vanilla counterparts, but they bring some subtle and interesting 
 additions and changes to the battlefield. Some tweaks and additions do introduce some radical change, 
 but the vast majority are insignificant. Among the changes, the factions get superunits with powerful 
 attacks. But they are quite expensive and could easily be swept up in the fast-paced gameplay.
 
  
  Kane's Wrath also introduces Global Conquest, a Risk-like turn-based mode. However, it's pretty 
 disappointing and simple. There isn't much depth in the gameplay as you take over boring-looking 
 territories in simple turn-based movements.
  
  Kane's Wrath is a sufficient expansion, but it disappoints in some respects. The new Risk-based 
 mode and campaign aren't too worthwhile, whereas the breadth of gameplay additions and new maps 
 should satisfy diehard C+C plans. However, this definitely isn't Kane's finest hour 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamisjamas
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Last year's Command and Conquer 3 gave all of us C&C fans what we had been waiting a long time 
 to play. The updates to the game added quickness with tweaks here and there , and just enough of 
 what we liked mixed in with some new. The same goes for the expansion. I thought that after playing 
 the story mode , that it gave me more closure between C&C2 and C&C3. My biggest let down, is that 
 the story mode doesn't have a GDI or Scrin campaign and that it is rather short. It gives us "super 
units in the MARV and Redeemer and greater anti-air capabilities. My only issues were, when I 
 had numerous glitches within the single player campaign. With new units , more maps , a conquer 
 the world game mode and more action , what's not to like. If you liked C&C3 then you really should 
 get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  To put it plane and simple i feel like this isnt much of an expansion, it feels like they should 
 have included this into C&C3. The world conquest mode is simple and really easy but its just not 
 as polished as it should be. in fact that seems like mush of this game, harvesters freak out while 
 waiting at the refinery and sometimes units just dont want to respond to things. 
  
  The one thing i did like about this game was that it basically taught you how to really play as 
 Nod. I personally like GDI's style and units but being forced out of my comfort zone and having 
 to play as Nod in single player helped me greatly understand Nod's units better and actually helps 
 my strategy against Nod opponents.
  
  To put it plan and simple this is a must for C&C fans who want to get ready for the next game or 
 expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindlessTeef
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  I rated Command and Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars at 7.9/10, and that was me being generous. Although 
 CnC3 TW is a great looking game I felt that it lacked in regards to gameplay. Generals and Zero 
 Hour was both great and I expected EA to keep to their fun gameplay mechanics and was disappointed 
 when they didn't.
  
  Kane's Wrath, on the other hand, is most certainly a step in the right direction. The Global Conquest 
 mode is a great addition as well as the sub-faction and the variety of units that they bring to 
 the game. I tried the Global Conquest initially using GDI, but failed miserably. I had a rather 
 poor first impression of Kane's Wrath at this point and it was only after I restarted for the fourth 
 time using Nod that I realized what great strategy game this really is.
  
  GDI is simply under-powered and need to be fixed. My Nod Global Conquest is going much better, 
 so much that I have not even looked and the games singleplayer campaign. 
  
  Kane's Wrath, in my humble opinion, is a great RTS... more in the spirit of the old Westwood days 
 of Command and Conquer and less like the insult to PC RTS gamers that Tiberium Wars was. I'm looking 
 forward to see where EA takes the franchise next... especially with Red Alert 3. EA has a bit of 
 a shaky history with PC titles, often dumbing game mechanics down to make games work on consoles 
 as well... 
  
  Let's just hope EA's future titles keep with Kane's Wrath's approach of adding some complexity, 
 even if this means developing console and PC RTS's separately. (I rate it at 8.7, technically)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_unreal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  The game has great visuals, sound effects and game-play. In this expansion new unique units have 
 been added to all factions and I'd like to mention two super-powerful units MARV tank (GDI) and 
 Redeemer (NOD) and also a new range of Cybernetic Infantry for NOD who can turn the tides of battle.
 
  This time the Campaign focuses on The Brotherhood of NOD and their conquest. The story fills some 
 of the gaps of the original game. However, the story jumps without proper continuation. Also the 
 campaign left me in disappointment when it ended suddenly. Not to mention the campaign is too short.
 
  New Global Conquest has been added which is a turn-based mode. New subfaction have been added 
 for all races but the game could have really been much better. The expansion also requires C&C: Tiberium 
 Wars installed to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkNeoBahamut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  The bad: Short campaign, NOD only.
  The good: Good balance, new subfactions and units, new techs, new toy: world conquest.
  
  (Spoilers, 
 kind of.)
  
  Command & conquer 3 Kain's Wrath is a real-time strategy game that let you take control over 3 
 main factions, GDI, Nod and Scrin, in a technological and futuristic environment . Said that let's 
 start with business.
  
  The new things: 6 subfactions, 2 for GDI, 2 for Nod and 2 for Scrin, each of the subfactions has 
 its own strengths and weaknesses, but they are in perfect balance so you can battle any other faction/subfactions 
 without being disadvantaged. Example, Some of the subfactions lack of some aircraft units (even 
 of all them) , but in return you can build stronger vehicles (with new abilities) and infantry units 
 and low cost, and some new techs. Those subfactions who have strong aircraft units lack of stronger 
 vehicles and some of the stronger infantry, giving a good balance in battle, and the possibility 
 of new strategies.
  All of the subfactions have a new structure, which allow building a super vehicle; a HUGE unit 
 created to bring chaos and destruction around it, with a special ability that make it unique. And 
 you can add 2-3 out of 6 weapons to it in order to make it stronger against some specifics units.
 
  Another new thing is another superweapon, maybe not so strong as the original superweapons but 
 you can use it without a countdown.
  
  However not everything about C&C3KW is good. Let's talk about the campaign: in one word "Disappointing", 
 unlike C&C3TW there's only 1 campaign, and you only play with Nods faction and subfactions, and 
 guess what, only 13 misions, and the missions are kinda easy and short. The storyline is confusing, 
 especially if you haven't played C&C3TW before. And the finalit's like "this is it???? To be 
 continued?? NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO". The only bad thing about this game is undoubtedly the CAMPAIGN.
 
  
  But in return we got a new mode "Global Conquest": it's like the gameplay of Civilization 4 and 
 Empire Earth 3 (by turns) , but much better. You can see the whole world and manage your faction 
 and subfactions, making them stronger by upgrade them and battling the others factions, you can 
 battle in real-time (recommended in the beginning) or let things auto-resolve. If you like this 
 kind of gameplay, you'll love this otherwise you better play skirmish or multiplayer.
  
  In conclusion, C&C3KW is a great game but could have been better, maybe with a GDI and Scrin campaign 
 and a better storyline. But still it's a great game you can play solo or multiplayer with your 
 friends online or in a party lan as a great RTS game it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3n3r41xan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  after all the long waiting finally I got to play this game. I actually preordered this game throught 
 EB Games and when they called me to pick it up I went there straight away and took the game home 
 installed it first thing and started playing some Skrimishes to get the feel of it. at first it 
 was aright and it even got better once I got the hang of the new stuff that had added in there. 
 the epic units are really cool. after playing skirmishes for a while I went onto playing the global 
 conquest mode. at first I found it complicated and I didn't like the idea of it. mainly because 
 I expected it to be like BFME2: RotWK, which it wasn't. after playing it for a long time I started 
 liking it. any ways by now that I write this review I like the global conquest but I still wish 
 it was different. after playing skirmish games and the new global conquest mode for about 14 hours 
 I moved to playing the missions. for those people who have not played the original command and 
 conquer or tiberian sun and their respective expansions I suggest playing those first. firstly 
 they are so much fun and secondly they are very important to the story, as in you wont probably 
 understand Kane's Wrath if you haven't played the first 2 games. the missions of Kane's wrath were 
 fun to me and even though short they do kind of fill in the holes of Tiberium wars. as for the 
 graphics and sound, its the same as Tiberium Wars. overall I like the game but I honestly believe 
 that it could have been so much better if EA had put a bit more work into it. it is still one of 
 my favourite games and I will play it until Red Alert 3 is out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyzhaze
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  3 Subfactions / faction, more units and Scrin have become overly powerfull with their Mechapede. 
 Its not all that bad.... The inclusion of the Global Domination really adds that zest and power 
 to the series, its cliche, but new to the series and a welcome breathe of fresh air in CnC. There 
 are glitches and slight problems that present themselves in this new mode, but there will definitely 
 be a patch out for this.
  
  The singleplayer campaign pays homeage to the original CnC, which is not all that bad, if you are 
 fan of the series and played the first CnC.
  
  The GDI, NOD and Scin have seen some great improvements with a better balance on the old units 
 with the inclusion of some units from CnC T-Sun. There is some needed balance especially with Scrins 
 new units, I wont spoil the fun by revealing it here, but I can say its worth getting, especially 
 for the Global Domination. :-) Have gun, have fun
  
  Overall good game, just needs that little more polish and you will have a 9/10 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanes-Chosen
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  This is one of the better CnC games iv'e played. The campaign is fun. though short, and offers 
 lots of stealth tactics using the Brotherhood of Nod. The thing that adds replay value here is 
 that you can play GC mode. In this mode you either try to complete your faction's secondary win 
 condition ( building 9 threshold towers as the Scrin, for example) , or destroy all the enemies' 
 bases (nigh on impossible) .
  
  The subfactions are a great addition to the game IMO. They allow you to play with a slightly deferent 
 army then the core factions. Two examples are the Black Hand, a Nod subfaction, that have no stealth, 
 including their harvesters. The Steel Talons have a engineer eith a hand gun, so they are not completly 
 defensless ( i remember reading about their hand held in one CnC3 intel entry) . 
  
  I can't rate the multiplayer yet, because iv'e only played one match. Overall, this is just a great 
 game that offers alot of replay value to the core game, because of the subfactions and GCmode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf13
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Since this is an expansion, going over the actual game play is unnecessary, it's another C&C game 
 with the same play as C&C 3: Tiberuim wars. Kane's Wrath is just the behind the scenes look at 
 what happened leading up to and thru the third chapter of GDI vs. Nod eternal struggle for Tiberuim 
 shenanigans. 
  
  The Story.
  Kane's return is supposed to be surprising the nod forces after he was thought dead after the second 
 Tiberuim war. Since his death Nod went on with various members in a power struggle for whom is 
 to lead. Of course Kane has returned and is shaping the destiny of the planet. With his goals not 
 truly known, you play as the computer commander that is to follow Kane's word. 
  There are a few twists, but nothing really surprising. Natasha is added member of the Nod cast, 
 as always Kane surrounds himself with sexy female subordinates. 
  
  The Gameplay.
  It's C&C, that's the play 16 levels of NOD building a base and destroy everything Nod is the 
 only campaign levels with the game, there are no GDI or Scrin campaigns to sit thru, which is fun 
 and easy at times.. but the Ai will hurt you if you aren't to careful. There is an abundant supply 
 of Tiberuim this time, and you will find your self hearing "Silo's needed" a lot. There are a few 
 new units for all sides of course, it's and expansion, what would it be with out new units. Also 
 you will find your self playing on a lot of maps form C&C 3.
  There is a new feature added with this game, the Global Conquest mode, which is basically risk 
 and C&C game play combined. Create a base, buy units and move them out, defend your base against 
 attacks. Although the computer cheats.. yes that's right.. when you are attacked you are put on 
 a map, with what ever units you have, and the computer will come running at you first thing, knowing 
 exactly where your base is. Building defense are worth less since the attack is so fast you don't 
 have time to build any units. 
  
  
  The Nod 
  - New units
  - Kane returns story
  - Tiberuim every where!
  
  The not so Nod
  - Same maps
  - C&C fast action game play
  
 - Only Nod Campaign
  
  
  Opinion
  Personally I liked the expansion better than the C&C 3, I being a turtle player rather enjoy building 
 bases and defenses till I have enough forces to eradicate the enemy. Kane's Wrath gives you that 
 ability with not pushing you as fast as C&C 3 did I have time to build those 30 stealth tanks! 
 The story was entertaining and a pleasure to watch. 
  Plus there is the new global conquest mode, which could be alot better, but with not having the 
 ability to keep your base after you build it up the way you want, it kinda sucks.. and might find 
 yourself saving and loading alot after the computer kicks your ass in the first thirty seconds. 
 
  If you like C&C you have to get this game to keep up with the story if not, perhaps you should 
 start at the beginning and get all the other titles and then get this one.. 
  
  DW out
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bran20022
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about this expansion coming out, I thought right from the gecko that it would be just 
 as good, if not better than C&C 3: TW.
  
  For an expansion you would think it would be bigger and better. In the case of this expansion it 
 could of been even more bigger and better. But then again the title is Kane's Wrath..
  
  In this expansion you only get to play as NOD, with the new sub-factions joining in on the storyline. 
 When you get near the ending the storyline starts to get interesting, until you're left with a 
 meaningless ending. Kind of a downer..
  
  What's different in the game is that each 3 factions - NOD, GDI & Scirn have 2 sub factions each 
 with some new units and I'll just say some old ones from back in the day.
  
  Each faction has a "new toy" as well. Build an ultimate unit and send it on a path of death and 
 destruction.
  
  Another new thing to the game is a World Domination scenario, which is kind of playing a board 
 game on the computer, but you can do battles in real-time or just choose to auto-resolve. It's 
 something to pass the time, but that's really it.
  
  Final verdict is if you're looking to spice up for your C&C 3 multiplayer experience a little bit, 
 then pick up this expansion. It's not expensive and you can see why. But maybe the new units and 
 sub factions will bring some additional life to the C&C 3 competitive scene.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  ... the market .... EALA must be the best studio tha EA has & in my list it comes 2nd , with RELIC 
 1st & Blizzard 3rd ..... why Blizzard 3 because STARCRAFT2 is like an expansion in 3D ... but with 
 stelar production values & intense story ! KAne's wrath like C&C Generals "zero hour" is adding 
 a little more spice on the gameplay & it balances so well that each tactics requires a new kind 
 of pattern against the other tu win the battle ..... & it brings back some old units from TIBERIUM 
 SUN like the TITAN for GDI & the BALISTA stealth tank for NOD .... the story is kind of the same 
 deal but one thing is for sure C&C is allways about multiplayer & frentic skirmish battles maybe 
 with the best A. I. for an RTS ever concived ! & the SAGE engine must be one of the best RTS engines 
 out there it looks superb with the best effects out there & it can run evan o slower platforms 
 .... its easy to pick up & its a recomandation for any RTS fun ... in fact the only RTS which is 
 kind a little bit more slower when it comes to frentic battles is WARHAMMER but WARHAMER DoW2 is 
 the most blodiest ! I can't w8 to se RED ALERT 3 .... hope they bing evan more additions to the 
 gameplay than TIBERIUM WARS ... i mean TIBERIUM WARS was like a CAKE with a CHEERY (innovation) 
 on top .... & still because of the certain frentic gameplay that evan RED ALERT 3 will deliver 
 ... RA3 comes in front of STARCRAFT 2 ...4 me but behind DoW2 on my wishing list ...... because 
 RTS genre is the most dependent on multiplayer gameplay .... & SC2 gives me the feeling that i'm 
 back in 1998 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega0718
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  The good: The Epic units, these super units really add some spice to the gameplay. Imagine being 
 able to turn the tide of a battle to your favor just by properly using your side's epic unit. The 
 Nod's Redeemer is a massive Avatar like unit that has a tri-beam obelisk cannon, two slots to upgrade 
 with infantry weapons and a rage generator which forces enemy units to attack each other with as 
 much ferocity as two hot girls fighting over a guy. The Scrin's Hexapod has three slots to upgrade 
 with infantry weapons, a mean plasma disc launcher, the ability to earn cash just by destroying 
 any enemy within the Hexapod's range and finally the ability to earn cash by salvaging enemy vehicle 
 remains. The GDI's MARV (Mammoth Armed Reclamation Vehicle) is simply insane. It is a Mammoth tank 
 times one hundred. Extremely hard to take down, it has four slots to upgrade with infantry weapons 
 (imagine the possibilities) , the ability to instantly gain cash just by going over a Tiberium patch 
 and an extremely large and insanely powerful tri-barreled sonic cannon which also has a small area 
 of effect damage apart from annihilating the main target. 
  
  Oh, did I forget to mention that there are two new sub-functions with unique units and abilities 
 to each side and all the main sides gain new units and abilities too? And let us not forget one 
 of the biggest reasons why a eighteen year old and above guy will buy this game; seeing Natasha 
 Henstridge in a hot tight Nod officer uniform.
  
  The bad: Uhh, not enough Natasha Henstridge in a hot tight Nod officer uniform video scenes?
 
  
  The ugly: The campaign stinks no question asked. I know that all the NOD fanatics out there are 
 screaming with joy that they got their own campaign and that Natasha Henstridge is on their side 
 buy please EA LA what the heck are you doing?!? This is a freaking expansion pack and it should 
 have all the workings of an expansion pack meaning a campaign with full coverage of all the armies 
 involved in the story sheesh. 
  
  But wait a minute, maybe this all part of EA LA's grand master plan to earn more money. Maybe they 
 want us, their faithful fans/customers/cash cows to be forced to wait for the next expansions. 
 Come on EA we deserve something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NS_NIXON
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Maybe I will be too strict with this review... but with my expectations for this game I'm feeling 
 little disappointed...
  I played CnC3: Tiberium wars with the same graphics as this game has, same operating system and 
 same PC configuration... but my graphic settings were set on Ultra High. Now I have to play Kane's 
 wrath heavily on High graphic setting...
  For the story part I have no complaints... great continuation of the last game story... new great 
 characters in the game, also new battle units and great music in the background.
  Live character movies are great like in the last game... everything else is the same. New mission 
 ideas are great... maps are just OK... Haven't tried multiplayer yet :P
  I believe that EA Team will fix these things in future because fans like me will be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerLiew
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  Nothing I could say much about this games since it almost sames with the previous series. But I 
 would hide the fact that I love this games very much since red alert. I could look some improving 
 in graphic and the way for the users to plan off the strategies against the enemy.
  
  No long after, I have been surprise with the new type of welfare technologies that has been introduce 
 from the game. I love the storyline which involve kane in the story. Anyway I was stupid enough 
 to get myself blow for the first games that I start from this games. The mission isn't tough enough 
 which allow me to simply go through stage by stage easily but not when the general appear. 
  
  Anyway this games is really recommended for those who love strategies games. Especially when 
 challenging the other force that invoke your madness against them when a hardly build base has 
 been destroy in a second without your notice. Sound silly isn't it? Because I haven't mastered 
 this version and I need to build my skill on defending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sombody5000
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Kane is back... so now what? Not much. The 13 mission single player is far too short and easy not 
 mention the story just doesn't really flow well. It just jumps all over the CnC timeline and in 
 the end leaves you with a cliffhanger of sorts leading to the high possibility of a second expansion. 
 Characters besides Kane are not fleshed out and acting is terrible. Most single Player missions 
 are pretty standard: turtle up then wipe out AI with large army of scorpion tanks and venom patrol 
 craft. Nothing special. 
  
  The six new sub factions are nice and add some diversity and life to multiplayer but overall, they 
 all still play similarly. Some fun new units are worth checking out though like the Enlightened 
 for the Marked of Kane. 
  
  Global Conquest doesn't satisfy and is more of chore. The AI gets a ridiculous amount of strike 
 forces to hold in back for many turns, forcing you to spend money on repairing your units and bases 
 rather than building armies. It doesn't compel you to continue to play like other turned based 
 games such as Civilization IV. 
  
  AI is still as dumb as ever. The Tactical AI in Global Conquest is so terrible forcing you to play 
 out every battle. Harvester AI is still dumb and needs careful attention since they will still 
 go to the enemy's tiberium field. There are also quite a few annoying bugs like the tendency for 
 Harvesters to move around in circles rather than going back to the refinery.
  
  Overall, this is a decent game. Multiplayer fans will love it thanks to the new sub factions and 
 harassment opportunities. Outside multiplayer, there's nothing much since single player is short 
 and Global Conquest is absolutely terrible. Buy it if you're a die hard CnC fan otherwise, wait 
 for the price drop. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wait321
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is like a car built from scrap parts. It works perfectly, but there are eyesores everywhere. 
 Ignoring the terrible acting, some of the intro videos don't even lead into the missions. For example, 
 there's one intro where kane talks about getting the tacitus and when the mission starts, you're 
 suppose to liberate a nod city from the scrin and there's no mention of the tacitus. I bet that 
 they shot the intros before they finished the missions and didn't change them when the missions 
 were changed. And the last two missions don't fit into the timeline. At the end of Tiberium Wars, 
 Kane conquered an alien tower and the Scrin overlord demanded an immediate attack force be sent 
 to Earth. What happened between then and when LEGION wakes up? What was the point of taking the 
 tower?!
  
  Global conquest isn't as good as the one in Universe at War. The game mechanics seemed to be designed 
 to provide as much annoyance for the player as possible. The tactical AI sucks and loses battles 
 that you can blatantly win. You end up fighting every single battle. The zone of influence is not 
 big enough and you end up having to build tons of bases. There's not enough cities on the map. 
 The AI can use cheap forces and abilities to keep your super huge attack force from moving for 
 15+ turns.
  
  Overall, I can see where the designers were trying to go with the story and gameplay, but it needs 
 a lot more polish to get there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alejoshadow
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Even though I wish it has campaigns for all 3 factions, it would actually be bigger than the main 
 game, Command and Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars. So, it really could not be called an expansion pack. 
 
  It fills in some gaps in the story, and adds an interesting twist story from the original game. 
 On one level, it completely changes your perception of Kilian Qatar, from C&C 3, and adds a new 
 dimension to Kane's level of deceit, betrayal and level of cunning. So bravo for the story writers!!
 
  On a few missions however, it is frustrating that they only give you a commando and one or two 
 other units, where they could easily make it alot more fun if they gave you an army (even without 
 a base) .
  There is alot of fun you can have with the six new subfactions and their units. An interesting 
 addition are the three new superunits, one for each faction. They are very hard to kill, except 
 for the redeemer (Nod) which does not have an Anti-Air defense, which is very annoying!
  It would really be phenomenal if they gave a campaign for each subfaction (all six of them) , but 
 that didn't happen. 
  
  The game is great! Definitely get it if you are a fan of the series, and for the rest of you who 
 have never played command and conquer, it is still a solid game and is worth your time (especially 
 after you play C&C 3) !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lone_Warrior_66
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Last year we where finally able to immerse ourselves in the Command and Conquer story line once 
 more with the release of Command and Conquer 3. Now, more then a year later the first expansion 
 is finally here Command and Conquer 3 Kane's Wrath (KW) . 
  
  Single Player
  
  The first thing you'll notice playing KW it that there's only one campaign which features Nod only. 
 Length wise the campaign spans 13 missions which is ok but not that long. Unfortunately however 
 some of the mission are down right boring and some of them even feature skirmish maps which feels 
 kinda cheap. The story spans three acts from the end of the 2nd to the end of the 3rd tiberium 
 war. The hard core CnC fan will definitely be able to appreciate the story. It fills up several 
 plot gaps and gives an alternate view to some of the events during the 2nd and 3rd tiberium war. 
 To the casual play it might feel a bit more like a rag tag collection of events however that doesn't 
 take the fun out of the few good missions in the campaign. 
  
  To complement the single player campaign there's also a conquer the world, risk style mode. I was 
 pretty excited about this feature but in the end it was somewhat of a let down to. You can play 
 as each of the three core sides and also use the forces of their sub factions. Each side has an 
 alternate victory condition besides destroying all enemies. There's a fancy system of building 
 bases and strikes forces but in the end the game mode is nothing more then a chain of skirmish 
 missions. Strike force sizes don't really matter since as long as you have an MCV you'll be able 
 to build al the forces you need. As long as you're a good skirmish player the conquest mode won't 
 be a problem for you. Sadly you can only play this in single player. The conquest mode would have 
 been allot more fun if it also had multiplayer options. 
  
  New Toys to Play With
  
  While the single player aspects of the game are quite a disappointment the new units and maps aren't. 
 Each core faction now has two additional sub factions that specialize in a certain aspect. There's 
 allot of new units some of which are restricted to the sub factions others are also available to 
 the core factions. Some units fill previous gaps that sides had like the Spectre artillery for 
 Nod and the Slingshot AA hovercraft for GDI. Besides the new units there's also an impressive amount 
 of new maps which are both playable in skirmish and multiplayer. Last but not least each faction 
 has several new powers and upgrades which all seem to fit in just nicely.
  
  Balance and Epic units
  
  It took EA about 5 patches to finally get CnC 3 balanced out. KW 
 however seems fairly balanced right off the shelf. None of the new units seem dramatically over- 
 or underpowered. Something that does feel out of place at the moment is early game economical harassment. 
 Some early game units like the Nob bikes excel at taking out harvesters and probably 50% of the 
 games I've played so far online where decided within 5 minutes because of early game eco harassment. 
 
  Next up are the new epic units which each faction receives. When I first heard about this feature 
 it felt like a somewhat strange attempt to match the success of the epic units in Supreme Commander. 
 The epic units have however turned out pretty nice. They've been balanced to a point where they 
 are worth their cost in destructive power but not powerful enough to roll over an enemy with a 
 single push and feel overpowered. Especially noticeable is the GDI Marv which can drive over tiberium 
 field to harvest the green crystals. 
  
  Multiplayer 
  
  I've played CnC 3 online allot and fortunately multiplayer is still as much fun in KW. The new 
 units, maps and powers all add up to more diversity and more tactics available to you to crush 
 your enemies. There are a few minor balance issue's as mentioned above but since EA isn't a stranger 
 to patching I am sure some of those issue's will be corrected in the weeks to come. 
  
  Concluding
  
  It took EA LA more then a year to finish Kane's Wrath and for that time the game 
 just doesn't seem polish enough. Especially the single player campaign which has been so iconic 
 for the series is a let down. The multiplayer fortunately is still allot of fun to play and thanks 
 to the new factions, units and maps there's simply allot of online replay value to this game. 
 
  Command and Conquer 3 Kane's Wrath might not be to ultimate expansion we had all hoped for but 
 it will at least keep us busy until we can get our hands on the recently announced Red Alert 3. 
 
  
  7.5
  //
  Lone_Warrior_66 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  i picked up the Kane's Wrath expansion pack fairly cheaply for 13 ($26) so I'm not complaining 
 about lack of content. It's simply more of the same Tiberium Wars although there are some great 
 new units. Whilst in single player you can only play the fairly easy 15 level Kane campaign it 
 is incredibly good fun. There are a whole host of new maps and units to skirmish with, and there 
 is the new turn based game which I suspect won't enthuse CnC players too much, but its nice to 
 see the devs changing the game play style a little. Of course multiplayer will keep you going for 
 hours (if you don't suck at it like I do) .
  
  To be honest, seasoned CnC fans have become accustomed to not expecting to much from the add on 
 packs, but it would have been nice to see more single player campaign content.
  
  I may be wrong but I am sure the graphics have had a slight revamp, although they still do not 
 match up to the quality of Company of Heroes or World in Conflict.. Sound is pretty much the same.
 
  
  My only real criticism is that the single player campaign is a too short
  
  Overall, if you can get the expansion cheap, its a worthwhile addition
  
  Gameplay 10
  Graphics 
 8.5
  Sound 8
  Stability 10
  Value for money 10
  Overall 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  PROS
  - Pretty good graphics even if they are a bit outdated
  - Great and simple gameplay
  - Big variety of old and new units
  - AI is improved from the 
 original game
  - Solid and fun multiplayer experience
  - Some nice cinematic scenes especially from Joe Kucan
  - Free Beta key for Red Alert 3
  ---------------------------------
 
  ---------------------------------
  CONS
  - Some units\factions need to get better balance with a patch
  - Global domination is swallow
 
  - Short campaign and a bit incoherent story
  - Low replay value
  -----------------------------------
  CONCLUSION
  Well its not the best RTS for sure but surely 
 its a pretty fun experience until it lasts
  
  Maybe with a patch at least EA can make some Balance adjustments to some units and factions so 
 they feel more worthy 
  
  I am having overall a fun time with it and i am expecting to see Red Alert 3 soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrc2505
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  I'd say that this is the best CnC ever, but if you compare it to other RTS games I still prefer 
 Dawn of War.
  
  The graphics are great and so is the gameplay. But the campaign is a little short, and GC mode 
 really sucks.
  The game is still one of the best RTS when it comes to the online part.
  
  And in my mind Kane is still the ultimate Gaming Characters, and now he's back cooler than ever.
 
  
  As I say'ed earlier the campaign is a little short, but the gameplay is simply so good it can't 
 be described.
  
  And With the new Epic Unit the gameplay changes a lot (for the better) both in the single- and 
 online part.
  
  But Kane's Wrath is a great game.
  
  And with the beta key in the game you can try out the new Red Alert 3
  
  Peace through power, 
 and Down with GDI. There is noting better to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodElf42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Yeah Universe at War is so ground breaking you can stare at the ground for hours on in! lol. This 
 is a great edition to the C&C family and offers much to any gamer. While the Global Fight thng 
 is a little odd some patches could easily fix any problem with it. The Campiagn while short- was 
 oh so sweet Joe Kucan was doing some of his best here. Steel Talons is a little under powered but 
 again a patch could solve this issue this just came out a few days ago don't act so suprised that 
 some of the Balancing is off- it's happened in every single game in the R. T. S genre it will happen 
 again. This is an expansion people not C&C-4 expansion- to expand upon. THe Campaign is designed 
 to expand upon the one already there and while yes it was dissapointing that it was a Nod only 
 campaign it was a good campaign with an interesting plot that fills in all the holes from the second 
 game and opens new ones for another Expansion and Tiberium ( the FPS there making for this) to 
 fill them in. Good job E. A keep'em coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlowery
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  C&C is my favorite RTS franchise. Sure the acting blondes acting isn't that great but Kane as back 
 and is fantastic. But you know something, I really don't care about the acting anyway. It's such 
 a small part of the game, sure it sets a mood but it isn't the most important.
  I love the game the way it is and this expansion gave me more of what I enjoy about this series. 
 Lots of variety, some interesting new units, great maps, and solid gameply. Interestingly they 
 brought back a few of the best maps from C&C 3. Playing them with the new tech was still challenging 
 and familiar and enjoyable.
  I'm glad they didn't try to re-engineer this game - like SimCity Societies; that game is a real 
 dog. 
  Remember not every new game has to be revolutionary to be a good play or provide hours of amusement. 
 If you liked C&C 3 you'll enjoy this fun follow-up. Just keep in mind it is what it is, an expansion 
 and a very good one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aladar_1704
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer 3 saw the resurrection of a much beloved RTS from the "old school". New units, 
 much improved graphics and a well designed campaign helped tell a story one would definitely want 
 to hear. But is this new expansion a "must-hear" story too? 
  
  Well, no. In essence, EA maintained the good and added some timbits on the side, put together a 
 NOD cheesy fairytale with bad acting and reduced missions to "hold-ground" and "capture-some-stuff" 
 strategy, instead of the fast-paced, quick-decision-making blitzkrieg of a game we were used to. 
 The adrenaline is still there, some moments are definitely awesome (like when you need to destroy 
 two MARV's heading your way, wrecking havoc around them) , but it's very unsettling when you realize 
 that the balancing was tweaked for the scenario rather than the strategy. They're tough to beat, 
 but not by means of finding an Achilles' heel but rather the strength of your force. 
  
  All in all, it's still a satisfying experience and it sort-of adds to the overall wealth of the 
 game, but it could've been done better still. We're talking C&C 3 after all.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JcDent
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  From CnC I mainly want one thing: Red Alert 2 and it's offspring and so on. The Tiberian Sun is 
 a secondary line to me, although a very fine one.
  The plot of the game takes of after the events of Firestorm, expansion to Tiberian Sun. As a CABAL-and-Tacitus-derived 
 battle computer named Legion, you must help Kane guide the Brotherhood into the future. The campaign 
 is fine, although it's ending missions are anticlimatic. Nevertheless, I expected Legion to go all 
 Skynet (or CABAL) and try to kill everyone. That may be influenced by Natasha, new Abotess aide 
 to Kane. She's the weakest part of the campaign.
  The new thing about the game are subfactions. The GDI Steel Talons is a little nostalgic, having 
 the Titan and Wolverine mechs from TibSun (although they look almost completely different now) 
 and centers on vehicle combat. Also, their harvester and artillery walker are garrisonable. ZOCOM 
 is a bit more for fast attacks. GDI uberunit is MARV, a huge tank and harvester. Just garrison 
 4 Engineers inside and you'll be blowing buildings and tanks by dozens (it has difficulties countering 
 infantry) .
  Nod has Marked of Kane, that are the cyborgs planned by CABAL. They are an OK faction, having resilient 
 infantry. Enlightened ones' are extremely awesome, unlike the female Zone Raiders of ZOCOM. Also, 
 they have a strict antiflame policy. Othervise, it's purely Nod. The Black Hand are the religious 
 zealots that believe in flamethrowers and hate stealth units. I always thought that Black Hand 
 were the assassins. Oh well, at least flamethrowers are good against anything attached to earth. 
 Redeemer is a huge mech that is inferior to MARV because it has only two garrison slots and doesn't 
 mine tiberium. 
  I can't say much about the scrin as I didn't test them much and mechapedes didn't impress me much, 
 but their support powers are really nice now. 
  The sound is decent now, the graphics are still very nice to look at. All unit upgrades are visible, 
 even if it means a pair of cybernetic legs. And someone must of heard my curses because militant 
 squads have been returned to their former visual glory. No more hooded younglings. Pity they didn't 
 make the improved militia as tough as their GDI counterparts, as the Nod unit looks sturdier.
 
  All in all, a great expansion, much like Yuri's Revenge was to Red Alert 2 and unlike Zero Hour, 
 which was mod-like crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkReaper123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  I guess the main thing that messes up the game for me is the fact that the game is defined by the 
 fully patched version of C&C3 Tiberium Wars. This means that the harvesters carry MUCH less tiberium, 
 the crane cannot construct base defenses, the training times and costs of units and structures 
 are different (mostly much longer and much more expensive) , and lots of other things, but if i 
 were to list them all then I'd be here all day . The new units do thankfully bring some excitement 
 back into the game, and the new subfactions have alot of new units . Skirmish is improved by the 
 opposing AI actually being smarter than the Gameboy Colour, but still at some levels, afraid to 
 even build a command post or any other significant buildings, so the only hard part about base 
 is killing the MCV and cranes (not that they ever put cranes in) to stop base expansions, then 
 killing all War Factories to make sure no more MCV's spawn. The main thing that dissapoints me 
 is that the harvesters carry MUCH less tiberium. Since there is no limit to how many units you 
 can have, and the fact that all the values have dramatically increased so tech tree expansion and 
 army building will take all damn day, and since base building is severly crippled it ruins alot 
 of the game for me. The fact that harvesters carry MUCH F**KING less tiberium is even MORE dissapointing 
 because wen you have 0 funds and a harvester/s (i usually have 2 at one pile of tiberium) comes 
 and delivers, all upgardes, units, buildings train/build very slowly cause less tiberium is getting 
 delivered per sec, so you'll need multiple refineries just to kick back the tide. The difficulties 
 have become harder (no thanks to the harvester thing) witch is kinda sad, especially on days wen 
 i 'm depressed and dont need GDI constantly crusifying me. Tiberium spikes now give +25 resources, 
 a new kind of game mode is introduced, (its intriguing, but useless) campain missions are relitively 
 the same and Kane wears this retared thing on his head. A kool thing is that you can use a special 
 power on millitants that wen those in the affected area die, they come back as The Awakened. Also 
 you get to build a statue of Kane that's constantly shouting at all those near it, somehow cheering 
 up all warriors of Nod but deprssing all others. A unit that cheers me up imensely is the new $5000 
 unit in GDI (all factions have one of these) that has its balls dropped lower than those of a Mammomoth 
 Tank so it talks REALLY FRIKIN LOWWWW. Other units can garrison this new unit to give it other 
 weapons but for some reason, only a certain amount of units can garrison it so you cant unlock 
 all of its abilities at once, so choose wisely!!! They do have new buildings, but since there are 
 no extra superweapons i guess im a little bit dissapointed. New abilties and upgrades are introduced 
 and spread out over the buildings (e. g. the command post has some upgrades to buy from, but i guess 
 that's cause they crammed new ones into the armoury and tech lab) . The reason i am kinda pissed 
 off by Kane's Wrath is cause its not much better than TW. A little bit better, but not ALOT better. 
 I bet that the first patch for this game will f**k up training/building times and costs even more. 
 Mayb a C&C Retarded Mod for Kane's Wrath will come out soon.........
  
  TO EACH HIS OWN
  
  DARKREAPER123 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahimbd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  I was really excited and was waiting eagerly for this expansion. Being a fan of the series, I was 
 waiting for a really great experience. The single player campaign is good . But it only gives us 
 a NOD version of the story. So its pretty short.
  
  Another point I want to make is that the two subfactions for each will give good results in multiplayer. 
 But I definitely think that they had to do more balancing. For example, the epic units. These should 
 have been tougher! IGN reviewer said that they are useless. I didnt believe him. But now I do believe 
 him. They got the size but its not that hard to bring one down.
  
  The gameplay remains the same. Gets kinda boring actually. But maybe thats just me. Graphics are 
 as good as ever. Sound is cool too. But I find it strangely familier with RED ALERT 2. 
  
  
  So, all in all its a great game as the original one. But my over-expectation probably killed 
 it.
  
  P: S: Kane's mask looks funny! The mask doesnt even fit properly beside his cheeks!!!
  
  P: S: 
 This is not related to Kane's wrath. But I just hate the guy whoever took the decision to discard 
 the old MAMMOTH and bring in the wheeled one. For heavens sake I can ROLLOVER with 20 mammoths 
 but it still doesnt give that old feelings. It really doesnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreammosaic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Command and Conquer since its first game. This expansion hasn't ruined that, 
 but it has made me a bit wary of what else EA will do the series. The story is very disjointed, 
 if you haven't played earlier C&C games and are expecting to start from where C&C 3 left off, you 
 will be very confused for a while. The lack of more than 1 faction for a campaign is also a big 
 let down. Playing from the various sides, seeing how things turn out, is part of the charm of the 
 games. I know the game is Kane's Wrath, but breaking the pattern of past games makes this one seem 
 a bit lackluster and half finished. The new units aren't bad, they can take a bit of getting used 
 too but Nod still feels a little underpowered compared to GDI and especially the Scrin. Overall 
 I am a bit sad I spent 30 bucks on the game, should have waited until it dropped to 20 or even 
 15. Buy this game if you are a hardcore C&C 3 fan, are desperate for an ok strategy game (or like 
 clicking fast) , but wait awhile otherwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azza29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  I will be honest: C&C3 is the first Command and Conquer game I played. Ever. So you can look at 
 it two ways: either I don't know what I'm talking about because I haven't 'experienced' the entire 
 C&C series, or I can bring a fresh perspective to my review, not having the 'baggage' of playing 
 the entire series. I'd like to think it's the latter.
  
  RTS expansions are a funny thing - they need to make some changes to the game to provide value 
 but at the same time they need to be similar to the original game to appeal to the fans. Company 
 of Heroes and Star Wars: Empire at War are example of, I think, expansions done well. Battle For 
 Middle-Earth II and Age of Mythology did it poorly.
  
  Anyway, I thoroughly enjoyed C&C3 - the campaign was great, especially the cheesy FMV cutscenes 
 (so much more rewarding than most RTS cutscenes, which involve watching an awkward conversation 
 between two low-polygon character models) and the multiplayer works great as well.
  
  The challenge for any studio in producing a sequel to an already popular game is that they need 
 to add new stuff in without overcomplicating the existing game, and EALA have done an excellent 
 job here. The addition of new subfactions breaks up the GDI/Nod/Scrin monotony, with the subfactions 
 allowing you to get some variety whilst playing as your preferred side. New units add some extra 
 grunt to each side, and possibly speed the game up even further. Infantry is still useless, apart 
 from the Zone Troopers and Black Hand, so most of your production will go into tanks.
  
  The 'big' change is that you can now produce an 'epic' unit, which is very powerful but also incredibly 
 expensive. To be honest these a a bit useless because it uses up 12,000 income to produce one (building 
 + unit) , and they probably move too slowly to be truly useful. Although it won't win the battle 
 for you, if you can get one to your opponent's base you will definitely have an advantage. That 
 said, most multiplayer games don't last long enough to produce these things so you're probably 
 better off using your income on other units.
  
  The campaign is OK, probably not quite as good as the one in C&C3. This is likely because it focuses 
 solely on Nod and its subfactions, which gets monotonous over time. There's only so many times 
 you can build Avatars and Scorpion tanks before it gets boring. The story is also a little convoluted, 
 as it occurs in three 'chapters' spread over the time preceding, during and after the events in 
 C&C3. 
  
  FMV cutscenes are back again, but clearly the budget for these has been cut this time, with all 
 scenes obviously taking place in the same set. Kane doesn't age (at all!) over the thirty-odd year 
 period, and Carl Lumbly looks like he'd rather not be there. Joe Kucan and Natasha Henstridge do 
 a decent (if cheesy) job though.
  
  Overall, the campaign is fun to play, and it's a decent introduction to the game, but it's definitely 
 nothing special. If EA produces a second expansion to this game with a GDI campaign, that would 
 definitely be a good thing (does anyone really care about a Scrin campaign? Thought not...)
  
  The new world domination mode is far more interesting for single play. If you've played the 
 'Battle for Middle-Earth' mode in Battle For Middle-Earth II, it's basically the same as that, 
 essentially a hybrid of Risk and C&C3. Essentially what this does is give a much broader scope 
 to your standard skirmish matches, definitely improving the fun level there.
  
  Like any expansion, if you liked C&C3, you will like Kane's Wrath. It's not a groundbreaking change 
 to the series, but definitely adds some variety. Some people will not like the addition of subfactions 
 (it will definitely make balancing more difficult) but personally they are a welcome change. The 
 campaign is OK but nothing groundbreaking, but the real strength of this game will be, as it was 
 in C&C3, in the multiplayer component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad1956
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  I did not know that this game would be any good after recent disappointments, but boy was I wrong. 
 To start this game you get an awesome (there is that word again) speech from Kane and goes from 
 there. You start, were else, with Kanes' campaign. You get introduced to the new GDI units and 
 new Kane units in Kanes campaign. One of Kanes new units is a stealth artillery, cool. Scrin units, 
 which I have yet to play, look very scary. Some of the units now can carry infantry, rocket soldiers 
 or other special units to improve the damage the unit can do. Caring extra units can also proved 
 a defence to the unit. 
  This addition of the game fills in a lot the missing pieces of the story before the Philadelphia 
 incident. 
  Some mission are relativity easy, but some are a nightmare. Missions last on average of 45 minutes, 
 unless you are in the expert class. With the expansion pack you get the campaigns, skirmish mode, 
 a global conquest mode (I have not tried that yet) , and of course online mode. My disappointment 
 so far has only been in the skirmish mode. There are very few if any new maps, bummer. The art 
 work is very cool, particularly the default screen. Excuse me I got some GDI scum to take care 
 of now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zertos
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  as the title says i really do the campaign it was awesome EA finally made an interesting storyline 
 for command and conquer of course it would have been much better if westwood was still making C&C 
 but anyway the storyline great but after i completed it i just felt cheated for one it only toke 
 me less than a day to complete and the storyline is way way too short. some people are saying they 
 should have put GDI and Scrin campaigns in it i says nah didn't you see the ads clips and didn't 
 you read the sub title its about Kane and he's the leader of nod of course not GDI or Scrin use 
 your head. now the storyline start to unravel events that happen is C&C3 which i think is very 
 cool and you should play the game to find out but i can't say much about the story because its 
 to short and if i say anymore i would ruin it if your the type of person that likes to find stuff 
 out for themselves.
  
  OK the world domination completely rubbish and very very boring at the start you don't have a clue 
 what to do but of course it does teach you but when you know what your doing you'll find it soooo 
 boring believe you with if your a C&C hardcore fan and i mean a real hardcore fan all i was thinking 
 when playing it is that they should have based it on the world domination tour on tiberuim sun 
 firestorm and made it a stand alone now that would have been a great idea but like EA trying to 
 carry on C&C they failed badly on this.
  
  so to make this short and sweat storyline great but short of added stuff to it boring people properly 
 buy this just to play online that's about it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feibie
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  marked of kane needs buffing, the particle beam upgrade for the faction seems to be just the laser 
 capacitor with different animation and name -_- lame
  
  the awakened are too weak for their cost
  
  the enlightened are too weak for their cost
  
 
  you would srsly prefer to have normal infantry like rockets and militants than the cyborgs, okok 
 their emp is good but srsly... they die way too fast
  
  so srsly EA should buff the marked of Kane
  
  otherwise everything i've seen in the game so 
 far is really good lol 
  
  the global conquest mode is like the one in BFME2, it's like... good i guess but you're gonna spend 
 alot of time playing one game lol . it's just that long, it's cool how you can have nukes in it 
 though lol . i like the global conquest mode, it's prolly the best done one around.
  
  the campaign is good, interesting stuff though i haven't finished it i'm wondering if "the player" 
 ( as in me ) is a computer ai lol
  
  i don't understand all of the tiberium universe lore but is merged with cabal or something??
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Being one of the Command & Conquer veterans who did not feel that last year's Tiberium Wars was 
 a disappointment, I was anticipating the arrival of Kane's Wrath despite the lack of a GDI campaign. 
 Fortunately, KW managed to live up to, and surprisingly pass my expectations.
  
  Kane's Wrath spans twenty years of the Command & Conquer timeline. Beginning three to four years 
 after the second Tiberium War, Kane still carries the wounds he received by McNeil's hands at the 
 end of Tiberian Sun. With his successor Anton Slavik dead, and his own faction having branded him 
 as a charlatan Kane must seek assistance in his return to power. With CABAL (the rogue Nod artificial 
 intelligence from Tiberian Sun and Firestorm) nearly destroyed Kane has given him some modifications, 
 and used his framework as the foundation for your character, LEGION. As Kane's new tactical AI 
 you must assist him in his plans for over a scope of twenty years.
  
  As is C&C tradition, the story of Kane's Wrath is told through FMVs between each of the campaign's 
 thirteen missions. Joe Kucan reprises his role as everyone's favorite bald sociopath, Kane, and 
 he shares the stage with two other actors I've never heard of but who never the less deliver adequate 
 performances. The story isn't perfect, Brother Marcion the man who usurped leadership of the Black 
 Hand from Slavik just disappears after a few missions despite all of the hype surrounding him. 
 Also Act III which is set three years after Tiberium Wars is only a meager two missions of the 
 thirteen mission campaign, with Act II which takes place alongside the TW campaigns receiving the 
 bulk of the missions. This was disappointing to say the least, but I found the campaign to be a 
 significant improvement over C&C 3's regardless because the mission design is more enjoyable.
 
  
  Kane's Wrath brings some new additions to C&C 3. One of the most anticipated is Global Conquest 
 mode where you can fight as one of the three C&C 3 factions against the other two over the Tiberium 
 infested landscape of Earth. One nice thing about GC is that you can construct your bases anywhere, 
 you're not restricted to certain nodes in certain territories. Bases are also mostly persistent, 
 so you do not need to reconstruct your base from scratch every time it's attacked. Also the ability 
 to create your own strike forces is nice, but it would have been better if you could just train 
 individual units and group them together like in Star Wars: Empire at War, rather than waste time 
 creating grouped forces in the strike force editor.
  
  The other big feature is the sub-factions, which are somewhat similar to the sub-factions from 
 Generals: Zero Hour. GDI, Nod, and the Scrin all receive two sub factions with their own strengths 
 and weaknesses. I still prefer using the vanilla versions of each faction, but I found GDI's Steel 
 Talons fairly amusing to play as since they rely heavily on the mech units from Tiberian Sun which 
 were taken out of C&C 3 initially.
  
  Video, and audio-wise there's not really anything new in KW. There's a remix of the classic C&C 
 track "Act on Instinct" that occasionally plays during the score screen, and some new graphics 
 and voices for the new units, and that's all above average of course.
  
  Kane's Wrath is I'd say a must have for fans of C&C 3. It has a satisfactory story, a solid campaign, 
 an amusing meta map mode, and the sub factions can be entertaining to play as. It would have been 
 nice to have had a GDI campaign, but if they did that it would have likely been just six missions 
 per faction instead of the thirteen we got with a Nod only campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millenhero
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  I just bought Kane's wrath and I think this game just rocks your socks off
  It has a nice new single player campaign, nice cast of characters ( although i don't know most of 
 them :p) , like CABAL, he was my favorite character in c&c tiberian sun. it's sad though that Anton 
 Slavick isen't in the game anymore, i liked him also. the campaign also has very cool missions. 
 The new sub factions feature is just plain awesome, i liked it in Zero hour and i am happy it returned 
 to Kane's wrath. there is allot to discover, lots of new units, upgrades and special powers. The 
 new global conquest is also very cool, it gives a nice twist to the RTS style of playing, it's 
 like war of the ring in battle for middle earth 2. if i may give one advise: just buy this expansion 
 pack because it's awesome!!! And you also get a beta key for c&c red alert 3 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkaedin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The six new factions in Kane's Wrath add some diversity to the game. It allows a player to properly 
 choose a faction that better suits them and use that strategy throughout the game. The gameplay 
 is the same as Tiberium Wars (obviously) but even if you didn't enjoy that game, Kane's Wrath surpases 
 it in every aspect (except for single player) .
  
  Balancing does not seem like it is an issue at all in this game. It is actually balanced really 
 well. It is sure to be a multiplayer hit but the singleplayer does not compare. This is not a good 
 thing. You can only play as Nod which, for GDI and Scrin lovers, just sucks. Secondly, as a Nod 
 fan myself, I found that the campaign was rather boring and dull. Of course, this is entirely subjective 
 so take my comments with a grain of salt.
  
  GDI's Zocom is great for people who like to tank spam (not a negative thing, I love it too!) . The 
 Shatterer just rips EVERYTHING apart, of course its armor is weak and therefore they need to be 
 in large numbers in order to be effective. The Steel Talons Faction is one for people who are tactically 
 superior; people who think about what units need to be where and when they need to be there. The 
 ones who figure out the best and most effective combination of tanks to annihilate the enemy. The 
 best unit for them has to be the wolverine (in large numbers though) . Of course, both factions 
 have access to the air base and the most effective and devastating (possibly the only over-powered 
 unit in the game) is the Hammerhead. With the AP ammo upgrade it tears through infantry, buildings 
 and vehicle with ease. Get about fifteen of these babies and you will win against any foe.
  
  Now Nod's black hand and Mark of Kane seemed lack luster at first. However, with the addition 
 of Nod APCs, a player is truly able to recognize the shear might of Nod infantry. Tanks aren't 
 horrible for Nod (they're actually fairly effective) but EA definitely focused on buffing up the 
 infantry aspect. The Black Hand troopers (the ones with flamethrowers) destroy everything easily, 
 once the purifying flame upgrade is purchased. Pop them in an APC, set up in the enemy's base and 
 burn everything to ash. The Mark of Kane are similar in the fact that the Tiberium Troopers carry 
 just as devastating liquid tiberium on their backs (this unit is basically a substitute for the 
 black hand, but is awesome nonetheless) . The Enlightened can get an upgrade known as a particle 
 beam (basically railguns) and if you get enough of these troops, you will be unstoppable.
  
  Scrin seemed boring entirely. This may be due to the fact that I hated Scrin since C&C3 came 
 out last year, but it seems that EA really focused mroe on GDI and Nod which was a great decision 
 because they both rock equally.
  
  Though, due to a lack-luster single-player campaign and the fact that I still get bored playing 
 as Scrin, I have to lower the score from what I would give it (a 9.5) to an 8.5 because these are 
 two things that should've been fixed (especially the campaign, that was just a huge disappointment) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I havent gotton too deep into the game yet but i find the graphics to be wonderful. I have a pretty 
 good sytem with a top end card so it flows without flaw. Over the last year from command and conquer 
 website and from playing generals ,zero hour and tiberium wars i have a pretty good idea about 
 the c&c universe. I downloaded kains wrath when it came out played one skirmish level and found 
 pleasanly that the ai seems to have stepped up a bit .so your stragity will have to advance along 
 with the new sub factions. At one point in time i was abel to create the nod epic unit the redeemer 
 and house him with 2 rocket troopers .My attempt was not to try to win the battle .But to see how 
 much damage this monster was able to take. So i took him straight into the enemy base which was 
 a gdi base. That had 2 airfields tech support ,barracks like 9 defense towers and 2 war factories 
 lots of pretadors and lots of ground troops .Ive got to tell ya this beast brought almost half 
 of this base including ground and armor units down before he surcomb to enemy fire .i know that 
 beating a game is the prize .But in rts games i love to play sometimes just to see what certain 
 unit combos can achieve. I think in kanes wrath. you will get plenty of this kind of challenges with 
 all the different factions. I also messed with the globel conquest mode which i think was really 
 cool. Ive played this mode in other games and the choice of auto resolving or plaing out the battle 
 is a great add on feature. So in conclusion i feel this add on pack offers a lot of diverse game 
 play along with all those great cutscene acts with the characters that we have grown to love is 
 a gratifiying experience. shade 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Victor_Kudo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8.5
  Lasting value: 7
  Gameplay: 9
  Innovation: 9
  Total: 8.5
  
  The Good:
  -The many new units are finely balanced and add to the gameplay
  -The campaign 
 is solid, engaging, and features plenty of impressive cutscenes
  -The new Global Conquest mode is absolutely brilliant
  
  The Bad:
  -The epic units aren't 
 as balanced as they should be
  -The campaign is way too short and doesn't offer much new
  -Global Conquest can't be played with others and doesn't have a story mode
  
  The long-awaited 
 expansion pack for Command & Conquer 3, Kane's Wrath, features plenty of new units (including some 
 from C&C: Tiberian Sun, fans rejoice!) and 30 new skirmish maps. The new units include the 'epic' 
 units, one for each faction, which could use some balance tuning; the MARV (a GDI supertank) is 
 much stronger than its Nod and Scrin counterparts. For the rest, the units are reasonably balanced 
 and add a lot of gameplay depth. Every faction has 2 subfactions, which have some different units 
 (although the difference between the subfactions, especially the GDI ones, is sometimes barely 
 noticeable) .
  
  Kane's Wrath features a new campaign from the Nod perspective that encompasses 20 years, from the 
 end of the Second Tiberium War to after the Third Tiberium War. The story can be somewhat confusing 
 when you haven't played Tiberian Sun, because the chapters don't form one story but provide background 
 information on an existing story. The missions are still of top quality, though there's little 
 that you haven't seen in the original game. You're definitely supposed to have played the original 
 game before attempting Kane's Wrath's campaign, because the gameplay receives little introduction 
 and the missions are considerably harder. The main flaw with the campaign is that it's way too 
 short; it can be completed in no more than 8 hours. And there's no campaign from the GDI or Scrin 
 perspective. You hardly get to battle the Scrin at all, so their new units and subfactions are 
 completely new to you when you start playing Skirmish mode. 
  
  The Global Conquest mode is a brilliant idea and a fantastic addition to the Command and Conquer 
 series. It plays much like Risk, but with a Command & Conquer flavour. You build strike forces 
 and bases around the world map and must either eliminate the other factions or complete another 
 victory condition. The factions are very well balanced, as each of their victory conditions are 
 hard but certainly not impossible to achieve. Rather than capturing territory sectors, you send 
 strike forces with MCVs to any area on the map and deploy them into bases to gain more 'area of 
 influence'. This has several advantages, such as having more places to deploy new strike forces 
 in, and earning more tiberium (money) each turn.
  
  You can compose your strike forces with units of your choice, with more powerful units costing 
 more money. When two strike forces clash, you can choose between 'auto-resolve' (where, like in 
 Risk, it is calculated what the approximate outcome of the battle would be) or 'real-time', when 
 you fight the battle like a traditional C&C skirmish.
  
  However, it doesn't really matter how many units you have as long as you have an MCV and something 
 to defend it with. When you deploy your MCV, you can construct buildings like in a normal battle, 
 and you don't even have to use your original units. So you hide your original units in a corner 
 and annihalate your enemy with new units, so that in the end, you won't have lost a single unit. 
 This is really a pity, because it removes much of the suspension from the battles. It would have 
 been better if MCVs were not to be used in battles, but only to deploy bases on the world map.
 
  
  Bases can be upgraded to Tier 2 or Tier 3, which gives them more options and the ability to construct 
 better units. This is a good concept, but it can be imbalanced; when you build a strike force with 
 an epic unit like the MARV, you can easily crush any Tier 1 or 2 strike force, and not lose any 
 units because an epic unit is a single unit and remaining units of a strike force are restored 
 to full health after every battle.
  
  The AI in Global Conquest can be a major annoyance, because they are often as dumb as an ... They 
 can have bases and strike forces standing next to each other for 10 turns without doing anything. 
 And, here comes the worst part: there is no multiplayer! It would be awesome to battle your friends 
 online in a large turn-based game, but that's not possible. Multiplayer options are restricted 
 to skirmish mode, which is the main flaw of this game. It would also have been great if Global 
 Conquest featured a story mode, but there's only simple battles against the computer.
  
  Graphically, the game hasn't improved upon Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars, and that game looked 
 good, but not particularly impressive. The sound effects are still of the same top-notch quality, 
 as is the acting. But the solid but short campaign and the innovative Global Conquest mode make 
 this game worth your while. For 30 euros, it may be a bit overpriced, given that the campaign is 
 brief and Global Conquest has no story or multiplayer mode, but when you're a Command & Conquer 
 fan or like RTS games in general, you should certainly pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RecoilX98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up a couple days ago and just couldn't wait to play it. Being a die hard C&C 
 fan I had to get it right away! Now the campaign is somewhat short but still epic. After every 
 live-action scene you are just feeling pumped and ready to kick some ass! Kanes' character is incredible 
 and very well played in this expansion. All the new sub-factions create great diversity and many 
 new strategies. If your a fan of RTS and Tiberium and C&C universe, get this game. It's full of 
 great cut scenes, stories, missions, and pretty much anything a great game has to offer.
  
  Also, the new game mode Global Conquest is a blast! It does take up MUCH time but is well worth 
 it. Instead of just doing the same old skirmishes, this mode provides large amounts of more strategy. 
 Think of almost a futuristic more in depth game of RISK, that allows you to actually control the 
 units in the fights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrody
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  OK I don't want to be a **** but I am a little disappointed. Why? Because 13 mission campaign for 
 a game that take out of my pocket 30$ is kind of a ripoff. I mean the idea of C&C games is the 
 storyline which is great in this game but we only get to see it from one point of view. I kinda 
 sensed that EA wanted to see NOD win for a change and that makes me happy cause I always enjoyed 
 Nod for Gdi bu that doesn't mean that I don't wanna play a campaign with them. And yes I hate that 
 always the "good" guys win, which as I heard presented in a not so good way in the next game from 
 this universe Tiberium the great new FPS that Ea promises, which frankly I hope that they don't 
 screw up. Now back to the game. The graphics are the same but that is normal for an expansion and 
 they added a few new and old units, it's good to see Titan's walking again in the tiberium fields 
 of Earth. It's like meeting with an old friend that sometimes kicked ur ass. But the what is with 
 that new global thing that they came up with.... I mean if I wanted RTW I would've played RTW. 
 I don't know if the timberium universe is a good place for TBS tactics. I mean the general idea 
 in multiplayer is build FAST FAST FAST KILL KILL and in 20 minutes new multiplayer game. Who wants 
 to stay and build scrin towers in our major cities. Or why should Nod blow stuff up when they can 
 make peasants uprise against the GDI. Muhahaha... yes now all the citizens are throwing rocks into 
 GDI tanks, NOD wins and takes over the world.... Than the ending, I was like left with no reply, 
 I mean, I stood for like 4-5 min in front of the screen looking for something new or if I missed 
 something. I wonder if EA is going to steal some extra 30$ with a new game which will send legion 
 to the scrin world where we will fight the scrin... I mean an extra 1GB would have killed EA and 
 10 more missions would have really upset the gaming community. Yeah I am so happy that I have to 
 wait like another 6-10 month for the same graphic game with an extra 13 maybe 10 missions and another 
 ending where legion finds a gateway to another scrin world were we kick the alien scum to oblivion. 
 My opinion is rent the game don't buy like me, EA has again manipulated the true fans which were 
 hoping for another chapter in this saga, but instead i got to play again threw half of the last 
 game and now I got a few cyborg. And where did they pick that new assistant for Kane. Damn have 
 I seen better acting from my pet cat. I tell you I only gave it an 8 because of how much I loved 
 Tiberium Sun so again I say rent the bloody game. Oh and there was a guy over here which had the 
 time spent playing for like 100h to 200h, i got threw the campaign on medium in like 9 to 10 hours. 
 I guess he enjoyed that tactics thing. Great Job EA I am waiting for the next 20 games from C&C 
 and maybe you guys can do it each year like your other games you know the ones that got crappy 
 on the PC, yeah NHL and FIFA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenji_02
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Story wise, this is hardly an expansion, it is more of a mission pack, but game play wise this 
 game is rock solid, adding MUCH more balance to the game. Giving both GDI and NOD some serious 
 fire-power to counter those damn Scrin air units.
  
  I will not spoil the story, but the first act was not as solid as I would have liked, the 2nd act 
 was amazing, and the third act was in between. The ending of the story means we will be seeing 
 yet another expansion (and it damn well better be soon!) .
  
  Speaking on a personal note, if it was not for the 'global conquest' mode I would have felt entirely 
 ripped off by this game. I am EXTREMELY glad that they seperated the global conquest mode from 
 the main story, but it wouldn't hurt.
  
  In global conquest mode you are stuck with your starting bases being 'vanilla' GDI/Nod/Scrin, and 
 only y our expansion bases may be the new factions, something I hope they change in an upcoming 
 patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattheus2008
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  The campaign is pretty short in my opinion. and the ending really leaves cnc fans wanting more. 
 theres alot of intel snippets here and there when you complete the bonus objectives. the various 
 factions are incredibly diverse and fun to play with. graphics are top notch. and looks like they 
 improved on the sounds and lightings. big disappointment would definitely have to be the campaign. 
 the story line still left me pretty baffled though a few loose ends were tied up. the ending . 
 well. lets not go into that. it totally left me hanging. i do hope that ea fix some issues with 
 certain units. fanatics have been nerfed consderably till the point their as good as spending 700 
 on useless suicide units who kill themsleves more than the opponent. well all in all a great game 
 to look forward to. but i believe skirmish would appeal alot more to the casual gamers out there. 
 since the campaign has not lived up to the hype and advertisements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wardrift
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  This is a very enjoyable expansion to an already superb game. EA has done well in implementing 
 innovative new units to the three existing factions along with the addition of several new interesting 
 sub-factions, each with their own particular strengths and weaknesses. Gameplay-wise these new 
 units handle very well and there is nothing more satisfying than employing one of the three sides' 
 Epic Units to utterly obliterate your opponent's base. Also, fans can rejoice as EA finally added 
 the Global Conquest Mode to C&C, something not seen since Emperor: Battle for Dune, and the more 
 recent LOTR: Battle for Middle-Earth games.
  The single-player campaign is cleverly scripted and suitably challenging, rewarding hard-working 
 players with revealed tidbits which tie-in to key events throughout the main story. Joseph D. Kucan 
 as his portrayal of Kane nearly carries the story through all by himself in the cut scenes, exuding 
 the usual megalomania-loving maniacal insanity we have all come to expect from the Brotherhood 
 of Nod leader. 
  However, players will be left wanting with an unfinished storyline regarding the previous game's 
 events. In particular, GDI's recovery during the aftermath of the Third Tiberium War. And the Scrin 
 themselves; as they prepare to launch a full-scale invasion force on a supposedly unsuspecting 
 Earth. Scant little information is given, and will leave many fans disappointed because of the 
 absence of any solid conclusion.
  Overall, the small yet well-done campaign, along with the immense replayability offered by Global 
 Conquest (especially with multi-player) , will keep gamers satisfied for a long time. If only EA 
 had included GDI and Scrin campaigns to tie in the rest of the storyline, this may have been one 
 of the best C&C expansions ever released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Victor_Davion
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  Fans of the classic C&C universe rejoice! Kane's Wrath has raised the bar for the C&C universe. 
 Bringing in some familiar old units from Tiberium Sun (remember the good old days of massing Titans 
 and Wolverines?) and adding in some brand new units (the MARV still has me quavering in fear) , 
 Kane's Wrath is to Tiberium Wars what Firestorm is to Tiberium Sun. By focusing on the enigmatic 
 Kane and his NOD faction (yes the campaign are all played in NOD faction) , the story unfolds from 
 the end of the 2nd Tiberium War to beyond the 3rd Tiberium War. Kane's Wrath starts of where Firestorm 
 left, vaguely telling you how Kane got his NOD factions together to the parallel storyline during 
 Tiberium Wars and beyond it and leaves you wondering (as usual) about the C&C 4! Beyond the single 
 player campaign (which is surprisingly short) , the multiplayer is where the action is. There are 
 9 different races, each with their own weaknesses and strengths. This will definitely spice things 
 up online. Also there is a world domination mode which is rather Battle for Middle Earth-ish. However, 
 there are certain bugs in the game which hopefully EA would release a patch soon. Other than that, 
 the game is really enjoyable to play and hopefully RA 3 will be something like that too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TKKTTONY
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  CNC 3 Kane's Wraith has lots of new units, for example:
  CNC Tiberium sun, has alot of different units from Tiberium Wars, and in Kane's Wraith, they dig 
 up Tiberium sun's units and placed them in Kane's Wraith which I say makes it alot more entertaining 
 than Tiberium Wars.
  
  I'm not gonna tell you what happened to Kane in NOD, and the only thing I can tell you is that 
 the GDI has defeated the Scrin and the NOD in Tiberium Wars, and in Kane's Wraith, I say that it 
 is about Revenge of the Traitors of NOD...
  
  Loads of things to build, alot more units than Tiberium Wars, alot more entertaining than Tiberium 
 Wars, I say that it is worth the wait, and worth to buy if you are a Command and Conquer Fan. The 
 GDI has alot of territory, in the world, and the Traitors of NOD has only 1/4 of the world, but 
 the Original of Kane's Army, must fight the Traitors, and then the GDI, so Kane's Army and you 
 Commander and rule over the world, in the name of Kane!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
