-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer Red Alert
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandconquerredalert/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.5
Critic Score: 9.1, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 5,098 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1996 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
One can only wonder where Westwood can take us from here. 

 The real-time strategy genre is a victim of its own success, suffering the same unfortunate fate 
 as first-person action games in the post-Doom era. Publishers know the category is hot, and have 
 responded by firing salvo after salvo of copycat designs and lookalike games at unwary players. 
 There will be no less than a dozen new entries into the real-time strategy market this holiday 
 season alone - and trying to pick the right one is like playing Russian Roulette with five chambers 
 loaded.  

 That is, unless you pick Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert. Developed by Westwood Studios - whose 
 seminal Dune II created the real-time strategy category, and whose Command &amp; Conquer (along 
 with Blizzard's Warcraft II) represents the highest achievement in the genre to date - Red Alert 
 has the pedigree of a champion and a premise to match: Albert Einstein applies his theories of 
 relativity to time travel, hurtling back in time to assassinate Hitler before he ever comes to 
 power. The plan works, and with Hitler out of the picture, Nazi Germany never materializes. But 
 unfortunately, the Red Menace does, with Russia's Stalin turning a burgeoning war machine towards 
 the West, raining destruction and terror on those unfortunate enough to find themselves standing 
 in his way.  

 And that's where you come in, on either the Allied or Soviet side. Allied players will rely on stealth 
 and surprise, while those aligning themselves with the Soviets will place their bets on brutal 
 force. Overall, we like the Soviet side better, especially since players are given the freedom 
 to play the bad guy to the hilt. In the first Russian mission, for example, the player is informed 
 of a partisan uprising in a small village, and gets marching orders that only a sadist could love. 
 "They are enemies of the people," intones a cold-hearted Stalin, "Destroy the town, and kill everyone 
 in it." The meeting room slowly dissolves to the now familiar overhead map, covered with tanks, 
 soldiers, and assorted other perpetrators of mass mayhem, all eagerly awaiting the player's command 
 to exterminate the enemy.  

 The design and functionality of these units is arguably the best ever in a real-time strategy game, 
 and certainly the best since the aforementioned Dune II. The variety of forces and structures is 
 unmatched, providing players with an almost unlimited palette with which to paint their strategic 
 strokes (the only flawed unit is the Soviet sub, which inexplicably will not attack ships that 
 come within its weapons' range) . Better yet, the units of the two opposing sides aren't mere copies 
 of each other, but instead maintain a sort of karmic balance. For example, the Allies' aptly-named 
 Destroyer, which can relentlessly attack land, sea, and air units from long distances, is countered 
 by the Soviet MiG, which packs a powerful punch and is absolutely devastating in numbers. The Allies' 
 Medic, who can literally restore life to the barely breathing foot units, is eerily matched by 
 the Soviet's brutal Attack Dogs, calamitous canines that can wipe out a half dozen troops in matter 
 of seconds. This  unit design permeates the game, and gives Red 
 Alert a level of depth and complexity that will keep players occupied for months on end.  

 Another huge plus is the level design found in Red Alert's one-player game. The forty or so levels 
 consistently strike the right balance between long, drawn out wars of building and attrition, and 
 short intense bursts of behind-the-lines conflict, convoy protection, and hostage rescue. The levels 
 are also fair: You won't need to send troops out to explore the undiscovered regions, then restart 
 the scenario with this illegitimately acquired knowledge. You also won't be forced into using any 
 particular strategy to "solve" the "puzzle" a mission presents - the number and variety of units 
 means there are literally dozens of ways to take any given piece of territory. And last but not 
 least, Red Alert doesn't require overwhelming force to win. With the right mix of troops, the right 
 plan, and the right timing, you can handily win battles that would otherwise appear to be heavily 
 tilted against you. All of these factors encourage exploration and risk-taking relatively early 
 in each scenario - bringing a sense of unpredictability and adventure to Red Alert that is all 
 too often missing from games of this type.  

 The action is punctuated by cutscenes which dramatically illustrate a key moment from or result 
 of the previous mission - an Allied bridge being blown to smithereens or a Russian sign being crushed 
 by an Allied truck. As you might expect from Westwood, the animated cutscenes are simply awesome. 
 The mission briefings with live actors are less impressive - the writing and story are fine, but 
 the acting is awkward at times (Stalin's romantic interlude with a female aide is particularly 
 difficult to watch) .  

 The cutscenes are beautifully complemented by Red Alert's SVGA gameplay graphics. Whether the smoke 
 trailing behind an air-to-air missile, the fiery glow of an explosive chain reaction, or swarms 
 of HIND helicopters mercilessly gunning down a land-based target, the visuals are consistently 
 smooth and convincing. The higher resolution also means that a large portion of the battlefield 
 is visible onscreen, allowing quick and easy monitoring and control of units over relatively vast 
 stretches of territory (Luddites who disagree with the above are welcome to play the DOS VGA version 
 of the game, included at no charge for nostalgia's sake and for the benefit of those with less 
 advanced systems) . And Red Alert is as much fun to listen to as it is to watch, with crisp, realistic 
 sound effects and more of the Westwood's trademark techno-cum-military musical accompaniments. 

 As you'd expect, Red Alert includes a full array of multiplayer options, and compatibility with 
 just about every type of network protocol. We've only scratched the surface of the multiplayer 
 game, but we can report that it is so good that Quake's reign as king of the hill at the GameSpot 
 office may be nearing an end. There's also a skirmish option that can be used for practicing on 
 multiplayer maps even if no one else is around - and the computer AI is good enough to offer legitimate 
 preparation for a human opponent.   

 It's a compelling package - one of the best you'll find in the world of PC games. Red Alert belongs 
 in the same category as Civilization II and Quake, games that followed legendary predecessors and 
 immediately eclipsed them. One can only wonder where Westwood can take us from here.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (71 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KadathBird
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert was the first game I stood in line to get. I was frothing at the mouth for anything that 
 had "Command & Conquer" in the title. I walked up to the counter with my mum, we put down the money 
 and I walked out holding the box in my arms and as soon as we got back I ran inside, popped in 
 the disc labeled "Soviets Disc" (Long live the motherland!) and watched the intro. Just like the 
 first game, I was pulled into the story. As soon as the "Hell March" music began, I could already 
 feel my pulse pounding. 
  
  The mission design in Red Alert contains some of the best missions in C&C history, one that stands 
 out for me is the mission early on in which you have to track down an allied spy, and at the start 
 of the mission you are given no more than 3 dogs to chase him with. It took me forever to figure 
 it out that instead of rushing my doggies towards a pillbox they'd never get past, that I had to 
 take out a guard in front of a building to free a grenadier and a rifeman. The mission had you 
 chasing the spy all over a map until he was cornered. From the get go, this game provided some 
 of the greatest CNC challenges yet.
  
  There are many recycled graphics from CNC, and as such they do seem dated, but at the same time 
 this was the first time that the two factions felt significantly different. There were more exclusive 
 units and more exclusive buildings. I will always favour the Soviets for their tesla coils and 
 killer attack dogs. I do love those attack dogs, with their cute little tongues hanging out and 
 it was always a joy to see them lunge at an intruder and tear his throat out, blood splashing all 
 over the ground as the doggie then made a cute woof and sat there awaiting another kill. Hehe.
 
  
  Red Alert took everything that made CNC great and multiplied it. Another thing that makes RA an 
 even better game than its predecessor is the map editor. The map editor is simple yet cohesive, 
 making it very easy to create maps for skirmishes and multiplayer matches.
  
  Red Alert one upped its own predecessor, and would remain unchallenged as the best CNC game until 
 2000. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesjiao
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  In anticipation of the upcoming Command and Conquer: Red Alert 3, I decided to scrummage through 
 me box of old games for the first instalment of this wonderful series and oh joy! I found it lying 
 peacefully at the bottom of the box. 
  
  It took some tinkering to get the game to work on Windows XP, and thanks to the Internet and some 
 helpful individuals, this didn't prove too difficult to achieve. 
  
  It was one of the few games at the time that introduced in-game videos with real life actors. I 
 think it was the first to do so, but of course I could be wrong. Doing so helps gamers follow the 
 storyline, which is excellent by the way, more easily.
  
  True to the nature of strategy games of the same era, it has the standard unit selection, numbering 
 and command systems, the standard structure building system, and the, again, standard point and 
 click system, which all contribute to an easy to use game interface.
  
  The graphics in this game are grainy due to the low resolution, but again it's commendable for 
 its time. Voice acting is great accompanied by beautiful sound tracks found on the CD's. 
  
  The game is well-balanced on both the Soviet and the Allies sides. The Allies have superiority 
 over speed and a strong navy whereas the Soviet have a formidable defence and a slow but solid 
 land-based offence force.
  
  You will grow to love the sound of squirmy infantry units being squashed by heavy vehicles or of 
 high-powered cruiser artillery shells razing the enemy base to the ground.
  
  This game features both indoor and outdoor missions. Indoor missions usually involve achieving 
 goals with limited number of army units whereas outdoor missions entail the standard building up 
 your base, fending off enemy attacks, gathering up a strike force to eliminate the enemy base.
 
  
  It's possible to change the game speed and difficulty. So if you find the pace too slow for your 
 taste, crank up the game speed bar all the way to the right. 
  
  Don't miss this game even if it's more than 10-year-old. It will keep you hooked on the computer 
 screen for hours!
  
  - James Jiao 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chessmaster1989
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Although the graphics of this game are fairly bad (remember, it was made in the 90s) , the game 
 itself is still fairly addictive and entertaining. Although I would not classify it as the best 
 RTS of all time, it certainly ranks in the top 5, perhaps even the top 3.
  If you can tolerate the poor graphics quality, this game gives all of the benefits of any modern 
 RTS, but with perhaps even better and more fun game play. I have not personally played it very 
 often, as I do not own it, but it is well worth buying, and can, at this point, probably function 
 on just about any PC that you own.
  Red Alert will undoubtedly give you 20+ hours of entertainment, particularly if you are new to 
 RTS games. For those who already own many RTS games, this might not be a great investment, as it 
 is similar, although (imo) better, than most current RTS games.
  I strongly recommend this for anyone who loves RTS games or who is thinking about starting to play 
 RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Fantastic game for everyone who loves RTS games and C&C.
  
  Very old game now but this is a classic game, deserves all the credit it can get to be honest its 
 that good. I still even play this game now and then.
  
  Way back when, this was the first real PC game that I ever played, and as soon as I played the 
 demo that was it, I was hooked and I have never stoped loving the game and the whole series. 
 
  
  Allies and the Soviets go at it head to head in all out war, what more could you want? 
  
  Story is awesome and well told, excellent and dramatic live action scenes aswell. 
  
  Excellent 
 gameplay mixed with some excellent music (Hell march being the best game theme song ever made) 
 And there is a skirmish mode too !!!! so i was really happy about that.
  
  The graphics are how you would expect from a game of this age. but that shouldnt put you off playing 
 this game.
  
  If you find this awesome game in a shop somewhere for cheap then buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desulated
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  C&C 1 was released about a year ago, and it earned fame as a great RTS game for its excellent gameplay, 
 options, an so on. About a year later, the series continued with a bigger bang: C&C RA.
  
  This game is a departure from the original game (But many fans speculate it has connections with 
 the Tiberium Series thanks to Kane appearing in the live motion videos) and it focuses on the concept 
 of an alternative timeline (WW2 anyone?) when Soviets replace the Germans as the menance. The story 
 is quite long, so play the game to find out.
  
  I just love the gameplay. The music gives any hardcore RTS player an adrenaline rush while they 
 demolish the opponent with massed tanks. There are two playstyles: sheer numbers and brute force 
 (Soviets) or Tactical planning and micromangement (Allies.) This option allows any player to quickly 
 pick and love a style, depending if they are stone-hearted generals or micromangement specialists.
 
  
  Get this game. This game was the forerunner for RTS games, and it is excellent way to see how the 
 early C&C games were like. Even though its impossible to find this game anywhere now, you can still 
 get it in C&C: The First Decade.
  
  Red Alert, we salute you, even though you've been dead for so long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  In the year 1996 Command & Conquer Red Alert was a must have for anyone interested in real time 
 strategy games. It provided close to non-stop action and a good story line. Total play time was 
 endless as there were so many things you could do in the campaign with the Allies and Soviets and 
 there was the off-line skirmish, allowing you to test your skills or take a break from the campaign. 
 This still holds true eleven years later.
  
  C & C RA has a very easy learning curve for a real time strategy game. Unlike most RTS's, RA is 
 very straight forward. You select your units with the standard left-click + drag method. You construct 
 buildings and train units with the click of a mouse. That's basically what you'll be doing for 
 the entire game. But RA makes this fun to do over and over again. You'll be rewarded with more 
 units and buildings as you save money in each campaign scenario. Along with new units you have 
 to understand their weaknesses. For example, the flame throwers you get with the Soviets later 
 in the campaign can kill off your enemies easily, but can also be killed easily in groups. Unfortunately, 
 flame throwers work best when in groups. Mammoth tanks can easily take on any available Allied 
 land unit one on one. But can be taken down when confronted with groups. With most missions your 
 ultimate objective is to destroy the enemy base. However, there are other missions where you will 
 be sent to rescue your comrades or take down a spy. Despite the repetitive nature of the campaign 
 missions, RA manages to make it enjoyable each time. Your missions won't all take the same length 
 either. As you progress, you'll be greeted with more sub-tasks and more enemies. Sometimes you'll 
 be forced to deal with more than one enemy at a time. RA makes doing this fun every mission. Each 
 mission you must build your base and defenses, but at the same time build your attack force. This 
 can be challenge when confronted with your enemy (ies) attacking from all sides and/or flanking 
 you and you find yourself with low cash reserves. You're forced to decide whether you want to try 
 and fight it out or quickly build a mobile base (if available) and retreat. C & C RA provides solid 
 game play with action and often tense situations.
  
  Graphically, RA isn't the most impressive game by today's standards. However, it is still an enjoyable 
 game. The graphics do not take away from the game's value or game play. The fact that after eleven 
 years the game is just as enjoyable as it was when it came out shows this. Graphics are not what 
 an RTS game is about anyway, it's about game play. C & C RA provides plenty of it and then some.
 
  
  Sound in RA is more than adequate. You're provided with a plethora of music to choose from throughout 
 the campaign and in skirmish. (Hell March recommended) Guns fired, grenades exploding, and tank 
 shells blasting all sound realistic. Particularly pleasing is the zap of any one of your Tesla 
 coils frying an Allied soldier. There are no intrusive voice alerts, only those of constructing 
 building or training units. Your units, when selected and told where to go, respond with honour 
 and respect. This enhances the game play a good bit.
  
  Overall, C & C RA is a very enjoyable game for any RTS fan and even for the newcomers. You will 
 find yourself in front of your monitor for hours while you complete "just one more level" again 
 and again. Highly recommended for anyone that doesn't have the game. Even if you do, go find it 
 and install it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raistlarn
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer Red Alert is the game that got me playing RTS games when I was a kid. I liked 
 everything about it from the Chronosphere to the storyline. This game has some ridiculous missions 
 like all RTS games do where you have to take a single group of units and complete a task. Sure 
 this games controls seem off compared to the newer games that are out there but hey this game is 
 the best of its time and I still look upon this game with good memories. The music for this game 
 is the best that is out there in most RTS game which makes me sad that I can't find a soundtrack 
 for this game. This game is not a graphic marvel like the newer games but that's because this game 
 is like 12 years old. This game was one of the few games that had different units on both sides 
 whereas some of the older games had 2 sides that created the exact unit.
  
  I give this game a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Command and Conquer was a revolutionary game that created a whole new perspective on strategy games. 
 Red Alert is no exception. It ravels together everything that makes a masterpiece. Amazing gameplay. 
 Superb cutscenes. Excellent music. This game is even better than the original, and that seemed 
 impossible at the time.
  
  With an all new range of units, vehicles and buildings, Red Alert is even better than the original. 
 There are two different adversaries this time round; the Allies and the Soviets. Both hold a unique 
 range of weaponry. These highly original armies add an even greater depth to the massive extent 
 of gameplay. The player must use his wits and strategic thinking to invade the enemies base and 
 complete each level. There are so many ways to finish missions, whether it be a full-scale invasion 
 or a sneak attack. Some new units include the spy, who can infiltrate enemy buildings, the guard 
 dogs, who can hunt down spies and kill soldiers in seconds, and more!
  
  The soundtrack is simply superb. In Command and Conquer there were only a few well chosen tracks 
 to play. In Red Alert there are atleast 20 unique tracks to the game. Each track sets the feeling 
 of the game.
  
  What helps to set Red Alert aside from all other strategy games is it's amazing multi-player mode. 
 Once again the player can team up with his friends against exceptionally hard enemies. The multi-player 
 system can keep the player occupied for hours.
  
  Red Alert is another amazing game. Once more, Westwood has proven that their strategy game making 
 abilities are simply superb. Red Alert is well worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lv46
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This is easily one of the best games i have ever played, and one of the father games of the RTS 
 genre.
  In its day the graphics were the best there were, and even now are still usable. The game play 
 is deep and immersing, with great acting in the cut scenes. The control system is easy to use and 
 classic C&C, so anyone familiar with other games in the series should have no difficulty playing 
 it.
  To conclude, I cannot find any bad points with the game, and believe that anyone who does not like 
 it should violate themselves with a stick studded with rusty nails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drofgameanomics
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  This game is everything back in the days! Game play wise this game totally rocks! Sounds are awesome! 
 The scream of the soldiers die and the soundtracks are totally awesome! The vast array of units 
 available is just plain great! The graphics are great too for it's time! So we can't blame westwood 
 for that! The mission are totally great! this game is also better than Warcraft in my opinion because 
 this game let's us create unlimited amount of units! Unlike Warcraft where we can only build the 
 amount of units that don't exceed the limits of your food ! That really kills the fun! Overall! 
 This game is truly a great legendary game! Can't never get bored of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alejoshadow
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  its a very slow game and the graphics are not any good, so get a more recent title in the series, 
 unless you like old, slow games. The controls are not very user-friendly either (like the game 
 speed) . I got it in the Command and Conquer Decade pack, so it was kind of neat to see so you can 
 compare today's games with those of the 1990s. But it got really boring and red alert 2, yuri's 
 revenge and Generals 1 and 2, and Command and Conquer 3 tiberium wars are alot better. If you are 
 a real command and conquer nut, I think you will like it, but if you are not, it is a waste of 
 money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I remember graphically this game exactly the same as the original C&amp; C, the only difference 
 was zoomed out resolution showing more of battleground... however in the C&amp; C First Decade release, 
 the original C&amp; C is identical since its modified to the same zoomed out distance. Just a quick 
 comparison that I wanted to point out... really nothing improved until RA2.
  
  Ok this is 2007, graphically this game is still decent to old people like me. The little touches 
 such as the damages to the terrain are nice and were impressive to see back than especially.
  
  I never realized how tacked on the Russian campaign was until my last play through. 3/4 of 
 the Allied missions had cutscenes, while only the very start mission for the Russians had a cutscene. 
 Its a bit disappointing looking back on it.... since the NOD and GDI campaigns had a much more 
 equal storytelling balance in the original C&amp; C. On the plus side, Red Alert 2 did have a much 
 better balance of story and cutscenes.
  
  The AI in this game is frustratingly bad, and requires constant attention to the units you are 
 controlling. As for the missions, which you have to save often since you can loose them for the 
 smallest mistake without knowing exactly why until its too late. There is nothing more terrible 
 than seeing your harvesters mindlessly go into the enemies base and get wiped out by tesla coils.
 
  
  Theres nothing much to prove in writing a review to a game this old, its more of a goodbye to a 
 different time. I've played through this game probably 5-6 times, and this will probably be the 
 last time I ever play Red Alert again, and this my last word on it. Hey who knows, maybe I will 
 play through it once more.
  
  One of the things that will never change or be forgotten will be the music, Westwood somehow stumbled 
 upon the great Frank Klepacki, who single handedly made the C&amp; C series have the best music 
 of almost any game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dillhages
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Another hit from Westwood, developed in 1996, after Albert Einstein, tried to prevent World War 
 II, inadvertently made an alternate timeline with the Soviet Union, thus making my favourite game 
 of all time. The interface is still my favorite over most other strategy games even now, and the 
 ability to queue units made it especially much easier than the previous instalment.
  plus the variety of different units made it especially fun. the only downside about this game is 
 the inability to work on new, more modern computers, so EA, if your listing to this gamer, please, 
 make a upgraded version of red alert, I'm tired of playing it on my Playstation 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amregular
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  the best strategy game that ever been created. after u play this game it will be hard for u to 
 find another game to play as long as you spend time on this game. its really hard to describe this 
 game. u cant just play it. u have to feel it's atmosphere :) but this series come to and end after 
 EA get CnC rights on own hand. after westwood disband, all of the real strategy lovers think same 
 with me. we will never have any game like CnC: Red Alert (1) in the near future.
  
  chours
  
  the best strategy game that ever been created. after u play this game it will be 
 hard for u to find another game to play as long as you spend time on this game. its really hard 
 to describe this game. u cant just play it. u have to feel it's atmosphere :) but this series come 
 to and end after EA get CnC rights on own hand. after westwood disband, all of the real strategy 
 lovers think same with me. we will never have any game like CnC: Red Alert (1) in the near future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlord5000
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong this is a great game and i love it. I just feel that it is missing somting the 
 original game had. Some missions are just plain impossible others are fun. The skirmish system 
 is just awful, the ai always follows the same tactic and that gets old fast. I suppose though that 
 that was what lead to tiberian sun's rather great skirmish mode.
  
  The FMVs and music are exellent, there are some moments of humor in it for example at the end of 
 the Soviet campaign Nadia poisins Stalin with tea and then shoots him 5 times and says Bastard 
 pig! Don't ever touch me with your filthy hands agian! and then one last shot to the head.
  
  Overall I'd say the game is worth it and to anyone who plays it on TFD dont be all
  
  THIS 
 GAMES GRPHICS SUCK OMG EA AND WESTWOOD SUCK OMG CNC SUCKS..... and so on remember this game PLAYS 
 great and was made in 1996 so duh its not gonna look like cnc3 on ultra high detail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  No introductions needed I supposed. What C&amp; C has succeeded, C&amp; C Red Alert brought it to 
 a higher level, including units and levels design, game plot, cinematics and well, it has skirmish 
 play! The single-player campaigns are masterfully done for any RTS fan to appreciate, and what's 
 more, all the soundtracks are memorable as well, including the award-winning Hell March.
  
  While you can put aside a good 30 hours to finish the campaign, I spent ONE FULL YEAR ENJOYING 
 it, completing every skirmish on every difficulty with every variation of enemy factions and numbers, 
 till I tried everything and make silly maps out of the editor and play some more... I'm a fan (atic) .
 
  
  Anyway, you really have to play it with a mid-90's mindset to fully enjoy the masterpiece and forget 
 about any high end 3D graphics for a while, then you would understand why gamers salute it.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManaNick
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This game consumed about half my life when I went to boarding school in Mexico about six years 
 ago!!! Its just plain fun, no matter how you look at it.
  
  Gameplay: Sticks to the tried and true Command &amp; Conquer gameplay that made the original very 
 fun. No complaints as far as the gameplay goes save a few stupid tanks that occasionally go the 
 long way somewhere instead of the way you specified!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good looking, especially for the time that the game was released. 
 The cutscenes are a nice addition, although sometimes feel as though they should be a little longer. 
 The acting is nothing extraordinary, but is really what makes the time between each mission fun. 
 I especially like Commarade Stalin, I think he was well casted.
  
  Sound: Good ambient music, small track list but what do you expect from a game where the gameplay 
 is really all that matters? Fitting, especially the march section.
  
  Value: Overall value is great (especially with the expansion missions) , since you can replay the 
 entire game from the other side of the table. Beating the game as the Soviets only means that you 
 can now pop in the Allied disc to beat it as the Allies! Excellent replay value as there are numerous 
 routes that you choose after certain missions.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Such a great game to replay, and if you are really into the game, the expansion 
 missions are a must. Even if you aren't that hardcore about the game, the expansion missions are 
 very entertaining. Overall a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthunder26
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game every thing going from the amazing strategic confict, the real time story line and most 
 importantly, the units. This game is definitely the start of something to come. The main story 
 line goes around the the two main Super Powers (the United States of America and the USSR or Russia) 
 and their respective allies. The Russians see the world as flawed and want to correct by taking 
 over the rest of the world. The United States of America on the other hand however, will and cannot 
 allow this. Battle on land, sea, and air using units going from the basic soldier to the massive 
 Russian Mammoth Tank and the Allied Cruise Ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer goes Russian! This game was a lot of fun. You get to see an intro-movie with 
 all kinds of military units moving into action acompanied by a heavy metal guitar-riff, it was 
 so cool! The game introduces new vehicles like naval units and tesla coils to the game adding a 
 sense of a fullscale war. The opposing forces this time around are the Russia and NATO. So there 
 realy is a sense of the cold war gone red hot (hense the name red alert) . Between missions you 
 get to see some videofootage. When you play the Russian campaign you get orders from Jozeph Stalin 
 himself, it's a lot of fun- it is only a game. Some time ago i played the game again, but it did 
 not stand the test of time. Playing the missions again just isn't that much fun, the maps are too 
 big, the missions a lot of the same, the graphics are horribly outdated and you already know where 
 the story goes. Personally i prefer the cold war theme to the sci-fi theme of other c&amp; c's. 
 In the latest c&amp; c's there are mechs, spacecraft and so on. If they come up with a new Red Alert 
 on today's consoles i'll probably play it, but this one is history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProGamer2424
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best games I have ever played since I was a kid. My brother used 
 to play and then I started to play and now today, I am a big fan of the whole series still. The 
 game is fairly easy to learn and once you play it, you will want to play the other games as well, 
 trust me. Its that good. The multilayer is dead now, but back then in 1996 it was cool to play 
 online. Now, its mainly a LAN game. This game cannot be forgotten. Its just a plain classic in 
 the whole series, even including the original command and conquer 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts_shaggy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  In the year 1996 Command &amp; Conquer Red Alert was a must have for anyone interested in real 
 time strategy games. It provided close to non-stop action and a good story line. Total play time 
 was endless as there were so many things you could do in the campaign with the Allies and Soviets 
 and there was the off-line skirmish, allowing you to test your skills or take a break from the 
 campaign. This still holds true eleven years later.
  
  C &amp; C RA has a very easy learning curve for a real time strategy game. Unlike most RTS's, RA 
 is very straight forward. You select your units with the standard left-click + drag method. You 
 construct buildings and train units with the click of a mouse. That's basically what you'll be 
 doing for the entire game. But RA makes this fun to do over and over again. You'll be rewarded 
 with more units and buildings as you save money in each campaign scenario. Along with new units 
 you have to understand their weaknesses. For example, the flame throwers you get with the Soviets 
 later in the campaign can kill off your enemies easily, but can also be killed easily in groups. 
 Unfortunately, flame throwers work best when in groups. Mammoth tanks can easily take on any available 
 Allied land unit one on one. But can be taken down when confronted with groups. With most missions 
 your ultimate objective is to destroy the enemy base. However, there are other missions where you 
 will be sent to rescue your comrades or take down a spy. Despite the repetitive nature of the campaign 
 missions, RA manages to make it enjoyable each time. Your missions won't all take the same length 
 either. As you progress, you'll be greeted with more sub-tasks and more enemies. Sometimes you'll 
 be forced to deal with more than one enemy at a time. RA makes doing this fun every mission. Each 
 mission you must build your base and defenses, but at the same time build your attack force. This 
 can be challenge when confronted with your enemy (ies) attacking from all sides and/or flanking 
 you and you find yourself with low cash reserves. You're forced to decide whether you want to try 
 and fight it out or quickly build a mobile base (if available) and retreat. C &amp; C RA provides 
 solid game play with action and often tense situations.
  
  Graphically, RA isn't the most impressive game by today's standards. However, it is still an enjoyable 
 game. The graphics do not take away from the game's value or game play. The fact that after eleven 
 years the game is just as enjoyable as it was when it came out shows this. Graphics are not what 
 an RTS game is about anyway, it's about game play. C &amp; C RA provides plenty of it and then 
 some.
  
  Sound in RA is more than adequate. You're provided with a plethora of music to choose from throughout 
 the campaign and in skirmish. (Hell March recommended) Guns fired, grenades exploding, and tank 
 shells blasting all sound realistic. Particularly pleasing is the zap of any one of your Tesla 
 coils frying an Allied soldier. There are no intrusive voice alerts, only those of constructing 
 building or training units. Your units, when selected and told where to go, respond with honour 
 and respect. This enhances the game play a good bit.
  
  Overall, C &amp; C RA is a very enjoyable game for any RTS fan and even for the newcomers. You 
 will find yourself in front of your monitor for hours while you complete just one more level again 
 and again. Highly recommended for anyone that doesn't have the game. Even if you do, go find it 
 and install it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomasart
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Rarely does a game come along that encompasses everything You can want in a game. C&amp; C Red alert 
 is one such game. I still Get together with colleges to play this game even after almost a decade 
 of palying this a the original. This game appeals to the War hunger within me. Also the Commander 
 above the battle, giving orders to the entire army. The commando on this game has a special place 
 in my heart, as I try to sleep at night only to hear the shell shock noise of the game splashing 
 against my mind over and over. This game is without a doubt my most loved game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarheeljoemaui
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  What can I say? The gameplay is great, the campaigns are great, everything about this game is good. 
 You can't beat picking off legions of infantry with Tanya. The Soviets have some muscle. The mammoth 
 tank is one of the all-time great units. As for defense, the tesla coil is to date the most impressive 
 defensive structure in any game ever. Plus you have flame towers. Throwing lighting bolts and fireballs 
 at enemies is just plain fun.
  
  As the Allies you can use the cruiser to bombard your foes from an entire screen away, or launch 
 massive tank strikes using the WW2 allies quantity over quality tactics. Or just throw a squadron 
 of Apache choppers at 'em.
  
  Classic goodness. If you don't have this, go dig it out of the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxTuakisxX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  Any command and conquer buff or RTS fanatic would have at least played this once in his life time. 
 CnC: Red Alert is still probably the best in the whole series. It further improved the original 
 CnC: TD with more tweaks and threw Westwood into the lime light.
  
  The story is simple.
  
  Einstein kidnapped Hitler by travelling back into time thus preventing WW2. What our brilliant 
 scientist failed to realise that such an action caused a power vaccum in Europe, where Stalin grew 
 in power unchecked. Without anyone to stop him or hinder his way, Stalin began his plans for a 
 Greater Russia where he starts by invading the entire Europe.
  
  As nation by nation toppled under the Red Soviet War Machine, remaining European countries allied 
 with each other in a final desperate stand against
  the Soviets.
  
  This is where the War begins.
  
  Also when the game was first released, everyone thought it 
 was stand alone with no connection to the original CnC: Tiberian Dawn, this is not true. If you 
 complete the last Soviet mission, you will see the link between Red Alert and Tiberian Dawn. ;)
 
  
  
  RA had some of the most distinctive balanced and flavour for both sides. Most RTS games are usually 
 balanced in a Rock Scissors Paper fashion where each unit has an equalivalent. RA does not have 
 that. Instead each side has their own weakness and strengths and RA encourages the player to use 
 each sides own strengths to their advantage.
  
  So if you like to play with more cunning and guile, the Allies are a nice candiate. If you just 
 want to steam roll everything, the brutish Soviets are the way to go.
  
  
  The weaker Allies fight with superior intel, finese and boast a strong navy. Their ground defenses 
 might not be the strongest but they are arguably the cheapest and are almost independent of power, 
 the only power reliant defense is their AA guns but the Allies have rocket soldiers that can do 
 AA duty as well.... Offensive wise their ground units are not as strong as the soviets but they 
 are cheaper and faster which can be a factor in deciding some games. Their sea units are another 
 story, from fast patroling Gun boats to versatile Destroyers and finally, the dreaded Cruisers. 
 A pair of Cruisers can shatter an entire Soviet base too easily.
  
  
  The brutish Soviets boasts big powerful ground tanks that the Allies cannot match 1 on 1 as well 
 have a highly advanced airforce and defenses. Their high tech defense like the iconic Tesla Coil 
 is probably last word in defense but it cuts both ways. First, it comes at a costly price, shoots 
 alittle slow and must have sufficient power to work. Thus if there is a power cut even a minor 
 one, the Coils will deactivate leaving the base defenseless, something that the Allies can take 
 advantage of. Soviets other only real weak point is their navy, where the land locked Russia has 
 always ignored. At least the Submarines are stealthy and can engage most ships with impunity.
 
  
  
  The major fun thing in RA is that the Soviets are downright evil and a chance to play the bad guy 
 was quite rare for a game in its era. In fact the first mission involves massacring an entire civilian 
 town, quite evil enough.
  
  Enough talk more action.
  For those who have missed the CnC revolution. The game is now available in First Decade. So get 
 a set and start playing ! You are buying ALL the CnC games anyway for a much lower price so its 
 worth checking it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvgeniBuzov
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I won't put in much words for a good reason. First of all, we have all played this game over over 
 and over, both Single and Multiplayer. Hell, people still play this game and make clans and tournaments 
 even though it's alredy 2006. The Gameplay, sound and autmosphere were stunning, and the Multiplayer 
 was awsome too. The only small drawbacks that the game has are unbalanced armies and little bugs.
 
  
  Thank you Westwood, this is one of those games that demands huge repsect and love. We shall hope 
 that EA will not rip apart the newcoming C&amp; C Generation..
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacko342
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  I remember getting this game with the psone when I was about 8 at first I didnt have a clue what 
 to do and I always died until I found out how to build power and I would just stay as soviets zapping 
 them with tesla coils building them everywhere this game thrilled me to bits and nobody could let 
 this game go to waste. The game is one of Westwood's best creations ever even to this day. The 
 reason for this is because although the game basically had the usual war game system, it had an 
 excellent sense of strategy and necessity to every game.
  I think it has shaped all rtss in someway and all of them dream to be a successful as this one. 
 A beautiful game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeymoreHunter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Command & Conquer was one of those games that I wasn't sure if I'd like, until I played the first 
 mission in the Allied campaign. It was so amazing. I had the ability to command units of soldiers 
 and I could send them into battle against my enemy. And it wasn't just the game play that made 
 it such a great game.
  
  The between mission videos gave the game such a dramatic feel, especially when you are into history, 
 politics and stuff like that. It became so much more than just some RTS game. Europe's fate was 
 in my hands and I had to stop those Soviets...
  
  ... until I discovered that I had the option of playing for them! As you might have realized, I 
 finished the Allied campaign after the Soviet campaign. Somehow I got this amazing feeling when 
 seeing the map of Europe shift to a red color and I wouldn't stop until I had conquered them all.
 
  
  While I can go on about how great this game is, I won't. It's just an amazing experience with a 
 really solid presentation. Add the terrific game play and a perfect difficulty and you have yourself 
 a classic game that will be loved forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Command &amp; Conquer fans are split between the the two most popular series'. There's the original 
 Tiberian series which focuses on the global conflict between GDI and Nod, and the Red Alert series 
 which focuses on a less original (and in my opinion less interesting) conflict between Allied and 
 Soviet forces, but it is a good series in its own right.
  
  Red Alert is set roughly fifty years prior to when the Tiberium Meteor first hits the Earth. After 
 World War II Einstein was successful in creating a Time Machine in which he traveled back in time, 
 and assassinated Hitler before he came to power, and thus instead of Nazi Germany being the big 
 threat during WWII; the Soviet Union lead under the iron fist of Josef Stalin did. The player is 
 given the choice of siding with either the Allied forces, or the Soviets in the campaign, and is 
 once again greeted and briefed by live action sequences.
  
  The gameplay in Red Alert isn't really that different from C&amp; Cs. One big difference is that 
 instead of gathering Tiberium (as it isn't present on the planet yet) the player harvests not so 
 poisonous Ore with Ore Trucks. Also the technology resembles WWII (save a few technologically advanced 
 Allied and Soviet buildings such as the Chrono Sphere, and Tesla Coils) rather than the Modern 
 and Sci-Fi technology seen in the original.
  
  The graphics in RA are the same thing that players saw in the original C&amp; C as the exact same 
 engine was used. There is of course different building art to fit in with the setting, but the 
 infantry look the same as do some of the tanks.
  
  The audio is once again a very good part of RA. The sound fits, the voice acting (and the acting) 
 can sometimes be crude, but the best part of the audio is once again the soundtrack. Frank Klepacki 
 delivered another hit musical score with memorable tracks such as Hell March which is the games 
 main theme.
  
  Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert is an excellent successor, and prequel to the original C&amp; C 
 which is more than I can say for Red Alert 2, but that's for another review entirely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  This is the only C&C game I have ever played and will probably remain that way. When I played Red 
 Alert I had come from a world of Warcraft and Starcraft. Basically I was a huge Blizzard fan. So 
 the initial design was a bit foreign. I understood the basics of collecting resources and managing 
 units. What Red Alert did for me was reveal how much more in depth a really good RTS should be.
 
  
  The gameplay was pretty easy to understand and use, the story was interesting and the single player 
 missions were very well designed.
  
  If it wasn't for the fact that the copy I had was borrowed from someone, I would have played this 
 game a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death5089
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  Back in the day when i was a little boy i had this nack of going through all of my dads CD's. One 
 day i found this game called Command and Conquer: Red Alert. At once i fired up my 1998 custom 
 built comp which was pretty good (It had an ATI Rage 128) . when i opened the case i found that 
 there were 2 discs, and Allies Disc and a Soviet's Disc. I installed both. Once i started to play 
 the game i chose to be Soviet. After a while i got used to builing up units and doing everything 
 really fast. When i played as Allies i got to use a special person named Tania. She was very very 
 very 1337. In one of the first missions you have to assault a Soviet base and use Tania. She has 
 2 pistols but blast $#%*
  out of everything!!! In that mission you have to rescue Albert Einstien and take him to an extraction 
 point before Allied Battleships start to shell the base. After a while i kinda got bored of the 
 game and uninstalled it. I lost track of Allies Disc but finaly one day found the Soviets Disc. 
 I installed it this is what amazed me, instead of needing all of the discs you only need one of 
 the 2 discs. Meaning that if you have the Allies Disc you can stil play but only as the Allies 
 or 
  if you have the Soviet's Disc you can play but only as the Soviets. REd Alert is one if not the 
 most Legendary RTS out there. You can Micro your units with ease. Fast paced battles, pretty good 
 graphics for the time, to sides, and great gameplay. If you're an RTS fan you will Red Alert. ITS 
 THE BEST RTS EVER!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_soda_guy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Red alert and command and conquer prectically made the RTS franchise as it is today. The map editor 
 is extreamly easy and fun. The story line is great. The scenimatics bring you deeper in the story, 
 and the gameplay set the bar in gameplay today. What can I say? its Red Alert! On top of that it 
 works on practically all computers now, and is prt of the new C&C pack, first decade, which although 
 is flawed, this game isnt. The story is kind of hard to explain however. Although i havnt played 
 in years (would love to again) i believe einstien captures hitler in the past or something like 
 that and you go save him.
  
  ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuseking
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game i ever got the chance to play. Everything about it was great. When 
 i first saw it i would watch my bro play shooting rockets at groups of soldeirs and watch them 
 blow up. Finally after a while I took a crack at and wow. 
  
  Most people say starcraft is way bettter then this game cuase it involves strategy but starcraft 
 doesn't have nukes or unlimited units and starcraft is just plain boring. 
  
  Red alerts story to is creative. They have two series going that will soon merge together when 
 red alert 3 is released. 
  
  I would highly recommend this to anyone looking for a classic RTS and should pick up the first 
 decade to catch up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokessweet7777
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  this game was so fun... except when we got an XP...
  
  GOOD R T S!!!! GO OD RTS!!!! G OOD RTS! !!! GO OD RTS!!!! GOOD R TS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GO OD RTS!!!! GOOD 
 RTS!!!! G OOD RTS!!!! GO OD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOO D RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD 
 RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GO OD RTS !!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOO D RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!! !! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD 
 RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! G OOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOO D RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD 
 RTS! !!! G OOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOO D RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD 
 RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!! !! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD R TS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD 
 RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! G OOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!! !GO OD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD 
 RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GO OD RTS!!!! GOO D RTS!!!! G OOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RT S!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD 
 RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! G OOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! GO OD RTS!!!! GOOD 
 RTS!!!! GOOD RTS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzDraon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The year is 1996, We just got our new 333mhz computer and have Windows 95 ready to go on it. Our 
 video card was a Voodoo with 8mb of on board memory This computer was not the best for the time, 
 but when it came Red Alert, it did not matter. Even with the limits of technology back then, Red 
 Alert is one of those games that I can go back to any time I want and know I will have a great 
 time playing. The single-player campaign is wonderful, filled with live action elements and the 
 latest CGI was implemented into the videos. This games two sides were amazing is design. One side 
 had Tanya and the other had Dogs, Turrets and Flame Throwers, this was some of the widest selection 
 of units we had ever seen for the time. Not only was the plot engaging and fun, but the multiplayer 
 expanded the game and enabled someone to enjoy it for years to come. The maps were designed well 
 and the water was even animated. Then they just took it a step further and gave you a Map Editor. 
 This was the cherry on top for me. I loved to design maps for hours. I could sit at that computer 
 the entire day and do nothing but make a map. Once you were done with your creation, play it on 
 multiplayer or do a skirmish on it. This is a classic that will never die for any hardcore RTS 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalsound00
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  another game that put me back in school. online play made this game legendary, constantly checking 
 the rankings to see if you're still in the top 10. i never did reach a consolation between the 
 soviets and allies, they both had their own merits respectively. 
  
  a beautifully designed game, complete control of an endless army. just don't bring out your moronic 
 nurples, what **** let's just play the game 
  
  not much use reviewing ra2, basically the same thing but not as 'natural' as the first, the original 
 had the classic feel to it. the original command & conquer opened my eyes to strategic war games, 
 then red alert took over my life. 
  
  Westwood, where have you gone? potential once again ruined by money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoreCowbell6924
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert is an awesome RTS. I've had this game for so long I don't remember when I got it. In 
 my opinion this game is better than Starcraft but doesn't seem to get the recognition Starcraft 
 does. Starcraft may be a greater game but i really think C&C Red Alert was better overall.
  
  Gameplay: Simple game to understand pick up and start playing. The campaign actually requires 
 alot of strategy while the skirmish mode requires the strategy to overwhelm your enemies with sheer 
 numbers and advanced tech. So this game doesn't offer all that much depth but enough of it to make 
 this one of the funnest games I've ever played.
  
  Value: There is plenty of replayability in this game. You can play through the campaign, side missions, 
 or just play a skirmish match. The campaign is fun and so are the missions but the skirmish you 
 can do over and over again. Red Alert offers plenty of different maps and the games you play can 
 last hours depending on how many players are in the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were great way back in the day but now days they aren't too great but still 
 work well enough for anyone who considers themselves open-minded. If you complain about the graphics 
 for this game I'd understand but passing up this game because its graphics suck really is a poor 
 reason to miss this game.
  
  Sound: The sound for this game is really good I think though by todays standards most people would 
 probably say the audio is pretty crappy but I thought it worked well then and I still do.
  
  C&C Red Alert is the best C&C game I've ever played and also the best RTS I've ever played 
 and is reccommendable to any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  this is the game that started it all, any RTS ever been made was made using sumthing or other from 
 this game. immerse story line and intense gameplay, this was the first game that put you in the 
 action with nothing more than a pistol and a packed lunch.
  
  this game had it all orignal weapons and cool ass vehicles. you want an rts play this and you can 
 see how much every game after has been influenced by it. the graphics were orignal and the angle 
 of all out war was intreging.
  
  the missions were actulyy quite hard but both sides brough sumthin new to the table. this game 
 is an all time classic.
  
  get it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrackpotGANJ
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I woulsd definetly get this game it is one of the best RTS in my opion the only series better then 
 COmmand and Conquer is Starcraft series. This review is a littler late from when it first game 
 out so if you read this now then you need to get this game. It by far isn't the best command and 
 conquer, but you need to have every single one of this series because it is well worth the money 
 and time you will spend on it. The only bad thing about this one is that there is a supply limit 
 were as the new ones don't have a suppy limit. Also you get to choose from three different countires 
 like standard RTS and the graphics arn't the best that youll ever see, but its still a great game!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrainthegamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  It was my first RTS game I played. It's really fun playing and it feels like I'm in the middle 
 of the war. Storyline is great and loved the video especially Tanya :p. The mission required to 
 build troops and then attack enemy base but also have mission to save and defend the area. I like 
 using Tanya because she has most powerful gun which with one shot can kill enemy instantly. I also 
 like to use spy and infiltrate enemy building but he can be spotted if the dogs are patrolling 
 the area. One other thing I like is the soundtracks, its really cool. I like song with marching 
 enemy. Overall, I really love this game and I miss it so much to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. To bad I have xp now or else I would be playing it. I did not even start 
 the campaing yet! skrimish is so much fun! That is like all I do. Too bad the servers are down 
 or else I may downgrade to 98 to play this game. Wow I remember when I first got this game. It 
 was the best ever until gta came into my life. I hope you enjoyed this review and I hope it helped 
 you out. Thanks! And also if you like this review please suggest this review. Thanks!
  
  
  
  -JJJ13 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The game is one of Westwood's best creations ever even to this day. The reason for this is because 
 although the game basically had the usual war game system, it had an excellent sense of strategy 
 and necessity to every game. Over-strategic games can often be boring and AOE-type games often 
 consist of no more than who can make the most villagers and the most catapaults. Red alert offers 
 a fairly large variety of units and you will often find yourself trying each one and enjoying the 
 different strategy to each unit type. This is very uncommon with many games and is what has always 
 made Red Alert stand out among the other old-school strategies. Regardless of the graphics or sound 
 or campaigns, this game's strategy and gameplay stands out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert is the game that started it all in the Command and Conquer franchise, it definately is 
 a memorable game that put Westwood on the radar screen. Sadly the company itself is gone now due 
 to EA who has purchased the company. The game itself is a very fun game and is one of the original 
 strategy games where you build your own military base and generate units that you will use to destroy 
 your opponent. Although the units are not as diverse as its sequel game it is still a very fun 
 game. There are two sides that the players can choose from the Allies or the Soviets. The Soviets 
 perfer to go with super strength while the allies on the other hand are a tad weaker but make up 
 with strategy on their side. If this game isn't pleasing enough there are multitudes of different 
 expansions that are available for players to pick up and add to this game. By modern standards 
 it may be outdated, but its gameplay is still very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keabard
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Yup, i never anticipatted a game more than this. This was back in the day peeps, i mean back in 
 the day, Back when you didnt play games. I remember it like last week: Blazing sun, damn crab grass... 
 my dad said he'd pay for it all if i would put in the work - so i did. But hey, it was all worth 
 it. I played this game almost as much time ive spent playing warcraft III ( which is easily over 
 100 hours) . The Command And Conqure Genre is by far one of the best RPG ever and has set a benchmark 
 for all future RPG's since its prime time. Actually, i had every Red Alert game except for tiberian 
 sun at one point: including two copies of this game (and the multipack exspansions such as Aftermath 
 and Counter "something") . My favorite unit quote from the game was an engineer. "ENGINEERING ---- 
 AFERMATIVE" you have no idea how much i have head that: along with the (YES SIR:) AFFERMATIVE -move 
 unit speech- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentNick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  It was the winter of 1997 when I first played this game. I remember that because my parents had 
 just put out the Christmas lights and, rather than run out like a proper 10 year old ought to, 
 I instead opted to sit at the family's Pentium 166 Gateway thingus that we all spent so much time 
 waiting on to enjoy the spectacle of my Allied troops laying waste to a Soviet base and then moving 
 on to mop up any stragglers here and there. Of course, to a ten year old strategy is about as far-fetched 
 a concept as "cleaning to room" is, and so I enjoyed the game at its face value, a chance to blow 
 stuff up.
  
  It wasn't until about three months ago that I stumbled across the game, still in its box, in the 
 den of our house. I installed it, this time on a P4 3.4Ghz custom made computer, installed the 
 Westwood, swallowed by EA at some time in the ten years between then (C&C's release) and now, supplied 
 patch for XP and loaded up the nostalgic views of the opening movie. Within moments I was again 
 visiting what were surprisingly familiar battlegrounds, and in some cases I even used tactics that 
 I, despite barely remembering them, used back when I was ten. Well, it's been eight years, and 
 I've beaten the game now as both the Allies and the Soviets, that good old epitome of Cold War 
 ideals of Good and Evil surpassed perhaps only by the stigmas left behind from the second World 
 War, the Axis versus the Allies in some divine struggle that old men on the History Channel got 
 short of breath on.
  
  The story here is fantastically conceived, that a living Einstein builds a Chronosphere, a machine 
 capable of traveling back in time, and removes Adolph Hitler from the equation long before he became 
 an influence. Flash forward to the time of World War II. What you end up discovering is that, through 
 the lack of a second world war, the Soviet union has invaded the rest of Europe and is getting 
 increasingly close to completing their plans for control over the whole of Europe and Asia. Enter 
 your character. You are an aspiring military commander of some prestige, and you have been given 
 the assignment of either defending Europe and reclaiming their lost lands, or decimating it and 
 subverting it under the boot of the dominant Soviet War Machine. Play either side, as the variety 
 of missions is equally fun no matter what you do. Enjoy this title, and the fun that it conveys 
 runs straight on into the sequel. Commanding, let alone conquering, never was this much fun before! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arre_87
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  I remember the first time I played C&C RA on my Pentium 166 mhz. The graphics were amazing, there 
 weren't any slowdowns, the sound effects were marvelous and most important of all, the gameplay 
 was just brilliant! 
  
  I still ask myself this question: Is it possible to get tired of this revolutionary classic? I 
 think that many people agree with me when I say that even today, C&C Red Alert's 2-side campaigns 
 are still as good as they were 10 years ago and the multiplayer beats most of todays' "next-gen" 
 strategy games. 
  
  I've been playing this game for as long as I can remember, and I probably will for the rest of 
 my life. Maybe not regular, but it will always remain in that special closet of mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This Game.... well what can i say. theres just nothing to say its That good of a game. theres A 
 ton of replay a Heck of a lot to fun Warfare to do. there's just no better Old school RTS Than 
 this game right here. Command and Conquer Red Alert. the Graphics the gameplay the sound the Fun. 
 this game should be played by anyone and i mean it. the missions are fun to play. the Units are 
 cool. and nice to see. the Sound is Perfect and the Music is Super. and Main theme "Hells March" 
 is a gaming Master piece for a main theme song. If you like RTS games then Buy it. if you Like 
 command and conquer Games Buy it. if you Like games Buy it. Theres Just nothing to Say. The Buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretteo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Red alert is based on the second world war, it has many units and buildings my favorites being 
 the mammoth tanks and the special trooper tanya.
  
  There is another red alert obviously called red alert 2 but i belive the original red alert to 
 be better. It is one of the command and conquer series wich has to be the best war game series 
 in the world.
  
  There are many buildings such as the construction yard the main part of your army, there are many 
 units but neither side has many of the same units my favorite two (one from each side) are the 
 mammoth tank and the heavy tank.
  
  I strongly recommend this game to war fanatics.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Command and conquer is one of the best army game ive ever played but command and conquer red alert 
 is one of my favourtes... 
  
  Instead of playing other games like KKND, AGE OF EMPIRES AND TOTAL ANNIHILATION.... COMMAND AND 
 CONQUER DELIVERS A NEW GENERATION OF COMMAND AND CONQUER UNIVERSE!!!! 
  
  The gameplay: the gameplay is completly awsome, it has many good point and no bad points... when 
 you play red alert you will feel so comfortable in the game and it has a good sense that it will 
 maybe take obsession of you and you will feel so much happier than ever... experience the gameplay 
 with stragegies and tactics that you can use. You can choose your own team and command and conquer... 
 the graphics are not very good as usuall but the pc version was bad and the playstation version 
 was good so between really, the models of the tanks are pretty awsome for a 2d game. The content, 
 veichles, buildings, strory has a lot of stuff in the game, it kind of realistic if you get to 
 know about the story and it is super fun too. 
  
  Missions- impossible???? well red alert is a hard game to play, when you do missions they are nearlly 
 impossible to complete... but they had a good stroylines and also there are really good tips you 
 can use!
  
  sound??? well to be honest it is not very good at all there are a LOT of bugs in the sounds and 
 sometimes you can hear it repeat...
  
  overall- a very good game, but sounds the problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero_of_Time82
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Never had a game captivated me like this one did. From the first time that I saw it, not even actually 
 playing it, I was obsessed. It takes an interesting story, and creates stimulating gameplay that 
 never gets old. This is one of, if not the definitive, RTS game. The strategic possibilities are 
 endless, which allows for a new experience every time you play it. It is a magical experience that 
 I will cherish as one of my fondest childhood memories. I only regret that my Windows XP computer 
 can no longer run it. I hope to see it released with updated software allowing this when the anniversary 
 collection comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casteye
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  i just really love this game its old but its good i bought it becouse i never had seen a game like 
 this one becouse how you play is weird but cool so i bought it and from there i was addicted it 
 has good grafix loads really fast not comple cated so i think its easy but if you dont get the 
 point of the game it will be hard for you. but after that you think the game is very cool. its like 
 any gun game just that in this one you have to build things make things and wait is the trick becoase 
 if you dont wait and fight you will lose very fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShootersRule
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is simple, it doesn't have the best graphics compared to today's games, but it's the 
 best command and conquer game there is! Although Command&Conquer original was great, but this game 
 is just plain fun! I just like the two teams Allies and Russia, even with online play, it's plain 
 chaos if you play with people who know what they're doing. I would play it right now instead of 
 writing this review, but my brother sold it along with Tiberian Sun, Red Alert 2 and Yuri's Revenge! 
 = (
  The main theme song (Hell March) is a classic also! And I don't know why they got rid of the attack 
 dogs' style of killing, they would just rip the $#!^ out of the soldiers (in red alert 2, they 
 just eat their bones, where's the fun in that?!?!?!?) , and when the soldiers get zapped by the 
 Tesla Coils or when they get burned by the flame throwers. And who can forget the beloved Mammoth 
 Tanks from Russia!?!?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaptoman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  It simply DOES NOT get any better than this. Red Alert was the follow up game that C&C fans were 
 dying for. It was everything that C&C was, and better. Having played C&C from the beginning, It 
 was easy to pick up and play, but took a while to master. The now old-fashioned Full motion video 
 mission briefings bring back good memories. Did I mention Tanya was HOT? Watching the intro video 
 today still gets me jumping. How cool was the idea of a prevented World War spawning another one, 
 just as big, against our good 'ol pals in the USSR? Tesla coils replaced the infamous Obelisks, 
 winter set in, and many a gamer settled in for a long day of Red Alert. Long live Command and Conquer. 
 R. I. P..... Westwood..... R. I. P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4-SaGohan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Sup everyone, my name is SSJ4-SaGohan. And I'm here to say that this game is the best series in 
 the whole C&C (Command and Conquer) game. 
  
  Gameplay: In this game, you select one of the following countries: Allies and Soviets. The missions 
 in this game are intense. The Allies helps you on the missions, and the soviets are your biggest 
 enemies. This game has lots of missions that contains lots of intense violent. In this game there 
 are boxes to walk or drive through, that may contains soldiers, vehicles, and power ups.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't too bad but there is just one big problem. The graphic's 2D!! You 
 can't see too much detail from the pictures and all but, in the movies, you could see them pretty 
 well. The movies looks amazing. The way they look. The shadows of each person follows the real 
 person's movements perfectly.
  
  Sound: The sounds of the soldiers are very simple. The people who made this game, got about 2-3 
 different action talk and most of the times, they repeat them self over, and over, and over again. 
 But in the movies, they don't do those nonsense. Like, have you ever saw a movie that repeats the 
 same words over, and over? No. The movies in the game are like the real ones, that you could see 
 in the theaters.
  
  And that is all the things that I could really say to you all. You might discover way more than 
 those stuff that I said.
  
  See ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animatronX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Red Alert is one of the best strategy game ever made.
  The campaign is actually not phenominal (but very diverse from what I remember) and kind of fizzles 
 out a bit at its end. 
  The highlight of the game, by far, was/is the 'skirmish' option, where you get to utilize everything 
 the game offers as you build buildings for and duke it out with bots.
  Ahead of its time and, in terms of gameplay, comprable to the best current games.
  Pick it up, 
 itll only cost you $5 or so.
  
  "Patriotism? Take it with you out into space!"
  John Cage
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krishmaj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:04 am PT
Review:  Westwood Games real time strategy game Command and Conquer: Red Alert was released about a year 
 after its masterpiece of a predecessor (the original Command and Conquer: Tiberian Dawn) . Built 
 around much of the same game specs, this new game recaptured the great bits from Westwoods previous 
 RTS, and added a few new things of its own; in doing so, creating another instant classic.
  
  Red Alert explores a new history in a new timeline  one created by dark and dangerous experiments 
 with time-travel, by an innocent man attempting to change history for the better. But in doing 
 so, he unleashes a new enemy, one far greater in power than the enemy he eradicated from time. 
 This new enemy is nothing less than the entire Soviet Union, under the imperialistic rule of Josef 
 Stalin, the time is the mid twentieth century, and the people fighting against him  the Allies 
  although spread throughout Europe, are at first nothing more than a disorganized rebellion.
 
  
  Red Alert follows a similar path to Tiberian Dawn  it allows you to play as one of 2 sides: the 
 Soviet Union, with all its military might, or as the Allies, and their technological ingenuity. 
 The fighting takes place around Europe and western Russia, and once again the player is not restricted 
 in how their campaign pans out. There are up to 15 different missions for each side (again, about 
 15 to 20 hours gameplay) , ranging from simple  to the 
 new kind of level you can find in this game: searching through underground bases for a specific 
 target. There are other new additions to Red Alert that improve on features seen in Tiberian Dawn: 
 most notably, the player is now in full control of both naval and aerial units  they can be built 
 and commanded as part of your army. The two sides, as noted before, vary considerably in their 
 strengths and weaknesses: as the Allies, the player will use more expensive but superior technologies, 
 and as the Soviets, the focus will be primarily on quantity. The classic units and buildings from 
 the original Command and Conquer make reappearances here, ranging from the simple Rifle Infantry 
 to the GDI Mammoth Tanks (now under the Soviets) and the super-weapons for both sides. 
  
  The learning curve is once again short compared to recent games: all that is needed is an understanding 
 of the controls, which are the mouse and possibly the number keys for teams, and the different 
 types of unit and building. But since the units are introduced bit by bit throughout the whole 
 game, it isnt exactly overwhelming to the player, although it may get boring using rifle infantry 
 for 4 or 5 missions in a row  dont rush it: enjoy every single kill. 
  
  However, Red Alert perhaps suffers from a less rounded storyline than the original C&C  some of 
 the later missions on both sides are much the same: build your base and destroy the enemy one. 
 While they all add to the experience and prepare you for the final missions, the player might find 
 their concentration wavering from time to time. But to make up for this, many of the mistakes in 
 the first C&C have been corrected, including the AI being given a lot more intelligence (i. e. it 
 wont let you sandbag it into its own base this time!) . This makes the battles more and more dependant 
 on forward thinking, since the AI can turn the way of a mission with one single attack. And the 
 campaign is all integrated  what you do in one battle will affect what you can choose from in 
 later ones: the world situation is shown on the (surprisingly cheesy) map after each mission.
 
  
  Players of the original Command and Conquer will immediately see that the graphics in Red Alert 
 are identical  but this is not really surprising since the games were only a year apart. Even 
 so, once again the graphics are not the greatest problem in the game, and very few people have 
 a genuine problem with the way the game looks. And its not just the in-game graphics: one of the 
 best aspects of the original Command and Conquer is used to great effect in Red Alert: cutscenes 
 between the missions. These have been improved greatly from Westwoods previous game: now many 
 of the scenes are not just a talking head, they involve more people  including the recurring character 
 of Tanya the Freedom Fighter on the Allies side, and Stalin himself for the Soviets. However, sometimes 
 there is much to be desired from the acting  one memorable situation involves Stalin and his mistress 
  quite embarrassing, and not just for the viewers! Even so, the majority of the cutscenes are 
 well thought out and acted, making Red Alert seem more like a full-blown war than the original 
 C&C.
  
  The soundtrack in Red Alert, once again created by Frank Klapecki, only adds more to the game  
 there is a brilliant mix of music ranging from pounding marches to energetic beats, all of which 
 merely encourage you to kick the enemys ass into the ground. In particular there is one tune that 
 stands out: Hell March (which was later used as the main title tune to Red Alert 2) .
  
  After the instant success of the original Command and Conquer, Westwood could have just left it 
 at that. But they didnt: instead they went back to the drawing board, and created a new game from 
 the ground up, one which encompassed the best qualities of the last one, and added its own unique 
 flare at the best times. A random map / skirmish option was added, and the multiplayer was revamped 
 to make up for the less reliable version present in the original C&C. The result was Red Alert, 
 and nobody at the time would have guessed that it would spawn 2 expansion packs, as well as a sequel 
 of its own. But it did  and the rest is as they say, history
  
  Which side will you choose? Good or Evil? Just which one is good, and which evil? You can decide 
 in Red Alert.
  The world will be yours once again, to Command and Conquer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixty7velle
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm a RTS fanatic and this is my favorite game, actually this is the first RTS game I ever played. 
 It has everying you could ask for and nothing more. The problem with games today is that they are 
 too complicated. This is the bare essentials and that is what makes it so great. It actually makes 
 me think that game creators should take a few steps back and rethink how pc games are made. If 
 you are too young to have played this you should really look into it. I just unpacked my oldass 
 computer to play my copy on since it won't run on windows XP. If that doesn't persuade you I don't 
 know what will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolve3308
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  i believe red alert is what gave command and conquer a name for itself. it was an amazing game 
 that has everything u look for. great graphics for the times, lets remember this was made for windows 
 95!! and it still has smoother, nicer graphics then games today. the controls were very well done 
 and easy to use. it was non stop fun, u could play skirmish after skirmish and u would never get 
 bored with the variety of ways to dominate over the other army. u start from scratch with a mobile 
 construction unit and then build your base from there, each building gaining more and more advanced 
 units and structures. a superb game, classic game for anyones collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubeyou
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:28 am PT
Review:  starcraft is the most prefect games i ever play...
  the first 10.0 rate games!
  blood war i play the most in battle net.
  i suggest starcraft will be No1 forever!
  starcraft 
 graphic best, sounds also not bad 2
  i already play for 5 years, still not bored as Warcraft... nice!!
  i were play starcraft for 
 500hour above...
  warcraft i only play about 4 hours then i delete it, too bored....
  so starcraft is the best, always beat the rest...
  it is worth playing
  if you like starcraft, 
 better play on battle. net to fight with stronger player
  my name in starcraft is ubeyou, the strong starcraft killer, hope next year i can go in world cyber 
 games fight with stronger player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhenkai
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:04 am PT
Review:  At and around the time of release this game was simply breathtaking. It laid out the foundations 
 for real time strategy war games and was a huge improvement from the previous Command and Conquer 
 tiberian dawn.
  
  Often with action and RTS games the story is lacking and gameplay is heavily emphasised. It certainly 
 not the case with Red Alert. Not only was the action great so was the story. 
  
  For those who have not experienced it you can pickup a world wide warfare back from EA for around 
 the same price as pizza. So do yourself a favour and relive the magic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  For any Command and Conquer fan out there, they will all agree that this is an essential game in 
 the series. It came right after the original game was released in '95, and allowed you to play 
 with similar sides as the orignal, except this time it is the allies or the soviets, in a world 
 that was a result of what would have happened if Hitler was taken out the picture before he even 
 came to power. Playing as the superior Soviets, with their Tesla Coils and mammoth tanks or the 
 Allies with their advanced firepower is fun no matter which side you play on. I always sided with 
 the Soviets, because they the cooler toys, gotta love zapping infantry that gets too close. Awesome 
 multiplayer action and hours of endless fun. This will always remain a classic in the realtime 
 strategy world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwarfism
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  When I was a little kid and C&C came out I watched my older neighbors play, and as soon as we got 
 a computer, I immediatly bought RED ALERT. It has been my basis for what an rts should be and maybe 
 that has caused me to have a hard time really truly finding rts's that I like, only few out there 
 have even come close and one of those is Warcraft III, and another is Dawn of War. Both of which 
 are much more recent of games. if only they would update this game and make it more compatable 
 for windows xp or make a new Direct X 9.0C compatable Command and Conquer rts, I think that it 
 could possibly be the best game on the market and have one hell of a sell. I just thought that 
 this game should stay on this site adn at least get recongnized for what it truly was a revolutionary, 
 and entertaingin single player and multiplayer game for everyone. Along with some sweet ass tanks 
 and ideas in the expansions. AT the time it had great graphics, incredible gameplay and good soudn 
 and sound track built into the second cd, and yeah it just freaking ruled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwolfghost
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  This game is a big change from Command and Conquer. It has a ton of addons from the last but a 
 whole line of changes. 
  
  First is obviosly the graphics. They have changed drasticly from the original so that the units 
 have more detail. As well as the ground and all other affects. 
  
  With it comes a whole new story line follow a war between the Soviet Union and the Allied. This 
 story line will definetly keep you busy over and over again. It is a normal advance as you gain 
 in technology and fight harder larger forces throughtout.
  
  It has the most basic stuff like gold crystals you must collect to keep your army growing. The 
 Refineries are the backbone of your army. Without it you will not be able to build anything.
  
  The AI have a big improvement in their difficulty level and there advancements toward you in 
 the skirmish level of the game. The skirmish is the main addition to the game. It lets you play 
 a selections of maps against AI. You have a choice of fighting up to 8 AI at a time with full technology.
 
  
  This game was a thrill to play and its a game to come back to again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2005 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Rarely does it happen that a game is capable of becomming legendary. This would be one of those 
 titles. 
  
  Whatever strategy games were before this game, I would almost say there were nothing like Command 
 and Conquer. This game brought the genre onto a completely new level. As I may not play this game 
 anymore, it brings back memories of hours on end play. Along with Red Alert 2 which continued what 
 C&C started. After that, people were hooked, and developers opened their eyes to something completely 
 new.
  
  I hold high respect for companeis that dare to try something different. When you start developing 
 something that has never been done before - you need a round of applause because it doesnt happen 
 every day. As a company you are going into the unknown and hope for the best. 
  
  Supperb job Westwood - even today a decade later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 30, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I know that this is the game viewed as the pinnacle of the series but I cannot see how this game 
 is preffered to any others in the series. To me it is just a less-fun version of the original Command 
 and Conquer with the noteworthy additions of multiplayer and a single player skirmish mode although 
 the latter is mostly useless and broken as the AI eventually gives up and hordes an army in their 
 base. The missions are less fun, the units are drab and I just dont get it. However, if there weren't 
 such better offerings in the series id probably have had enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hormagaunt
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2005 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty:
  Just right, easy in the start, and hard at the end, an over-comable challenge.
  
  Learning 
 Curve:
  In the end of the game it can be very hard.
  
  Classification:
  This is a masterpiece, i would say this is the best game i have ever played!
  
  Gameplay:
 
  Fun from start to finished, and has a magical atmosphere about it.
  
  Graphics:
  At the time it had the best grphics, but now they are frankly terrible.
  
  Sounds:
  Good 
 sounds, at the time they were exellent.
  
  Value:
  Solid masterpiece of a strategy game.
  
  
  This is a game that in my mind is a legend, it 
 was one of my first games, and the best game i have played. Well worth any amount of money you 
 are willing to pay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_G12
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  The Command & Conquer franchise has been the benchmark for WWII and alternate history RTS for years. 
 With such high expectations for Red Alert after the original Command & Conquer, Westwood Studios 
 knew they had to create a fresh, innovative game, but not a radical change from the beloved series. 
 They accomplished this, and then some. 
  The story of Red Alert is one of its many highs as it deals with an alternate history set during 
 the World War 2 era. A time machine was constructed by Albert Einstein where a man went back in 
 time before the war and before Hitler gained power, and assassinated Hitler himself. This was thought 
 to prevent World War 2 from occurring and saving millions of lives. However, a new threat emerged 
 from the Soviet Union, as they had a clear path to the domination of Europe. As in the previous 
 game, you have two parallel campaigns that have you control the Soviet Union's armies, as well 
 as the Allies, who are fighting a difficult war to save Europe from Soviet control. Both sides 
 of the campaign play amazingly smooth and have enough unique units and structures to truly make 
 you play the game all over again from the opposite side. At sometimes, the Soviets appear to have 
 the clear advantage in sheer firepower as they have some of the most powerful units in the game, 
 such as the Mammoth Tank, Tesla Coil and V2 Rocket Launcher. Yet, the Allies have a vast range 
 of units that cover many different areas of offense and defense. Overall, the units and structures 
 are balanced quite well, but I think that the AA gun of the Allies could have been switched to 
 the Soviets SAM site and vice versa, as the Allies have a wealth of aerial firepower.
  The gameplay has such variation and scale that you can spend hours upon hours honing your strategies 
 and learning the intricate natures of the environment and your enemy. The AI leads to some really 
 memorable sequences and battles, but my only grievance is how they tend to use the same strategy 
 (yes singular) repeatedly. More variation would have taken this game past the perfect mark to sheer 
 bliss, but the extreme gameplay makes up for it and then some. The multiplayer aspect of the game 
 is a great addition, leading people to truly experience chaotic combat with up to 7 other people. 
 It also makes the game have an infinite amount of replay value as you can skirmish with yourself 
 and up to 7 AI controlled armies or challenge your friends or strangers online. The skirmish mode 
 is a wonderful addition, but there are some flaws that make it frustrating at times. For example, 
 the AI armies, for the majority, build their bases extremely close together and massing their units 
 as best as they can. The repetitive strategies that plague the single player portion of the game 
 are more noticeable here, as skirmish battles can become very easy once you master learning the 
 very narrow multitude of strategies employed by your AI opponents.
  The graphics are truly revolutionary as they create lush, beautiful terrains that are completely 
 unique and fun to explore. For an ancient game by today's standards, the graphics hold up extremely 
 well.
  The audio may not be the most varied when it comes to battles and units/ buildings being destroyed, 
 but the soundtrack is superb as it provides a great atmosphere for your conquest. Many songs have 
 the perfect mix of mellow periods and rocking pieces that really energize you. They make you feel 
 like your battles are more cinematic with the constant great music playing in the background. 
 
  Overall, Command and Conquer: Red Alert is the perfect RTS game with every element constructed 
 perfectly to suit the hardcore gamers and casual ones as well. It is easy to learn, fun to play, 
 and with its expansion packs (sold separately, but very cheap) , it has unlimited replay value and 
 should keep you thoroughly entertained for a long time
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  Red Alert, what is there about it that wasn't great about the game. Command and Conquer red alert 
 had everything a strategy game needed. You had all the vehicles of world war 2, death until your 
 hearts content, having no limits to how many troops you could have, and lots of variety. Campaign 
 was nice and long to keep your money worth wild, when you get bored with that you could either 
 create your own map or play a already made one with one of your pals. This game deserves to be 
 on of those games that you put up on your wall and officially call a "CLASSIC". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arathin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  Command and Conquer was a revolutionary game that created a whole new perspective on strategy games. 
 Red Alert is no exception. It ravels together everything that makes a masterpiece. Amazing gameplay. 
 Superb cutscenes. Excellent music. This game is even better than the original, and that seemed 
 impossible at the time.
  
  With an all new range of units, vehicles and buildings, Red Alert is even better than the original. 
 There are two different adversaries this time round; the Allies and the Soviets. Both hold a unique 
 range of weaponry. These highly original armies add an even greater depth to the massive extent 
 of gameplay. The player must use his wits and strategic thinking to invade the enemies base and 
 complete each level. There are so many ways to finish missions, whether it be a full-scale invasion 
 or a sneak attack. Some new units include the spy, who can infiltrate enemy buildings, the guard 
 dogs, who can hunt down spies and kill soldiers in seconds, and more!
  
  The soundtrack is simply superb. In Command and Conquer there were only a few well chosen tracks 
 to play. In Red Alert there are atleast 20 unique tracks to the game. Each track sets the feeling 
 of the game.
  
  What helps to set Red Alert aside from all other strategy games is it's amazing multi-player mode. 
 Once again the player can team up with his friends against exceptionally hard enemies. The multi-player 
 system can keep the player occupied for hours.
  
  Red Alert is another amazing game. Once more, Westwood has proven that their strategy game making 
 abilities are simply superb. Red Alert is well worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2004 3:53 pm PT
Review:  .. playing this game in campaign, skirmish and in modem games. The storyline was good, the maps 
 were good, the units and buildings were good.. The worst thing about the game was the AI, which 
 wasn't all that bad. Command & Conquer Red Alert is a classic game. It was the first C&C game i 
 played, and even after playing everything C&C game to date, remains my favourite. (Yes, it was 
 even better than C&C Generals for all the Generals fanboys) . 
  
  Anyone that missed out on playing this game needs to go and get the C&C collection which includes 
 many of the C&C games. There were a few expansion packs for Red Alert which i bought, CounterStrike 
 and Aftermath. Both expansions were good. But the original game was so amazing even without them. 
 
  
  If you don't have this fantastic game in your collection you either are very young and in that 
 case missed out on many classic gaming moments, or have no idea what good games are. Go pick this 
 title up and play through it. The graphics are now dated compared to recent releases, but the game 
 is a classic. I have so many memeries of playing modem games. The modem games, together with skirmish 
 and the campaign and then there is the VERY easy to use map editor, unlike games today, the map 
 editor was so easy EVERYONE and anyone could use it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:18 am PT
Review:  (Note that my graphics score was given for the time of the game's release, not now.) 
  
  This is a true classic. Really, it's two games in one. There's the single-player campaign and the 
 multiplayer gameplay. 
  
  
  (1) The Campaign. Very good. The storyline premise (Einstein goes back in time and phases Hitler 
 out of time, leaving Stalin as the menace against Europe) is very original, and makes you interested 
 in what happens from the beginning. Plus, the fact that you're taking orders from Stalin himself 
 (if you choose to play as Soviets) somehow pulls you into the atmosphere of the game more. The 
 FMV acting is awful but funny, and the action cutscenes (tanks blowing up and what not) are at 
 once stylish, exciting, and amusing (like a bird taking a dump on an ICBM after you've disabled 
 the warhead in mid-flight) . But of course, all that stuff is secondary. The gameplay is what RA 
 is all about. The missions are well paced, and a little tough for a beginner. However, this game 
 IS cake for anyone who's played RTS games. That's all right, it's still fun. Of course, after you 
 beat the game a couple of times, you won't ever want to come back to it again (except for to see 
 the hilarious cameo by Kain) . Which brings us to: 
  
  
  (2) The Multiplayer. This is the true value of this game. The single-player is fun, but once you're 
 done you're done. Fire this up on a LAN with your friends, and you will never do any homework again! 
 For beginners, there's all kinds of strategies and little tricks you can pull, like Tanya in a 
 transport or a MiG rush in the beginning of the game. Soviets are brute-force tank maniacs, Allies 
 have the recon value of GPS and the naval power of Cruisers. And of course, tanks tanks tanks. 
 All these things combine to make for fun combinations which are the true joy of this game. 
  
  
  Unfortunately, as you and your friends get past the intermediate stage, you start realizing 
 the quickest ways to victory. Fun things like MiGs and helicopters, and soon Tanyas and Cruisers 
 and even GPS, start becoming hindrances to a truly efficient victory. In other words, it starts 
 to be all about tank rushes in the first 5 minutes. At the highest levels of play on the Internet, 
 that's all you can do if you want to rack up points. It may take a while to get to this stage and 
 that's when the game ultimately stops being fun. However, it gave me months and months of multiplayer 
 enjoyment before it, and hence the high score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunk4thSurvivor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 20, 2003 11:31 pm PT
Review:  WOW. THIS IS ALL I HAVE TO SAY. This game is nearly flawless... This review may be very new and 
 the game was released like 10 years ago or whatever but... This is just one of my most loved games 
 of all-time. I will explain why. The gameplay is just so amazing and at the time, innovative. This 
 game gave gave attention to RTS games, Real-Time-Strategy. Going around building up men, tanks, 
 aerial attacks, special weapons like nukes and stuff to attack other bases was just genius. I bought 
 this time back in 6th grade. I am a senior in high school now and every once in a while think about 
 that game. Of course i dont play it now beacuse Of Command & Conquer Generals but i had to have 
 played this game more than generals. THe graphcis at its time were VERY VERY good, its cut-scences 
 with hitler and all the role playing going around after and before you beat a misson is great. 
 the SOUND to this game is phenomenal too, it sounded like real gun shots and tanks fireing, its 
 superb. the VALUE to this game is by no means other than PERFECT! This game has a high EXTREME 
 ammount of replayability value. THerefor its perfect. The TILT to this game is just perfect. its 
 a perfect RTS game. YOU CAN EVEN PLAY IT ONLINE!!!
  
  OVERALL i would give this an extremely high-rating 9.8/10 NEAR PERFECT.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
