-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer: Red Alert 3 Uprising
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/redalert3uprising/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The Commander's Challenge can be fun.
 Some cool new units.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor mission design.
 Yuriko campaign is half-baked.
 Pathfinding and animations still problematic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.3, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 263 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 12, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This misguided expansion pack does the unthinkable: It makes Red Alert 3 boring. 

  How does a developer take such a gleefully joyous experience as Red Alert 3 and morph it into lifeless 
 mediocrity? It's a question that you'll wrestle with as you struggle through the real-time strategy 
 game's first expansion pack, Uprising. Some valiant attempts to retain the original's cheery, cheesy 
 charm are all but lost in a murky sea of generic, poorly constructed missions that are either insipid 
 or infuriating. There's certainly a lot of content in this single-player offering, what with four 
 bite-sized campaigns, a smattering of new skirmish maps, and the dozens and dozens of scenarios 
 that compose a new mode called the Commander's Challenge. Yet it's hard to call Uprising a good 
 value, even at its low price point, when so little of it is actually fun to play.  

  If there's one individual you can't fault for Uprising' lifeless meanderings, it's 
 the blustery Ric Flair. He and a few other new personalities join some returning ones, but the 
 histrionic, live-action magic of Red Alert 3 is muted here, a testament to the hammy energy of 
 George Takei, Tim Curry, and J. K. Simmons that erupted from the original. The less-enthusiastic 
 Gemma Atkinson, and newcomer Holly Valance as a smarmy anchorwoman, simply can't compete, and a 
 bizarre performance from Julia Ling isn't so much melodramatically cheesy as it is a bit insincere 
 and embarrassing. Even the fantastically inelegant Ric Flair, appearing in the new Commander's 
 Challenge mode, can't muster these troops into action. The real storytelling highlight is found 
 within the unusual Yuriko campaign, which breathes humanity into the Empire's quietly creepy commando. 

  The gameplay has lost its spark as well. Red Alert 3's greatest claim to fame, cooperative gameplay, 
 has been jettisoned completely to make room for too many ho-hum, derivative puzzle-type objectives, 
 the kind that have long plagued mediocre strategy games. All too often, you are handed a small 
 group of units and pressed into a very specific tactic, a contrivance that was less mundane with 
 a co-op commander at your side, but now feels quaint at best, and at worst, frustrating. Given 
 that Uprising requires very specific tactics in these instances, you may need to save and reload 
 a few times until you get a handle on these highly scripted events. For instance, as the Soviets, 
 your first encounter with the Allied cryo legionnaires (one of Uprising's new units) will likely 
 be disastrous because you won't be ready for their icy attack until it's too late. In another sloppy, 
 heavily scripted sequence during the Allied campaign, rocket angels may pummel your MCV before 
 you're even aware that you've been provided your own rocket troops to counter them. Should you 
 lose, the continuing voice-over indicates that the mission is continuing, even as a competing one 
 signals your defeat. And twice during the game, you are instructed not to engage units that you 
 actually  must  engage if you have any hope of succeeding. Red Alert 3 lovers who wanted a greater 
 challenge may enjoy the occasional punishment, but anyone looking for more of the original's brand 
 of joyful action will be alienated by the slapdash nature of the missions.  

  Almost as if to counter the derivative mission grind, Uprising features an entire campaign that 
 breaks free of RTS conventions. Here, you take control of Yuriko, the Empire's commando unit, and 
 take her dungeon crawling, using her four psionic powers to wreak havoc. The campaign is a stripped-down 
 action role-playing game. With Yuriko's main attack, you can demolish entire buildings, whereas 
 four additional abilities let her shield herself, unleash a formidable psychic blast, brainwash 
 enemy infantry into fighting on her behalf, and pick up objects and enemies and fling them at each 
 other. It's over quickly and not all that satisfying. Granted, it's cool to rip up entire swaths 
 of enemies and fill the screen with colorful particle effects. Yet the gameplay feels too watered-down. 
 There is no onscreen minimap (you need to hit the escape key to view the map) , two of the three 
 levels take place in the same unimaginative environment, and you can't zoom in to get a better 
 look at the action. It can be a bit tactical, particularly during the final boss battle, but it 
 isn't strategic enough to work in the context of an RTS, and it's certainly not as engaging as 
 a good action RPG. The campaign was a good idea, but it doesn't feel as tight as it should, particularly 
 in light of Dawn of War II's far superior foray into that hybrid realm.  

  Standard strategic gameplay within the campaigns succeeds better, though not having a co-op commander 
 to join you keeps large battles from feeling as grand and sweeping as they did in Red Alert 3. 
 However, there are some nice highlights. Defending a central base with the help of century bombers 
 and cryocopters is enjoyable, and some of the new units fit in nicely, such as the Soviet's awesomely 
 named mortar cycle. Perhaps the most impressive new unit is the Empire's giga fortress, which is 
 great fun to watch in action. When gliding through the air, its powerful beam slices through units 
 below, and in its five-armed floating form, its barrage of rockets makes short work of flying foes. 
 You get to put these powerhouses to good use in the Empire campaign, in which objectives are stacked 
 against you and the giga fortress's potent missiles are a great boon. In skirmish games, they don't 
 feel properly balanced, which is also the case for several other imposing additions. Of course, 
 balance would have been more important in a multiplayer skirmish, but even with a good number of 
 new single-player maps to play on, these overpowered units make battling the AI less enjoyable 
 because it isn't as satisfying when you win, and it's frustrating when you lose.  

           Here is a case where water and electricity do mix.      

  Nevertheless, many of those 
 new maps are designed well, and you get to play on them not just in individual skirmishes, but 
 also in the new Commander's Challenge mode. Here, you start with a small group of units and unlock 
 more by battling your way from one mission to the next. Some of these missions are fun, and properly 
 countering the scripted legions of enemies is enjoyable. However, the demanding later levels require 
 a good bit of trial and error, and completing them requires very specific tactics, particularly 
 if you wish to clear them under par time. Fortunately, the computer's predictable behavior makes 
 it easy to steamroll through many of the earlier missions. Even with its shortcomings, this mode 
 is the most satisfying way to play Red Alert 3 Uprising, giving you tangible rewards in the way 
 of new missions and units as you progress.  

  Red Alert 3 Uprising may have abandoned most of what made its predecessor great, but it does retain 
 all of the glitchy pathfinding and occasional animation jitters. Thankfully, Electronic Arts didn't 
 abandon its commitment to great music, delivering some terrific new tracks to complement the visual 
 mayhem. It's just too bad that in almost every other way, Uprising struggles to merely preserve 
 the delights of the franchise, let alone improve them. In Red Alert 3 Uprising, compelling chaos 
 has been bafflingly bulldozed to make room for tedium.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Eugen-male
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I knew that Gamespot were very biased but this?! my jaw dropped when i saw their score...
  You get around 15 new units, including the huge giga fotress ship, the missions are ok, the challenge 
 mode is what makes this expansion pack fun and i cant possibly see any other command & conquer 
 to beat this game, yes including tibeirum wars with kanes wrath expansion pack...
  The expansion pack returned me the old days feeling where i was playing command and conquer red 
 alert 1 on my fancy playstation while other versions were not up to the job, the only downside 
 i can see about this game is the way you harvest, the resource camps where you used to have to 
 escort your harvesters to so they could go around and harvest cristals here and there is replaced 
 by a boring device where you enter with ur harvester and it automatically fills it up, doesnt sound 
 to bad? well they are 2 seconds away from your refinery, most of the times located in your base 
 so u can easelly protect them, Multiplayer is not available, but i doubt with a patch that wont 
 be possible.
  
  Seriously apart from that i cant see any reason this game should deserve such insult: Score 5.0/10 
 plz... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmoddeuss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 4:11 am PT
Review:  This misguided expansion pack does the unthinkable: It makes Red Alert 3 boring. -  Whaaaat ?!?!?!?! 
 
  
  Alright , so what they really mean by boring ? R3 Uprising is FUN and not boring at all ! Well, 
 I think that this time Gamespot went a bit far saying this. 
  
  Actually I am still playing RA3 Uprising and the more I play the more I like it ! Uprising so far 
 is surprisingly good , the campaign is short , one of the factions have 4 maps and the other two 
 have 3 maps each, but the maps are great and fun and also they are long. Yuriko campaign isn't 
 bad either , it offers lots of fun.
  
  On the other side , the Skirmish are always good , the only thing to complain here is that there 
 are not much options of AI difficulty to choose. There are a few maps but is still fun.
  
  The new units are great ! they look great and they are powerful , you will just love them, so far 
 I like the additions for the Empire Faction and Allied Factions , Soviet faction units are great 
 too , but the reaper is not my favorite , for some reason I just don't like it.
  
  And the most important part of the game is the challenge mode that offers a lot , lots of fun and 
 play hours , yes hours ! It is very fun and is very good to develop new tactics for yourself, there 
 are interesting scenarios and unique ones that makes this challenge mode highly addictive. 
  
  R3 Uprising for my is not that difficult , maybe because I am a bit experienced , not much 
 but I see the experience I have is enough to make this game not so difficult, so if you are new 
 , or not experienced this will be a bit difficult , but not to overreact, just need to learn and 
 develop your tactics. And if you are new , I highly recommend to start playing the campaign first, 
 then try out the challenge mode.
  
  As I said this game offers a lot of fun , that the important factor here , and the quality is very 
 good , on the other hand quantity is not that much but enough to enjoy and make your 20$ worth.
 
  
  Really , when I leave work , the first thing I want to do is to play R3 Uprising challenge mode 
 :) I enjoy it a lot , so this weeks I have been busy with it.
  
  Here I put a small summary of cons and pro ;
  
  Pro
  --------
  
  -Great and cool new 
 Units for all factions.
  -Challenge mode is highly addictive and rocks.
  -General soundtrack is great.
  -Campaign story-line is good.
  -Cinematics are great as always. 
 
  
  Cons
  ---------
  
  -Some new units feels too powerful and a bit unbalanced.
  -Lack of AI in some maps 
  -Only 3 different AI to choose in Skirmishes
  -No multiplayer.
 
  
  Overall Score: 8,5 Points 
  Notes: If this game was multiplayer and offer more AI options and better balanced units definitely 
 I would give this game a 10 with no doubt !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel8888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I dont understand it. An expansion with 4 new units to each faction (Giga fortress transform like 
 other Imperial units) , new maps with some awsome twists ( For example: on Power Play Mode you receive 
 Security points really fast, opnening a whole nw bunch of firepower in the early game) , The New 
 C&C Challenger Mode
  new music, and 12 new campaing missions.
  
  For all this, a 5?
  
  Of course, the new units really need some balance before (except the URSS Units, for me they 
 are just perfectly balanced) , especially the Giga Fortress. Its easy winning a game concentrating 
 all your money to grab one in less than ten minutes.
  
  Of course, the midless mass-fabrication units by the AI in the single-player make impossible to 
 win if a match lasts more than 20-30 minutes, since its impossible for a non-machine opponent 
 to spit out the same bunch of units to counter, making each match too short.
  
  Of course, The new campaing really takes it too hard sometimes, making it a bit frustrating to 
 reload the same mission over and over again.
  
  Nothing that a good patch cant solve. And even if that patch didnt come out, still, its a really 
 great experience playing the game, I really think that the early game had not enought units. the 
 new ones its just what C&C needed to be almost perfect.
  
  For all C&C Games, this is the best one. Its the only one that reminds me of the unique gameplay 
 of Starcraft. This C&C expansions its an evolved version of that kind of gameplay that I never 
 found in any other RTS game. Despite of its flaws, its marvelous.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Cultist
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 6:50 am PT
Review:  New expansion brought a mass of new units that are perfectly balanced in the game ,a bounch of 
 new maps and finally the continuation of Allied occupation of Japan soil. The game has everything 
 that we ,C&C fans asked for. Yes ,I agree ,it does not have any multiplayer options (which is a 
 lame thing) but they said that its gonna be very simple. I like it very much because it filled 
 all the gaps Red Alert 3 had ,too few units to micro and just too few maps.
  As for the multiplayer thing ,who said Red Alert 3 servers are not working? If you wanna be squashed 
 go for it. Graphics ,gameplay (secondary abilities) ,and amazing fast paced battles are still there. 
 Shame it does not support even LAN play ,couse it would be a 10 right away..
  
  P. S
  And yes ,its the first C&C expansion I like ,and been playing C&C since '98.
  Cheers! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salakutt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I can't say, that i made big mistake, buying the game. When i first played, i thought "Amazing..." 
 and it really was amazing game. I made ALL missions with hard. I took a lot of time, to make right 
 strategy up, how to rip enemyes and then rape them. Lets check fast everything, what it contains...
 
  
  First: Yuriko Campaign
  
  I really thought, that it will be so cool and i was right, it was cool, but after the 3'rd mission, 
 when boss was defeated, i didnt think the same way. Yes, game is cool, maybe checking map is annoying, 
 but controls, and play way is very good, it is challenging playing at 'hard', but it is too short. 
 To me, an proffessional player, this isnt so challenging, it is shord and even before i discovered, 
 the campaign was done... The end...
  
  second: Soviets
  
  Campaign was cool. Yea, there was many places, what was hard parts, what i had to think a lot, 
 how to solve the problem, and even start mission again, to do the right way... Soviet really have 
 many great new units, but at the same time, some units was extremly pointless. Only Grinder was 
 one good unit, because it really did wast work with even great units. But when u played at alliance, 
 some units were more like annoying, then usually...
  
  Third: Alliance
  
  I must say, alliance have greatest updates, because they have greatest new units, what i just love. 
 Even thought i am soviet kind of player, i love alliance new upgrades, even missions were acceptable, 
 but i hate that in the end of campaign, i didnt gain control, of the greatest unit of the game. 
 At least i dont remeber, that i did control. They allso great units...
  
  fourth: Rising sun
  
  Ok, the good update is: Giga Fortress, and umm.. okay, maybe that archer 
 unit too, but nothing else. I didnt notice any new other good units, because all other units sucked 
 balls. And Campaign wasn't good also... It was annoying missions really, because your MCV was like 
 hell far away in island, and u had to protect the grave in the other side of map.
  
  fith: Commander challenge...
  
  Greatest thing in came. It was really challenge, and it still 
 is. Maybe, its easy to finish challange, but try to too all of them under the par time. Its just 
 too hard, thinking fast strategy, how to pwn enemy as fast possible. Doing some challenges over, 
 and over again... Its hard, it may annoy little bit, but this is only part, what you can play little 
 longer time...
  
  But greatest problem in ALL of them, is SHORT. ITS DAMN SHORT! U play it fast, finish missions 
 and then? U cant even play with friend. You can play only with damn computer and this sucks. It 
 would be awesome, if u could have online, to play against someone just for fun. Like one small 
 server, where people can play multiplayer, with no ranking. It would be fun, to play with new units, 
 like trying to take enemy giga fortress out....
  
  Thats only my thoughts, but this game is no more worth, than 7.5, maybe even that is too much and 
 maybe its actually more worth than 7.5? I dunno, that is what YOU decides.
  
  Spend money on this, ONLY, if u want to have fun with new game short period of time. 20 $ is enought 
 for short period... No, i am lying, 20 $ is just perfect price... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I would echo almost everything written in the Gamespot review. There are several new units for 
 each faction as well as the new commander's challenge mode, but overall the game simply is not 
 much fun.
  The game varies between easy and boring and hard and frustrating. Most missions boil down to devising 
 a very specific unit or tactic to use to beat the computer. On the plus side, the save anywhere 
 system means you can gradually progress through the mission without having to replay too many parts 
 of each level. However, the sense of continuity and over the top fun of the original game is lost 
 somehow. The biggest problem is that when you finally figure out a way to win a level, you don't 
 really feel much accomplishment, just that you have finally figured out a way to trick the AI.
 
  The original game could be frustrating too, but it made up for that with more fun gameplay and 
 a sense of continuity and accomplishment when you finished a campaign.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chevydriver1123
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2009 11:34 am PT
Review:  I see alot of misconception among alot of user reviews I have seen on various game websites. People 
 off the bat should realize that Uprising wasn't billed as a regular expansion. The game was advertised 
 as a stand-alone with mini-campaigns and no multiplayer. Uprising was priced accordingly at $19.99 
 from the EA store if the game was $29.99 then I could understand the anger but that wasn't the 
 case.
  
  Personally I found it fun and entertaining, I didn't go into it expecting the expansion to wow 
 me, I typically never do. Expansions are just that, expansions. They bring a few new features to 
 the already existing game, close story loopholes (sometimes) and thats it. The one feature that 
 really stood out was the Commander's Challenge which you have to do from start to finish in each 
 challenge since you cannot save and finish at a later date. If your looking for a decent add-on 
 to Red Alert 3 this would be it but if your looking for something to blow you away, wait for a 
 full expansion if one will come out of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iyvonthemon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Now there are a lot of bad reviewers here but they are not representative of the general population. 
 This game IS good it's just that this site is frequented by mindless FPSers that don't even know 
 how to dabble into RTS genre without completely failing at it.
  
  This game is an expansion of Red Alert 3, a game made by EA based on the Command & Conquer series 
 originally created by Westwood. The game featured fast paced micro, simple economy, and many diverse 
 and imaginative units in an alternate-timeline war setting. This expansion is more of the same, 
 except on a whole new level. Although it has no multiplayer, it has an incredibly strong singleplayer 
 complete with 4 mini-campaigns, as well as a Commander's Challenge mode that is sure to last over 
 40 hours to a fan of the genre. It also features a dungeon-crawl style commando campaign using 
 Yuriko, a psychic schoolgirl who must use her powers to escape the captivity of an evil scientist. 
 I'm surprised more of the fans of this game did not post positive (and more accurate) reviews of 
 this game here, to off-balance the stupid/angry reviews that are currently there. All in all, this 
 game is a WORTHY expansion to Red Alert 3, and let this legacy forever be known in this review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 2:50 am PT
Review:  In few words and to the point.
  
  THE GOOD
  - A new campaign.
  - Some interesting new units.
  -----------------------------------------------------
  THE BAD
 
  - Weak single player, childish with ridiculus characters and boring story. 
  - Multiplayer is lacking.
  - Pathetic Ai.
  - Some units are imbalance. 
  - No AI Co-op in 
 campaign. 
  - Graphics are still way cartoony and cheesy just like the original.
  
  CONCLUSION
  This is one of the worse expansions to be released to an already average game. It 
 is weak in almost all significant areas both in graphics and in gameplay. The main hero of the 
 single player part of the game is the japanese schoolgirl Yuriko ahd her psychic super-duper powers 
 (which i find LAME) and a set of boring mission. I fully suggest not wasting your money for this.
 
  
  Final Score = 5.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuconteaza
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 12:51 am PT
Review:  I didn't like Red Alert 3. It seemed like they had forgotten they had a game and just jammed very 
 long and pointless videos of hot chicks and bad actors being bad characters.
  
  Well the expansion fixes a lot of things and actually makes this game... a game.
  
  The story 
 is no longer important. It was always lame and corny so I couldn't care less. There are just short 
 videos, no longer painfully long. 
  Every side has some minor objective, no capturing the world or anything. 
  Some missions are 
 extremely hard even played at medium difficulty, which is something I enjoyed a great deal since 
 in RA3 they were so easy they got boring really fast.
  
  Graphics have gotten a little better i think. Could be my imagination but they seem less retardedly 
 shinny. Only the buildings look bad, like plastic little toys. The maps look pretty good.
  
  "Yeah yeah, but what exactly is new??" you ask? Well let me tell you:
  -The new units are 
 really nice and FUN. I'm not sure how balanced everything is but red alert is more about fun than 
 competition. 
  -Speaking of competition, no multiplayer. I find that odd but fine by me.
  - The challange mode I think outshines the campaign. I'm not sure how many there are but a whole 
 lot and everyone seems unique. It's pretty much the trade off for multiplayer. You can have a lot 
 of fun doing stupid things here that you can't do otherwise and win too.
  
  In closing, this expansion seems to be made for people who just wanna have fun playing an RTS, 
 at their own pace, however they want. No competition, no interesting story... just play around with 
 your imbalanced and fun units and relax. 
  Most people nowadays only want multiplayer so it's gonna take on a lot of flak but i think it deserves 
 a fair try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flip_mod
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Well, Too sad to say it, really sad.
  I love Red alert series sooo much but this one and the one before it... a rip-off... lack of graphic 
 structures, no game feeling, no war feelings at ALL, soldiers run throw walls and buildings !!?... 
 there is no what so ever called balance in teams.. girls with skirt all over the video intro's 
 like a porno for the love of god....
  
  If u compare it to Generals or World in conflict or Company of heros so it will get 0 of 10 points.. 
 but if u compare it to a puzzle game for kids I give it 5 of 10..
  Sorry to say that EA but you need to change red alert or skip it or at least do something...
 
  
  What happend to Generals?? there was so many feelings in the game... but this... O MY GOD... flying 
 heads, laser all over the place... and no lights on the walls but only fire?? what the hell... An 
 allied base with a fire on the walls?? what a LOL 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
