-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command & Conquer: Tiberian Sun Firestorm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/commandconquertsf/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 21, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.3, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,383 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 8, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While Firestorm offers only a few changes and additions to the original game's graphics and sound, 
 it succeeds in reinvigorating Tiberian Sun's gameplay. 

 Firestorm is a well-made expansion pack to Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun that enhances the 
 original game by adding interesting new military units and enjoyable, challenging single-player 
 scenarios. While Firestorm offers only a few changes and additions to the original game's graphics 
 and sound, it succeeds in reinvigorating Tiberian Sun's gameplay.  

 Firestorm's new unit and background graphics blend right in with Tiberian Sun's original appearance. 
 Considering the game's visuals never looked very impressive to begin with, they've actually aged 
 fairly well, as both the old and the new military units in Firestorm are cleanly animated, just 
 as the game's special effects are carefully detailed. Its few new music tracks are similar to the 
 many tracks in the original, though fans of the Command &amp; Conquer soundtracks will be pleased 
 to hear even more music from Westwood's composers. Unfortunately, Firestorm's plain or comical 
 sound effects are also virtually unchanged.  

 The best new feature in Firestorm is the new units it introduces to both the GDI and the Brotherhood 
 of Nod factions. Although the expansion doesn't offer a huge variety of new units, the additions 
 manage both to further differentiate the two warring sides and to significantly expand their strategic 
 options. For instance, the GDI's devastating new triple-barreled Juggernaut walker allows for long-range 
 bombardment, letting the GDI pound on enemy units and demolish base defenses from a safe distance. 
 However, the unit is slow and must lock into firing position before it can attack. Nod's new spiderlike 
 cyborg, the reaper, doesn't have such obvious shortcomings; the reaper's multiple missile launchers 
 can attack both ground and air targets, while its antipersonnel web attack can immobilize groups 
 of infantry. Both GDI and Nod also get limpet drones, which can burrow themselves and latch onto 
 enemy vehicles, slowing them to a crawl.  

 Both sides also get to produce mobile war factories, which are slow-moving vehicles that can set 
 up shop at any point and begin producing additional vehicles remotely. Mobile factories offer an 
 interesting tactical opportunity for ambushes, and they are particularly effective for the Brotherhood, 
 whose new mobile stealth generator can hide the factory from its opponent's sight. The expanded 
 unit arsenal in Firestorm further accentuates each side's advantages, but it also gives each side 
 new tools with which to defend against its rival's new tricks. Though Firestorm is action packed 
 just like previous Command &amp; Conquer games, it's more strategically rewarding than its predecessors 
 were, due to its wider variety of tactical options and countermeasures. Firestorm is consequently 
 a more interesting game to play, but it's also more difficult.  

 The heightened challenge extends to Firestorm's two new campaigns, which include nine new missions 
 each for GDI and for Nod. The new scenarios are lengthy and difficult, and they often demand that 
 you complete a number of objectives to achieve victory. The missions begin with full-motion-video 
 sequences similar to those in Tiberian Sun, though the likes of Hollywood personalities Michael 
 Biehn and James Earl Jones are nowhere to be found. The new cutscenes aren't exactly Academy Award 
 quality, regardless, but they'll appeal to Command &amp; Conquer fans anyway, and they do a good 
 job of lending context to Firestorm's missions. Noninteractive story sequences also unfold at particular 
 times during the actual missions, making the proceeds seem more meaningful. Firestorm's plot picks 
 up directly where Tiberian Sun left off, and it also suggests the direction in which the Command 
 &amp; Conquer series will continue.  

 Firestorm adds additional features to the game's random-map generator for skirmishes and multiplayer 
 matches, letting you further customize the type of battlefield you'd like to play on. The game 
 also includes more than a dozen new multiplayer maps, as well as the new multiplayer mode that 
 lets you take sides in a persistent online battle to control territories across the globe. Firestorm's 
 extensive multiplayer features ensure the game's longevity on Westwood's integrated online play 
 servers, just as the game's crafty computer opponent should make the single-player campaigns and 
 skirmish games enjoyable for anyone who liked Tiberian Sun. If you liked Tiberian Sun's fast gameplay 
 and its time-honored play mechanics, you'll be pleased with Firestorm's substantial improvements. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Half_Jaw223
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I'd Be Going Out On A Limb Saying Command And Conquer: Tiberian Sun Firestorm Is THE Best Game I've 
 Ever Encountered (Consirdering My Other Solid 10's)
  But..... It Is. If You Have Read My Starcraft Review You'll Know I Said This Was Better. I Love That 
 Game So Much That When We Got A New Computer That Wasn't Able To Run It, I Acctually Cried, Truly 
 I Cried. Now The Game Is Who Knows Where. But It Will Be In My Heart Forever. Please Give A Moment 
 Of Silence To Those We Have 
 
  All In All, You'd Be A Fool Not To Like This Game. Buy It, Love It Or Parish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Tiberian Sun: Firestorm is set shortly after the events in the original game after the GDI once 
 again defeated Kane, and Nod. The game begins with GDI seeking a way to end the Tiberium threat 
 with the aid of the Tacitus, and Nod becoming whole again after the supposed death of Kane.
  The gameplay is the same since we're talking about an expansion here. There are several new units, 
 and a couple new structures for both sides, along with more options for skirmish, but the gameplay 
 is mostly the same. The graphics are the same, but the new units and buildings are well done. The 
 audio is also mostly the same, but the FMVs are well acted as is the voice acting. There's some 
 new well done music tracks added to the playlist, as well. I really like the new units that were 
 added to each side. For the Gdi, I liked the new drop pods, and the mobile war factory and the 
 new Artillery unit, the Juggernaut. And on the other side, I like the reapers that they added for 
 the Nod. They really took care of the infantry for me when I needed them too. There is a new skimirish 
 menu to make your own battles, and I liked the life-forms that were added, it just made the game 
 that much more interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 24, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Firestorm offers some innovative way of utilizing the new units in a few of the single player missions 
 such as the Juggernaut, mobile stealth generator and limpet drone, but what I've experienced is 
 a less than satisfactory story campaign without the hype of FMVs or some form of entertaining transitions 
 to back it up. Like the Red Alert expansions Counterstrike or Aftermath, you are only given text 
 objectives all the way through and your reward for completing the campaign is a quicker than quick 
 'crash' into the main menu.
  
  On the whole, the new units I find doesn't really add any much depth in the rest of the campaigns 
 or skirmish play, though the NOD artillery in this case is modified to be weaker, which makes the 
 addition of the GDI Juggernaut sensible. Only for the ultimate hardcore fan of C&amp; C.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Tiberian Sun was met with mixed reactions by the fans, but Westwood followed up with an expansion, 
 anyway. The first decent expansion for the C&amp; C series, to boot.
  
  Tiberian Sun: Firestorm is set shortly after the events in the original game after the GDI once 
 again defeated Kane, and Nod. The game begins with GDI seeking a way to end the Tiberium threat 
 with the aid of the Tacitus, and Nod becoming whole again after the supposed death of Kane. Once 
 again the player is the main character as Firestorm returns to the original characters speaking 
 to the player directly FMVs. Unfortunately the story does little to add to the C&amp; C lore as 
 its primary focus is on Cabal, the evil Nod AI, and finding a way to end the Tiberium threat while 
 Nod squabbles with each other over who should lead. Firestorm is more of a Aftermath of the second 
 Tiberium War story than anything.
  
  The gameplay is the same since we're talking about an expansion here. There are several new units, 
 and a couple new structures for both sides, along with more options for skirmish, but the gameplay 
 is mostly the same. Which can be good, or bad, depending on whether you liked TS originally, or 
 not. There is also a new powerful Tiberium life form, but that's nothing important.
  
  The graphics are the same, but the new units and buildings are well done. The audio is also mostly 
 the same, but the FMVs are well acted as is the voice acting. There's some new well done music 
 tracks added to the playlist, as well.
  
  Firestorm is an excellent expansion for Tiberian Sun if you liked it. If you didn't like it, then 
 playing Firestorm would be pointless for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  This is an average addition to C&C Tiberian Sun. It has more great sounds, and movie scenes but 
 the graphics are not the best compared to what you see in today's C&C games. Also I didn't notice 
 the multiplayer for being so good. I would say just about the same remarks that I had for C&C Tiberian 
 Sun so see my review for that game if you want more information about my remarks. I would only 
 buy this game if it is in a bundle pack (like lots of my C&C games were) , on sale, if you really 
 liked C&C Tiberian Sun, or if you are a die-hard C&C fan. Otherwise I would stick to more modern 
 C&C games like C&C Generals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Again, you are either fighting as the GDI or NOD, but the twists this time is that your not fighting 
 each other like in the last game. This time you are fighting against the computer, which is trying 
 to turn the Earths population into a machine army. This time both sides put aside their differences 
 and they fight to save mankind. The campaign is really creative this time around, as you dont have 
 to just build a huge army and destroy the enemy for every mission, there are many different objectives 
 and ways of accomplishing those objective this time. I really like the new units that were added 
 to each side. For the Gdi, I liked the new drop pods, and the mobile war factory and the new Artillery 
 unit, the Juggernaut. I was really happy that the Gdi finally got an artillery unit of their own, 
 because I got tired of being owned in Tiberian Sun by the Nod artillery and I had little means 
 to fight back. And on the other side, I like the reapers that they added for the Nod. They really 
 took care of the infantry for me when I needed them too. There is a new skimirish menu to make 
 your own battles, and I liked the life-forms that were added, it just made the game that much more 
 interesting. Overall, this is a great game, the music is good, the graphics are solid, and the 
 gameplay and additional stuff, makes this game one of the best real-time strategy games ive ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bodboy466
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 24, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely loved the additions to Tiberian Sun that were made. The firestorm defense system was 
 a nice addition and the new missions were very sweet.
  
  The gameplay is basically the same as Tiberian Sun.
  
  The graphics may be a little dated, 
 but they still bring back pleasant memories for me.
  
  The music I'm sure was there- I just don't remember it and the sound effects were very satisfying. 
 The voice acting is just what you would expect from a tactical game.
  
  This game had a great amount of time in it and the replay value is high.
  
  Overall, this was 
 just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestorm304
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  The game i got my user name for most websites from, yet this game is a dissapointment, with the 
 tiberian sun first game standing out from all others and to be honest amazing gameplay this expansion 
 pack had to be something from another world. Yet ...... NO, this expansion was useless, with only 
 a few more vehicles, buildings, levels and units I was disgusted at how high gamespot had rated 
 it.
  
  On the other hand I got both tiberian sun and the expansion firestorm for only 5.00 so i cant 
 exactly complain.
  
  If you see this game sitting on a shelf or a table for about 5-15 bucks then grab it while you 
 can, but anything higher i just suggest you walk away.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  Tiberium Sun Firestorm is an extention to the Tiberium Sun game that includes a few new units and 
 two more campaign modes for the players to play. Compared to modern expansion games that give you 
 an entirely new side or many more, this expansion feels like it lacks quite a bit, and in my opinion 
 it does lack quite a bit. However it still adds a few new elements to the original game and gives 
 hard core gamers to this series a few more new missions to play. The gameplay itself can be considered 
 as much better than the original as there seems to be an even larger enemy here: Cabal. In my opinion 
 if you're going to buy the first one then, get the expansion while you're at it because you're 
 not really going to be losing much now that the expansion can be purchased for bargain prices. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daaad34566
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This new version of tiberian sun offers many new advantages.
  unlike the previous game where gdi had the best attacking force and worst defence the makers have 
 evened the odds by giving both sides more of what they lack forincetence with nod there attacking 
 cabability is fairly limited, where as there defence is superb . gdi however now have a far more 
 advanced defence system with juggernaughts (gdi artillery on legs) and the ability to see cloak 
 with jum jet infantry.
  this new version really makes the game more chalanging and tests your stratigic skills .
  this 
 game caters for every different skill levels from absolutley rubbish (ai 0) to excelent (ai 2) 
 so when youve played it enough that its becoming to easy you can just turn the ai level up a noch.
 
  
  stratagyr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: famolina
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 3, 2004 3:18 am PT
Review:  Great and the game play feels just like the other Command & Conquer games. I enjoy the sound and 
 the graphics. Overall its a great game and because of this, I keep it in my colection to play later 
 or at any time. It also its great for online gaming. The game takes you to allot of places and 
 also colorado spring airforce academy. it's very cool. My and my brother spend alot of time playing 
 against each other. He loves this game and so do I. Like I said, it's in my colection of games.
 
  
  The story line is great and it keeps you very well entertain and in the game.
  at times the game may get to you, but thats what is all about getting the winning victory.
  
 
  The Tiberian does not seem to have enough. The game play throught the game keeps you alert and 
 on your toes. if you play keep an eye (ear) on the nuks man they realy hurt.
  
  Over all: This game was/Is great game, I never played Read Alert but Tiberian Sun and the Expansion 
 Firestorme were great. In game play and how it played.
  
  If you don't have, I recoment to get it. You'll see it'll be alot of fun and if you have hair, 
 expect to loose some like I did (lol) . enjoy 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
