-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/companyofheroesopposingfronts/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 World War II real-time strategy doesn't get better than this.
 Fully destructible battlefield opens up tactical playbook.
 Graphics remain sharp and polished.
 Wonderfully immersive audio and stirring music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New factions might be a handful for newcomers to Company of Heroes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.7, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 2,867 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Relic
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 24, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Opposing Fronts is a satisfying follow-up to last year's thrilling Company of Heroes, packing more 
 of the intense World War II real-time strategy action. 

  When Company of Heroes shipped last year, it proved that there's plenty of life in the World War 
 II real-time strategy genre if companies take risks and innovate. THQ and Relic's superb real-time 
 strategy game did that by blending in so many cutting-edge elements that it made the battlefield 
 come alive like rarely before. Thanks to impressive artificial intelligence that made soldiers 
 move and act like the real thing, as well as the tactical implications of a spectacular and fully 
 destructible battlefield, Company of Heroes was a game that rewarded smart and quick thinking. 
 With an excellent single-player campaign and thrilling multiplayer gameplay, it was also named 
 GameSpot's 2007 PC Game of the Year. Now, just slightly a year after it was released, THQ and Relic 
 have released Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts, a fairly straightforward and satisfying follow-up 
 that delivers more content for would-be Pattons to enjoy.  

           The Panzer Elite can hit hard and hit fast, and they're great if you like to go on offense 
 all of the time.      

  Opposing Fronts is more of a pseudosequel than an expansion pack. You don't need the original Company 
 of Heroes to play it, though if you do you'll be able to select from the US Army and regular German 
 Army factions from that game in skirmish matches. Otherwise, you'll be restricted to the two new 
 factions introduced in Opposing Fronts: the British Army and the German Panzer Elite. These factions 
 both get their own campaign that, when combined, make for a longer single-player experience than 
 Company of Heroes. Interestingly, the campaigns are staggered so that they're in nonlinear order. 
 You'll begin with the story of two German brothers battling against the daring airborne assault 
 of Operation Market Garden, and in the following campaign you'll leap further back into the past 
 to participate in the British Army's lengthy and bloody assault on the French city of Caen.  

 
  The heart of the expansion can be found in the new factions. Both play quite differently from 
 the US and German factions in the first game, and though you needn't have played Company of Heroes 
 to dive into Opposing Fronts, it's hard not to shake the feeling that the British and Panzer Elite 
 are designed for veteran players. That's because their mobile nature makes them a bit more of a 
 handful to control than the prior factions. To clarify, the Panzer Elite is built around the idea 
 of hard-hitting and fast-moving combat groups that can race around the battlefield, either to counter 
 what the enemy is doing or to exploit an opening. To that extent, the Panzer Elite doesn't so much 
 lock down territory as it bulldozes its way across the map. Thankfully, Panzer Elite infantry can 
 repair vehicles during slight pauses, but you won't have a lot of time to hunker down before another 
 situation needs putting out.  

  At first glance, the British Army seems to be built similarly around the idea of mobility and defenses, 
 given that it has mobile headquarters units that can relocate around the map. However, the British 
 also excel at building things: devastating howitzer emplacements, mortar pits, slit trenches, and 
 more. As one might expect, the campaign missions highlight each faction's abilities quite nicely. 
 In the brutal house-to-house fighting of Caen, the British can call in the dreaded "creeping barrage" 
 that shatters enemy lines. Likewise, the Panzer Elite can punch through Allied defenses and raid 
 around their rears to capture or destroy landing points for airborne forces.  

  Opposing Fronts doesn't add any significant new gameplay features to Company of Heroes. The most 
 noteworthy new additions come courtesy of the new faction doctrines, such as scorched-earth tactics 
 for the Axis. These upgrades let you booby-trap buildings so that enemy infantry who enter them 
 are in for a big surprise, and also let you blow up strategic objective points to deny them to 
 the enemy. Both factions have three different upgrade paths to choose from, and these can help 
 tailor the game to your style or tactical situation.  

  Multiplayer was a key part of Company of Heroes' success. The destructible battlefields and finely 
 balanced gameplay can make for countless nail-biting moments online. Finding battles was also easy, 
 thanks to the top-notch server browser. Not surprisingly, Opposing Fronts doesn't tinker with what's 
 not obviously broken. The only caveat is that it's a bit difficult to find a game online around 
 launch, so hopefully the community will pick up. If you can't find a match, there's also skirmish 
 support with a wide range of AI opponents. If you want to learn the basics, you can lower the difficulty 
 to pushover status. On the other hand, if you want to test your skills against ruthless and relentless 
 opponents, then just ramp up the difficulty. As before, there are two game modes. There's annihilation, 
 which is basically a standard deathmatch that can be played from one-on-one up to three-on-three, 
 as well as victory-point control mode, which is a great alternative to annihilation. That's because 
 victory-point control forces you to battle for three control points on the map. If you let the 
 enemy hold on to them for too long, you'll lose, so there's a constant level of tension throughout 
 most of the game.  

           The Brits can build up a powerful defense if given time, but their armor is inferior to 
 the Panzer Elites.      

  The presentation and production values are excellent, and it never gets old watching buildings 
 collapse or vehicles explode in huge fireballs. Artillery actually carves out craters that infantry 
 can use for cover. If the enemy has a defensive chokepoint, then you can use your tanks or artillery 
 to blow open another path. Opposing Fronts does add weather effects, such as a heavy rain that 
 drenches the battlefield, but for the most part the visuals are otherwise indistinguishable from 
 last year's game. Even with DirectX 10 support, which was added to Company of Heroes via a patch, 
 it's hard to see any huge improvements. Still, the graphics remain impressive and still feel fresh. 
 The audio is also excellent. Both campaigns have their own unique music, and the British campaign 
 in particular is inspiring. Furthermore, the sounds of battle are some of the best around. If there 
 are explosions onscreen, you hear them full-on; if you move the camera away from the explosions, 
 they become muted and distant.  

  Opposing Fronts doesn't revolutionize the genre like its predecessor did, but at the same time, 
 no one has really caught up with Company of Heroes yet, either. Sure, games such as Supreme Commander 
 push the science-fiction RTS genre in cool new directions, but the World War II RTS genre has yet 
 to learn the lessons of Company of Heroes. With Opposing Fronts, THQ and Relic keep a great thing 
 going.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (106 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wurd
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original but as far as add-ons go this one is okay. The Brits and German forces are 
 good but not as fun to play or easy to play with as the US troops but of course they add something 
 to the original game although you could argue they should have been there in the original. It seems 
 many companies deliberately withhold elements so they can make an add-on these days.
  What's really disappointing about this game is the campaigns. The original had superb campaigns 
 which were well thought out and had major epic battles. These campaigns are short and dull especially 
 the german campaign and many use the same map but the british campaign is fairly good but far too 
 easy on normal mode.
  
  Other things I thought would be addressed in the add-on were the AI of the computer players in 
 skirmish modes. They don't seem to create troops that are needed at that specific time (defensive 
 otr offensive) . On one map I had 2vs3 (myself and expert CPU vs 3 german expert CPU) and spent 
 literally 5 hours desperately defending the one bridge into our base from constant panzer/panther 
 attack maniy because the ally CPU kept creating m4 rocket tanks and then tried to drive them through 
 the panzers to attack their base. Of course they lasted barely 10 seconds and several minutes later 
 it would create another and do the same thing. The only reason why we werent wiped out was the 
 fact I was british and they have awesome artillery and AT guns and of course the map was favourable 
 to defense.
  Also if you use the 'attack here' 'defend here' 'capture here' the computer is dumb as hell. After 
 they have done the command they just sit around doing nothing and then get wiped out by artillery 
 or something which is hugely frustrating when they have a massive group and means you'll be on 
 the back foot for a while.
  
  All in all like I say it's okay and probably a must for multiplayer users but I think there could 
 have been more and better thought out campaigns. Maybe another US campaign would have been nice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 64tHeGeCkO64
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Company Of Heroes a generally great game, well it just got better with this expansion. Opposing 
 Fronts brings two new teams, The British and the Panzer Elite make this game all the more fun, 
 (if it wasn't fun enough before ^^) with units that will simply devastate the battlefield yet they 
 still don't overpower the two original teams. Its all fair every unit has a purpose and can own 
 somethings yet get owned by another thing. You can make great combination with units; Mg's and 
 mortars, mg's can suppress the infantry whilst the mortar takes them out with shells, anti-tank 
 with riflemen, the anti-tank can take out enemy vehicles while the infantry protect its flanks 
 from anyone attempting to put it out commission.
  Great online and ranking systems make this game easy and fun to play on with friends and random 
 people. People make noob servers people, people make pro servers and some people make games so 
 that all human players go up against cpu's. However even if you don't feel like going online the 
 single player is great, the campaign is immenesly great and will get you doing various things such 
 as; clearing roads, bombing courtyards, invading towns and cool bonus objectives to earn you a 
 medal. Plus skirmishes tend to take up most of my time, switching between difficulties depending 
 on the map and the team that I am.
  Despite the greatness of this game there are very few tiny well mishaps in the game, the rain can 
 look dire depending on the settings it can take up loads of memory (but its worth it) , too high 
 setting on a "not-so-good" computer can really mess up the gameplay and change someones opinion 
 of the game instantly, I recommend testing out the highest you think your computer can handle then 
 tweaking everything slightly till it fits your style just right.
  However no matter how many bad things are in this game, they're always out weighed by the awsome 
 good things such as: Great graphics to keep you gob smacked by the sheer detail of the models and 
 texture in the game, different weather types can affect your troops movement aswell as the terrain 
 on the ground, fair teams makes it so no one person has won just because of the team they have 
 picked, and one of the greatest aspects of the game; all unit owns a unit yet gets owned by another 
 unit. Plus great off map support, you have a wide range to choose from there are three different 
 categories for each of the four teams each with two sub categories containing different off map 
 support like; Artillery fire to wreck the surface of the earth and crunch up any enemies foolish 
 enough to walk into the hell storm that you have just strategically placed on the battlefield, 
 off map assault units to come and join the fight and destroy all in their path, (these units can 
 range from simple infantry such airbourne and sturmtroopers to huge Churchills and King Tigers) 
 and finnaly simple tactical things that your units can use like teller mines for the panzer elite 
 so they can blow the hell out of anything that decides to take that path or zeal so that when the 
 squad members of one certain squad begin to die the remaining squad members begin to fight more 
 fiercely for their fallen comrades.
  I think that you should definitely buy this game if you love intense battles and great gob smacking 
 detail, plus fair combat makes this game extremely fun and can make the matches last for ages yet 
 no one would get bored due to the sheer thrill of blowing each other up with deadly weapons from 
 the second world war. I will definitely recommend this game to anyone with a good enough computer 
 to run the game and gets its full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murako
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:52 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of RTS games for quite some time now I started on Age of Empires 2: Age of Kings 
 and build my way up from there.
  
  The games I played have been looked upon as the best in RTS yet Company of Heroes takes the meaning 
 of RTS to a whole new level.
  
  The immense styles of play of intense interaction of your units to their surroundings puts new 
 twists and strategies to your game play.
  
  Both Company of Heroes and the Opposing Fronts expansions are very good, yet I personally think 
 you cant have one without the other. If you are a WWII fan and always looking for a new style of 
 RTS I will highly recommend CoH and the expansion Opposing Fronts.
  
  I do have to say though, the new expansion Tales of Valor got me quite disappointed due to the 
 news that they are not releasing a new army, might just be a waste of money expansion pack in my 
 opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  worst of all, you need a relic account just to play the game, and you also need to install about 
 7 patches, and if you alt+tab out of the game, it will cancel it and make you start over.
  
  i decided to tolerate that, and when i finnaly got to play, the SP campaign was poorly done, 
 and only two factions!!!! this is NOT worthy of a 2007 RTS.
  
  and worst of all, the unit cap. once you get the maximum amount, youre stuck with about 5 soldier 
 groups, and 5 vehicles. no fun in that is there? really....... this is just terrible, i returned 
 this game in a heartbeat.
  
  if you thought to buy this game because you thought the demo was fun, then i bought it for the 
 same reason, and was dissapointed beyond belief. very small variety, and not fun in the least
 
  
  the gameplay is just tiny... theres no huge armies. small groups.... this takes all the fun and 
 life out of RTS gameplay... poor campaign, small variety,,,,,,, this game.... i dont know at ALL 
 how ANYONE EVER reccomended this game.
  
  relic has failed us this day, not the faction you messed up with
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  Opposing Fronts marches two new factions off to war both online and off: the slow moving but heavy 
 handed British and zippy and elastic Panzer Elite. Both offer up some distinct differences between 
 the Allies and Axis forces of the original Company of Heroes. The British, the first true turtle-friendly 
 faction, provide excellent defensive options. Their engineers are able to build some strong weapon 
 emplacements including devastating 25 pound artillery guns and some thunderous anti-tank emplacements. 
 The main drawback to these is that they take up a lot of the population cap and are immobile but 
 players who manage to get that front line settled should be able to put up a hell of a fight. They'll 
 be used in defending the most valuable objectives like bridges and roads, or if you're in multiplayer, 
 victory points.
  
  The standard infantry of the British can also dig trenches which give them a pretty spectacular 
 defensive bonus against enemies, especially combined with the command units that provide unit bonuses 
 to everyone in the area. All of these new tricks need a careful eye and quick thinking. The tricky 
 thing is that these guys are likely to become a fan favorite, but they can be a hell of a challenge 
 to play since they're a little more deliberate in their tactics. You can even see this in the way 
 their infantry are more cautious than others when moving into enemy controlled territory. I'd say 
 that the British aren't necessarily newbie friendly, but Company of Heroes in general isn't exactly 
 as newbie friendly as a game like World in Conflict with the amount of concentration needed to 
 be successful. 
  The second new faction, the Panzer Elite, are more about fast attacks and getting places quickly. 
 They have some of the most versatile infantry of the factions as they're good soldiers and all 
 have the ability to repair vehicles. That's especially important since keeping units alive offers 
 up veterancy with rewards. Players can choose to boost either offensive or defensive stats when 
 promoting a unit. The only downside is that you have to stay on top of your units to make sure 
 they're upgraded. 
  
  The Panzer Elite also specialize in quickly moving around the battlefield to take and hold locations. 
 Their infantry have the sprint ability and armored cars have an overdrive ability that allows them 
 to penetrate deeper into enemy territory or flank entrenched defenses quickly. The Elite scout 
 cars also have the inherent ability to capture strategic points (no command tree upgrade needed, 
 as is the case with the Allies) . They can also be upgraded to deploy on a territory and grant a 
 resource bonus from that point. This provides a pretty excellently different way of playing from 
 the British since the Elite are basically always dashing around the map trying to close gaps. Since 
 the standard infantry grenadiers can repair vehicles and can be upgraded with any of three weapons, 
 they offer up some spectacular versatility to back up the speed which also makes them very exciting 
 to command. The major difficulty with the Elite is that they require a lot of management and attention 
 to tactical detail. Whereas the British may have a hard time of it at the beginning but can hold 
 a line and simply plug holes after getting established, you'll likely always feel like you have 
 to race off to another area of the map to defend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMASHOOPDAWHOOP
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big RTS fan. Had to get that out there before people start assuming I'm a game hating 
 creep. CoH: OF was probably the best RTS I have ever played, the combat is frantic and exciting 
 and the combat briefings are a refreshing alternative to monotone "HQ Commanders" in most games.
 
  
  I did have a problem with the WWII setting though, World War Two is not my favorite game setting 
 and I had hoped for something more futuristic, like the present or near future. My copy has no 
 glitches or bugs and there was not a single point when anything stopped running on max settings. 
 The graphics are the best I have seen in an RTS and the detail level is astounding because no matter 
 how far you zoom in you can see the detail the soldiers have on their uniforms, weapons, buildings, 
 and vehicles.
  
  I gave it a 7.5 because I was not impressed by the storyline. The combat may be exciting but it 
 gets repetitive when the same capture and protect resource node missions keep on coming and then 
 you have to take over bridges or repair certain places and then move to take the enemy base. Or 
 defend your base for a certain time then advance upon the enemy.
  
  
  This is a biased review because I have only spent about 2 hours in the game so I may be wrong about 
 many things. But by all means you need to buy this game and see that they hype is all true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_King
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The Intro
  
  Given that I just wrote my CoH review, this one's gonna be fairly short. Essentially, this gets 
 a 9.5 not so much as a great game, but rather because Relic has basically shown through Opposing 
 Fronts what a great expansion pack is meant to be.
  
  The Good
  
  A frequent grumble regarding Company has been (command trees aside) the fact that only two races 
 are playable. Relic truly expands the game by adding two new armies that are totally different 
 in playstyle from anything seen in Company thus far. Both the Panzer Elite and the British, especially, 
 are absolutely unique in playstyle. In fact, so unique are the Brits in particular that you can 
 expect to have your butt handed to you the first few times you use them, to the point of wondering 
 whether they're just flat out not as good as the other armies. Fear not though, for persevere and 
 you will find them to be just as good, just extremely different.
  
  Given the mobility of the PE and the entrenched Brits, the new playstyles added by these two new 
 armies totally reinvigorate CoH and provide utterly new ways to play and create totally new and 
 different challenges to defend against. Both factions are great simply because they are so different 
 from what we've seen thus far.
  
  The single player campaign also addresses complaints of only seeing one side's point of view last 
 time around. This time, while the overall number of mission is still around the same (17 total) , 
 those missions are split halfway between two different campaigns, one for the Brits and one for 
 the Panzer Elite. This is a great move and much more satisfying than last time around.
  
  Speaking of more satisfying, Relic has greatly improved their storytelling. Rather than having 
 a plethora of unrelated cutscenes, Opposing Fronts puts in a better effort in creating, defining, 
 and sticking to its characters. It's not great, but at least this time it's serviceable. At least 
 i felt SOMETHING for the characters this time around. Certainly, while there were moments, it did 
 not feel quite as disjointed as last time despite the shorter length of each campaign.
  
  Beyond these improvements, you're pretty much playing the same great game here. Nothing's been 
 ruined, only added to with these two great and fresh new armies. Also deserving of mention are 
 the new maps, which expand the game considerably, all of them being fun and viable options. The 
 weather effects also make the game's graphics look better than ever and can dramatically change 
 the look of maps that have perhaps grown too familiar. 
  
  The Bad
  
  First and foremost, the single player campaigns are noticeably easier than last time around. The 
 campaign was great last time because it successfully, for the most part, maintained balance as 
 challenging and satisfying without being insurmountable and unfair. By turning down the difficulty, 
 you don't get that feeling of perfection in balance and challenge as you did last time. Even the 
 medals are for the most part easier to achieve than last time around.
  
  Often times, it seems as though the developers lost sight of what you were capable of. Sure it 
 adds to difficulty when you throw TONS of enemy armour at a player. However, it doesn't do anything 
 if said player is in the Brit campaign and has the option of building a wall of 17 pounders, removing 
 all challenge. Indeed, Relic's ways of adding difficulty seem a little more contrived and heavy 
 handed this time around. Rather than featuring tough dug-in enemies, well maneouevered and well 
 equipped and balanced enemy forces like last time, or hard objectives, Relic will often just resort 
 to throwing two King Tigers at you while telling you to survive. 
  
  This isn't to say the campaign isn't good. It is good, very good in fact and, as stated already, 
 there are improvements. That said, it's good while not being quite as good as last time around. 
 It just doesn't feel quite as well crafted, and that perfect challenge level is the first casualty.
 
  
  Finally, as a minor quibble, Opposing Fronts features the first major imbalance in CoH. Namely, 
 the Scorched Earth command tree for the Panzer Elite is noticeably not as good as any other command 
 tree in the game thus far. In most games, i'd let this slide, but i've come to havve a high standard 
 when it comes to Company due to how balanced and viable every command tree has been up to this 
 point. Considering this, it only makes the Scorched Earth tactics tree stick out like a sore thumb. 
 It just isn't as good.
  
  The Conclusion
  
  Basically, this is everything you expect from an expansion. Another long campaign, new forces, 
 and new maps. It changes the way you play the game in its truly "expanding" it. The new races multiply 
 the ways to play, making you view the game in a new light. Is it perfect? No. However, it IS pretty 
 near perfect insofar as it fulfills the role of the expansion in every single way. If you have 
 Company of Heroes and don't have this expansion, you are not playing Company of Heroes. Buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmouth14
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The detail for this game is just amazing for a rts game you can have more then 100 solders that 
 look like the men right from call of duty. This game is right on the button with historical facts. 
 Every place, person, and battle in this game were real. Other rts games don't have many of the 
 things this that this game offers. One of these things is there is a cover system where if your 
 solders are behind sandbags, behind walls, in buildings, they will not die as fast now I know that 
 doesn't sound like a lot but I haven't seen that in any other rts game. You can play as two different 
 armys in the game such as Great Briton (Scotland, Canada, England, Wales...) or Germany but if you 
 have the first game aswell you can be USA. In single player you get two full campaigns that will 
 last you 6-7 hours of game play. Other then campaign there is online multiplayer skirmish and CPU 
 skirmish which is fun but playing with the CPU gets boring after awhile. There isn't one thing 
 I can think of that I don't like in this game I give it a 10 out of 10.
  
  Sorry for any spelling or grammar mistakes I made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Jaiden
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most fun games in my collection. There are some occasional problems when playing 
 muliplayer and it can be a bit heavy on your pc, esp on large maps.
  
  There are also some balance issues and not all sides are capable of countering the strengths of 
 other factions.
  
  The new factions do offer a wider variety of playing styles and options. They are reasonably different 
 to the original factions, but still feel incomplete in some ways. Action can be intense during 
 battles. The population cap can feel a bit restrictive though, especially if you're a fan of epic 
 battles.
  
  I hope they release an expansion with Soviet and Japanese factions.
  
  Graphics are excellent, detail in the maps is great. The Opposing fronts does require shaders, 
 so if you've been running the original company of heroes on your system, opposing fronts may not 
 work.
  
  Despite the problems with this game, it is a great deal of fun. I spend hours playing LAN with 
 my brother and friends when i get a chance.
  
  I definately recomend this game to any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomSky
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts is the stand alone expansion pack for Company of Heroes a fantastic 
 game in it's own right and now Relic has made a expansion pack to keep existing players online 
 and bringing in new players to their exciting ww2 rts.
  
  The main addition to the game is the 2 new armys, the defensive British 2nd Army and the fast and 
 hard hitting Panzer elite each with their own set of historical missions. The British are tasked 
 with the preparation and attack on the french city of Caen and the Panzer Elite must stop Operation 
 Market Garden from succeeding.
  
  The missions are well made, powerful and moving they do manage even if it is just a little the 
 horror and sacrifice men had to bear in the war. You may make a large victory but many losses have 
 been on your side too and the game points this out all too willingly leaving a bitter taste to 
 your victory and pushing you on to end it all the more.
  
  The factions themselves are good and unique there quite oddball in comparison to the more conventional 
 USA and Whermacht. Britain uses command trucks for building their units making their base mobile 
 and adaptable whilst also possessing the best defenses in the game and powerful stationary artillery. 
 The panzer elite use fast halftracks and versatile infantry to strike hard until bringing out more 
 powerful units like the marder 3 a AT gun on tracks and the panzer 3 infantry support tank that 
 can tear through hordes of infantry. Many of the Panzer Elite vehicles can also "Lock down" trading 
 mobility for improved firepower such as speedier firing or more accurate shots. 
  
  The gameplay is the same, capture strategic points to gain more territory and resources and either 
 hold onto victory points or destroy your enemy depending on the rules set before the game. Just 
 like the old armys the new armys can choose a company commander which gives them unique powers, 
 bonuses and units such as Churchill tanks, gliders that crash into the map and spew out commando's 
 to setting booby traps on strategic point and calling in the fearsome Jagdpanther tank.
  
  The audio is excellent, the music is powerful and of top quality it also changes depending on what 
 is happening on screen all the gunfire sounds correct rifles sound powerful but pathetic compared 
 to a 25 pounder cannon who's booms can be heard all over the level. The voice acting is of good 
 quality while getting all the new accents for the new armys sounds somewhat daunting Relic pull 
 it off and the funniest moments of the game are the exchanges between soldiers and when addressing 
 the player the lines are best left for you to discover rather than reproduced here with much less 
 humour but know what there is a great variety of dialouge and responses in the game you will find 
 yourself finding new lines even when you have had the game for awhile.
  
  Overall Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts delivers one of the best expansions yet with great new 
 features and is also standalone meaning you do not need the original to play and can also play 
 against those who do not have the expansion online as well. Opposing Fronts is well recommended 
 to anyone who enjoys RTS or who wants to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtBladeKAW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Great RTS game, I have played the original and I am equally impressed with this expansion. The 
 two new armies (British and Panzers Elite) are great but will take lots of practise. 
  I have been playing Company of Heroes for almost a year now and have grown to love it.
  Gameplay 
 is fantastic, graphics impressive especially on Vista. The in game sounds are life like and the 
 background music fits the changing situations. After playing the campaign there's also multiplayer 
 and skirmish to keep you entertained. Firstly you should make sure your machine is on par to run 
 this game my system is benchmarked at an average rating. 
  Your rating should be at lease on a good level. AI is intelligent and are proactive and reactive 
 in many situations.
  Although there are times in multiplayer where AI would just send infantry and build formations 
 in your base. May be a bug Personally I' am not a fan of Real Time Strategy games but would recommend 
 this for RTS players.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dRn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I awaited the release of this game - standalone or expansion, whichever you choose to call it - 
 with great expectation since i just loved its predecessor. I was a bit worried about the the fact 
 that it was released as a standalone and that the two new factions was so different, with one being 
 focused on armor and the other more defense oriented. But when i finally came to try the game, 
 my doubts ware quickly forgotten. I really feel like the developers did a good you balancing the 
 factions, not only the two new ones, but all the four together.
  You might argue the single player campaigns are too short, but the multiplayer just adds to the 
 existing Company of Heroes fun. 
  
  There is not really much else to say about this, that if you like the Company of Heroes, you like 
 this game, but i wouldn't want to play this, without having the experience of the previous.
  
  It's always difficult to make a good expansion or follow up to a great game, but i really feel 
 this is a really good try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyMetalHead0
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I consider Company of Heroes and Opposing Fronts two the best RTS games i played. If you look only 
 at the graphics, you'll see that they really have put effort in the game graphics and physics. 
 Maybe they should have put more new factions, like Russia, Japan and Italy with more new campaigns 
 with them. Eastern Front, Africa and Pacific campaigns would be much appreciated and since they 
 have been putting 2 new factions per game, with Russia, Japan and Italy they would made like 3 new 
 games. 
  
  The story of both is great, because they don't include something impossible like, idk, Germans 
 making a tank rush with 10 Tigers or King Tigers. The game by itself is realistic but not to the 
 end because we all know from movies and tv shows that when the tank is firing on other tank it 
 should destroy it with 1-2 max 3 shells not like 5-6 or more. But, hey, they made it that way for 
 us so we could play game easier. It would be stupid that you build a Sherman Firefly or you call 
 M26 Pershing support and then it blows up with 1 single hit from other tank.
  
  I really, really love playing Company of Heroes it really is one of the best WW2 RTS games. I hope 
 to see more expansions. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malaga01
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  If you are familiar with the first Company of Heroes game you are also familiar to the excellent 
 effects and awesome gameplay of the series. Opposing Fronts adds a huge amount of gameplay and 
 all around fun, but more importantly a replay value to the original Company of Heroes as it is 
 a stand-alone expansion that can be sweetly intertwined with the original or rockin out solo. Awesome 
 new units and commander trees make this an enjoyable game. I like the fact that there is a German 
 campaign so that is a fresh curve ball to the WW2 era games. Have a blast with swarms of Panzer 
 Elite troups taking down anything in its path, or have some tea with the Brits in the trenches 
 watching the artillary fall like rain on your enemies. The Multiplayer is fun with the mixture 
 of 4 factions and new maps. I would definitely like to see this game expand to different fronts 
 or times, the smoothness and shear fun of this game is the building blocks to a great series, Soviet 
 Japanese italian frenchies it can all be done. Bottomline-Definite must have for strategy fans 
 and WW2 fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fab10
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  loved the game. ill start with some cons since all the pros are obvious :P
  
  does require a bit of a system. depending on your resolution, id say spnding about 100 on a video 
 card would be sufficient. (i have an 8800 gt working a 24 inch monitor) it loads pretty slow. hmmm. 
 vehicle ai still needs work. umm. yeah. so basically wat im getting at is that it is an awesome 
 game and only needs a few tweaks.
  
  the gameplay is amazing. the gmaplay is realistic. or at least much more realstic than some games 
 ive played (eg starcraft) its visually stunning. the gameplay is just amazing. undescribable. 
 
  
  multiplayer could be better, but there isnt really any problem. simple enough, find a match, join, 
 add freinds, talk in gmae blah blah.
  
  dont know wat to say, its an awesome game. get it. but i recomend to buy the first one first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  The original Company of Heroes (CoH) in 2007 brought a great RTS to the strategic game lovers. 
 CoH puts you right in the middle of the battlefield. 2-3 hours of real action, and great think 
 and act. CoH: Opposing Fronts (CoHOF) , likes its predecessor, brings the same quality and the same 
 joys. The changes in this release is the addition of two new factions namely British Army and Panzers 
 Elite. These two factions resembles the real world war II between British and Germans.
  
  The Germans are supplied with very powerful armors. Their mastery in Tanks and Halftracks are their 
 key advantage over the enemies. But they have a very weak defensive structure. This make them to 
 attack more than they defend. 
  
  On the other hand, British Army have a very strong infantry units and defensive structure. Their 
 armor are very week comparing to German Tigers and King Tigers. But their superiority with behind 
 the enemy commandos landing make them unique among the other faction.
  
  Two really enjoying Campaigns for each faction besides the skirmish, add a great gameplay to the 
 original CoH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird024
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing the new CoH, It was alright except, you needed a online account to even 
 play the campaign on it which is really stupid. But other than that it was okay. There are three 
 campaigns, American from the regular CoH, the British, and the German. 
  
  In the American campaign nothing has changed, same missions, same units. 
  
  In the British 
 campaign their are a lot new units, first of all, the motors must be stationed then mobile. Also, 
 the command stations, such as the HQ are now mobile. Also, new rifle units can deploy a sniper 
 to take care of a any problems you come out with while playing. Also, you can build stationary 
 howitzers with the British engineers. 
  
  In the German campaign, It is totally different concept. Instead of the regular German forces as 
 in the regular CoH, this is a totally new German force. In this campaign you can capture points 
 with a motorcycle carrier. Also the units are only 3 for an infantry, but you can raise the infantry 
 up to 4 per unit. Also you can have assault rifle units, panzershrek units, and long range rifle 
 units. You also can have a tank destroyer, panzer, and multiple halftracks. 
  
  Multiplayer, Is way more better than the regular CoH, it gives new maps, also it gives you more 
 time to play with the British units and the new German units. But there is some lag that sometimes 
 gets frustrating after a while. 
  
  But over all this game is a great game, good campaign and good multiplayer. If your thinking about 
 getting I suggest you get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  The opinion of COH: OP that follows is based of having played the original COH campaign, the COH: OP 
 campaigns, and some COH 1 vs 1 skirmishes. The only significant change to the gameplay is the two 
 new armies. You've got a British army, and a German army that focuses more on artillery. 
  It provides two new campaigns, covering the liberation of caen as the British, and operation market 
 garden as the panzer elite. The story is good for both the Germans and the British Forces.
  The British are all about defense. They have the capability to build some amazing defensive emplacements 
 very early on, so watch out for that. Their infantry is very solid, but their armor is weak and 
 expensive.
  The Panzer Elite, contrary to their name, are not about panzers, but rather are about fast attacks 
 with mechanized and motorized units. They have a wide variety of halftracks and armored cars, including 
 mortar halftracks and AT halftracks.
  There are allot more tanks in this expansion, but once again there is the population cap which 
 forces you to use both tanks and support units.
  SO If you have the first CoH and you enjoyed it then get this game. If you are debating to buy 
 this game, i would recommend getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Opposing Fronts is the sequel to Company of Heroes. The first feature youll notice is that its 
 a stand alone game.... so you dont have to have the first to play! Although if you you have only 
 this one, then you wont be able to play the normandy Breakout campaign (American Campaign) let 
 alone play as the Americans or the Wehrmacht... Germans for all of you illiterate n00bs.
  
  The British:
  Opposing fornts adds the Brits as a new faction, which are much different than 
 their American friends. First off, no engineers. Your infantry squads make all of the defenses, 
 although not buildings. Mortars, Vicker Machine Gun Emplacement, trenches, that stuff. They also 
 get cool upgrades like Bren LMGs or Rifle Grenades. The doctrines are great, Artillery, Royal Commandos, 
 and Engineering. One last thing, all of the Base Structures are mobile! The campaign is the Caen 
 Liberation.
  
  The Panzer Elites:
  I never have played as these guys, but all I know is that they are vehicle based. Their campaign 
 is repelling Market Garden.
  
  Then there is mulitplayer, Local Area Network, and Online which you can rank up on. Mulitplay is 
 prolly best of the whole experience!
  
  This game is Superbly Made, Graphics are perfecto, and Gameplay is like crack!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raejie
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes
  Publisher: THQ
  Developer: Relic Entertainment
  Genre: RTS
  Single Player: Yes
  Multiplayer: Yes / Internet / LAN
  Recommended GPU: GeForce 6 Series
 
  Release Date: September 2007
  ESRB Rating: Mature
  Official Website
  
  Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts is the next chapter in the groundbreaking real-time strategy 
 franchise from critically acclaimed studio Relic Entertainment. This standalone game features two 
 unique armies with full length campaigns. Players will experience fast-paced dynamic tactics like 
 never before, in two of the most brutal World War II campaigns ever fought. Take command of the 
 tenacious British 2nd Army in the vicious battle for Caen, France, or lead the German Panzer Elite 
 as they struggle to repel the largest airborne invasion in history.
  
  With two intensely cinematic campaigns, mission persistence, improved vehicle AI and weather effects 
 that directly impact the battlefield, Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts supports DirectX 10 and 
 is fully compatible with the original Company of Heroes. Battle online with these two all-new armies 
 and utilize full compatibility with the original Company of Heroes for a total of four playable 
 armies - allowing players to wage the ultimate war for Fortress Europe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  CoH: OP is a brilliant add-on to the fantastic original that came out in 2006. It isn't your ordinary 
 spam and rush game where the map is just for the units to run on (WW) but is a vital part of any 
 players strategy to conquer their opponents. A wonderful cover system compliments flanking and 
 machine gun emplacement but this does require extensive micro-managing. Relic have stuck to the 
 solid resource points which still provide the same man-power, fuel and munitions. The game adds 
 two unique armies, the British and the German Panzer Elite but i am sure hat fans will have like 
 to have seen a country such as Russia or Japan be playable rather than another German faction. 
 The only problems with this game and the reason why I gave it 8.5 was the un-balanced Panzer Elite 
 which were very powerful but not to an extreme point and the extremely buggy and badly run mulitplayer 
 which can shutdown games or create freezes. This is not a very common problem though so the multiplayer 
 is worth a try. 
  
  All in all a very intricately and well made RTS with few faults that is a must have for any gamer, 
 not just those inj favour of RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Oposing Fronts ofcorse is the addon to the best WWII RTS game of all time, Company of Heroes. This 
 time around there are new missions, maps, armys and units.
  
  The game is fantastic just like the original game but there are some unfortunate downsides to this 
 that could and should have been avoided that provents this expansion for getting a solid 10/10.
 
  
  First of all you will notice this game is the most annoying game EVER to install. You need to have 
 the latest patch to even start the game, this is very annoying and can take forever if people dont 
 have a BB connection, This is, I would say about 2.5 - 3GB worth of patches for this game and thats 
 totaly stupid in my eyes. Patches are ment to be downloaded to play online it will tell you if 
 you try to play without the latest update, what it fails to say is that you cant even play SP unless 
 you have the latest patch. this is very annoying and kinda puts me off even installing the game 
 sometimes, to make matters even worse Relic cant even make a patch that includes all of the patches. 
 So you need to get them all 1 by 1 by 1.
  
  Next the British army was disapointing, I was really looking forward to playing as them, I dont 
 like there command trucks, there unpractical and just really annoying. the units are pretty good 
 though and so are there defence structures. nothing feels better then blowing Germans up with some 
 Royal Artillary.
  
  In the end this game expansion adds to what is already a fantastic game but the horrible patch 
 to play system and the relatively disapointing British army. This game sadly falls short of the 
 score it should be getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_Lost
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  I was a bit concerned, after being a great fan of CoH, that this would disappoint. Au contraire, 
 yes it is harder to master and take s a few hours to get used to the new units, but that just adds 
 to the challenge of an all-round masterfully made RTS.
  
  The British artillery is deadly and combined with an aggressive ally in multiplayer can prove the 
 undoing of any German offensive. The weakness and strength of the British is the mobile build centres. 
 So long as they remain fairly concealed they are good, but bring up a copuple of tanks and they 
 crumple quickly. However that is the whole point of the British, defence. The paras are the aggressive 
 part, but take a while to get to from a cost perspective. Once you have them online the glider 
 jump-off points can prove to be devastating and woe any German player who allows you to get that 
 far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2151,0. html
  
  It seems that the PC RTS scene just can't stop getting better. With quality RTSs being released 
 every few months that challenge ancient gameplay mechanics with innovative additions and groundbreaking 
 graphics. Delivering a knock-out punch with Company of Heroes, Relic wasn't content to rest on 
 its laurels and recently released the Opposing Fronts follow-up.
  
  Opposing Fronts introduces the British Army and the German Panzer Elite. Combined, the single player 
 campaigns for each faction are actually longer than that in the original game. These new factions 
 are suprisingly varied when compared to the original and pen up some interesting playstyles. For 
 example, the British are built around the idea of mobility and defenses, with mobile headquarters 
 units that can relocate around the map. Their structures and buildings are also incredibly powerful, 
 including slit trenches, howitzers, mortar pits, and more. Meanwhile, the Panzer Elite is built 
 around the idea of hard-hitting and fast-moving combat groups that can race around the battlefield, 
 either to counter what the enemy is doing or to exploit an opening. The Panzer Elite is made up 
 of extremely powerful units and doesn't so much lock down territory as it bulldozes its way across 
 the map. The new factions are harder to control than the original ones, since they necessitate 
 the constant movement of troops around the map. Opposing Fronts introduces new faction doctrines, 
 like scorched-earth tactics for the Axis, letting you booby-trap and sabotage buildings and resource 
 points to deny them enemy access.
  
  Multiplayer is basically unchanged besides the addition of the two new comprehensive factions, 
 which is not a bad thing. It is basically the same as Company of Heroes, and should satisfy those 
 looking to get their fix online.
  
  As always, presentation and production values are top-notch, with fully destructible environments 
 and improved DirectX 10 effects. The audio is also excellent. Both campaigns have their own unique 
 music, and the British campaign in particular is inspiring. Battlefield sounds are just as authentic 
 as before, and units even call in context-specific descriptions of the situations that they're 
 in over the radio. 
  
  While Relic could have simply cashed in on the Company of Heroes franchise with an average expansion 
 pack, they simply didn't want to stagnate their winning series. As a stand-alone game which can 
 be combined with the original, Opposing Fronts adds varied sides and new graphical effects. The 
 amount of improvements and additions found in this expansion rival that of actual sequels. If you're 
 a WWII and/or RTS buff, pick this and the original up from Retail or on Steam. It's just that good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_of_Tofu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  By far Opposing Fronts has been the best expansion for a game I have seen in quite a while. Two 
 brand new factions, the British and Panzer Elite are added to the game both with very unique and 
 differing play styles. My preference out of these two factions comes down to the British by a rather 
 wide margin. The Brits come with three doctrines: Artillery Support, Engineer Support, and Commando 
 Support. 
  
  A big highlight for me is no matter what doctrine you choose your engineers always come equipped 
 with constructable 17-pounder AT emplacements that can even take out a King Tiger or Panther with 
 relative ease without being heavily damaged if used correctly. It even comes with something further... you 
 can load heavy AP rounds into the cannon to have even more kill power! No more sending in 5 frail 
 AT guns like you did with the Americans! Get one of these set up along with a mortar and MG emplacement 
 and you have a really good base defense against almost anything. You can drop in 3 different types 
 of gliders for the commando support. Commandos are good for people who tend to want a lot of forward 
 bases because the gliders that the commandos come down in also act as a forward base for resupplying 
 of lost men and you can also produce new men out of these. The commandos come equipped with sub-machine 
 guns that fare extremely well against all infantry. The first glider available in the tree is one 
 that comes with a squad of six regular commandos. The second choice can drop in glider-born light 
 armor that is good at taking out masses of infantry and light armor and the glider comes with one 
 free tank. The third glider drops in but does not provide any free units. However, this one provides 
 you with anti-tank (PIAT) commandos, MG commandos, and mortar commandos that can be purchased from 
 it! The Royal Artillery provides things such as mobile artillery and coordinated artillery so you 
 can have 6 howitzers fire at the same time and at the same target to ensure maximum damage potential.
 
  
  Another great thing the Brits have are slit trenches. Your men can build these anywhere on the 
 battlefield with a quick build time, making them invaluable for defending points in a hurry. Infantry 
 are virtually immune to all fire except for flames and snipers while in these trenches. This also 
 includes artillery fire too! A strategy I have found very effective is setting up two trenches 
 with on having PIAT commandos and the other one having regular commandos. Your PIAT men can hammer 
 tanks while your regular commandos make sure that engineers don't come to close with flamethrowers. 
 This can put a hold on enemy armor coming through a choke point and can also provide you more time 
 to set up more permanent defenses in the area.
  
  The British don't have a permanent HQ; instead, their HQ is a truck that can pack up and move across 
 the battlefield to provide closer support or if worse comes to worst, move to another location 
 if the enemy is encroaching on your old location. They can also call in two more trucks that provide 
 you with your engineers and tanks. All three command trucks will increase the amount of resources 
 you get from a point and reinforce nearby troops.
  
  I have been way to busy playing the British to even give the Germans a chance so in the meantime 
 I will just leave the review with the British seeing as though I can't review a faction I haven't 
 played. 
  
  Opposing Fronts has been one of my best purchases to date and I encourage anyone looking into playing 
 to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gfish19
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to realism in this game, its simply not there. It turned to C&C when an MG can kill 
 an armored vehicle or a tank... I MEAN CMON!!
  
  The whole cover system in the game works fine, but when it comes down to shear game dynamic such 
 as aim/accuracy , seems like thats not found either... I had squads shoot each other in the open 
 for nearly 10 minutes before the 3 panzer elite soldiers won against a US Rifleman squad. I had 
 rifle nades shot by a squad of british infantry at a building across the street from their position, 
 which was occupied by a squad of germans... the 2 riflenades went over the building and hit the 
 ground on the other side. At that point i turned the game off, and uninstalled. Its fine if they 
 adjust the game for some balance issues, but what they need to add is better accuracy for units 
 in game! 
  
  IMO: This game is all great looks, but crappy as it gets gameplay, not to mention the broken Multiplayer 
 which is so bad that if you make one simple mistake in the beginning there is no coming back against 
 the other player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  It was great to pick COH back up with the new expansion. I played the Brit campaign first which 
 is set around the battle of Caen. The Brits offer a nice variation in gameplay to the original 
 game playing as Americans. The mobile base, for one, is a nice change of pace as you can move your 
 various unit building trucks around the map as you secure sectors. My favorite unit was the British 
 Commando, which you can drop via a glider behind enemy lines to weaken the enemy before launching 
 a full assualt or to conduct special ops. The Commandos seemed to me to be the toughest units I 
 have played in COH. For instance, the American rifleman in the original would get pummeled unless 
 you used them correctly and in unison. 
  
  You also get to play as the Panzer elite forces in the "Operation: Market Garden" campaign. I generally 
 don't like playing as the enemy, but once I got into it I really enjoyed this campaign. The German 
 campaign focuses a bit more an vehicles like tanks, mortars, and armored cars, but there are tough 
 Panzer Elite grenaders to use as well. You can also drop in Luftwaffe units that serve as both 
 the engineers and fighting force. The key for this campaign is how you use the vehicles in unison 
 with your soldiers. Combined they prove to be a tough force and provide excellent game play. Another 
 unique aspect of the Germans is the little camoflauged scout car. Not sure how many other gamers 
 out there use it, but it sure comes in handy. I park the little guy in enemy territority to scout 
 the enemy especially AT weapons and then bombard them with mortars. Note that I recommend watching 
 the '70s war movie "A Bridge Too Far" before playing this campaign. A pretty good movie that provides 
 a good overview of the failed Brit, American and other allies attempt to quickly end the war and 
 gain a foothold into Germany.
  
  Both of the new campaigns are singularly shorter than the original and taken as a whole probably 
 fall short too. I am now going back and playing the American campaign and finding that the individual 
 scenarios are generally a bit deeper and longer than the expansion campaigns. However, there still 
 plenty to be had with the new campaigns and the fact that you have two new armies and strategies 
 to play with. I love some of the unique little situations in various campaigns that allow you to 
 use units in special ways, like the paratroopers in the original game.
  
  What can I say about COH? It's a truly great game with excellent and manageable RTS gameplay, I 
 found that I'm overwhelmed by many RTS games like Total War and AOE - just not getting that much 
 enjoyment out of them although I know there popular and good games. I like COH because I find it 
 much easier to manage production while focusing on the action. The graphics and sound are spectacular. 
 As a huge fan of the Commandos (pre-FPS bs) series and Soldiers: Heroes of WWI I found there are 
 some minor similarities to the games in how you can manipulate your units. Additionally, one of 
 my favorite things about the game is the historical accuracy. COH really follows the great events 
 in WWI history and serves as a sort of history lesson as you play. You are basically reenacted 
 these events and victories, unless you lose of course.
  
  Not a big multiplayer fan, but the game appears to be quite live. I do play the skirmish maps, 
 which offer plenty of extended gameplay and fun, so I imagine the multi-player is quite good. I've 
 noted that the skirmish scenarios are much tougher, generally, than the campaigns. Your resources 
 are limited, unless you customize, and the enemy comes at you with all they've got constantly. 
 It took me a couple of tries to beat the computer on the first scenario that I played.
  
  I certainly recommend the expansion to gamers who enjoyed the first COH, but I'm sure most of you 
 are playing or have played the expansion already. If you have not played any COH, I recommend running 
 out soon and grabbing the whole series. It's really one of the best games of it's kind out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyko_Reaper
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great story and a great single player campaign that make it a great choice for 
 a game to play. It only disappoints in the constant crashes, which made an otherwise brilliant 
 gameplay experience a rather annoying one.
  
  Two completely independent campaings with two new factions to the game make for a lengthy experience, 
 and even more lengthy if your trying to go for all the medals.
  
  Although at some points i was completly pinned down by the enemy, i managed to get a lot of the 
 medals and all the levels without even needing to restart a level, as you can move the british 
 command truck or you can just gather on your cp and either the germans or the british won't be 
 able to destroy you. This is bad in a way that it makes the game too hard to lose in single player.
 
  
  Online gameplay is great and seems a lot more fluid than the singleplayer, and though i haven't 
 played it extensively, it makes for a great experience.
  
  The game also encourages you to look up facts from WWII as it is very accurate at some points and 
 it sparks curiosity, in the matter of hell's highway for example.
  
  All in all this is a great game for rts fans and a good starting point for beginners, as the difficulty 
 is very adjustable, that if it weren't for the constant crashes would be almost perfect. I strongly 
 recommend it to anyone who likes WWII games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf13
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  Being an expansion there is no need to go into gameplay or to write a long describing the story 
 and the action at hand. Instead just the highs and lows, and what i thought... 
  
  Overall impression
  It''s a nice expansion to the first one with some new strategies play, new 
 units and more use of the F-Bomb. The ability to play as the Germans in a story campaign is great, 
 you get to play with there tanks! The story is good for both the Germans and the British Forces. 
 A new "i surrender" unit action has been added that makes the AI surrender when they realize they 
 are out gunned, which then they troops just walk to your base and disappear. Which is ok, but it 
 would be nice to be able to turn it off so you can pound them into the ground. 
  There are allot more tanks in this expansion, but once again there is the population cap which 
 forces you to use both tanks and support units. But in this game it feels so what easier to use 
 both troops and tanks together unlike the first one. I found i wanted to use the troops more to 
 scout and take territory were as before a tank was the only unit capable of rushing a capture point 
 and being able to survive the onslaught. 
  One thing i totaly HATE about his game, and thus the reason why it is getting a lower rating is 
 the fact you have to be online to load the game at all. Being that this is a campaign mode game 
 there should be no need to have to login to play the game not online. Which i think it total BS, 
 and i will give any game that requires a login to play it's single player game off line.. (that 
 means you STEAM!) 
  
  
  Good Show!
  - German Campaign
  - More Tanks
  - Artilary support that is effective
  
  Bollix
  - Online required to play single player
 
  - More of the F-Bomb
  - Population Cap is still low
  
  If you have the first CoH and you enjoyed it then get this game. If you are debating to buy this 
 game, i would recommend getting it. If don't have an constant internet connection.. bypass this 
 game just for spite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corchosky
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game, like the first Company of Heroes, is great. In this one, not only you guide your army 
 into war, but also you can give them officers to go with them, and make them better soldiers in 
 the battlefield.
  You also can use a captain to guide your artillery when you are about to make the final assault 
 on enemy's territory, o just guide it at will.
  It's interesting how you play with another Allied Army, and explore their characteristics.
  
 
  The game also let you play with the German Army, letting the player to check things out from the 
 other side of the war. 
  I found kind of fun, the fact that you can build a tank that can fix other tanks. This proves very 
 useful in the battlefield, because you spend less resources in the battle, specially when you are 
 short of them, but you still need those tanks to defend yourself or to take more territory.
  
  Anyway, the game has great graphics, interesting physics, an it's a lot of fun, if you can 
 take losing once in a while... but, don't take my word: play it, and get your own conclusions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightowl224
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game quite frankly stinks, as there is no excuse for what THQ pulled, making a person create 
 an online account, just to play this game offline. No where does it say in the manual that you 
 must do this, which in turn is a violation of their own EULA.
  
  Until THQ quits this garbage, of putting out games and patches where you have to create an online 
 account, just to play the game single player and treating it's customers like little kids, I will 
 not be buying anymore THQ games.
  
  It's sad to see THQ pull garbage like this, and as a result, I can't enjoy this game, which I really 
 wanted to play, as a result of THQ pushing their online account garbage on me, and for lack of 
 better terminology, treating me and a lot of other people like a little kid. I don't pirate my 
 games, like some people around the world, I buy my games, if I like them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellequin85
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  Well it's a good game, it's fun and it's entertaining but there are several things that stop this 
 being a great game. Firstly a complete lack of balance between forces makes it almost impossible 
 to complete the last mission of the british campaign without losing 10 tank casualties. I've just 
 completed the campaign and I almost lost the final mission thanks to 1 king tiger and 2 jagdpanthers 
 (having taken out several panthers and another king tiger) despite having about 6 churchills and 
 bombarding them constantly with artilery. Seriously, it was like watching an invincible unit just 
 moving across the fied. Yes the German tanks were substantially more powerful than british ones 
 but not this degree. Also the british forces lack in several other areas. The german panzer units 
 are really strong and powerful and the faction itself is great fun to play. The Music is awesome 
 the sound and graphics are great and the gameplay (apart from the balance issues) is a lot of fun. 
 I'd recommend this to anyone who enjoyed the first and to anyone wanting to experience a good, 
 plain fun, RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I was fairly underwhelmed by Company of Heroes, and to no surprise Opposing Fronts did not change 
 my mind. In fact, I was even more turned off by the fact that the game forces you to use the internet 
 to play even single player since your progress is saved online.
  
  Opposing Fronts features two new campaigns if for some reason you couldn't get enough of the bland 
 campaign from the original game. Both of them feature the game's two new armies, one for the British 
 forces, and one for another German force. Each campaign is fairly average in length, but they can 
 get quite challenging at later stages.
  
  The only significant change to the gameplay is the two new armies. You've got a British army, and 
 a German army that focuses more on artillery. You still can't fight mirror matches, and the two 
 original factions are fairly unaltered save for some balance tweaks so they'll be effective against 
 the new guys.
  
  Visually the new armies are definitely up to par with the original ones. Though in many ways they 
 look far too similar for my liking. Audio wise, there's some new music, but like the vanilla CoH 
 score it's fairly forgettable... fortunately the voice acting is just as good as it was in the 
 original game.
  
  As I'm sure you've noticed, I put little effort into this review. That usually happens when I'm 
 very underwhelmed with a game, or expansion, though; so take that to heart when deciding whether 
 or not to buy Opposing Fronts, because forced internet usage along with continued indifference 
 towards the game itself is a good sign that something is wrong... at least it is on my end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sourav_br
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  i only say i could done batter if its has a big campaign. in opposing fronts have same good thing 
 and bad thing... first of all bad thing- in coh: of game is too short, bad thing is that if you have 
 two game then coh: of unlock coh campaign but you have to not use coh disc and if you install coh 
 in previous then OF uninstall COH, hard for new gamer. good thing is it has two new company, two 
 new campagine. now i tell about campagin, OF has two campagin caen for british and oparation market 
 garden for PE. if you start from british then you will see they are very defencive and if you start 
 from PE then you will see they are vary offencive. brits have there defencive commend tree, they 
 have superier fire power on artilary, take there enemy on surprize to land glider or call there 
 tank to begine offencive. panzer elite have there commend tree to gain upper hand on enemy, defance 
 to trek on enemy, lutffafe to offence or tank destory tactis to unmatch there fire power to any 
 foe. last thing i say that brits have plane in single player game but you can't control it and 
 its not add to brits command tree. i love to play PE campagin beacuse it have vary powerful storyline, 
 powerful music and there mobile abelety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aw3920
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  When I finish playing Company of Heroes (and its little brother Opposing Fronts) I feel like I've 
 accomplished something great. Then I realize that I've just wasted two or three perfectly good 
 hours. It's hard to imagine a more well-done game for the PC. I love the way you sit back and play, 
 not having to learn multiple keyboard commands, and play like you're using a word processor program. 
 You just use your mouse. All computer games would take a giant leap forward if they realized that 
 computer games should only be played with the mouse (or a gamepad-but NO KEYBOARD.) . If you haven't 
 played this game, you're missing a thrill like nothing since Doom One and Two. Maybe I've missed 
 out on something but for me, nothing compares to the first two Doom games until COH came out. Every 
 time I play the game over, it feels fresh and I curiously feel like it's a new experience. Believe 
 it or not, this game is also educational. I've learned a lot about WWII weaponry, and important 
 battles. I'm looking forward to another installment of the game. How about the Soviet campaign. 
 Please, and hurry. It's cash well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan6692
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game. I mean its a game WW II RTS fans would die for. The first game was limited 
 at best. Only having two Armys to play as. It got rather boring. But with the new Panzer Elite 
 and the British Common Wealth. It will really change up the game play. Making it fun and always 
 keeping you on your toes. The CPU could use a fix. It seems like once the CPU see someone they 
 send all they can at that one thing, and this is one every difficulty. It would have been nice 
 if they tested that out or maybe gave it alittle more thought, but hey go with what you get. Even 
 if you did want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionwolf
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  There is no excuse for releasing a game before quality assurance has done their job. Opposing Fronts 
 is a perfect example of skipping the QA process.
  
  Aside from the mandatory Relic website login that cannot be bypassed without disconnecting the 
 internet from the computer, as well as the 2 hour install and auto-update process I've experienced 
 multiple crashes. Now, before you go and assume that I'm a newb to the computer scene, I've been 
 building and troubleshooting computers since 1993. I keep my rig up to date every year. I have 
 no issues with other games - many of which I just received. Opposing Fronts poses the only problems.
 
  
  Random crashes not associated with any conditions that are normal for computer games is the name 
 of the game for sequels over at Relic. Oh and checking for new software during a post-game cutscene 
 that takes you to the desktop, then won't let you back into the game - all before saving. Yah, 
 that should have been caught by QA. But it wasn't.
  
  Relic - next time you want to include automatic features like updates and logins - why don't you 
 FRIGGIN MAKE SURE IT WORKS BEFORE YOU RELEASE IT.
  
  What a bunch of idiots...
  
  By the way, there's no bypass or ability to turn off the automated features of this game. They're 
 there to stay. And they don't work. Therefore, the game does not work. I suggest moving on to the 
 next title and skipping this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foddle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 7/10
  Replayability 8/10
  
  Now old school rts players will no doubt flame me for saying this, but i think that CoH OF is the 
 most fun i've ever had with an rts game. The visuals are stunning, and functional sound and really 
 fun gameplay make this a fantastic game.
  
  Now i ignored the multiplayer. This is nowhere near the calibre of CSS of CoD multiplayer, so this 
 is really a review of a singleplayer game.
  
  First off, the gameplay is addictive and beautiful. You control squads instead of individuals and 
 this is far better done than in C&C, and there are tanks, arty, and all sorts of other bundles 
 of joy available. I could give a lecture on the precise mechanics of the gameplay but, to be honest, 
 it's better to discover your own style of playing, whether that be by artillery bombardment, infantry 
 assaults, or just running their base over with some heavy tanks. Or all three, as the expansion 
 contains plenty of new company abilities and units which really vary the game experience. You dont 
 need to have played the origional company of heroes to play this, and in fact i played the expansion 
 first. What i'm essentially tring to get across is that the gameplay is really, really good, and 
 it lets you play it your own way. The only bad moment for me was how unbalanced a few units were, 
 such as the german king tiger and jagpanther, which can be used to complete a level almost single 
 handedly, and are equally annoying to face. But then again the game was always fun, whatever was 
 happening, which is the most important factor.
  
  A word on the visuals: the graphics are truly stunning, expecially at the higher settings and resolutions, 
 and the models are extremely detailed. Explosions and other effects are a visual treat and the 
 fully variable camera lets you zoom or tilt to any level, letting you a: appreciate the graphics, 
 and b: play the game at more camera views than the standard fare of rts.
  
  The Sound; one word: functional. It isnt anything new and it isnt bad. Although the music is nice, 
 if you like generic ww2 film music. 
  
  On the subject of films, this is NOT a cinematic game like call of duty, and i dont think that 
 it tries to be. It is a tactical rts and it fills this role extremely well, but dont go looking 
 for another call of duty in this game, as it plays like a much better and more balanced verision 
 of codename: panzers. I think i'm right in saying that this is the only ww2 rts that really delivers, 
 or at least the only one that i've seen that does. It compels you to replay the campaign too and 
 re-live all of the fun. 
  
  So this is really a copy of codename panzers? well, yes, but a better one, as in the australian 
 cricket team is a copy on the (cough) english one. Thist game serves up loads of fun and the length 
 of the campaigns is about right. This is not CoD 4. You wont finish it in 5 hours , but minute 
 for minute it was just as good. enjoy the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  As a big fan of the first game I was hoping for some major changes, and or , upgrades. What I found 
 was a basic copy of the last game with a few new twists and turns. Thats definitely not a bad thing, 
 just not what I had hoped for.
  
  
  Graphics - I honestly couldn't tell the difference between this game and the original. But what 
 I could tell is the difference in how it was coded. Dear god, with all the crashing and patching 
 I felt like I was playing a game of "see how long you can play without a buzz kill." It got to 
 the point that hitting F5 was as much a part of the controls as the game was. Save early and save 
 often with this one...
  
  Gameplay - COH OF didnt dissapoint with its style of RTS gameplay. I didnt see much need for improvement 
 either, but where it was needed, I saw the minor tweaks addressed. I still dont get the lack of 
 ability to map the keyboard the way that I want it... maybe I missed something but that has always 
 seemed to be a major flaw of this series. The new campaigns were well done and well balanced. They 
 did a nice job of introducing new weapons and tactics while keeping it as realistic as possible.
 
  
  Storyline - They did a nice job of telling a story. Its tough to make any war genre interesting 
 considering they have all been done, but the storyline was well done. 
  
  I wouldnt go out of my way to get this game unless you are a fan of the series. It may be worth 
 checking out when the new game releases start to slow down a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ty2991
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I was actually starting to get boring of the original company of heroes, because i was really good 
 as the German faction, who i have nothing against, but i really didn't enjoy fighting my own country, 
 America. Having 4 armies adds variety to the game, and allows people online to have a completely 
 different combat feel as they fight each other. The voice acting for each faction is excellent, 
 and the games graphics still look excellent. The game packed loads of different maps so there's 
 plenty to chose from depending on what type of combat situations you like to play the most. If 
 you have both games the number of maps seems to never end so that continues to increase the games 
 variety. Over all this addition to Company of Heroes really packs a punch into a game that revolutionized 
 the RTS game genre, and made me quit Command & Conquer for good because of that series' nonstop 
 repetition of terribly weak and boring units with terrible voice acting and nothing new to the 
 game-play since Red Alert. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArCHAN6EL
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  It wasn't all that long ago that Relic Entertainment released their award winning, mind-shattering 
 hardcore strategy game Company of Heroes: a title so intense that it was rated by many to be the 
 number 1 strategy title of year. 
  Now half a year later, we receive the awaited expansion pack Opposing Fronts, a standalone game 
 that (much like the Dawn of War series) does not require the original Company of Heroes to run. 
 While this is an 'expansion' pack, it packs a mighty punch and delivers a large amount of content 
 for the buyer. The single-player charts the timeline for the Battle of Caen, chronicles German 
 Panzer Lehr division resistance during Operation Market Garden, and adds another two races to the 
 palette for multiplayer. Assuming you've got the original Company of Heroes this is a must have, 
 or if you're just a fan of Lehr Jerries and the Brits this is the logical first step for you. 
 
  
  SINGLEPLAYER
  
  Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts delivers on the concept of the original with more units, more 
 explosions and a completely original separate storyline. This time around you'll command the lads 
 of the British Army as they try to hold the balance against the Nazi menace during the Battle for 
 Caen, and interestingly enough experience the invasion of Holland; Operation Market Garden through 
 the eyes of the so-called aggressors the Nazis. This group however is the Panzer Lehr division, 
 and are a right joy to play with. 
  In way of innovation Opposing Fronts does not add much to the original COH, however it does not 
 need to, as the original is already innovative enough with a real physics system, a seriously deep 
 resource scheme and specialized units. In Opposing Fronts, the two new factions: The British and 
 The German Panzer Lehr are at two opposite ends of the spectrum. The Brits, a little short on numbers 
 compared to the Wehrmacht are the toughest defensive faction in the COH series, and to show this 
 have doctrines which emphasis their defense, and repair abilities. Slit trenches, static anti-tank 
 guns and the like can be built to turn the average British base into Fortress De Valois. In doing 
 so the Brits emphasis artillery, turtling, and massive end-of-game strikes which they spend much 
 of any given mission time building up to. Their defenses also serve to augment their basic troops, 
 and very quickly what appears to be a meager squad of riflemen becomes the most frustrating, dangerous 
 unit that your enemy will ever lay eyes on. 
  In retrospect, the German Lehr Panzer division is all about mobility; for starters they have no 
 static command buildings, emphasis vehicles, and have basic infantry squads a third smaller than 
 any other faction. However later in their tech tree they get access to Panther Lehr tanks, self-propelled 
 artillery etc. For the most part their armoured cars tend to act as their infantry/vehicle repair 
 units, and because of this the faction is recommended for players familiar with the basic tactics, 
 and rules of thumb associated with the game. The Panzer Lehr are more challenging to use than any 
 other faction in the game, but ultimately also very advantaged by their versatile vehicle setup. 
 
  The game however is not (in my opinion) recommended for those new to the Company of Heroes strategy 
 universe, and unless they are fanatic strategy buffs who somehow missed the original's release, 
 there are many missions that the average gamer will struggle to cope with. However, the missions 
 while challenging are usually very good fun, and intense as ever. The variety of which will include 
 standard 'defend for 15 minutes' and, 'take out 4 anti-tank guns' etc. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  Much like the original Company of Heroes, multiplayer pits you against a one-sided line up 
 of foes, the Allies on one side, and The Nazis on the other. It's strange that you can't switch 
 things up, but admittedly it would be hard to understand why Stormtroopers are assisting British 
 Commandos. If you possess the original Company of Heroes, then your purchase of the Expansion will 
 lead to 4 total playable races. Multiplayer servers are easy to join, and the action is always 
 crowded and furious, so there's no problem finding a really exciting game to jump into and be a 
 part of. Like any good RTS, the multiplayer has persistent ranking, and the popularity of Company 
 of Heroes ensure there are plenty of clans to join, and battles to cater to your frisky shell-shocked 
 needs. A must for any budding RTS professional. 
  
  OVERALL
  With new campaigns that are actually quite lengthy, two completely new factions. There's a lot 
 of time ad content to be had in the Singleplayer. When all is said and done there's the much popular 
 multiplayer, and it's always fun to try out these new factions against the staple forces of the 
 original Company of Heroes, more good fun of the same innovative hardcore RTS breed RTS/9 out of 
 10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  OF offers 2 new factions, the Panzer Elite, who are focused mainly on fast, hard hitting offense, 
 and the British, who rely on their defensive capabilities and slowly build strength.
  
  If you played the first COH, then much of the game remains unchanged, aside from the 2 new factions, 
 and their new Doctrine Powers, which give them a distinct style of play. Newcomers to the game 
 may find that the PE and British armies difficult to grasp. Although OF doesn't revolutionize an 
 element of the RTS genre, it adds to an already revolutionary RTS. The production values are amazing, 
 and the game modes that it offers (Campaign, Skirmish, and Multiplayer) are very immersive. If 
 you already own COH, then OF will add 2 new, fresh factions and a few maps to play on during multiplayer 
 or skirmish. If you do not own COH, then I would recommend buying it first before you purchase 
 OF. If you played COH before, you won't find many new things here, so don't expect anything drastically 
 improved or changed.
  
  All in all, OF adds 2 new factions along with their interesting styles of play, and new maps for 
 players to enjoy. Simply put, OF is a solid yet very familiar addition to the COH franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liyanism
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The original CoH was outstanding, but the new expansion CoH: OP become a disaster since day one!
 
  
  The new patches become more careless than before, the 2.200 patches was worst patch I have never 
 seen before, they even need to roll back to the 2.103 and released new 2.201. For those people 
 who had accidentally automatically forced installed 2.103, sorry you have to re-install the whole 
 game.
  
  I am wondering are they replacing people in the company and fired all the old staff? The new expension 
 is great to play, but just too many errors and careless mistakes.
  
  For people who installed the latest patch 2.201, now playing replay with terrible errors, all replay 
 just crashed and you can only see the engineer running around, just weird!
  
  I don't mind wait for few more months to have a completed patch, rather than just give something 
 half done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billygunz7
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game is meant for people who played and liked the original game. I recommend owning the first 
 game before buying this, even though it's a stand alone. Opposing Fronts is worth it because of 
 its 2 new armies and their unique style of strategies.
  
  The British army is best used for defense and support by building trenches and stationary guns. 
 The Panzer Elite army is best used for constant offense and overwhelming the enemy with tons of 
 infantry. It doesn't sound that difficult but after playing it for 3 months, I am still developing 
 strategies to try and beat my enemy. This game is probably difficult for those new to the rts genre 
 but even experienced players can still find this game extremely challenging. Not much has been 
 changed for graphics accept some new weather affects. A new soundtrack is played for each army 
 and the new units have 100's of phrases in their vocabulary. I have a new mid-range system and 
 the game looks and sounds beautiful.
  
  For people who want an expansion to an already excellent game this is for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonsworld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game, am surprised to see some people on here slateing it, maybe it just because 
 some americans cant handle the more strategy elements ,the game requires this time around. They 
 might also just wish they in this game, who knows...
  
  You also dont need the first COH to play this game, its not an expansion pack. though it is easy 
 to see why certain people would express that notion.
  
  Its brutal and intense, game physics are outstanding, and technically its good also, battlefields 
 change with dynamic effects, from expolsions etc. I dont have the best system ever, but i do ok 
 with frames and performance issues,, it is hard on hardware though, its a beast of a game.
  
  Last thing, the british defensive tactics, really add something to the game, really makes you 
 appreciate the tactical side of the game much more, than just building loads of tanks a. s. a. p and 
 follow the gun ho approach, the germans have some new units etc, there as awesome as ever, more for 
 all out attack if used a certain way. 
  And finally, the online play is still fun, loads of games to find, as long as you can find some decent 
 players, when i go online, it must be loser days alot, or something, haha, oh yea i belive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Opposing Fronts is a worthy sequel to Company of Heroes. I particularly welcome the ability to 
 play "the bad guys" (read German Nazis) so extensively on a single player campaign, and even more 
 when the scenario is operation Market Garden, one of the most significant setbacks of the allies' 
 effort to end the war and usually ignored on other WWII games. It is also good that the Nazi side 
 campaign must be played with a particular set of strategies suited only to their military beliefs. 
 This is a nice touch.
  
  I feel graphics are even better than those in CoH, which is an achievement. The addition of random 
 weather and day vs night events during game play is also good, and makes the game even more real. 
 I would say that having to learn again to play the game with different factions after finishing 
 CoH is what it is really good about the game. Contrary to other RTS sequels where what you get 
 is an extended version of the previous factions in different missions, here you have different 
 factions on different missions, which in a way makes it a different game, even if game play remains 
 virtually unchanged from CoH
  
  On the not that good side, the British side is a bit difficult to understand and playing with their 
 mobile command doctrine and their lack of highly mobile medium-range infantry support weapons such 
 as mortars, and truly anti-tank weapons as bazookas or panzershrecks (I find hard to believe British 
 didn't use mortars and bazookas in WWII) . Their anti-tank weapon, the P. I. A. T, basically sucks 
 as well as their tanks, but I guess that was a fact of the war (the tank part, not the PIAT) . In 
 any case, once you understand the complications of playing the British you will enjoy the game 
 for sure. But, but but, British artillery really rocks, and it gives a huge edge to the British 
 once you reach the upper part of the command level structure. Once you understand how powerful 
 this artillery is, you wouldn't like to play under any other command, also in part because the 
 other two command structures gives you tanks (which as I said before suck) and commandos, which 
 are easily overpowered by Nazis in virtually all the single player missions
  
  However, contrary to CoH, Opposing Fronts is a fairly unstable game, and to me it looks like it 
 was not developed with the care CoH was. I have a fairly decent PC, where I played CoH at ultra 
 settings on Vista without any issues at all, while in OF I experienced many lock-ups and freezes, 
 very annoying is some missions. You figure out it's a problem of the game development itself and 
 not your PC when you realize you can play some missions with big and highly detailed maps and full 
 of troops and objects without problems, while other missions with relatively smaller maps and overall 
 less objects hanged continuously and saving times were just a joke. There is a mission on the British 
 side that took me over 5 minutes to save every time, and at the same time was pretty unstable so 
 I had to save often. To say the least, I was that close to stop playing the game full of frustration
 
  
  So, for that last paragraph I can't give the game something on the 9.0 range, but overall this 
 is a great game. If you enjoyed CoH, this game is a must, but beware of the stability issues
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts adds two factions to the COH game, the British, and the Panzer 
 elite. Both of the new sides play different than the Germans and Americans of the original game. 
 In addition to the new sides, campaigns, & multiplayer maps, the game has had the addition of some 
 nice weather effects.
  
  The British call in trucks that deploy and produce units, while their engineer class, "Sappers", 
 are combat units able to built base defenses. The British are defiantly a defense oriented team, 
 with many powerful base defenses to build. 
  
  The panzer elite are the opposite of the British, with an emphasis on mobile units and infantry. 
 Their Grenadiers build the production facilities, which produce new weapon types and upgrades. 
 The Panzer Elite's infantry are devastatingly effective, and perhaps slightly unbalanced. 
  
  The game is stand alone if you missed the original CoH you can pick up Opposing Fronts and 
 start playing. If you have the original game you can just install CoH: OF as a normal expansion 
 pack and unlock all the feature of both games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerry688
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  COH : OF is a standalone "expansion" to the very popular COH released in 2006. 
  
  OF offers 2 new factions, the Panzer Elite, who are focused mainly on fast, hard hitting offense, 
 and the British, who rely on their defensive capabilities and slowly build strength.
  
  If you played the first COH, then much of the game remains unchanged, aside from the 2 new factions, 
 and their new Doctrine Powers, which give them a distinct style of play. Newcomers to the game 
 may find that the PE and British armies difficult to grasp. 
  
  Although OF doesn't revolutionize an element of the RTS genre, it adds to an already revolutionary 
 RTS. The production values are amazing, and the game modes that it offers (Campaign, Skirmish, 
 and Multiplayer) are very immersive. 
  
  If you already own COH, then OF will add 2 new, fresh factions and a few maps to play on during 
 multiplayer or skirmish. If you do not own COH, then I would recommend buying it first before you 
 purchase OF. If you played COH before, you won't find many new things here, so don't expect anything 
 drastically improved or changed.
  
  All in all, OF adds 2 new factions along with their interesting styles of play, and new maps for 
 players to enjoy. Simply put, OF is a solid yet very familiar addition to the COH franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_lim81x
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I've review the first CoH before and it was great. It worth to be the editor choice! But not until 
 they came along with expansion and all their updated patch, this game totally turn into chaos! 
 Before the new patch arrive, there was already a game improvement on system performance. After 
 you have download and installed their patch, you will notice a bit different. (Trust me if you 
 are running a mid-low end pc you will know what i mean.) there's an option to unlock the two series 
 once you brought their games and i say it was rubbish. My point of view is do not focus on the 
 expansion or rather than stick around with your first CoH. Here's the message to Relic, if you 
 want to prove yourself worthy, pls act one now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willcast21
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I got to say, I love the original COH. I am disapointed in Relic with this Oppossing Fronts edition 
 of the game. First off, this game if you look at it, its really an Expansion Pack, because the differences 
 are just two new units and a new campaign. But they sell it as a whole new game with the full price 
 of $40. I guess they got greedy and thought they will make more money off of this by fooling COH 
 fans. They could at least make this game stable. Even with the $40 price tag on it for what I said 
 before "it really needed to be an expansion pack edition" it crashes for soo many people I know. 
 And these are people that are hardcore gamers with fast up to date computer hardware and computer 
 knowledge. Also if you un-install this game and reinstall the Original (It tends to to act up if 
 you have both games installed, in fact it will not work) it will make the original game crash also, 
 I don't know how but it does. It must be the patches for fixes that actually make it worse. Also 
 the new Panzer elite unit is unbelievably strong. A rookie with the Panzer elite unit can give 
 a seasoned veteran a really hard fight if not beat him (for those lucky few that actually get the 
 game to work) . My three friends that played with me on the original online game now cannot play 
 at all with this new one, they can't even get back to the original. Now the registered account 
 that they had will install the patches on the orignal that gave them trouble with the Opposing 
 Fronts version. And Relic's tec support is such a hassle. They act like its your fault and their 
 game is flawless. Opposing Fronts only just pissed off alot of people that bought this game (if 
 you call it a game) . Let me put it this way "People bought a light $40 paper weight". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes opposing fronts is an expansion pack, but it is sold as a stand alone game, much 
 like the recent Supreme Commander expansion. It provides two new campaigns, covering the liberation 
 of caen as the British, and operation market garden as the panzer elite, and interesting touch, 
 as few games to date do German campaigns. The Campaigns have solid stories, and good replay values 
 through different difficulty levels and medals, however the game is not really about the campaigns. 
 It is about the new factions, the Brits and the PE. They drastically change the balance of multiplayer, 
 and needless to say, there are still some significant balance issues to work out. 
  ALl in all the though, the new factions are great.
  
  British-The British are all about defense. 
 They have the capability to build some amazing defensive emplacements very early on, so watch out 
 for that. Their infantry is very solid, but their armor is weak and expensive.
  
  The Panzer Elite- The PE, contrary to their name, are not about panzers, but rather are about fast 
 attacks with mechanized and motorized units. They have a wide variety of halftracks and armored 
 cars, including mortar halftracks and AT halftracks. Perhaps their greatest weapon is their tank 
 destroyer, the Marder II, which is one of the best in the game. 
  
  On an overall level, Opposing Fronts delivers, but if you are new to the franchise, try the original 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raps123
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  IM DISSAPOINTED WITH THE EXPANSION PACK AS I THOUGHT IT WOULD REALLY PACK A PUNCH BUT THE GAME 
 SEEMS TO BE SLOW TO TAKE OFF! THE OTHER THING IS THAT WHEN PLAYING WITH THE BRITS YOU CANT JUST 
 PLACE MACHINE GUN EMPLACEMENTS AS IT TAKES UP POPULATION - MAPS ARE MEDIOCRE - IM NOT IMPRESSED!
 
  IF THERE IS A SEQUAL TO COH I WILL DEFFINATELY THINK TWICE ABOUT WASTING MY MONEY! 
  THE GAMEW SEEMS TO JURK ALLOTT AND THIS DOES NOT IN MY OPPINION LIE WITH MY PC - IT'S ALMOST AS 
 THE GAME'S FUNDING HAD DEPLEATED AND WAS PACKED AND SHIPPED TO GENERATE REVENUE
  FOR PATCHES AND GAME ISSUES WHICH SHOULD HAVE BEEN DONE BEFORE SHIPPED- I BELIEVE THIS IS DUE TO 
 BAD PLANNING OR INCOMPETENT PERSONS OR BOTH.
  
  WHEN A GAME COMES OUT AND IT'S AWESOME AND YOU MAKE A SEQUAL AND IT'S VERY DISSAPOINTING IT ACTUALLY 
 KILLS THE DRIVE TO PLAY THE ORIGINAL COH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsvfreak1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  One of the best real-time strategy games I have played apart from the new C & C of course. When 
 it comes to WW style game play, this is just crazy. The Multi player feature is just as good. There 
 is a more than enough game time hear to keep u busy, Will keep paying it all the time, if I had 
 the time. I would recommend this game to any one who likes the WW stuff, if they have had enough 
 of the FPS style. All I can say is  This complements well with 
 COH, hope they make another.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InFiDeLUk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  As always, any review submitted by INS comes after reading feedback from other gamers, live in 
 game chats and after extensive game play.
  
  Also as always, the spelling will be 'naff'
  
  
  The first thing that strikes us at INS is the plain, up front and uncompromisingly daring 
 nature of Company Of Heroes.
  
  The graphical capabilities are unmatched in many respects, other games on the market may match 
 it's 'spec' but no other can mirror CoH's unique take on an RTS fully 3D world view. For starters, 
 the camera control system is innovative and easy to use allowing player to quickly swap angles 
 and perspectives during an engagement zoom right in and read the ID numbers on the tanks or watch 
 a yank paratrooper scratch his arse.
  
  The level of detail is truly sublime, the fully destructible world allows a deliberate of even 
 accidental miss fire hitting some poor French sods house gives a result of crumbling walls, and 
 often a nice hole in it's wake.
  
  Cruising on through a ruined town such as Lorraine? Take a moment and actually look on the road 
 by the houses and see parts of an old shot up desk, bit's of house ware or a random suitcase. No 
 other game has ever gone so above and beyond to make you feel like you could actually be there 
 in the thick of it.
  
  If you destroy a tank, you get a hulk in it's wake. Sure plenty of games do that right? but how 
 often do you see a hulk that's actually representative of what the tank was doing at the moment 
 of it's 'maker meeting' i. e.: the turret faces the same way, the tank treads come off and angle 
 them selves appropriately to the tanks direction of travel. Countless little details like these 
 add to a unique and thrilling piece of eye candy.
  
  To back up the superb graphical aspects, the sound system is almost grade A: perfect. The explosions 
 sound real and if distant will sound more muffled and will actually sound like it happened 20km 
 away. Weaponry such as rifles, SMG's etc. sound real and like they should, again if distant, they 
 sound distant. Evan less obvious additions, such as if an AT gun strikes a tank and it bounces 
 off slightly the sound is accurate, the same if the shell deeply penetrates.
  
  To top that, the games even adds fantastic battle chatter. If soldiers are standing around doing 
 nothing, they idly chat and say random things as if sat in a bar somewhere in Alabama. although, 
 they don't have actual conversations. Alternatively, if in the thick of it. They shout almost as 
 if shouting commands at each other, They will taunt or if there getting totally owned they can 
 scream and shout in panic. They even swear. Yes, the 'F' word!
  
  So, Graphics and sound are top notch then.
  
  On to game play;
  
  The game it's self if 
 as you would expect a top down satellite style view, although at an angle to get the 3D aspect 
 in full. The command system is fairly strait forward, all done with the mouse and although available, 
 keyboard shortcuts are rarely used due to the little difference they make to the ease of play, 
 unlike such as C&C Generals where using shortcuts in fast play is a must.
  
  This is not to say there are no advanced command options, you can still do move attacks etc.
 
  
  The game boats the best AI system ever seen in an RTS, this is the opinion of us at INS, and thoroughly 
 agreed with by many.
  
  Troops will behave like real soldiers, and will act as they want to keep there life's. They don't 
 just stumble forward letting all hell break loose in there face whilst singing the holly dolly 
 song.
  
  - In example, they use all available cover. Anything from fences, trees, tank hulks even pot holes 
 in the ground from where you're howitzers had cratered previously. 
  
  Vehicles have stronger armour at the front, yet are vulnerable from the sides and very weak at 
 the rear. So try circle around. A nice tactic is to hide an AT gun and then ambush armour form 
 the rear.
  
  
  
  Opposing Fronts has 4 unique armies to play with,
  
  These are;
  
  The US Army
  The British Army
  The German Wehrmacht
  The German Panzer Elite
  
  Each 
 entirely different to game play styles and there all great fun.
  
  Those who played the original CoH know enough about the original two sides, the US Army and the 
 Wehrmacht, so we will not detail them.
  
  The British Army:
  
  .. Mobilises in completely unique way to all the other sides. They use a system of mobile command 
 trucks witch must be unpacked and deployed to function. Once done they operate just like as a standard 
 base structure that the other 3 sides use. This offers an array of advantages and disadvantages. 
 
  
  Using this method allows you to spread out more and keep the enemy restrained as when a truck is 
 deployed in a sector it automatically locks it down making it immune to capture by the enemy until 
 the truck is re-packed or destroyed. It also gives you a more 'forward base' style of deployment, 
 you can set up on the enemy door step and throw units out if you wish, although to be fair such 
 a tactic would be ill advised as alone truck is very vulnerable.
  
  With the British you end up with various trucks spread out across the field, this can make defending 
 said trucks rather difficult but the British excel at defences.
  
  The British generally adopt a turtle style game play method of sitting behind impressive defences 
 and hitting the enemy with artillery and commando strikes and precision attacks. The British Infantry 
 squads are pretty nasty two when coupled with a Lieutenant unit.
  
  
  
  The Panzer Elite:
  
  These guys are pretty much the opposite, and suite a player who lies to 
 rush and to quote the GS review 'bulldoze' through the sectors stopping only for quick repairs 
 and reinforcement. The Panzer Elite have little by way of defences by default, however. One of 
 the 3 available doctrines the 'Luftwaffe doctrine' allows you to drop a squad of specialized engineers 
 who can build Flak 88 heavy cannons witch will shred armour apart from an extreme range. Flakvierling 
 38's witch are truly evil against infantry and air craft. Evan light armour will regret an encounter 
 with one of these rapid firing monsters. They even have a mobile version of it available.
  
  But, really the 'PE' suit rushing around dealing with threats as they arise, not sitting behind 
 defences. There Tanks are unmatched beasts witch crusade through any thing the British or Americans 
 have in counterpart. The Fearsome Jagdpanther for example.
  
  
  Some people believe that the Panzer Elite is overpowered. As a rule it is generally thought that 
 the Axis forces are more powerful than the Allies in Company Of Heroes, the same is true in Opposing 
 Fronts in general. If a game is allowed to linger on then the Germans do generally push the allies 
 back, bit by bit. The Wehrmacht can purchase upgrades to have all their units produced at the most 
 elite rank. Where as all other armies must rank up with kills. If you lose an Elite Panther, so 
 what. Build another. If you lose an elite M26 Pershing on the American side however. Then you must 
 rank it up all over again witch can be a little unbalanced, especially when the game has been raging 
 on a while and resources may have staked up somewhat. To beat the Axis, you really have to out 
 think them in games like these. Try get them push back quickly and beat them in the armour race 
 to win. Naturally all sides have their ups and downs however so no one is really drastically god 
 like. The Axis sides are rather tricky due to resource strains. 
  
  On resources; Just quickly so people are aware, this game operates on 3 resource types.
  Manpower
 
  Ammunition
  Fuel
  
  All must be aquired by securing the corresponding territories. in Online play the need to spend 
 resources is generally constant and it's rare you will stack up a crazy amount like you do in Many 
 RTS games. So we say spend carefully!
  
  
  
  So after this rather long review you can see that the game does offer a lot to the RTS buff. We 
 here at INS do think that Company Of Heroes is designed for the experienced RTS players, and not 
 the new comers to this game type. As newbies will find the constant requirement to adapt rather 
 Hard. The micro management and strategic requirements are somewhat extreme and can be daunting 
 to people who are not used to this game type.
  
  But if you are an RTS vet, and fancy a new challenge, a game that really does require tactics and 
 wit to bring home the title belt, then this is a must.
  
  
  Thanks for reading this review and we hope it helps you better understand what CoH is all about.
 
  
  - InFi [D] eL, The INS Team.
  
  
  Last note: People say that you shouldn't buy this game if you do not own the original CoH, We say 
 screw that. Owning the first one is advantageous but this game is not impossible and it's not difficult 
 to limit a game to the original armies online. Just host a game and call it "Original Armies Only" 
 that's not hard so we say to people to stop moaning about playing against the new armies!
  
  
  
  SCORE: 9.5
  Due to level of content, detail and enjoyment. 
  
  CLASSIFICATION: 
 Immersive
  Due to the fact the game realy makes you feel envolved in whats actually happening and the way 
 the developers have made everything count.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandresvillare
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  well, the first one let a big hole, and in tha big hole it let us waiting for the expansion, ill 
 like to say that the fisrt one was very disastrous until patch 1.2, sooo, i think we just need 
 to wait, i think relic wont dissapoint us.
  
  Weather sistem, 2 news campaigns, and 2 news army&acute; s. it was the dream to complete the company 
 of heroes, i mean the only thing that i dont liked from the fisrt one was the 1 campaing and only 
 2 army&acute; s. but this one is not that bad too, the to new races fit excellent (i really dont 
 think that PE is overpowered) , they just feel unique, its like another game developer made it and 
 sold it for company of heroes opposing fronts. as the game need it a fast attack and powerful they 
 put on the Panzer Elite, and the best defense and artillery barrage, and they put the British 2nd 
 Army.
  
  some people say that the old factions are obsolete now with these two new factions, that is a lie, 
 i am an american user, and i still feel like the game is balanced.
  
  graphics are 1 year old and it still own some games from this year.
  
  sound is much more good, 
 every faction has it own music and the main soundtrack is aweosome.
  
  well, thats all, buy company of heroes opposing fronts it has some issues and bugs, but don&acute; t 
 you remember the first one????. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikapoka
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  I am sorry to say that this game completely let me down. As briliant as the original release is, 
 Opposing Fronts has such detremental and unforgivable technical faults that its just not acceptable.
 
  
  First off is the problem with the registration codes and the rediculously complicated coppy protection. 
 Even with a retail version, the game simply refuses to let you in. And even when you eventualy 
 succeed, it crashes for no reason, even if your pc is well in the specified requirements.
  
  Patches dont realy help it out, since all they do is fix problems that you wont have in the 
 first place, like the recent onem fixing a quad core cpu problem. How many people have that?!
 
  
  I am shure the gameplay, if you ever get to it is just as good, if not better then the original 
 COH, but just because of the head breaking technical faults, i give this game a stone cold 1.0.
 
  It just makes me want to go back to the store and shove it down theyr throat.
  
  PS: note the difficulty is at Very Hard, because of all the trouble the game gives you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duduong
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  The original COH was great, until this expansion comes out. Opposing Fronts is extremely buggy. 
 The game freezes all the time. Worse, after you kill the frozen game, it won't recognize your DVD 
 any more. So, you have to reinstall it. Worse yet, the updates cannot be downloaded into your hard 
 drive, so you will have to wait for the 200MB download every time you do the reinstallation. If 
 you think this is frustrating enough, you have not seen half of it yet. The Panzer Elite faction 
 in this expansion was made super strong, as in the super human sense. Even a newbie playing Panzer 
 Elite can easily, and I mean easily, defeat a veteran of the original game. I suppose the vendor 
 wants to make sure you buy the new package instead of staying with the old COH. To make sure you 
 absolutely do not have that option, they also force you to play against Panzer Elite in multiplayer 
 setting. There is no way to opt out!
  
  And to add insult to injury, they sell the expansion pack as a stand-alone , i. e. full price. After 
 I bite the bullet and pay up, I realize that I still cannot get the great gaming experience back 
 because everyone else in the multiplayer lobby wants to play Panzer Elte, and two such players 
 cannot play against each other. So, I either have to join the other 17 players in waiting for a 
 clueless canon fodder to come along, or I have to be that canon fodder. Either way, it is no fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  OK, first off, I should say that my review might not be entirely accurate, because I played the 
 original Company of Heroes right before playing the expansion. I finished them both in one week 
 so when I am writing, I might be referring to Company of Heroes as a whole rather than just the 
 expansion pack.
  
  Anyway, by all means both are just terrific games and are making great use and at the same time 
 building over the gameplay set by Warhammer 40 000: Dawn of War just perfectly.
  
  What really stunned me was realism in this game both in terms of graphics as well as gameplay. 
 Finally a strategy game where infantry cannot possibly destroy armour by directly shooting at it 
 with rifles.
  
  The concept of how tanks have rear and front armour which determines the amount of damage taken 
 is also admirable and rotating your vehicles during a firefight just to make them more durable, 
 really creates a nice tactical sense. Going through solid walls with heavy vehicles is also a welcome 
 addition to the rules of RTS games.
  
  I also liked how everything is up to a correct scale and people to vehicles to buildings are just 
 as they would look in real life. It is still a mystery to me how a Sherman Firefly comes off the 
 Brits' command truck but let's not be picky.
  
  Graphics and sound need no comment. One should just hear incoming fighters or see a high-caliber 
 shell bounce off a King Tiger's armour and all is clear.
  
  The campaigns themselves are intriguing and hunting down bonus objectives (which sometimes are 
 close to impossible) to earn medals is really engaging. My only remark is that since playing as 
 the Panzer Elite or the British is generally more complicated, AI in their campaigns seems to be 
 deliberately crippled (at least on normal difficluty) in order to make the levels more playable. 
 For xample, while playing the US campaign, the AI constantly harassed me by attacking and taking 
 over my resource locations while when playing the expansion, it never ever bothered to recapture 
 a location once it was in my hands unless it was a mission objective. I also witnessed fewer attacks 
 on my base in the levels.
  
  Anyway, by all means Company of Heroes has far more pros than cons. It is a worthy addition to 
 any PC gamer's collection and Opposing fronts just makes it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maneatingfruit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  The opinion of COH: OP that follows is based of having played the original COH campaign, the COH: OP 
 campaigns, and some COH 1 vs 1 skirmishes. I have not played against another human player.
  
  I've just finished playing COH: Opposing Fronts and had a great time. The music and sound, 
 and the game engine itself, remain outstanding. The new lightning and rain effects added drama 
 and made me wish for a faster PC.
  
  The two new factions are very different from the original American and German forces, and I have 
 to admit I struggled to pick them up, especially the Panzer Elite, with their strange mixture of 
 German names for buildings but English names for units, and halftracks and infantry from seemingly 
 every building. While I think there was probably good reason for the new ideas, I found them more 
 frivolous than fun. I was able to waltz through the Panzer Elite campaign without using all the 
 new units. In particular, I didn't produce the munitions and 'vampire' halftracks more than once 
 to see what they looked like. I can only guess that some of the more obscure units (and this included 
 the tank that salvages tank wrecks) might come into play in multi-player games.
  
  The command points, so critical to succeeding at the original single-player game, turned out to 
 be annoying distractions in Opposing Fronts. The blinking green button just had to be attended 
 to to stop the distraction. The long descriptions of each type of booby trap or artillery barrage 
 were too indistinguishable from each other and too irrelevant to the single-player campaign for 
 me to want to use them. The Panzer Elite veterancy choices of offensive or defensive, and the British 
 use of officers might have looked like good ideas in the game design document, but just don't make 
 the game more fun. Too many buttons and too many upgrades, make COH: OF an inferior game.
  
  My other complaint was with the campaign design. All through the Panzer Elite campaign I was unable 
 to follow the mission briefings. I was thrown off by the use of different characters and voice 
 talent. Compared with the original game, there was just too much dialogue which didn't make the 
 game more fun or move the story along. Mission briefings should be crystal clear, but it sounded 
 more like a sports coach and team captain both talking to me at once and I found myself starting 
 the missions unclear of the objectives. As it turned out, I found as I progressed that I could 
 ignore the mission briefings, deliberately disobey orders, and still complete the missions first 
 time. The original game - in contrast - was devilishly tough, and I had to replay some missions 
 a few times in order to win - and that's just better value for money.
  
  The British campaign was particularly vexing. The first instruction on the first mission is to 
 build a gun emplacement. The squad you're prompted to use to do so doesn't have enough fuel to 
 build the thing, and so your first action is to sit there for about a minute watching the fuel 
 count crawl up. I could go on about other missions with similar design flaws, but I just want to 
 mention the last mission where you're faced with waves of German tanks to blow up before you can 
 capture a town at the top of the map. The last King Tiger despatched 5 of my tanks that were firing 
 on it simultaneously, something that had never happened in any previous missions. It felt contrived. 
 Then, to cap it off, the last command point was recaptured by the Germans - a nice twist - and 
 then inexplicably, without my having any units nearby, turned back to blue and suddenly the mission 
 was over! This was a terrible climax for what was otherwise a pretty decent mission.
  
  Anyway, enough said. The music is brilliant, right down to the credits. The sound is terrific. 
 The new units (including planes whizzing overhead) rock. The game engine is amazing, and you can 
 have a lot of fun with this. I just wish it were as polished as its predecessor. I gave COH a 10. 
 I can't do that again for COH: OF. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NAMAN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game follows the original Company of Heroes. One interesting thing I like is they do not require 
 the original game, instead of this being expansion pack it is actually a new game that plays well 
 with the original. I like the concept but the downfall to that design is you pay full price for 
 what could have been an expansion pack, good and bad. The gameplay is great. It is fairly balanced 
 and recent patches have improved it some. Online play is good but they are in desperate need of 
 more 8 player maps. Overall this is a great game and more than worthy of the price. A couple more 
 maps and I would have given it even higher marks. It does require a strong machine and very strong 
 video but the graphics are excellent if you have good setup. If not the game still plays nicely 
 but may lag some on intense action, especially online and using stormy weather. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiling_bull
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of COH, that is why i refuse to write a review until patches are up to resolve some of 
 the issues.
  
  Without the patches, i basically cant think of any reason to give it more than 7.0 for rating score.
 
  
  This couple with the frustration faced during login b4 the patch is really hard to swallow.
  
 
  AFTER PATCHES:
  
  On the game itself. Very refreshing. The style is totally different from the original factions. 
 The mobility of the english, the blitz and pure power of the panzer elites makes the whole game 
 very refreshing.
  
  This add on allows player to have more choices and options to experiment with more combinations. 
 The new factions observes very little similarities. It also adds a lot of varieties to the game.
 
  
  In short, fans should no doubt purchase the game. New players should also buy and try it out. It 
 is fun and definitely challenging to play.
  
  I will definitely consider it to have top notch graphics and music. Relatively realistic gameplay 
 and great interface.
  
  As for balance, i definitely will minus some marks from it However, its prob a trend for relic 
 to put new factions imba. Look at dawn of war: winter assault and dark crusade. The new race always 
 a bit more OP. However, on the whole, this should not affect the ratings too drastically since 
 balance patch will definitely be followed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_dangelo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  this is anohter great addition to company of heroes. you get 2 new sides to play as. you ge tthe 
 british, whihc havet he crmowell tanks.. mobile howitzers, and riflemen that can build trenches 
 and mobile base structures... and then you get the vehicle and blitzkreig focused panzer elite for 
 the germans...
  
  the game will now force you to rethink your strategy... now for those of you who don't have CoH 
 tht is ok.. oppsoing fronts is a standalone game.. it will install ove rthe original CoH or install 
 byitself if you dont have both.... so anohter great one.. god job relic games... i mean they have 
 done so well... but there are some problems.. i think that the panzer elite units can be weak at 
 some points.. the brits are stronger.. the game needs some minor balancing.. but all and all it makes 
 it more challengin :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirdumbdumb
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  When i purchased the first CoH i was amazed at how the RTS genre has changed. Sadly my computer 
 is well, not the best so i cannot enjoy the graphics and Frame rate at its fullest. But ive have 
 seen it and played it like it and i have to say even without full graphics this just has a certain 
 awesome arura floating around it. But now with this new one out it really gave you more then expected 
 and wanted. To be honest i think for anyone who played the original, got bored sooner or later 
 only have 2 factions to choose from. Even though no battle ever plays the same, pro's or people 
 who even get there butt's kicked will know how it plays through. these 2 new factions the British 
 and panzer elite make for excellent mix and match game play especially for online. for the rush 
 or just move around type you can team up with 2 panzer elites. or for def/off you can go brit and 
 American it leaves for many oppertuinites to come in the future. for anyone now a fan of RTS's 
 this one will most likly get you into it. with very little micro managing because of suprub AI. 
 and the just plain and simple gameplay. with time and effort put in everyone could realise it's 
 potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts is the sequel to last years smash hit, and the expansion brings 
 more and more of the same. While some might think thats a bad thing, OF keeps things fresh and 
 new for several reasons.
  
  The British Army plays a far cry from any other group, with their strong infantry, defensive prowess, 
 and high mobility. Assaulting a British base is a tall order for most combatants, and its likely 
 that an attacker's infantry will be completely wiped out by the time they enter the base.
  
  The Panzer Elite is a strong, also speedy addition as well, with their armored cars, tanks, 
 and strong, although small, infantry providing the back bone of a strong offensive. When you like 
 to steamroll your opponents with a charge of tanks, the Panzer Elite is the way to go.
  
  The game looks great, and plays the same as Company of Heroes, with a few changes. First of all, 
 and this might be just myself, but I noticed tighter, more stable performance. In the previous 
 game I left everything on high, and this time around I ramped alot of it up to Ultra without any 
 frame rate hitches. Another technical aspect is that the pathfinding has been dramatically improved. 
 There were times in Company of Heroes where when you needed to make that critical charge across 
 the bridge with your tanks, and they'd just putz about and not go over, and that has been largely 
 rectified.
  
  I do have a few gripes with the game, which are as follows:
  
  The Panzer Elite lack diverse infantry, and although its to be expected, after a while you feel 
 as though you're at a disadvantage due to your troops not being able to hide in houses.
  
  Another gripe is that the British have three diverse trees to go down for special abilities, however 
 against the Panzer Elite, I find that if I go with anything other than Commando, its nearly impossible 
 to defeat the Panzer's far superior armor without the tank hunters.
  
  Aside from these hitches, the game is an excellent shot of fun into an already amazingly fun game, 
 and if you enjoyed Company of Heroes, you have absolutely no reason to not purchase this superb 
 expansion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  The good: two new factions with new abilities, 6 new doctrines/commands total, slight improvements 
 to the original factions, well balanced gameplay, 2 new campaigns, great online fun, as well as 
 graphic enhancements.
  
  The bad: campaign stories are not as interesting as the original coh campaign, each separate campaign 
 is short, longer learning curve for the new factions, needs the original coh as well to round out 
 the experience.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I love coh, it was 
 what I was waiting for.... a worthy ww2 rts. And coh opposing fronts coh OF expands on this great 
 formula with 2 new factions with loads of new units and content and a reinvigorated online community. 
 It doesnt try too much to go in a different direction than the original, which is a good thing. 
 The gameplay is still great as ever but the real change is the 2 new factions, which are polar 
 opposites of each other in many ways and need to be played differently to win. This review is what 
 id hope to find in other reviews, with details about the game but not so much that its a game 
 guide. This review will give you an idea of what to expect.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  --Gameplay --
  
 
  Im not going to include basic gameplay like how to set up mg teams, facing of weapons and where 
 they can fire, different cover, etc. for that read my COH review. Although I hate not including 
 that info, theres too much to write and I dont want to do it again. Everything for the most part 
 remains the same, meaning great. To give you a summed up general idea infantry can use cover for 
 added protection, tanks can plow through most obstacles and almost anything can be destroyed with 
 real physics. Factions: --Common traits -- both new factions cant build observation posts or op's 
 to reinforce resource points from capture. Unlike the original factions.
  
  --Panzer Elite or PE -- is the fast hitting, mobile, vehicle heavy army that is well suited for 
 aggressive players. With few infantry selections but dont let that fool you, these infantry can 
 be upgraded with at panzershrecks, long range rifles, and mid range assault rifles. Plus all infantry 
 come with the repair ability. This faction has more vehicles than any other. Its vehicles are made 
 to fit infantry rolls as well as regular tank rolls. Of the 2 new factions this one will be the 
 easy one to learn because its got more in common with the original 2 factions than the British 
 do. You have an immobile HQ building and you must build base buildings that produce different units. 
 --PE infantry panzer grendiers your basic guys that can build your main buildings, and can be 
 upgraded with long range rifles, mid range assault rifles, or panzershrecks. Assault grenadier 
 heavy infantry you anti-infantry troops. Tank buster heavy infantry panzershrecks infantry. Luftwaffe 
 ground forces are special infantry that can build certain defenses. Fallschrimjager are elite infiltration 
 infantry that can deploy anti-building flame bombs etc.
  
  --PE vehicles -- Kettengrad is an unarmed recon bike that can capture pts etc. Scout car mg armed 
 scout that can use its ability of secure territory to make that territory produce more resources, 
 like ops, but must remain there for the bonus to stay. Armored car is armed with a 20mm cannon 
 good vs light vehicles. Halftrack is armed with an mg42 and can hold any infantry sqd up to 2 total. 
 Mortar halftrack is unloadable halftrack but with a mortar inside. Funkwagen halftrack can steal 
 enemy resources when in enemy territory. Munitions halftrack speeds up the recharging of any units 
 abilities after use, and can drop goliath bomb cars. Light AT halftrack an anti-tank halftrack 
 that has the ability to break enemy tank treads and immobilize them. Panzer 4 infantry support 
 tank a stripped down version of the original German faction panzer 4, this one is anti infantry. 
 Hummel is a long range mobile artillery vehicle. Bergetiger repair and recovery vehicle a tiger 
 tank stripped of its weapons and made into a repair vehicle and it can also bring destroyed tanks 
 back to life if their remains are not yet destroyed. Marder 3 tank hunter its an AT gun on treads 
 that has a powerful gun but lacks armor, but can shoot far. Panther same as the other German factions 
 panther, only this is called in by HQ and 2 come at once for alot of resources. Wirbelwind is a 
 AA/infantry tank. Hetzer a cloakable tank suited for AT rolls. Jagdpanther your biggest, toughest 
 tank.
  
  --British army -----
  A more defensive force with many tricky ways to go about combat, but has mostly specialized units, 
 with few bread and butter units suited for everything. You only have 3 base buildings, starting 
 out each game with a HQ command truck. And then you need to make a lieutenant unit to be able 
 to buy the next field support truck which will arrive from off map. Then after you buy the captain 
 unit you can buy the final Armor command truck. Any of these trucks can be deployed anywhere 
 in your territory, but while your command HQ truck is moved all territories will be out of supply 
 until you re-deploy it. And when upgraded all 3 trucks can boost the resources gained in the territory 
 they are deployed in.
  
  --Infantry -- Infantry section your basic expensive infantry that can be upgraded with 3 different 
 weapons, a sniper rifle, a light mg, and grenade rifles, and these infantry also can construct 
 certain defenses like mg nest. Sappers these are your builders/repair just like engineers but 
 since you have no normal base buildings all you build is defensive structures, plant bombs, and 
 they can be upgraded with a mine detector, a piat which is a AT bazooka like weapon, or enhanced 
 repair ability. Lieutenant is a command unit that boosts nearby infantrys effectiveness. Captain 
 is another command unit that can call in off map artillery but has to be within range to spot for 
 it. Commandos are assault infantry that have a cool ability to place bombs anywhere on the map 
 for 50 munitions, anywhere meaning in the center of a street or at resource points for defense. 
 They can also throw regular grenades, and deploy concealing smoke around themselves. Piat commandos 
 are anti-tank that can camouflage. HMG commandos and Mortar commandos as well.
  
  --Vehicles -- Bren carrier a light infantry transport armed with an mg. Stuart light tank is 
 just your weak fast recon tank. Cromwell its you first real tank, although thats an overstatement. 
 Cromwell command tank this com tank is unarmed but boosts the effectiveness of your other tanks 
 and its required to have one if you want to make firefly tanks. Sherman firefly tank you solid 
 heavy hitting AT tank, now your in business. M7 priest its a mobile arty vehicle. Churchill 
 infantry tank is a durable heavy tank that can deal with infantry as well as tanks. Churchill 
 avre is a mortar tank thats very deadly to infantry. Churchill crocodile is a flamethrower 
 tank. Tetrarch tank a light tank that you get deployed by glider.
  
  --------The 6 new command trees: (3 per faction) ----------
   
 Royal artillery support -- seriously what it says, a heavy artillery support tree, with most of the 
 upgrades being abilities to be used by you basic always available arty defenses. Abilities like 
 creep barrage to over watch arty etc. As well as the ability to call in the M7 priests mobile arty 
 vehicle.
  
  Royal commandos support -- allows you to call in gliders any where theres not fog of war, different 
 types of gliders give you different stuff, 1 gives you commandos, another gives you a light tank, 
 both these can also spawn more of the same unit like a building would, until the enemy destroys 
 it. The last glider option lands but doesnt deploy units immediately, but you can make mg commandos, 
 AT com, and mortar com. And theres an off map arty barrage ability married with false arty flares 
 which nicely rounds this all out etc.
  
  Royal engineers support -- improvements to defensive structures durability, enable all armor to go 
 hull down meaning they dig into the ground and set up sandbags around themselves adding to their 
 durability. Plus you can call in regular heavy Churchill tanks, and two other variants, 1 a mortar 
 Churchill, 1 a flamethrower Churchill.
  
  -------------PE ---------------
  
  Scorched earth -- booby-traps can be placed by any infantry in any building or resource pt, which 
 are very effecting against infantry, and best of all its completely free. Heavy roadblocks are 
 also available here which is the only tank trap you can build. As well as the Hummel 150mm mobile 
 artillery vehicle, my favorite big gun to pummel the enemy into dust with.
  
  Luftwaffe -- anti air support from AA guns defense emplacements to mobile AA tanks, plus two types 
 of infantry both with versatile abilities. The first one is the Luftwaffe ground forces which builds 
 AA gun defenses and other things like sand bags etc. And then there the Fallschirmjager an elite 
 infantry that can plant bombs etc. and are effective versus infantry. And the big gun 88 AT/AA 
 gun emplacement can be built as well. Butterfly mines can be dropped anywhere fog of war doesnt 
 cover, this is air dropped mines that cover a small area.
  
  Tank hunters -- basically you get your big tanks here, the jagpanther is the PE's version of the 
 tiger, but looks more like a panther..... limit 2 at a time I think. The Hetzer tank looks unimpressive 
 but fills an AT roll well, plus it can be camo'd when sitting still. AT mines can also be deployed.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  --Graphics -- everything looks fantastic, in fact its the best looking rts Ive ever seen. The 
 amount of detail can be mind blowing at times, causing you to watch more than play. New flame effects 
 are cool. Although youll need a decent graphics card to have it looking good.
  
  --Sound -- everything sounds the way it should, and the new soundtrack fits right in.
  
  --Resources -- 
 there are 3 different types of resources: manpower, munitions, and fuel. And on each map the territory 
 sectors will have an assigned resource type. To capture a territory sector to gain the benefit 
 of that resources income you need units that are able to capture, mostly infantry but a few vehicles 
 can do it to. Once its captured it will start providing that resource to your total income, unless 
 that territory is out of supply. A territory is out of supply when its not connected to your 
 other territories which are linked to your HQ. what resources you need to build certain units depends 
 on the unit itself, ex tanks require a lot of fuel as well as manpower. While infantry may just 
 require manpower.
  
  --Pop cap -- every unit you make has a pop cap number on it. And your total pop cap number varies 
 depending on how many territories you own. Infantry range from 2-6 depending on how many soldiers 
 are in that sqd. Vehicles can go all the way up to 10+. And weapon emplacements also take up pop 
 cap, such as arty/AT/AA/MG guns.
  
  --Multiplayer -- after you blow through the campaign you only got skirmish and multiplayer left 
 for replay value, but thats all youll need. If you got high speed internet (which you pretty 
 much need for OF and the changes it makes to the game menu) I recommend multiplayer because playing 
 against another human is just a blast, and you wont find a tougher challenge.
  
  --Campaign -- this time you get 2 campaigns, the biggest change is you get the German PE campaign. 
 Its nice to see things from the Germans point of view, but they dont do it very well. But the 
 problem with the campaigns is it never really sucks you in making you really immersed into the 
 story. The characters are almost interesting but dont quite capture your attention. Although you 
 get 2 new campaigns, each one is short to about 8-9 missions each. --My sys specs -- I can run this 
 game on medium high settings, with this sys:
  A pentium 4, 3.0 ghz processing speed, 3 gigs ram and a nvidia 6800. The nvidia 6800 is on the 
 recommended requirements list to be able to play this game with higher settings but dont be fooled 
 this card may be recommended, but its still the minimum recommended card. And the 6800 is 2 full 
 generations behind the current new cards. I dont get any lag in single player or skirmish 2 vs 
 2 matches. Going 3 vs 3 or more will start to make it choppy, and for multiplayer 2 vs 2 on big 
 maps or higher I have to turn down the settings a little to reduce lag.
  
  --Overall -- If youre looking for more variety added onto COH then this is for you. If your new 
 to this I would recommend you start with the original COH first, as the new factions are not suited 
 for beginners. But I think no matter what you should get both. The online community is now even 
 bigger with this new stand alone expansion. This is the best ww2 rts series ever. period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooya_d
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I am trying to compare these two games in order to help people who want to choose between them.............
 
  
  1. original game ( company of heroes ) is more challenging 2. in original game you don't need to 
 spent too much population to defend your base ( you may use tank traps in many places, but in opposing 
 front base defenses spend a lot of your population
  
  3. in opposing front you have more options to place your base
  
  4. where the hell are snipers 
 in opposing front ? I think it is the biggest missing feature in opposing front.
  
  5. I think units in original game are much more useful and effective than opposing front, for instance 
 what are those retarded tanks in British royal?
  
  6. game balance is very good in both
  
  7. why didn't they add all 4 armies in one game ?????????????????? it is the funniest thing 
 about relic , what would happen if it was an expansion ????? more integrated ?
  
  I am sure they didn't make an expansion to gain more money .......... it was disappointing after 
 all.........
  
  good luck everyone..........!!!!!!!
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLIPSURFAH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Why? Panzer Elite too strong, once you get armor, that's it, game over for opponent. Flesh vs. 
 Metal? Who do you think would win? British Army too slow to move, too slow to tech up. Online players 
 always choose Panzer Elite because of its strong armor support. Infantrymen always get shredded 
 by the Panzer armor. Americans can't even touch armor unless they get the BAR upgrade but it costs 
 60 fuel which is a high price to pay for the upgrade because once you get 60 fuel, the opponent 
 already has 3 armors waiting to just shred infantry. THQ needs to fix these balancing issues and 
 ensure that every unit can at least counter the early spamming of armor and speeding up the teching 
 up process of the British SLOW-POKE Army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  CoH: OF is the stand alone expansion to Relic's award winning RTS title Company of Heroes, the main 
 difference in this game is that it adds the British as well as the German Panzer Elite. It continues 
 the legacy of good graphics and amazing physics, which when I think physics I have to say that 
 I don; t immediately go to RTS's. However when you see the physics in CoH: OF you can almost feel 
 the artillery as it pounds the Earth into....... more Earth, the physics sends bodies grace fully 
 soaring through the air, the graphics make this a sight to behold but not to the gore point of 
 not wanting to watch as you force a retreat. Overall this is a game that anyone who consider themself 
 an aficianado of RTS games needs to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymaze
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  What made Relic think OF was ready for store shelves? There are too many problems to list. But 
 to list the few- games don't start-constanly losing connection to Relic-stats don't update-the 
 most unbelieveable lag I've ever encountered in a gameI can understand the first week for any game 
 to be buggy but it's been a good month and a half and Relic hasn't done jack to improve OF. I was 
 a huge Coh fan until relic came out with this expansion. The original Coh beta was more stable 
 than this pos expansion I paid $40 for. Relic also has the worst technical assistance I've encountered. 
 I posted the problems for Relic but all they do is sugar coat it by saying you're the problem not 
 the game, the game is flawless, yea I'll believe that when relic gives me back my $40 they owe 
 me. I asked what changes they did to possibly screw this game up as much as they did and instead 
 of answering my question they did the mature thing and deleted my post. GG relic. I'm never going 
 to buy another game wit hthe name Relic on it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriKFM
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Maybe Opposing Fronts should have been bundled in the original CoH game. Then it had become without 
 any doubt the best RTS of all time. It would had 3 campaigns, 4 sides to play with, and the best 
 RTS competitive multiplayer ever (if Relic Online works well, of course) .
  
  No other game has the design in strategy that CoH has, it is completly different from other games. 
 Micromanagement is no longer the most important thing in the game. I mean games like Warcraft 3, 
 where it's more important the number of actions per minute you can do than the strategy you take. 
 Neither is surronded by the vulgarity that surrounds the genre in this times where most RTS rely 
 on graphics instead of strategy or innovation, (Age of Empires 3, C&amp; C, World in Conflict...) . 
 Only for this reason CoH should be in the top of RTS, and I love the game, but at this moment the 
 game is broken because the v2.101 patch has bring nothing more than problems to the community which 
 are unacceptable. This problems are game lagging, lobby problems, automatching takes too much time, 
 statistics doesnt work and other annoying problems. Yes, it's a nightmare for those who love the 
 game.
  
  Maybe if Relic fixes this I would rate this game a 9 or more, but you can't release a game that 
 relies completley in multiplayer with its online platform in Beta stage. Unacceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Wow, where to begin. First of all this expansion was done very very well!!! It immerses itself 
 with the original CoH game so there is no need to switch between different executables or discs... it 
 combines itself into one game (and saves all your stats from CoH) . Also the interface has been 
 updated to improve online match making and ease of use. Also two new campaigns have been added. 
 In the original CoH you only got to play as the Americans. Well in OP that entire game is considered 
 one (of three) campaigns. The two new ones allow you to plays as the Germans and Brits. I was very 
 happy to finally be able to play a German campaign outside of skirmish. It is done VERY VERY well 
 and revolves around Operation Market Garden so it provides an overall goal of historical victory 
 for the German side, without having to revolve around what if scenarios. The new units added into 
 the game give a new atmosphere and strategy to the game. I hate to admit that I was getting very 
 tired and bored of the original CoH but now with OP, I find it very hard to pry myself away from 
 the game :P This game definitely deserves a 9.5 rating (unlike WiC) because it is a very well rounded 
 game. The only problem I have to report about this game is a bug with 8XXX series of Nvidia cards 
 where if you have any settings on Ultra, you will be subject to random crashes. Just putting the 
 settings on High will correct this (at least it did for me) and there's really not that big of 
 difference at all. Other than that, this game is perfect. If you like CoH then you will LOVE OP!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haveacry
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  I have seen almost every possible opinion for Opposing Fronts reviews with most of them being biased 
 and/or extreme to the extent of making the political atmosphere in Iraq seem to be moderate and 
 stable. I hope to give you an analysis of what the game provides and what it lacks. The gameplay 
 is just as thrilling as before made more so the new factions. The original Company of Heroes is 
 a game almost every RTS fan has heard of. It was famous for its gorgeous graphics, physics, inspiring 
 musical score, and its overall appeal to a flourishing gaming genre. It was the first massive step 
 for WW2 RTSs. Opposing Fronts maintains all that made the original a classic this however makes 
 it not nearly as significant now as it was at the original's release. Apart from the new weather 
 effects and flame effects nothing really significant has been changed. Where the game makes the 
 major changes is in its new campaigns and, most importantly, the two new factions of the British 
 2nd Army and the Panzer Elite. There are two campaigns with each focusing on the two new protagonist 
 armies. Due to the split of content it feels a touch like the attention is drawn slowly between 
 them almost 'taking the thunder' from them. Veteran players and will surely choose a favourite 
 side and be happy with that but for a new player it can be very difficult choose as the two new 
 factions focus on quite extreme levels of gameplay. The Wiermarcht Germans and the American forces 
 were both very balanced and had every element to bring to the fore but the two new armies are quite 
 different. British are defensive juggernauts but are slow, expensive, and require to build strength. 
 The Panzer Elite are fast as lightning and can really apply the combat pressure like a hammer-fall 
 when needed, they cannot, however build any real defenses like any of the other three factions 
 especially the British. Because of these two very different styles of play I advise that novice 
 and new players purchase and experience the original two armies before using the two new forces 
 as their absolute and contrasting styles of play can be quite daunting. That said the two new factions 
 are extremely enjoyable as were the original two factions. Now on to balance. The British are deadly 
 defenders but lack mobility. Slit trenches, AT guns, mortar emplacements, vickers machine gun bunkers 
 and 25 pounder artillery guns are a few of their dangerous entrenchment options. The Germans are 
 fast and light and have more vehicles to choose from than almsot every one of the factions put 
 together (counting the original 2) . Despite their name however you will see very few REAL panzers 
 with a great deal of your force consisting of light halftracks and armoured cars for the better 
 part of the game. Once you get the big guns (such as Panthers and Hetzers) you are a rolling and 
 highly mobile force of steel capable of running flat almost any defenses. With this said though 
 you will need to be careful and do not expect even your deadly Jadgpanthers, Panthers or Hetzers 
 to last long against a prepared British line. In a bottleneck your pretty gone when against the 
 Brits. Chose each fight carefully and do not underestimate the ability of a mortar barrage against 
 the unsuspecting British trench-dwellers but don't be surprised if the sneaky Brits nail 'em with 
 a swift counter-barrage. Keep moving and the British artillery will hit nothing but air. The British 
 trump every one at defense, but the Panzer Elite could flatten almost every faction at a quick 
 assault minus a well prepared British commander. If offense and speed is your game take the Panzers. 
 Or if defenses float your boat, start digging those trenches till your heart's content. Yes, it 
 can be highly entertaining to see bikes, tanks, and infantry explode in a shower of dirt courtesy 
 of a well place artillery barrage but running circles around your combersome British anversaries 
 can be even more satisifying when done correctly. From face value COH: Opposing Fronts is a stand 
 alone game, but the sake of enjoyment it really only provides an extension from the original. Don't 
 think though that it is unplayable without the original, quite the contrary, however I feel that 
 to be enjoyed the most it needs to be played with the support of the original. In the end I feel 
 as if the two new factions are far too extreme in play styles to appreciate without the original 
 game and factions and can be lacking in areas of content because of that. Even still the two new 
 and intersting factions cannot be ignored. However, to fully realise the potential glory of COH: 
 Opposing Fronts get the original or be prepared to play with only one eye opened to the picture 
 of what could be a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baldurgatefr
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is a follows up to last year's critically acclaimed Company of Heroes. This particular 
 expansion follows very closely the mantra if it ain't broke, don't fix it, applying basically more 
 of the same to the original game. In most cases, that would be a horribly repetitious and boring 
 waste of time, but with this source material, more of the same is just what the doctor ordered. 
 You get 2 new campaigns, one British, one German, and other than that not a heck of a lot, at least 
 gameplay wise, is different. However, all this great gameplay comes at a premium. For starters, 
 for a game that, while definitely good looking for a strategy game, is not that beautiful (in comparison 
 to such games as Stranglehold or even Farcry) , expect to get low framerates, even on top of the 
 line machines. There are never more than 25 units on the screen and my screen was chugging to maintain 
 even usable framerates (going down to 5 during some of the more hellish firefights) . In this day 
 and age, that is completely baffling. Not that long ago Supreme Commander allowed HUNDREDS of units 
 on screen at once and there was NEVER a graphical lag (at least for me) .
  
  The other wonderful thing is that integration with Windows Vista ain't that awesome. The game routinely 
 decided to open itself in a console window as opposed to fullscreen, not to mention if you have 
 a screen saver set that the game forgets to tell Windows that you are doing something. What is 
 this, the 1980's?
  
  All in all though, if you can get past the issues and bugs (and 130mb download that was released 
 on launch day) , there is a very fun game to be played down there. Wading through the muck to get 
 to it, however, is not nearly as fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jkranzler
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 6, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  I loved the original COH, but the new Opposing Fronts just butchered the game. There are game crashes, 
 and your stats rarely ever count, as in if you win a game or lose a game it doesn't count. The 
 new units and races are cool. The Panzer Elite and the British are a nice addition, except there 
 are still balancing issues. The new units add a huge diversity, such as self propelled artillery. 
 The new game also altered the command points for the Wermacht and the Allies, and the stat trees 
 for the companies and doctrines are changed. I was altogether unimpressed by the game, because 
 of the constant lag and crashes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriswtham
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 5, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately there are too many game crashing bugs to recommend this right now.
  
  Games freeze on connecting to Relic Online. Games freeze randomly anywhere from 5 min to 60 min 
 into a game. And many other issues. Too many to cover infact. Players are trying many different 
 work arounds, disabling many programs, copying from seperate computers, etc. Mostly to no avail. 
 It would appear the game was not tested enough.
  
  The game now demands that you connect to relic online over the internet everytime you load it up, 
 single player or not.
  
  The bugs are big enough that the games are rendered unplayable both in Single player and multi-player. 
 : (
  
  This is a really sad development as CoH was a brilliant game which played well and was bug free 
 (for me at least) .
  
  You can find the details at the Relic Tech Forums if needed.
  I'd suggest waiting for a major patch to fix things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  The is a stand alone sequel to the great brilliant strategy game Company of Heroes , but surprisingly 
 it fails to bring anything new or interesting to the original.
  Consisting of two diferent campagnes, and two new races this game is less than the original. It 
 loses balance between forces, probably for the missions sake, but the loss of equlibrium in the 
 gameplay is lame and some times frustrating. The new german units are based on tanks and anti-tank 
 skills, while the allies (british units) ae based on defence and long range fire, and dropping units 
 behind enemy lines (commandos and tanks) . Comapring the two armies it's clear that with the germans 
 rush is the options as the tanks can easily destroy enemy tanks, and with upgrade enemy infantery. 
 With the british the things change as you can fire at long distances even if you don't see the 
 target, so you can clear hole ares in time without any effort. Once an area is cleared you just 
 nuild another batterie forward. I tends to be repetitive and boring from this point of view (if 
 you try using tanks and the enemy has anything anti-tank it becomes really difficult ) . Some elemnts 
 are new like the command trucks and officers for the british and verious skills for the germans.
 
  Most missions are challenging (if you desire a medal) , although german campaign seemed more difficult 
 than the british one. Primary objectives are classic and sometimes boring, but the secondary objectives, 
 and medal objectives are original in some ways. It also semeed like there were to many missions (for 
 my taste) of the type: hold possition for x minutes .
  No improvements to graphics. Story is not bad and cut scenes are very well realised. They also 
 tend to create the felling of war, better than the game.
  Overall the game continues the series with small steps and it benefits from the great features 
 of the original, bringin few good elements, but it is a good game and it is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  CoH was great, but this expasion made it even better. The pack does not only add 2 new factions 
 and tons of new missions, it brought the original game to a new level. Many things have been imrpoved 
 such as AI, interface,.... Even the graphics is better. We were amazed at how nice the game looked 
 when it first came out, yet this expasion impresses me, again. The terrain is now much more detailed 
 with the addition of new objects, such as wild flowers... Now, you can see bricks clearly on building 
 walls. They obviously imrpoved the textures, maybe resolution too, for all buildings. I'm not sure 
 aobut this one, but it seems the damage system for troops taking cover in buildings has also imrpoved, 
 in a more realistic sense. All in all, if you pay enough attention, you will find the expsion added 
 a lot good contents over the original CoH. The expansion will worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbaig
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games of all and still running ahead of many. A true display of WW II tactics and 
 animations. The game gives you the power of real time strategy and tactics which you can implement. 
 Plus the way characters behave also looks and feels real. Audio is superb which supports the front 
 screen in a true manner. You can set the graphics and view options the way you like which is also 
 a positive part. The graphics is awesome where even minute details are very clearly displayed. 
 Also depends upon the performance of your graphic card and sound card. I played the game after 
 enabling EAX support which effected the game in the positive manner and added some new features 
 to the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squeegeez
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 3, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  If you're playing this only for the campaign, then have fun =) , if you want to play online read 
 ahead. Opposing Fronts (along with CoH) would be absolutely fantastic games if the online component 
 was fixed. OF is basically the beta continued. It doesn't fix MANY MANY MANY of the Relic Online 
 issues the normal Company of Heroes STILL has. Even with a good connection, great computer, and 
 good computer knowledge, this game still has problems and will frustrate you to no end online. 
 Here's a few things you should expect, unless you're *REALLY* lucky: Slowness/chugging in-game. 
 Out of sync errors. Early people dropping. If you lose your connection for even one second it boots 
 you from your game. People that have clearly left the game are sometiems considered still there, 
 and the game can then freeze permanently. The vote-to-kick box is EXTREMELY useless, and frustrating. 
 You must disable your firewall, or learn how to open your ports just to be able to join any games 
 online, and even then you still can't connect to a few games. The new factions also have a lot 
 of balance issues. So, if you think they will patch these issues, think again because ALL of these 
 bugs have existed since the first Company of Heroes came out. Relic Online (and subsequently Quazal) 
 is more terrible than Gamespy.
  
  Oh, and i put the difficulty as Very Hard because of all the aggravating pain you'l have to endure 
 playing this online =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewsir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  What can I say; this series is my favorite Strategy franchise period. OF, as I said, just takes 
 the great game play up a couple of notches. It could stand a bit of polish, which I'm sure is coming, 
 but, even as is, it's outstanding.
  
  I have a couple of nitpicks, that don't take away from the fact that I absolutely recommend this 
 to any WWII/Strategy fan. First, it's nice to be able to play a campaign as the Germans, however, 
 the Brit and German campaigns are too short in my opinion. Given that, I'd rather they have just 
 made one long Brit campaign, similar in length to the American Campaign in COH. The other nitpick 
 is that most of the missions in both campaigns are a bit easy, even with expert difficulty on. 
 One other thing is that many of the new German units are not easily recognizable in regards to 
 their role. There are maybe 4 infantry units that all have the same icon identifying them, similarly, 
 their are several vehicles that look alike as well. Given time, they'll probably become more immediately 
 discernable.
  
  Nitpicks out of the way, what I do like are the new units/abilities. Some of the Brit units are 
 just a blast to play. Creeping Barrage with the Brit Arty comes immediately to mind, (as it probably 
 does to everyone else whos played OF) Commandoes coming in on gliders, the Churchill with the 
 huge mortar. I also like the changes with regards to maximizing resources, upgrading, mobile HQ, 
 and much more.
  
  The campaigns as I said, are ok, the real fun is in the skirmish mode. Being able to team up Brits 
 with Yanks, and the 2 different German armys makes for some interesting/fresh game play. Rather 
 than just doubling the fun, it multiplies. Of course some new maps help in this regard as well. 
 A few more would be nice, but, Im satisfiedfor now.
  
  The graphics are superb, as is sound. Game play is the real key I think, to the success of this 
 franchise. You rarely have so many units that you feel overwhelmed, and the pace helps in that 
 aspect as well. Balance is always a concern with any game of this type, but, I personally find 
 it to be just about right. I suppose if I played online a bit more, I might have a different opinion, 
 but, I prefer single player in this game, so
  
  If you dont have OF, do yourself a favor; buy it straight away. If you dont have COH, where 
 have you been, under a rock? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  There has never been a RTS like Company of Heroes that delivers such a spectacular gaming experience. 
 I've had an absolute blast with this and was surprised to see that the add-on has been so brilliantly 
 presented, thinking that there was not much more that could be done to add to the already superior 
 first chapter. One thing that will seperate this form the other RTS games out there is the sheer 
 thunderous realism of tactical battlefield combat and the beautifully rendered explosive graphics 
 that graces the screen. And let's not forget of course, the wonderfully balanced sides with their 
 very unique strategies from the German storm juggernaughting, to the covert based English assaults. 
 The newly added graphical updates to the entire series has been superbly programmed and for those 
 with Vista and DirectX 10, be prepared for some amazing features once your first patch update commences 
 and installs. The only dissapointment is how gamespot has only given it an 8.0, and for some reason 
 given a 9.5 to World in Conflict. But hey, each to his/her own. You won't be dissappointed with 
 this game. It is Company of Heroes times 2 for a little over half the price. It is the BEST add-on 
 ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablopaul20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Well when I started playing Company of Heroes I wasn't expecting much. Hell, I started playing 
 it right after i finished C&amp; C: Tiberium Wars. Imagine my delight to see that the developers 
 of one of my favorite games ( Dawn Of War and all the other standalones ) got one of the most horrible 
 conflict in man-kind 's history ( second only after WWI ) on our monitors' little screens (or big 
 screens in some cases :D ) with such epic thrust. Company of Heroes was an instant hit , thus getting 
 many rewards. But nuff bout that , let's move on to the expansion. First of all the graphics have 
 stayed the same , mostly , new additions are only the weather conditions. Before getting the game 
 i was kinda scared as I read lots of commentaries on some message boards that the game is completely 
 unoptimized and people with much better PCs then mine got low fps during firefights. Luckily this 
 wasn't the case ( atleast for me) . The gameplay doesn't differ significantly either if you choose 
 to play the old factions. The new ones though are very interesting. We got the Brits who , although 
 have only 1 basic infantry unit , are unique through their mobility and liutenant- squad relations. 
 The Panzer Elite has more infantry units , even though its basicaly 1 , but with weapon upgrades 
 already made. The Panzer Elite ,as their name implies , relies on firepower and armor from their 
 superior tanks. The sound is as epic as the first part! Bullets flying , units taunting the enemy, 
 screams of fear as the artillery shells come in make for a terrifiying atmosphere. So if you like 
 WWII , if you like hard-core strategy games , if you like an atmosphere that makes you jump off 
 the chair just so that the bullets dont hit you , then look no further! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinhin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  I know game rates half to go down when an expansion comes or sequel comes out for a great game, 
 but OF has made the battle front come alive on my cpu. I cant pick any one thing to say ; I will 
 say this awesome job. I would real love to see a little more control when you play online. Like 
 having fights with only the Inf and light Cbt Veh. Good job good job. Sad to say my wife has missed 
 me for a hole weekend when the OF came out. I hope that I have put in a nuff words to fell the 
 text, am I at a 100 words yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oozubek_TR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  CoH is COH, period! No need to mention how immersing the game play, or how real the combat or how 
 lovely the explosions.
  
  What I want to underline is the new additions for this expansion. After being bored of Allied units, 
 we got Krauts in this expansion!
  
  THQ at the end realized its grave mistake and added an Axis Campaign (alas short) to this expansion. 
 If you miss the shrieks of a Nebelwerfer or the deadly 88's, then do not ever and never miss this 
 expansion.
  
  After wasting hours in World in Conflict, this game will revitalize you and your gaming skills. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokeracc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  CoH was one of the greatest RTS games I have ever played. I loved following Easy Company through 
 the campaign and latter battling through skirmishes and online. This is the sequel.
  
  The Good
  
  Amazing sound, explosions sound amazing there is nothing more satisfying then hearing 
 a distant roar then Our units have destroyed an enemy tank or something along those lines.
  
  Beautiful Graphics, once again the visuals are simply stunning for CoH, while the rain and 
 weather effects are a little bit hard on the comp they look BEAUTIFUL.
  
  Amazing Game play, CoH: OF keeps the same basic formula as the original which in this case is a 
 good thing. Great new toys, both the Panzer Elite (PE) and the Brits pack powerful new toys to 
 play with, the Brits supply endless fun with gliders and commandos while the Jagdpanther for the 
 PE is an amazing tank.
  
  The Bad
  
  Weaker Campaign, I don't know why but for some reason I just wasn't as interested on the story 
 for this one as I was for the original. I think it was because starting the original I was a noob 
 and naturally went for the easier part of the game, but now that I understand the game I jumped 
 straight into the less linear skirmish games which offered more freedom. If you haven't played 
 the original this won't affect you.
  
  EASY, I don't know how GS could have said this game is hard, if anything it is much too easy. I 
 bought the game recently and I'm already playing on hard with little difficulty (with the new factions) 
 with the old factions I can still play on Expert.
  
  Online, while the online is incredibly fun Relic has messed it up once again. It is tough to find 
 a game and buggy in general. I'm not a fan of online play anyways so while this is negative it 
 doesn't really affect me, and I'm sure Relic will fix it in latter patches.
  
  All in all Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts is an amazing game that you should definitely pick 
 up if you enjoyed the first game BUT if you didn't like the first this one won't change your mind.
 
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts, contains two new military forces, the British 2nd Army and 
 the the Panzer Elite. At the start of combat and into the mid-game, both of these forces are more 
 powerful overall in comparison to the original Wehrmacht and U. S. Army forces. The expansion forces 
 infantry are far more versitile and adaptable to the combat environment than the previous two forces 
 were. Standard British and Panzer Elite infantry have many options at their disposal to enhance 
 their effectiveness in some way.
  
  British forces have three very powerful defensive structures and two great units not found in other 
 military forces. These are the 17 pound AT gun bunker, 25 pound Artillery bunker and the slit trench. 
 With these three fortifications, British forces can hold ground very effectively. The two great 
 defensive units are the Priest self propelled artillery and the Captain unit. You are only allowed 
 one captain unit, but whichever sector he is in will gain a defensive bonus. The Priest unit, which 
 is only available if the player selects the artillery company option, is a powerful mobile artillery 
 piece, effective on the defense or offense. When Priests and 25 pound Artillery emplacements are 
 combined into a defensive line, massive ammounts of blocking fire power can be used to stop any 
 major enemy attack.
  
  When fighting on the British side, normal base structures, other than defensive works, are non 
 existant. Instead of building, there are three base trucks for unit and ability production. You 
 start out with the main HQ truck and must produce the others and drive them onto the field where 
 you can set them up. These trucks can enhance resource production in any sector they are setup 
 in, but this comes at the cost of increased risk to these most important units.
  
  Panzer Elite forces are probably the best military force on the Offense, getting even more powerful 
 as the game proggresses. They are about equal to or maybe a little better than the U. S. Army on 
 the defense in the early game, but later on as they aquire better units, their defensive capabilities 
 begin to rise higher. Equipped with the little Kettenkrad recon vehicles, Panzer Elite forces are 
 great at capturing sectors in the early game. Later on after the enemy builds up their forces, 
 the little thin-skinned vehicles becomes less effective at this, but that is when the Panzer Elite 
 heavy units start leading the charge. Panzer Elite forces have many effective amored cars and half-tracks 
 at their disposal. These fast and deadly vehicles are often used in assaults to overwhelm a sector 
 or two in one rush. Its hard to prepare all your sectors for these light armored rushes, so they 
 often are succesful, however, if the force happens to run into a couple AT guns, tanks or AT infantry 
 in heavy cover, they are out of luck due to their light amor. The highly effective artillery of 
 the British is also a great counter to massed Panzer Elite vehicles, often whiping out 5 or 6 lightly 
 armored targets and bunches of infantry in a well placed and coordinated barrage.
  
  Graphics Improvements: A few new options have been added to the graphics options that will allow 
 more control and tweaking for better performance or slightly better graphics than the original.
 
  
  Sound: The new units and new music in the expansion are as great as the original. The music is 
 fitting and high quality, never getting in the way of a good game. Unit sounds are powerful and 
 convincing.
  
  Game Control: When in battle the game is pretty much controlled the same way as the original. There 
 have been a few tweaks and improvments to the UI here and there but nothing major that is an annoyance 
 or super helpful. The biggest difference in control of the game is actually on the out of combat 
 menus screens. These have changed for the worst. Menus are not placed intuitivley, the saved game 
 system is not flexible and could use an overhaul. Computer A. I.:
  I have been very impressed with the AI in the original, and the expansion continues this for the 
 most part. I have noticed that A. I. controlled British and Panzer Elites units act a little strangley 
 at times and arent as human like as the computer US and Wehrmarcht forces. British base trucks 
 sometimes drive out into the middle of the battlefield, Panzer Elite forces dont use their great 
 offensive potential effectivley. They both need further AI tweaking from the developers before 
 they are as great as the original AI forces. Squad A. I. is awesome in the original and the expansion, 
 vehicle AI is a little funny at times with their pathfinding and clumping up into clusters in one 
 area.
  
  Bugs and Technical Issues:
  I have had a fair amount of crashes after playing the game for long periods and usually when I 
 dont save my game. Other than this and some accasional popping and cracking of the sound there 
 havent been any other issues.
  
  THE GOOD
  The expansion is a worthy one for the original game. The new forces have varied, unique and fun 
 units and structures. New maps are as great as the originals. New music and sounds are great. More 
 graphics options are always a good thing. British mobile base units and strong defensive potential 
 add new cool elements to the game. All of the new vehicles for the Panzer Elite allow one to highly 
 customize their mechanized forces.
  
  THE BAD
  The games main menus are now annoying, period. Some technical issues and A. I. quirks need to be 
 sorted out. The two new forces need better strategic A. I. and fine tuning. British company options 
 dont feel equal. AI skirmish Panzer Elite units seem to always spam amored cars. When playing any 
 of the new forces against the original ones, there seems to be a lack of good balancing. British 
 tanks and light amored vehicles seem underpowerd against many Panzer Elite units and are usually 
 not worth the resources. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanAG
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I play games primarily single player, so I cannot comment on the multiplayer aspect at all. For 
 the single player, though, this game is not as good as the original. The campaign stories are not 
 as interesting or compelling as the American campaign. While some of this is just been there before 
 , I think they really aren't as well written, either.
  
  The new factions are interesting, but I find them fairly difficult to play. The Panzer Elite, being 
 mobile and focused on offence are challenging for someone who likes to take their time. In this 
 campaign, there are some timed missions, which are really annoying. Also, some of them give you 
 5 minutes to setup defence, but don't give you a clear idea where the enemy is coming from.
  
  I liked the British better, being more defensive, but it took me a while to realize that the 
 infantry have *no* anti-tank capability *at all*. They have to pick up anti tank weapons or panzerfausts 
 from the battlefield, which is not a reliable strategy. This means you have to coordinate attacks 
 with infantry and tanks together, which sounds fine, but they do not move well together so it just 
 results in lots of micro managing.
  
  The most annoying thing about the Brits is that the emplacements they build cost manpower, which 
 is a limited resource. So if you build an anti tank emplacement to help defend your line, you've 
 just wasted 3 manpower that you can't get back for the counterattack. You should be able to dismantle 
 what you build, to regain the manpower.
  
  Finally, the last missions of each campaign are extremely difficult. The Germans have to defend 
 on two sides, which means they have to constantly be switching their offensively oriented vehicles 
 back and forth. Sometimes the best defense is not a good offense. The mission setup tells you to 
 get all your defenses lined up along the river, so you spend time and resources getting in place, 
 then... bam... artillery out of nowhere destroys *everything* you built. Not just in one place, 
 but all along the river. Right before the troops arrive, of course, to a now-undefended beach.
 
  
  In the final British mission, the locations you're told to defend before the initial setup time 
 are not the same places you're told to defend when the counter attack actually starts. I had all 
 my defenders on the 3 lines I was told about, then right before the attack you're told you have 
 to defend 3 other resource points. I was so frustrated I quit the game right there.
  
  These annoyances really detracted from the game experience for me. Together with the less interesting 
 campaigns, I found this a real let-down after the greatness of the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  After first in it series game Company of Heroes proved that World War-2 RTS
  are not over yet! it showed that there is plenty great stuff.
  and now we can enjoy the game 
 even more in a new release of Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts!!!!
  this game brings all the good stuff from a previews one and some new stuff as well!!! Great graphics 
 awesome sound effects, destructible environment and more more little things that makes this game 
 superb!
  Great and fun levels, that really makes you think and you all your strategy and tactical knowledge 
 that you have and if you don't you will develop some after playing this game! :)
  And of course we also have great multilayer !!!
  you once again can battle with your friends 
 online or LAN, and have a great time!
  
  so go and buy this game if you haven't done so yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  I was really thrilled after playing the original It was one of the best WW2 strategy games both 
 from graphics and from gameplay
  
  The game is so much fun to play.. But I was still left wanting more. This is a nice follow up. And 
 adds 2 new factions into the game with some new mission but i would still love to have a few more 
 nations. Like Japan or maybe Italy for example Anyway Gamespot has it right with the rating of 
 8.
  
  Its a very good expansion that will give you a lot of fun but it is not as innovating as the original 
 was 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  ok, so, back when i bought the original i had a pretty naff pc, i could play it, but only on minimum 
 settings and it still was pretty ropey, however, now i have my new 8800 gts with all bits and bobs 
 attached, i have been playing through the original once again, and now this!
  
  what can i say, ompany of heroes always has and always will be an impressive series, and as long 
 as they keep bringing out more games, im going to keep buying them on release, and this ws no exception.
 
  
  in terms of game modes etc, very little has changed, in fact, nothing has changed, annihilate and 
 VP mode are still tge only modes there, its the new armies and their campaigns which make this 
 game as great as the original.
  both armies are incredibly unique in a number of ways. the british forces are all about making 
 field bases, and defenses, then slowly pushing up and holding the map, creating pockets of defensive 
 lines to hold the enemy at bay, their tanks are generally weak, however the sherman firelfly is 
 growing on me and with the camo paint jobs i really love the look of them too. the brits have a 
 bvery unique way of building bases, for a start, both their HQ and base buildings can pack up and 
 become mobile, allowing you to have your base dotted all over the map. this means you can requisition 
 reinforcements closer to the front lines if you put your tank building up the front, howecver this 
 obviousely accompanies some risks, such as the enemy destryiong it.
  panzer elite on the other hand are all about small, skilled squads of infantry and vehicles. like 
 the first teams, they have to build back in their base, and arent able to make field HQ's of any 
 sort however they cn garrison a building and make it into an aid station providing its in tyour 
 territory, that way you can have it as a safe haven for any infantry you have wandering about as 
 you can reinforce squads there too. most of their infantry squads can be upgraded with n array 
 of weapons, and you can also make many light vehicles and armoured cars which are effective agfainst 
 infantry, and can also capture points, meaning the panzer elite are all about pushing forward fast 
 and using their supreme training to defeat the enemy, as well as their speed. however, being like 
 this means they leave their backsides unguarded and can easily be flanked unless you have a good 
 teammate to back you up.
  the commander tress are also quite different from the previous game. the brits have a choice of 
 the engineers corps, which specialises in calling in churchil tanks, and also making their tanks 
 stronger against attacks. then there is the commando corps (my favourite) which specialises in 
 dropping dudes into the field through gliders. the catch is, when you drop guys, or tanks in from 
 a glider, you can then use that glider to make more troops, kind of like a field barracks, you 
 can also use them to make more tanks, making them very useful in conducting raids behind enemy 
 lines. finally there is the artillery tree, which specialises in all kinds of bonuses for artillery 
 units, and gives you mobile artillery.
  the germans have a choice of the tank destroyer tree, which is kind of self explanatory giving 
 you abilities such as mines etc, ending up at the fearsome jagdpanther tank. then there is scorched 
 earth, possibly the collest in the game as you can booby trap building, command points and you 
 can also scorch the command points making them useless to either teams. there is also another but 
 i cant remember it right now!
  overall this game is definately worth buying for any rts fan, the graphics are still stunning and 
 with the new weather effects it all looks even cooler. in order to get the full experience tyhough, 
 i would highly recommend getting the original, as at the moment i think the first too armies are 
 generally better balanced, not to mention easier to play than the brits and panzer elite, but this 
 game still rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  From the opening mission there seems to be something inherently wrong about playing a computer 
 game which involves one of the most sickening scenes in history - The D-Day landings. COH remains 
 historically accurate and has to best the best RTS of this genre. From the opening sequence, anyone 
 who doesn't have a lump in their throats cannot be human, and there aren't many games which can 
 make you feel moved with emotion like this does.
  
  Following on from the main game released last year, Opposing Fronts is slick and polished, with 
 amazing cut scenes which come with regularity linking the story from mission to mission. The production 
 is pure excellence. It makes the recent World in Conflict look laughable by comparison.
  
  Graphics remain top notch, sound is wonderful and once you start playing you cant put it down.
 
  
  The only thing where this game falls down is the AI. For example you can order a unit to move and 
 often it will take the longest way round.
  
  Nevertheless, despite the minor flaws this is a must buy game and I hope there are further expansions 
 to come.
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 10
  Game play 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThornFalconeye
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why gamespot gave this game an 8, but I feel it really ranks as good as the original 
 except perhaps the fact that they force you to create an account and login every time. Opposing 
 Fronts is not as revolutionary as the original, but it is an excellent expansion because it gives 
 you more CoH. The forces of Britian can be played offensively or defensively thanks to trenches, 
 and Germany favors smaller strike forces. Although they may seem overpowered the first time you 
 look, both teams have downsides, and really require the original american and german teams to be 
 present in 3v3 or 4v4 matches; Britian lacks any mobile anti tank guns, and germany is a little 
 light when it comes to normal defense. The sound has greatly improved, and trenches are just fun 
 to use. All in all this is a great expansion, well worth it if you liked the original CoH, and 
 are wanting more of that great action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  I'll start buy saying, wow.
  
  Opposing Fronts is an expansion, or not.
  
  You can playin Opposing Fronts even if you dont have the original Company Of Heroes.
  
  Yes 
 ! That's right !
  
  You can still play the two armies, British and Panzer Elite.
  The original COH has U. S and Wermarch (German)
  
  Both games are fab on their own. Together?
 
  They make a masterpiece.
  
  So whats new for players who have Company Of Heroes?
  -
  Well, there is an extra 2 armies, weather effects, dozens of maps, sound effects.
  
  Multiplayer 
 improve drastically. The layout of the game is nicely done for example,
  My Friends Icon , My Stats , Logout 
  
  If your a fan of RTS games, then i strongly recommend 
 this for you. If you haven't got Company Of Heroes, dont worry !
  
  Good job Relic/THC ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Yes, you heard me right. This is one of the best WWII games I have ever played including all those 
 linear FPS like COD 1 &amp; 2 and the new MOH Airborne. I'm a WWII fanactic and I will try or buy 
 most games that represent this war but I have yet to find any that come close to the immersion 
 of this great RTS game even with all the FPS out there. I will admit Red Orchestra -Ostfront is 
 still my favorite WWII online shooter but if I had to pick between this and ROOST I would choose 
 this series in a heart beat. Now enough of my raving and on to the review of COH Opposing Fronts.
 
  
  Gameplay: What can I say, totally awesome. Very similar to the original but why change something 
 when it's good? I do notice the changes and I love the fact you can turn your army into a truely 
 mobile force as they were in real life. The balance between the Britt's and Jerry's is really amazing 
 considering you have such diverse armies. The Britt's have the Churchill tank which is hard to 
 destroy well, until you upgrade to an 88'! Works every time. Also, I love the Tank killers. They 
 balance out tanks and infantry much more than in the original game. So, if your looking for changes 
 you have them. If your looking for better graphics then pass. They are almost the same but with 
 a little more detail being in Opposing Fronts.
  
  Sound: Again, great. Did not notice much of a change toher than the voice acting lines. When you 
 upgrade a voice actually says now the enemy has no chance aginst X. What this does is encourages 
 you to fight on even if your losing territory and men. The music is where the change really is. 
 I liked the first musical score from the original but it sounded to much like DOD Source than it's 
 own score. Not so here. I liked the music so much I wouldn't mind having a CD of it. It's uplifting 
 to listen to.
  
  Replay: Only one word, endless. Sure once you finish the story line missions you can only play 
 them a few more times without becoming bored but it's the skrimish and mulitplayer modes that take 
 the cake. Those alone would still make this game worth buying and really are why this game is so 
 popular with RTS players. Then you have the endless supply of mods and maps released that you can 
 download and play. Really, there is no reason why you should just play only the story and lay this 
 game down because your missing the best part of COH.
  
  Graphics: I'll make this short and sweet. They are initially the same other than some various details 
 and textures so don't expect revamped graphic engine here.
  
  Overall: There is no better strategy game out there right now with this much going for it then 
 COH and with the new content Opposing Fronts offers it's time to check out what every one has been 
 so hyped about if you haven't already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmflood1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  I love to play LAN, and this game tops my all time favorites for LAN parties. If COH vs World in 
 Conflict (which I have both) , I diffidently would pick Company of heroes! Although, both are completely 
 different games, COH is more strategy and resource gathering, then rock, paper, scissors. Screw, 
 flanders by the way! Also, the U. N. needs to get with the program and save our guys in Iraq. I love 
 the new COH! The new units are especially interesting, as I had to come up with a whole new strategy 
 that I was used from the previous COH. I say give this game a try! You will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minitt
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  i dont know whatss happening to GS .... when they rank games like wic 9.5 n 8.0 for COH....
  
  im so obsessed with COH . u should play it throughly otherwise u will not get the flavour that 
 it offers. Realism is something COH offers and it does the job like it should.
  
  expansion pack dosent need the previous COH...
  
  it is still a stand alone pack. But u can 
 install both pack to get a total of 4 factions. Which offers a great deal of flexibility.
  
  Besides its havoc engine is highly efficient. i can run with my 3 year old p4 3.6 ghz (overclocked) 
 7600GT and 1gb ddr1 @ 1024x768 at everything high.
  
  on the contratry other rts games offer much less realism and yet more demanding upon hardware.
 
  
  GS guys should rethink and make the right move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  CoH was great, but this expasion made it even better. The pack does not only add 2 new factions 
 and tons of new missions, it brought the original game to a new level. Many things have been imrpoved 
 such as AI, interface,.... Even the graphics is better. We were amazed at how nice the game looked 
 when it first came out, yet this expasion impresses me, again. The terrain is now much more detailed 
 with the addition of new objects, such as wild flowers... Now, you can see bricks clearly on building 
 walls. They obviously imrpoved the textures, maybe resolution too, for all buildings. I'm not sure 
 aobut this one, but it seems the damage system for troops taking cover in buildings has also imrpoved, 
 in a more realistic sense. All in all, if you pay enough attention, you will find the expsion added 
 a lot good contents over the original CoH. The expansion will worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfulford
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  I've been plaing WiC recently and it just doesn't have the feel of CoH. The sound is superb and 
 the graphics are still up there with the best of them.
  Multi-player is where it's at and the way the game can sway back and forth is fantastic. The campaign 
 is longer than the original and gives a new player a way to learn the new units whilst experienced 
 players can jump right in and start finding their best tactics. Awesome and I cannot believe this 
 got a lower score than WiC. Buy this game, you will not be disappointed. See you all online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobgotpwned
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is as good as the first COH Great Graphics, Addictive gameplay, Great balance (which 
 is unbelievable)
  i don't know how they managed to balance this game as well as they did its really incredible an 
 8.0 score is a slap in the face to relic (the relic team deserves way more credit for this series) 
 Just to look at that score irritates me your reviewers at gamespot were spending too much time 
 with halo 3 and WIC and left opposing fronts on the back burner WIC shouldn't even be in the rts 
 genre if you ask me but anyways,,,,
  
  I am 24 and been playing games since NES was released and I will tell you people right now not 
 one game I have ever played has even come close to this masterpiece
  
  I encourage anyone who likes rts games to pick up COH and COH OF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIP-Jerry
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  This is a real jewel of RTS genre and between tons of seamless and blunt strategy games on the 
 market today. New sides that are introduced here are so much different from each other that its 
 almost unbelievable how did devs managed to balance this game.
  
  Graphics is even better than in original game and i jet have to see RTS with better graphics. Multiplayer 
 WARNING - highly addictive!
  
  If there is anyone who didn't try this game its right time to give it a try with this new expansion.
 
  
  P. S. You guys at GS are loosing touch with reality when you grade game like this with score 8.0. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I'm terribly sick and tired of WWII in all of it's computerized iterations, but the original CoH 
 really blew me away when I played a demo. Needless to say I picked it up, and despite being bored 
 with the setting, the gameplay and balence (not to mention killer sound and visuals) captured my 
 heart. You can expect CoH: OF to accomplish the same feat, although I can't help wishing that such 
 RTS skill was turned to a more freeform and creative venture.
  
  CoH: OP introduces two new and very unique factions which in addition to new maps and units open 
 up plenty of new gameplay options that are substantive. Much like the new Warhammer expansions, 
 CoH: OF is a REAL addition to the gameplay end, not just the flash and dazzle.
  
  The major point ot make in any discussion of CoH: OF is that while it is an expansion, it adds more 
 single player bulk than the first game had to begin with! The Brits and the German Panzer Brigades 
 are also terrific factions to play as, and really challenge you to think in terms of the big picture. 
 Emplacements and artillery vs tanks and supportive units let the brits take and hold ground while 
 the germans try to blitz their way past a weak point. What makes this game less than a sequel, 
 besides the fact that the engine is the same, is that the gameplay, while enhanced by additional 
 factions and maps, has not changed. That's not really a bad thing, because the gameplay is still 
 a blast, but if you were DONE after CoH, this isn't going to offer you something you haven't seen.
 
  
  The bottom line here is that the Visuals are still stunning, the AI is still INTELLIGENT, the sound 
 rocks and the long campaign is fun to play. In a field of worthy RTS contenders (it's been a good 
 couple of years for the RTS world after a LOOOONG drought) , CoH: OF is a game that stands on it's 
 own two feet and offers a good value and a fun diversion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grihn
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  First of all, I'd like to thank Relic and THQ for finally releasing an expansion that's worth the 
 content. This expansion is bigger than the origional game, and you don't even need CoH to play 
 it
  
  Gameplay, graphics, sound and the general feel for Opposing Fronts are identical to Company of 
 Heroes. This expansion adds two new and playable factions... the British and the Panzer Elite. Both 
 of these new factions will take some time to get used to, but they are well worth the time, as 
 I found them very enjoyable to play as, and they add many new and unseen features to both Company 
 of Heroes and the RTS genere.
  
  There are some issues that I have heard about with the game, though they either don't bother me 
 or I haven't expierenced them myself. For example, if you do not log into your relic account, you 
 must have the disk in the drive to play, and it verifys the disk each time you start. Again, this 
 isn't really an issue to me, it takes virtually seconds to do and it's just not a big deal... but 
 there are some people complaining about it. Second, some people say it runs worse than the first, 
 even though the requirements are identical. The game runs at the exact settings as the first and 
 the same framerate for me, so again, that's not an issue everyone is having.
  
  I rate this game an 8.0 because it is an expansion, and short of two entirely new campaigns and 
 two new factions, it's basically the same game as Company of Heroes. This is, however, one of the 
 best expansions I've ever purchased, and aside from Dark Crusade, the only one I would give above 
 a 7.5.
  
  So, if you are a fan of Company of Heroes, or have never played the game, I highly recommend you 
 pick up Opposing Fronts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRIZZZZIT
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  After playing the original this was kind of a let down. I think the game could have been so much 
 better. However, I am still very happy overall. The game is fun to play. I was expecting sooooo 
 much more. What happened to the other countries? Where is Japan and Italy? I hope the next epansion 
 delivers more than this one. I am still left wanting more. This game is a nice follow up. I would 
 love to have a few more nations. I know it is tough to follow up perfection but OF will hold it's 
 own. If you enjoyed the original COH pick up the expansion. I think gamespot has it right with 
 the rating of 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirateotobx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  I was confused when I first started the game and the multiplayer login screen came up. I spent 
 severeal minutes trying to figure out what I was doing wrong. After some research and downloading 
 the 140 MB patch I just went ahead and logged in and got the screen I was looking for. The interface 
 has changed quite a bit. After getting acquainted with the new layout and getting in to the new 
 campaigns I was pleased. Not much different than the first game but stilll great. I loved the first 
 game so all's well. I'm not sure what a player will do who can't log in at the beginning I'm sure 
 relic is working on that . Overall I'm happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amakar_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Same great blend of action, strategy &amp; tactics from Company of Heroes &amp; even Dawn of War 
 with newer elements. Good Camera!
  Most thing I love about this game is it's Camera. Company of Heroes had the best camera (in my 
 humble opinion) in the Real-time strategy genre. An element that is largely lost in most recent 
 games which results in huge disappointments (think World in Conflict for example) .
  The two new factions are just what were missing in Company of Heroes, plus the new Axis campaign 
 also adds an element that was lost in Company of Heroes: looking from the other side's perspective. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrlie3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Having played both original and closed beta over 100 games each, I can assure that this game is 
 much better than the original, in terms of multiplayer. Even though Relic Online is far worse than 
 other leading multiplayer formats like Battle. net, but it gives enough to enjoy COH OF's unique 
 substances from British 2nd Army and German Panzer Elite over and over again.
  
  What Relic needs to do now is balancing the game constantly and add more maps to play this immense 
 WWII game. Players should also be active on its unique free-to-use editor to make innovative and 
 fun custom maps. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
