-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Company of Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/companyofheroes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Amazing, cutting-edge graphics and remarkable audio bring the battlefield to life.
 Complex, inventive gameplay gives you a ton of interesting things to do.
 Fully interactive, destructible maps add depth and variety.
 Slick online player-matching system makes it easy to get into a multiplayer match.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Long loading times.
 Only two different factions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.4, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 12,488 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Relic
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 13, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While intimidating, this visceral real-time strategy reenactment of World War II's Western Front 
 showcases just how far RTS game design and presentation quality have come. 

  Company of Heroes is a visually stunning real-time strategy game that depicts all the violent chaos 
 of World War II with uncommon intensity. Set during the invasion of Normandy toward the end of 
 the war, Company of Heroes takes its cues from  Saving Private Ryan , by portraying both the sheer 
 brutality of the war as well as the humanity of its combatants. Many other recent WWII games have 
 also drawn influence from Steven Spielberg's landmark film, but Company of Heroes is even more 
 graphic. This and the game's highly authentic-looking presentation are its distinguishing features, 
 and it boasts some frantic, well-designed strategic and tactical combat to match. Company of Heroes 
 trades a wide breadth of content for an extremely detailed look at WWII-era ground combat, and 
 its action is so fast paced that it's best suited for the reflexes of an experienced RTS player. 
 So if you're unfazed by any of that, you'll find that this latest real-time strategy game from 
 the developers of Homeworld and Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War is one of the best, most dramatic 
 and exciting examples in years.  

          The frenzied combat of World War II is translated believably into Relic's lavishly produced, 
 fast-paced real-time strategy game.     

  Provided you have a powerful-enough system and graphics card to fully appreciate the visuals in 
 Company of Heroes, you'll quickly be struck by the level of detail depicted in the game. Infantry 
 move in teams, darting from cover to cover. They may be ordered to occupy any building on the map, 
 and you'll see them shutter the doors and take aim out the windows. Vehicles are shown to scale, 
 so tanks and other armored vehicles look big and imposing, and, indeed, they are. Infantry seem 
 almost helpless against tanks, and you'll hear the men screaming as tank shells explode around 
 them, sending bodies flying, while lucky survivors dive out of the way. Yet by attacking a tank's 
 vulnerable sides and rear armor with explosives, it's possible to turn the tables on these lumbering 
 threats... turning one of the most basic confrontations in Company of Heroes into a thrilling cat-and-mouse 
 game, much more than a typical clash between a couple of RTS units. What's more, the battlefields 
 themselves have at least as much character to them as the various infantry squads and vehicles 
 as your disposal. The quaint French towns that are the set pieces of many of the game's skirmishes 
 truly look as if a war was waged there once the battle is done, since buildings will catch fire 
 and collapse, telephone lines will topple, blackened craters will appear in the wake of artillery 
 blasts, and more. These changes aren't just cosmetic, either. Those blast craters provide cover 
 for your infantry, while the ruined husks of blown-up tanks might interfere with a machine gunner's 
 line of fire.  

  The game focuses on the Allies' invasion of German-occupied Normandy in 1944, specifically on close-quarters 
 skirmishes between infantry and armor. Company of Heroes presents a number of novel twists to real-time 
 strategy conventions, but at heart this game works like other RTS games do, by putting you in charge 
 of base construction, resource gathering, and tactical command of various military forces in an 
 effort to defeat the opposition. The game includes a good-sized single-player campaign spanning 
 more than a dozen missions, in which Able Company lands on Omaha Beach on D-Day, liberates a number 
 of key towns and strategic points, disrupts German supply lines and secret weapons, and finally 
 helps crush the remnants of the Nazi war machine in France. It's an exciting campaign, tied together 
 with cutscenes and mission briefings coming from a variety of voices, which creates a few threads 
 that help tie the missions together. In addition to the campaign, you can play skirmish matches 
 with up to seven computer-controlled players on a series of different maps, and you can also jump 
 online into the proprietary Relic Online service to challenge other players in ranked and unranked 
 matches. The Relic Online service is a cut above most similar offerings, and lets you easily find 
 a ranked match against players of similar skill or host a match with your own custom settings. 

          Brief but compelling story sequences move the campaign along, which focuses on Able Company's 
 attack against German-occupied Normandy.     

  Because of its limited scope of the Second World War, Company of Heroes has only the two playable 
 factions, which it calls the Allies and the Axis -- but really they're the Americans and the Germans. 
 In the campaign, you always play as forces from Able Company and you're always fighting the Germans. 
 There isn't a separate campaign from the German perspective, though the Axis faction is fully playable 
 in skirmish matches and online, and turns out to be fairly different from the Allies despite the 
 basic similarities between the two sides' weaponry. In fact, in a strange departure from similar 
 games, Company of Heroes always forces you to play Allies versus Axis, even in multiplayer matches. 
 Matches with more than two players are always team-based, with one side as the Allies and the other 
 as the Axis, and so forth. While the game's units and battlefields are unusually detailed, it's 
 hard not to wish for additional playable factions and a greater variety of settings, especially 
 given how well Company of Heroes handles the American and German sides.  

  The gameplay in Company of Heroes is all about frontline combat, and forces you to quickly explore 
 the map. You typically start out with a headquarters and a squad of engineers, who can build structures 
 and setup defenses. Maps are divided up into territories that all have a resource point in them, 
 and the resources you'll need are manpower, munitions, and fuel. Infantry may capture neutral or 
 enemy resource points, causing them to indefinitely contribute a flow of the given resource to 
 your military efforts while also increasing the total number of units you can have in your army. 
 However, all your territories must be connected for the resource flow to continue unabated; if 
 an enemy takes a key territory, this may cut off your supply lines. All resources are used for 
 building more-advanced structures and vehicles, but you only need manpower for basic infantry, 
 who may use special abilities like hand grenades or armor-piercing machine gun rounds for a one-time 
 cost of munitions. Munitions may also be spent to upgrade individual squads with special weapons, 
 like recoilless rifles useful against enemy armor, or Browning automatic rifles that can suppress 
 opposing squads. Your infantry squads are highly resourceful, acting as single units that can be 
 effective down to the last man. They'll last much longer when attacking from behind cover, such 
 as a row of sandbags or the bell tower of an abandoned church.  

          As much as there is to do on a strategic level in Company of Heroes, just managing the 
 tactics of typical firefight can be really intense.     

  If you've played Relic's last real-time strategy game, Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War, you'll note 
 that many of these conventions were derived and extended from that game. However, Company of Heroes 
 still plays quite differently from Dawn of War because of the nature of its densely packed battlefields 
 and its even greater focus on unit tactics. You have some very interesting options to consider, 
 such as how, when faced with an antitank gun manned by a squad of three, you may attempt to destroy 
 the thing altogether with heavy weapons, or flank the gun and kill its squad, taking the artillery 
 piece for your own. Heavy machine guns and other special weapons work much the same way. One of 
 the great things about Company of Heroes is that, in spite of its somewhat glamorized portrayal 
 of World War II, the game looks and behaves realistically, in how the sorts of tactical maneuvers 
 that are central to the gameplay feel intuitive in practice. For example, you'll naturally want 
 to avoid making your infantry rush a machine gun nest head-on, especially since the withering fire 
 from a German MG42 will force your squad to drop prone, pinned down.     

  Relic's games have always featured clear step-by-step tutorials introducing you to many aspects 
 of play, and Company of Heroes is no exception. However, you'll still have a lot to learn and much, 
 much more to practice long after you've completed the tutorial and even the campaign. After all, 
 the game gives you a great deal to think about and to manage during any given battle. You have 
 to capture and hold resource points all across the map; build up your base, which doesn't take 
 long since there are only a handful of structures; consider laying defenses like barbed wire, mines, 
 machine gun nests, and roadblocks; micromanage any meaningful exchanges of fire since tactics are 
 so important; and more. Company of Heroes features a cleanly presented interface that puts access 
 to all your squads and production lines at your fingertips, but you'll still constantly feel like 
 you need to be doing something more. Your squads can fend for themselves reasonably well in many 
 cases, though the amount of micromanagement necessary to effectively manage your resources, resource 
 and base defense, production, and combat will surely stretch your abilities thin. As a result, 
 and thanks in part to the quality of the game's presentation, playing Company of Heroes can be 
 a nerve-wracking experience.  

          Scrambling to hold on to victory points in a typical skirmish or multiplayer match can 
 be much more of a rush than just trying to stomp the enemy base.     

  In fact, even very experienced RTS players will probably find that the campaign quickly gets rather 
 challenging at the default difficulty setting. Both in the campaign and in skirmishes against the 
 artificial intelligence, the opposition will relentlessly attack and attempt to recapture your 
 resource points, will harass your main base, and will deploy mixed forces to attack your main armies, 
 strategically retreating when necessary. The easy difficulty setting is a must for when you're 
 still learning the ropes, though by teaming up with hard- or expert-level CPU opponents or watching 
 replays of matches, you can start to figure out how the computer is playing so well. You may also 
 issue orders while the game is paused during campaign and skirmish missions, if the game's single, 
 rather fast speed setting feels too hectic.  

  Company of Heroes has some other interesting nuances, such as the company commander system, which 
 lets you choose one of three different upgrade paths that reinforce your faction's core strengths. 
 For example, the Allies' airborne path lets you send in paratroopers and call for support from 
 P47 thunderbolt fighters high in the sky, while the Axis' blitzkrieg doctrine lets you deploy the 
 Nazi army's fearsome storm troopers and devastating Tiger tanks. Such reinforcements come in quickly, 
 foregoing traditional real-time strategy build times and letting you turn the tables on your opponent 
 in a pinch, as long as you have enough resources. You rack up experience points as you fight, letting 
 you invest in new technologies from whichever commander path you select. While the game prompts 
 you to confirm your selection of a path, it's not like there's any time to reconsider their relative 
 strengths in a fight. Thankfully, the campaign introduces you to the different paths on the Allied 
 side, at least. Overall, the company commander system helps make up for the fact that there are 
 only two factions to play with, since each commander path seems quite useful, and their weapons 
 and upgrades will certainly come into play when you're deciding how to spend your resources. In 
 total, the six paths also underscore different, viable strategies for both the Allies and the Axis, 
 including different combinations of these paths for team battles.  

          The company commander system helps create more variety within the game's two factions, 
 and may give you the element of surprise.     

  On top of all this, the typical match in Company of Heroes isn't all about simply blowing up the 
 enemy's base, though "annihilation" victory conditions are an option for skirmish and multiplayer 
 matches. However, the default option puts you in a tug-of-war battle to capture and hold a set 
 of victory points. The more points you control, the faster you achieve victory. But victory points 
 tend to be centrally located, and unlike other resource nodes, they can't be fortified with observation 
 posts to defend them against capture. So combat will naturally be concentrated around these locations, 
 though that's not to say the opponent's base won't make a key target of opportunity, either. Essentially, 
 what Company of Heroes' resource model and victory points system does is force you to think about 
 the entire map, not just your base and the enemy's base. This makes battles more interesting but 
 more complicated, and even though a typical skirmish may last close to an hour, the time just seems 
 to fly by since there's so much to do. The victory point system also addresses a common RTS design 
 flaw by offsetting the unlimited supply of resources on each map and therefore virtually eliminating 
 the possibility of a stalemate.  

  The truly amazing visuals in Company of Heroes demand a top-of-the-line system and a cutting-edge 
 graphics card to get the most out of them. Even on a machine meeting the game's steep recommended 
 system requirements, the action can still bog down in a few spots when explosions and bodies are 
 landing everwhere, and loading times between matches can be about a minute long. Also, a bug in 
 the shipping version of the game caused systems with an SLI video card configuration to experience 
 inordinately poor frame rates, which we resolved simply by unplugging one of our cards. On more-modest 
 systems, you can strip away a lot of the detail to improve the game's performance, but seeing the 
 game in all its glory is truly a sight to behold -- especially its various types of explosions that 
 fill the screen with fire, smoke, and debris. The default camera perspective is optimal for gameplay, 
 but you can zoom right in to clearly see each individual soldier and his gear, or how a tank, turning 
 a tight corner through a city street, might take a chunk right out of the side of a building. This 
 level of visual fidelity far exceeds what's previously been done in a strategy game, and is much 
 closer to what you might find in a flashy new first-person shooter. But it's not just for show, 
 since the graphics' realism helps make the gameplay itself more engrossing and intuitive. The game 
 also includes some surprisingly gory displays on occasion; an artillery shell, for instance, can 
 tear men into pieces. However, there isn't nearly as much blood and gore as in something like  
 Saving Private Ryan , so the game's M for Mature rating seems more fitting due to infantry's liberal 
 use of profanity during combat. Unfortunately for those preferring and accustomed to a tamer version 
 of World War II, you can't simply toggle off the strong language.  

          World War II games may be a dime a dozen, but Company of Heroes has much more depth and 
 personality to it than almost all of them.     

  The audio in Company of Heroes is fantastic, and just about the only less-than-perfect thing about 
 it is how units will cut themselves off repeatedly while trying to acknowledge your orders as you 
 rapidly click around, micromanaging their movement in battle. However, the game makes excellent 
 and subtle use of speech for the most part, such as how your units will acknowledge you in a hushed 
 whisper during nighttime operations, how you can hear the panic in the voices of your tank commanders 
 when their vehicles are badly damaged, or how speech coming from offscreen units sounds like it's 
 coming in over a radio. The sound effects for gunfire, cannons, and other weapons on the battlefield 
 are loud and clear, and the hornet's buzzing of machine gun fire or the thunderous crack of a tank's 
 main gun never cease to be particularly intense. Company of Heroes also features an excellent symphonic 
 score that's filled with foreboding strings and brass, just like you'd expect from a WWII game -- or 
 a WWII movie. The way it seamlessly blends with how the action unfolds makes the latter comparison 
 more fitting.  

  Company of Heroes is technically remarkable and features some novel twists that make it unique 
 among real-time strategy games. Yet while it's easy to get into, it's not just difficult to master 
 but also rather difficult to manage, partly because the game does such a good job of evoking the 
 sheer chaos of frontline WWII battles. The relatively small number of units spread across the two 
 playable factions also means that this game doesn't have the sheer variety you might expect from 
 an RTS, though the units themselves seem much more realistic and interesting than in most such 
 games. In spite of these issues, remarkably, Company of Heroes still stands out from the glut of 
 WWII-themed games released over the years, as well as the glut of real-time strategy games.  

 
    Editor's note 09/13/06 : GameSpot learned after this review was originally posted that the sluggish 
 performance we experienced while testing Company of Heroes on our primary high-end system was due 
 to a specific bug in the shipping version of the game, relating to SLI graphics cards configurations. 
 When we resolved this rare issue, we experienced substantially improved performance. As a result, 
 we have updated portions of this review to more accurately reflect the game's overall performance 
 and quality.      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (717 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SerbWarrior
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:45 am PT
Review:  6th June 1944
  Allied invasion of Normandy, north France, Europe...
  
  Otherwise known as D-Day
  The the sun rising above the bunkers...
  5000 ships,150.000 allied 
 soldiers moving towards that small piece of land...
  They got to the shore, the doors opend, and death was let out...
  The screams lashed out, the blood 
 started to flow, the water once clear and blue, now red...
  The unending sound of machine gun fire...
  A bloody day, a crude and hollow victory...
  
  
 Company of Heroes is a game, a memorial to all those that perished fighting for the liberation of 
 France in WW II...
  
  Company of Heroes is a game that you will worship!
  Company of Heroes, an amazing game...
   
 even the damn menu is amazing...
  
  You start the game at D-Day, you will comand the allied forces who will be butchering Jerry...
 
  From D-Day to the final liberation of France, and the German retreat, you will spend countless hours 
 playing the game....
  Killing the Krauts, and achieveing victory!
  
  The battles are very well thought through and designed...
  The tactics and strategy involved 
 is briliant!
  You will command many types of units..
  Tanks, snipers, infantry, machine gunners, mortars, anti tank weapons etc.
  
  The story follows 
 the life of one Captain Conny
  Every time you start, and finish a mission you will be rewarded with a cinematic...
  An intresting 
 choice of words, rewarding?
  Why?
  Because...
  The cinematics were, no doubt, directed by a genius...
  
  What Mona Lisa is to art, what Wolfgang 
 Amadeus Mozart was to music, Company of Heroes is to Real time strategy games, a true masterpiece, withouth 
 an equal!
  If you like WWII and RTS games, then you MUST have Company of Heroes in your collection, you can 
 NOT regret buying this game!!!
  Even though i think the game might be to short, its a minor problem, solved by expansion packs!
 
  
  Graphics:10/10
  Story:9/10
  Music:10/10
  Sound:10/10
  Gameplay:9/10
  Cinematics:100/10 (yes i addded another zero on purpose!)
  Historcial accuracy 9/10
  
  Overall 
 rating:1000/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vigorusvampire
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  CoH is perfect in all the ways ... game play, graphics, units, missions ect... CoH is the greatest 
 WW2 game ... the missions are really challenging .
  
  The story starts in the Omaha beach .. CoH is based on Saving Private Ryan ... if you are a fan 
 of Saving Private Ryan then this game is a right one for you.
  
  The units are really gr8 .. each and every unit comes handy on different situation .. particularly 
 mortars and MG's are fun to use ... the off map support are good.. The upgrades to the units are 
 designed clearly ... another crazy thing in this game is using d enemies weapons ... This game 
 make the player feel ,that he is controlling a real army in a live battle.
  
  Capturing and controlling resource points are really exciting ... you can use your skills in placing 
 defenses.
  
  Finally this game is a great game in its type ... and its is highly recommendable for all RTS fans 
 ....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commando225
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I had played many RTS in my time and this game is nothing special. It is just the usual capture 
 point and kill game. The amount of resources needed to do basic task left me baffled. The game 
 is difficult to follow at first and is hard to play. Not sure why everyone raved about the graphics. 
 Just little guys getting mowed down on the field. Nothing great about that kind of graphic. Game 
 play is not that great. I found myself trying to do too much with too little time. CPU player has 
 big speed advantage over human player, which makes it even harder. The Sound is pretty good, Though 
 Very load at times, even with my sub-woofer off.
  
  Overall the game is hard to master with decent graphics and good sound. If you never played and 
 RTS then skip this one and play World of Conflict instead. Nothing more to tell you. Happy Gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 4:02 am PT
Review:  It's been a couple of years since I originally reviewed this game. However, although I gave it 
 an exceptional review and score back then, I was disappointed in how the review was written. Having 
 played the game quite a bit since, I noticed some gross inaccuracies and omissions in my review, 
 so I felt I needed to start over. I've taken pieces from the original but basically this is a new 
 review.
  
  I must say that I was a bit hesitant at first to purchase COH. Aspects of the game intrigued me 
 such as the WWII setting as well as typical overhead gameplay. However, I generally find that many 
 RTS games just overwhelm me with resource management and complexity. COH has these elements but 
 is presented in such a way that makes it accessible to less experienced gamers. I found COH to 
 be a very manageable and enjoyable game. (An updated note - I've played many more RTS games since 
 COH like Total Way and have to say it's my favorite genre now)
  
  The graphics are the best I've seen in a game of this genre. Everything stands out clearly with 
 great attention to detail. The game is self-updating , has been patched several times, and with 
 the more recent expansions has still maintained an excellent graphical quality by today's standards 
 The maps are laid out nicely in such a way that strategies can be planned out and sections taken 
 over as you progress through the map. The overall gameplay is just excellent. There are some interesting 
 and challenging battles between Allied and Axis forces with specific end games for each scenario. 
 In addition, the developers provide a skirmish option that appears to be a modification of the 
 old "capture the flag" standby. Essentially, you must capture and secure several strategic points 
 on the map until the opponent score goes to zero. In addition, there is a total annihilation option 
 for skirmishes. The skirmish mode and multiplayer (i don't play this or have comments) add a tremendous 
 amount of replay value to the game. There are plenty of a different official and community created 
 skirmish maps. The skirmish mode is truly a blast and multi-player appears to still be very active.
 
  
  Although I've reviewed the expansion Opposing Fronts separately (and it's excellent by the way) , 
 I will mention here that combined with COH they make for a nice lengthy single player experience. 
 Each campaign by itself is not tremendously lengthy, but taken as a whole they are very satisfying. 
 I find the replay value high since one can try new strategies out each time. I've played some campaigns 
 at least 3 times to date. With the excellent single and multiplayer skirmish modes, one is certainly 
 going to get more than their money's worth with COH.
  
  I highly recommend this game primarily on the gameplay, innovative presentation, and the enjoyment 
 received from all-out and well-designed battles. COH really is a game that must be played by any 
 RTS fan and I feel is accessible enough for those just now venturing into the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spears24
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 10:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Extreamly good graphics. Addictive Gameplay. Multiplayer and Singleplayer is strong while 
 the Campaighn has a story you can follow with ease while senseing acomplishment.
  
  The Bad: Need a good OS (Operation System) . People hack Multiplayer to win often. Same thing over 
 and over after playing it so much. Need Expansion to really enjoy it.
  
  I have to say that COH is most likely one of the best RTS games out there. I know some have done 
 the same thing as COH but this one does it better with amazing graphics if you have a good OS and 
 extreamly good MP gaming and fun SP. This game really compeats with RTS seris's such as Age of 
 Empires.
  
  One of the first things on why its such a good game is the maps. Anything and everything will be 
 blown up, run over, and etc. You can use artillery on a building and then use it as a door way 
 for your troops. The game also has a wide variety or maps ranging from smallish' 1vs1 maps to Gigantic 
 6vs6 maps. In all these maps you have territorys which are either pop territorys which just increase 
 you population compasity, Ammunition territorys which give you ammunition, and Fuel territorys 
 which give you the much needed fuel you will fight for mainly. All the territorys you capture give 
 you a population compasitiy and the more you capture the bigger army you can muster BUT they must 
 be connected to your starting territory and this is where the fun starts!
  
  Another thing is the gameplay. You could make a Front line with the choice of Barbed wire, Tank 
 traps, Sand bags, Mines, And bunkers. There is also a wide variety of units to choose from. You 
 can have a large scale attack with mortars, rilfe men, shermans, AT guns, and etc. There also is 
 the Company Commander (AKA the Tech Tree) . An example of the tech tree is if your the americans 
 you can choose from three class's: Infantry, AirBorne, and Armour (Tanks) . You can probably put 
 the rest together from these class's.
  
  The last thing i'll mention is the Campaighn, Skirmishs, and Multiplayer. The Campaghns are fun. 
 They have a solid story behind it so you know what your doing. The Skirnishs are Instant Action 
 and are and can be extreamly fun at times. The Multiplayer in this game is what really what carries 
 the game. You can choose from two modes: Annililate which you make an army and kill all the enemy 
 and Cammand Points (I forget the name cause I don't enjoy it much) which is where you have to capture 
 the three cammand point territorys to get points which there is a limit and once you get to the 
 limit you win!
  
  All in all this game is one of the greatest RTS games of all time and it has changed the way companies 
 make RTS games. I suggest that if you get this game or have it, GET THE EXPANSION! The expansion 
 really makes the game fun. In it you have the four factions: American, British (best at defence) , 
 Regular German (Sorry can't spell its name) , and Panzer Elite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schabby83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Great game, can play forever, multiplayer or single user. I hope they come out with more expansion 
 games for CoH. New maps, new countries: Soviets, Italians, Japanese, etc..., new arenas: North 
 Africa, Italy, Russia, Japan, etc... would be great sequels for Coh. Waiting to see what they will 
 come out with next. Everything about the game is awesome for a WWII buff. To control a unit and 
 fight major battles fought in WWII is terrific. I wish there was more games like this out there. 
 This game could go on for years with new campaigns and maybe new eras: Viet Nam, Iraq, etc... Relic 
 and THQ have sure found themselves a winner in this game. The action and graphics is so realistic 
 and the sounds are truely amazing. Body pieces flying, tanks exploding on fire, and much more makes 
 this game great and enjoyable. Hope to see more from them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raabbii
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I've always believed that the gap between the great and truly spectacular is much wider than that 
 between the good and the great. Relic's previous RTS, Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War, was by any 
 measure a great game, so it stands to reason that a new RTS based on the gameplay of Dawn of War 
 would probably be every bit as, well, great. Fortunately for strategy gamers who have been eagerly 
 awaiting Relic's latest, Company of Heroes is beyond a souped-up version of Dawn of War. It's a 
 brilliant combination of incredibly deep real-time strategy, beautiful presentation and innovative 
 features that make it one of the best gaming experiences of 2006 to date.
  
  
  In fact, the cutscenes are just one element of just how impressive Company of Heroes' graphics 
 are. In general terms, of course, they look amazing. Soldier animations as they run, duck and dive 
 on the battlefield are fluid, and a real physics engine creates some amazing scenes as bodies are 
 thrown through the air by artillery fire. Everything on the battlefield is also destroyable and 
 is animated in extraordinary detail. Buildings realistically crumble in pieces and get holes blown 
 in them as they're hit by shells. Telephone wires snap and spark as they're cut. Fire teams that 
 garrison a house actually take up positions within the building and brace their weapons on windowsills 
 to cover the street. Destroyable maps also enhance the gameplay by finally removing the dreaded 
 "puzzle map" once and for all. (All this technical wizardry comes at a price, though. The game 
 requires a pretty robust system, and even the beefy rig I played on had some slowdown during some 
 of the cutscenes and when there were a lot of explosions onscreen at once.)
  
  Despite the technical brilliance, Company of Heroes' real achievement is the art direction. The 
 developers were obviously influenced by Saving Private Ryan, as were many other World War II titles. 
 The difference here is in how well they achieve the almost impossible, conveying the horror of 
 World War II using an RTS engine. Take the first mission in the game, the Normandy landing. The 
 scene starts out with a traditionally animated scene showing boats approaching the beach. After 
 a bit the scene shifts to the game engine, and as men leap from the boat (and in some cases to 
 their deaths) , the camera pulls back to a traditional RTS overhead perspective, with bodies floating 
 in the red-stained seawater and a whole troop of soldiers waiting for your orders. It's an extraordinary 
 moment, briefly connecting the player with the truth of the hideous carnage of D-Day -- the awful 
 knowledge that despite the dead, there's still a job to be done and a beach to be stormed. Company 
 of Heroes is the first RTS I've ever played where I actually cared about individual non-hero units 
 and felt bad when they died. The sound design, voice acting and dialogue in Company of Heroes deserve 
 mention. For a game without a single identifiable character, the stellar voice cast did an amazing 
 job bringing me into the action and making me care about my soldiers. Dialogue responses run the 
 gamut from humorous to surprisingly poignant. Telling a squad of engineers to lay out a minefield, 
 for example, might bring up a voice saying, "If a mouse farts in that minefield, I want its ass 
 blown to Kingdom Come!" When that same squad received an upgrade, I heard, "Johnson! You're on 
 the flamethrower, so be careful!" Who's Johnson? I don't know, but it was a wonderfully humanizing 
 touch in a genre that usually treats individual units as nameless, faceless cannon fodder. Even 
 better, voiceovers actually provide usable tactical information. When you hear a squad of riflemen 
 yelling that they're under mortar attack or a tank yell that a squad of Germans have Panzerfausts, 
 it gives that player just that much more time to start formulating responses to the tactical situation, 
 even while they're moving the camera to the area. It doesn't sound like much, but in a fast-paced 
 RTS game like this, listening to the game's dialogue can be the difference between victory and 
 defeat. Of course, presentation means nothing without the gameplay to back it up, and Company of 
 Heroes doesn't disappoint. While the game's strategic model draws heavily from Warhammer 40,000: 
 Dawn of War, it's been significantly modified. The game has three main resources: manpower, munitions 
 and fuel. These resources are acquired by capturing strategic points on the map and connecting 
 them to the player's HQ. The resource model alone adds huge layers of genuine strategy (as opposed 
 to the mere tactical maneuvering of units) to the game. For the first time I can remember in an 
 RTS, geographic positioning and using the entire map are actually important, and a player needs 
 to keep the overall course of the battle in mind even while managing individual troops. If, for 
 example, a certain map has only a few low-level fuel sectors, that'll mean that vehicles and tanks 
 will be pretty rare, and control of those sectors can be the key to victory. It's down at the individual 
 squad level where Company of Heroes truly shines. The game offers two "races," referred to as Axis 
 and Allies, but really representing traditional American and German forces. While it's possible 
 to grouse about the game only offering two sides, there's so much strategic depth and variety to 
 dig into that it's a minor gripe at best. Each army's strategic bias is based on their historical 
 inspirations. The Axis is all about smaller numbers of insanely tough units. A key element of the 
 German upgrade path is adding "veterancy," which makes both vehicles and infantry more effective 
 (Allied players will be having nightmares about German Tiger tanks) . The Allies, on the other hand, 
 are all about being fast -- building fast, moving fast and hitting the Germans from multiple sides. 
 The key innovation at the tactical level is just how smart individual units are. Players don't 
 have to micromanage their soldiers in order to get them to do sensible things like seek out cover. 
 Squads of riflemen moving up a street will intelligently seek out the cover of fences, walls, craters 
 and even the burned-out hulks of recently destroyed military equipment. When they come under attack, 
 they'll intelligently defend themselves or dive out of the way when being shelled. As smart as 
 trooper AI is, though, the player is never out of control. Intelligent troops simply eliminate 
 the need to babysit units, and allow the player to concentrate on the larger strategic picture. 
 Rather than spending my time herding unruly cats, Company of Heroes offered me the chance to work 
 out things like flanking maneuvers and situational imperatives, and to use realistic infantry and 
 combined arms tactics to solve the kinds of problems real military commanders need to face.
  
  There were only a few minor issues with unit control. I found that my engineers occasionally 
 ended up trapped on the wrong side of barbed wire enclosures after building them. They could always 
 cut the wire, of course, and then rebuild it on the other side, but there were too many times when 
 I did this and it happened again. Vehicle AI also doesn't seem as advanced as the infantry. I never 
 had to worry about my tanks not going where they were supposed to, nor do they have a problem properly 
 spacing themselves to defend against attack. The problems come up when tanks mix with infantry. 
 Sometimes infantry will get stuck in the middle of a group of vehicles. Then when I gave an order 
 to that unit, the tanks wouldn't move out the way. In order to clear the jam, I had to micromanage 
 the whole group of vehicles. Multiplayer matchmaking is run through Relic's own proprietary service, 
 Relic Online, a new service launched alongside Company of Heroes. The game's lobby and chat system 
 is simple to use and seems quite robust, and I experienced no problems connecting to games, nor 
 was I ever dropped out once a game was under way. To date, there are only a few glitches to report. 
 One seems to be rather long start times while Relic Online synchs up players, although this may 
 be an issue with the game itself rather than the service, as single-player missions also seem to 
 take a long time to load. It also seems to take a long time for player stats to get updated.
  
  It's good that Relic Online seems to be stable, because I have the feeling it's going to have 
 to shoulder a heavy load. That's because if all you've played of Company of Heroes is the single-player 
 campaign or skirmish mode, you really haven't played Company of Heroes at all. First, multiplayer 
 allows players to play as the Axis, an option sadly lacking in the single-player campaign. Second, 
 playing against other humans just beats playing against the AI (and Company of Heroes' aggressively 
 sharp AI is no slouch) . Nothing the AI ever did can match some of the elegant maneuvering and extraordinary 
 battles I saw (and fought myself!) in multiplayer games. The marriage of smart unit AI and an elegant, 
 easy-to-use interface frees players from the tedium of micromanagement and makes multiplayer games 
 a joy to play -- or even watch.
  
  Finally, while standard one-on-one multiplayer matches are fun enough, Company of Heroes really 
 shines as a team game. That's because of the game's "army doctrines" mechanic. Each side in the 
 game has an option at the beginning of a game to select from one of three military doctrines. These 
 doctrines provide players with an upgrade path that gives various abilities and powers. The Germans, 
 for example, can use a Terror Doctrine that allows them to demoralize enemy troops, launch incendiary 
 barrages and eventually deploy a veteran Tiger tanks or a V1. The Allies, on the other hand, can 
 use things like "Airborne Company" that let them airdrop paratroopers, extra supplies and even 
 launch strafing runs on enemy targets. None of this is new to RTS games. Many real-time strategy 
 titles have utilized the idea of a "national power" or "national spell." The difference here is 
 not how well they're balanced within the game, but how well they're balanced with each other. Company 
 of Heroes is more dependent than most on the coordination of various units and utilizing combined 
 arms tactics. The two sides' doctrines complement each other perfectly in this regard. That makes 
 them perfect for team-based games.
  
  . I remember screaming (well, typing) about how badly we needed a paratrooper drop, only to realize 
 we were going to lose because no one had taken Airborne. Players who know how to utilize doctrines 
 as a team are going to win, bottom line. It does call into question Relic's decision to not have 
 different colors for allies, though (a player's teammates are always shown as yellow) . In a game 
 this obviously designed for team play, if I get a call for help from a teammate, I'd like to be 
 able to instantly identify his units. In the end, there isn't one uber-feature that deserves all 
 the credit for making Company of Heroes such an outstanding game. Any element by itself -- the 
 deep strategy, the extraordinary art design, the sound, the unit AI or the multiplayer aspects 
 -- might have made Company of Heroes a decent game. Two or three and you have the makings of a 
 great one. It's only when you get all of these things together wrapped up in a package with amazing 
 flair and polish and a fanatic attention to even the smallest details that you get a truly outstanding 
 title. I wish we had more of them, but until all games are made like Company of Heroes, at least 
 we have this one to show us how it's done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cemertul
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Before playing this game I was expecting a boring RTS because  dont love WW2 strategies. But 
 this game is surprisingly good. Its better than good. First of all the graphics are amazing and you 
 can destroy the buildings in maps or you can enter them and product units. You can choose two races: Allied 
 and Axis. This is not a bad side because you can choose 3 different companies when you have enough 
 command points. This companies give you bonuses. For example when you become Allied you can choose 
 the infantry company, airborne company and the armor company. Infantry company gives you defensive 
 bonus the airborne company gives you air unit bonus and the armor company gives you upgrades for 
 your tanks. Allied and axis are very different from each other. Its a good thing.
  If you love rts this can be the best game you have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurd
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics, well balanced and immersive campaign mode if a little short. There are many strategies 
 you can use to defeat the enemy and no 'easiest way' to do things like many RTS games. Using cover 
 and buildings bring a new element to the RTS genre (although probably not original) Deciding where 
 to put that gunner, sniper, MG nest or AT gun and what direction is pretty cool especially when 
 it pays off and you annihilate a whole tank squad and infantry.
  There are two really disappointing aspects to the game though that are quite annoying.
  
  Firstly 
 although the combat AI of troops is excellent the computer players simply don't know how to get 
 through tank traps and barbed wire. I played this a while ago so I'm not sure if patches have changed 
 this but the computer rushes like hell and sometimes the only defence is to erect defences quickly. 
 Generally if you completely surround your base with tank traps they all sit around and don't move 
 making them easy targets for mortars, AT and artillery.
  
  
  Secondly the artillery is far too powerful and many games I've played it's the person who builds 
 artillery first usually gains the upper hand. On some campaign missions you can win the map and 
 destroy all enemy by using artillery and a spotter, wiping out tanks and housed infantry in one 
 or two shots alone which is a bit daft and very boring (I purposely don't use artillery because 
 of this) .
  
  Apart from these it's a very enjoyable game and a must buy for the RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I know that this review is more than 2 years late, but hey I live in a country where everything 
 that is marketed in the US only comes by 1 year later. Okay, yes, I am more than a year late in 
 reviewing this.
  
  Initially, I scoffed at Company of Heroes, as yet another game exploiting World War II; its mere 
 title was a blatant turn-off. However, the fact that this game was made by Relic, a proven developer, 
 made me hung on to the game's development.
  
  Upon the first 15 minutes of playing this game, I was already mesmerized.
  
  WWII has never 
 looked so good in an RTS before. Relic made good use of the graphical technologies of that time, 
 and judging from the sequels and expansions to Company of Heroes, they still stand the test of 
 time. This is, again, a badge of excellence for Relic for having provided this game and its fans 
 with top-notch support, with the most noteworthy milestone being the patches that upgraded the 
 game to take advantage of DirectX 10 and the new generations of shaders.
  
  (Of course, technical support has trailed off as gamers eventually weaned themselves off this game, 
 but then Relic has already achieved its objectives.)
  
  WWII war machines have never looked this impressive and tough. Where other games made a mockery 
 of Panzer IVs and Tigers by letting the player single-handedly destroy them with a few captured 
 Panzerfausts, the tanks, and their lighter cousins, seem substantially harder to tackle without 
 combined arms tactics, which were exactly what were used during the battles of WWII.
  
  Speaking of combined arms, the gamer would be hard pressed not to use a balance of infantry, armor 
 and support vehicles and still win. Considering that this game is one of several that properly 
 implemented varying armor locations and damage types to vehicles, as well as (surprisingly) good 
 cover mechanics for infantry, no gamer can possibly prosper with the stereotypical tank rushes 
 that plagued other RTS games. Moreover, with the refreshingly useful and unique equipment features 
 for infantry that allows them to improve themselves with upgrades from home base or even scavenging, 
 armor no longer rules the battlefield.
  
  However, considering that infantry are pretty much the only ones that can capture strategic locations 
 and that most infantry have abilities that can defeat other infantry and armor, or can be outfitted 
 to do so, and the availability of cover (and the difficulty in ferreting out entrenched infantry) , 
 the trend would turn from tank rushes to infantry swarms. That was evident in my approach to the 
 single-player campaigns, and my few forays into multiplayer (at least among the people that I played 
 with) .
  
  Granted, if it were not for the unique supporting abilities that some vehicles have, such as the 
 Shermans' Crab and Dozer upgrades and the Reinforcement capabilities of Half-tracks, there would 
 be no need for armor. Of course, Relic seemed to realize this and added in some noteworthy and 
 formidable armor, namely the Tigers (and their Ace-driven variant) and the Pershings.
  
  Comparisons with Dawn of War are inevitable, since this game did draw much from the neonatal ideas 
 that were used in the former. The squad-based infantry units were obvious transfers (though WWII 
 already featured squad-based infantry operations) , with a few tweaks to balance out certain quirks 
 (namely the reinforcing mechanics) . The strategic point features were also tweaked, in which there 
 are now three types of points to consider and plan priorities over.
  
  (Despite this very innovative design decision, it seemed odd that the armies of WWII would stash 
 their supplies out in the often open locations that these points are situated on.)
  
  It is pleasant to know that Relic realizes that the formulae it used for this game is a clear winner, 
 and it has implemented it in its future works.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief150
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is one of the best RTS games I have played in a long time. Being able to destroy 
 any building, using almost anything as cover its almost like playing a FPS. 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  The gameplay for Company of Heroes is awesome. As I said earlyer you can use anything 
 from trees to hay as cover and the units know how to react during battle so you dont have to baby 
 sit them all the time. You can play two diffrent factions. The Allies and Axis. Both are completly 
 diffrent and almost perfectly balanced. Both of these factions have three diffrent tech trees you 
 can use depending on what kind of style you play. The units in the game are also fun to use such 
 as using a Flak Cannon and blowing units sky high in the air is pretty fun. Overall this game has 
 some superb gameplay.
  
  Graphics
  
  The Graphics in Company of Heroes is also fairly awesome. The units are highly detailed and seeing 
 explosions look very life like. This game also show the carnege of war by being able to permantly 
 scar the battlefield making it feel like a true WWII experince. Overall very good graphics and 
 great use of battle scaring.
  
  Mulitiplayer/Skirmish
  
  I havent been able to play Multiplayer that much but I can tell you that the AI in the game is 
 top notch. The AI will keep you on your toes and will use some unique strategies against you.
 
  
  Conclusion
  
  This game is top notch and worth buying. The AI, Battle Scaring, Cover System, and the immense 
 strategy in game are all great aspects of the game. If your new to the RTS genre or an Old School 
 Vet check it out you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crush_Project
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:17 pm PT
Review:  So i realize EVERYBODY seems to love this game. You cant even say anything about this title without 
 someone getting in your face (online i mean) . I fully expect to receive hate mail for this review 
 alone.
  
  Well, i played this game for a few month previously and got too upset with it and quit. I came 
 back recently and thought id give it another whirl since everyone keeps arguing with me that this 
 game is the greatest title to ever grace the earth, but now im more burned out then ever.
  
  The game has alot of cool stuff in it before i say anything. The sound is awesome, some of 
 the units are pretty cool, and it has alot of firepower at your finger tips. Its 'almost' a good 
 game for me.
  
  But 'almost' doesnt cut it when you have completely retarded ai. And i mean downright stupid. Ive 
 never seen such bad pathing in any game ive ever played. Your tanks are just unmovable when it 
 counts, or just turn to expose thier backsides at the WORST possible moments. Even babysitting 
 every last unit around the entire game in a click frenzy will not solve this problem. The units 
 just simply dont respond when they have below a certain amount of health and their are enemies 
 close by, they will literally just sit until they die in many cases (no im not exaggerating, were 
 talking just sitting waiting for death despite constant commands to move in any direction) . 
  
  Then theres the actual balance in the game. OMFG is this an oddity. The counter system is just 
 weird. Early game counter to vehicles choices are machine guns or mines. And those units are hard 
 to use effectively . There are a few other options, but they are not clear cut or easy to tech 
 to. It just makes for an ultra rough to broken tech tree. There are always other options then the 
 above, but like i said they are just not straight foward.
  
  Then theres the units themselves. You may have the perfect counter to take out that unit thats 
 been giving you trouble. Lets say the unit is by itself and you have 3-4 units that are supposed 
 to be its hard counter. Well i throw my units at you and somehow the inferior unit not only beats 
 my counter units, but i have to run away. The misses i get in this game are just unreal until ive 
 got way more troops then i should need, and all of a sudden at that point they dont miss, but ive 
 got way more troops then i should need for a singular unit to kill, and then i just get taken out 
 with 1 barrage of artillery. I try and arty back and they dont even kill a single unit, even with 
 the enemy sitting in negative cover and im in heavy cover.
  
  This happens game after game. I watch pro replays (a ton of them) and use the same strats. I have 
 the same units they do against the same units they are fighting, and i lose. And lose bad. I have 
 over 100 apm in virtually any rts, AND the supposed counters and i lose. AND im playing in noob 
 games. 
  
  You ever want to hear someone scream at a video game, just make me play this game. Ive yet to have 
 a game where im not red in the face screaming at the utter failure that wracks my experience every 
 time ive ever played it. 
  
  I HATE coh, and im a hardcore rts fan. I may only have a few people that relate to this one with 
 me, but no one that ive personally ever met in rl can stand this game either, so i dont know where 
 all the hype is coming from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This is an mind-blowing game from Relic Entertainment. Company of Heroes is set during World War 
 II where the player commands two U. S. military units during the Battle of Normandy and the Allied 
 capture of France. Depending on the mission, the player controls either the Able Company or Fox 
 Company, the latter being from the 101st Airborne, and the former being part of the 29th Infantry 
 Division.
  
  This game has many new aspects in RTS game. There are three resource for particular reasons: Manpower, 
 Munition and Fuels. Manpower is necessary to produce all units. Munitions allows players to upgrade 
 individual squads or vehicles and use special abilities. Fuel allows players to purchase tanks 
 and other vehicles, as well as global upgrades.
  
  Units can occupy a building and convert it into a field barracks, allowing certain units or squads 
 to be created by that building.
  
  Medic stations can also be built on the field that house medics, who can recover fallen soldiers 
 from the battlefield and return them to the medic station. When enough soldiers are recovered by 
 medics (4 for Germans and 6 for Americans) , the medic station will provide a free squad at no expense 
 of manpower.
  
  Infantry units can also occupy buildings and use them as cover or a garrison to protect against 
 attack, but this limits their firing range because the infantry are a stationary, immobile target, 
 rendering them vulnerable to sniper fire and easy to surround. Also, while garrisoned, infantry 
 units can only shoot out of windows or holes blown into a building. Certain weapons are immensely 
 effective against units holed up in a building; satchel charges or infantry-carried rocket launchers 
 can demolish a building, tank fire can blast the building, and infantry or tanks armed with flamethrowers 
 can literally set the building on fire and burn out the occupants. However, there are advantages; 
 infantry are well protected from small arms and most buildings are sturdy enough to stand up to 
 limited tank fire before collapsing.
  
  Occupied buildings can be destroyed after taking fire from enemy units or any other attack, like 
 artillery fire or demolition charges. Civilian buildings cannot be repaired or rebuilt. However, 
 both the Allied and German forces can construct garrisonable buildings (the Allies can build a 
 .30 caliber machine gun nest, while the Germans can construct bunkers) .
  
  The Americans can build a barracks and weapons support center to deploy infantry (foot soldiers) , 
 a motor pool and tank depot for tanks, vehicles and anti-tank guns. The triage center can heal 
 nearby units that have been wounded from enemy fire. A supply yard is also required to be built 
 before building a motor pool or tank depot which enables upgrades to reduce costs of infantry and 
 tanks.
  
  The Germans can build a variety of structures. The Wehrmacht quarters, Krieg barracks and Sturm 
 armory lets players create infantry. Krieg Barracks and Sturm Armory can build light vehicles and 
 other infantry, while the Sturm Armory and the Panzer Command deploys German tanks at the player's 
 disposal.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirpolitis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 5:36 am PT
Review:  I can't remember any other game to put me in the mood of war. All the units you need are there 
 to help you accomplish your goals in the desired difficulty. Both single player and on-line game 
 are so well designed that you enjoy the game alone or with your friends. Cooperative game is ideal 
 if you know your teammates and their playing style in order to specialize the jobs needed to be 
 made in the battlefield. Company of heroes is what the title says... a company of trained soldiers 
 who are also friends and who fight for the same goals. The amazing in the game is that you have 
 to organize everything and take all the aspects into account. Like war you can't start moving to 
 enemy's base and take it over... you have to make and get safe the road to there. Company of heroes 
 is a game you enjoy playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akron66
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Ok. i gave this game a 10 and i am not exagerating. when i first bought the game i was prety pissed 
 off at the fact that i due to driver errors i was unable to play as the Germans. this pissed me 
 off because im tyred of games that make the americans look like heroes and i wanted a chance to 
 finaly be able to blast some "yankees" instead of "Jerrys" for a change. eventualy i got the thing 
 fixed and i was impressed. 
  
  the graphics are the best i have seen on an RTS to date and the fact that they integrated ragdoll 
 physics into an RTS was a breath of fresh air.
  
  the effects are astounding the explosions not mearly a giant plume of fire but actual dirt and 
 rubble flies out from even the smallest grenade. 
  
  something that alot of people complain about is the difficulty and yes it is damn tough. i lost 
 my first 3 matches agains a normal ai and i still lose sometimes to expert. but if people just 
 played and experimented before making stupid comments then they would see that its not that hard 
 to blow up a tiger ace. the factions are pleasantly different. its not loke other games where the 
 factions have the same untit benefits and streangths but a differnt shape and paint job. just geting 
 buildings is different between the two factions.
  
  waht i found realy crapy was how the germans all have weird "bad guy" accents and the americans 
 have this young heroic type of look and accent"
  
  the multiplayer is just as good.
  
  now the campaing is a bit short and uninteresting. the storyline isnt interesting at all. and there 
 is no real feeling to it.
  
  when i first played as the germans i thought the game was totaly bias towards the americans everything 
 was o expensive and the americans had the advantagein everything. but after some playing i changed 
 my tactics and now i completely own with them. i never play as the americans and i now think that 
 the americans cant match the germans in any way.
  
  over all it is a great ass game and i recomend it to every one. there is nothing wrong with it 
 so please people instead of complaining play it a little more and you will see how all those complains 
 soon become irelavant
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I am really glad that I got this game. It is probably the best RTS that I have played. The graphics 
 are outstanding on my relatively low end system, so the game scales well. The gameplay and combat 
 are excellent, and there are still a lot of multiplayer games. I initially thought the game was 
 too hard based on the demo, but once you have played for awhile, it seem just right, challenging 
 but not impossible. It is a totally different type of gameplay than most strategy games, and boils 
 down to capturing reinforecment points and holding them. The game really captures the intensity 
 and horror of being at war. In fact, I found that I did not want to play the single player campaign 
 more that one level at a time as the game was so intense that I needed a change of pace after playing 
 for a while.
  I played World in Conflict before playing this game, but I would have to say that Company of Heroes, 
 although it came out earlier, is a better game than World in Conflict.
  The only criticism I could make about this game is that the campaign became somewhat repetitive 
 toward the end. After all, the game is basically either capturing or defending reinforcement points, 
 so there is not too much variety that can be put into the game. 
  If you want an intense and "realistic" strategy game, I definitely would recommend this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  A real-time strategy (RTS) game set in World War II, Company of Heroes brings to life -- in full 
 cinematic detail -- the greatest war mankind has ever known. Gamers will experience the journey 
 of the brave men of Able Company in a deep single-player campaign that begins with the invasion 
 of Normandy through their fight across Europe. Company of Heroes' completely destructable environment 
 means no two battles ever play out in the same way. Advanced squad AI brings soldiers to life as 
 they interact with the environment and execute advanced squad tactics to eliminate the opposition 
 forces.
  
  Any fans of fast-paced RTS titles will want to get out and grab a copy of Company of Heroes when 
 it hits stores later this week. It's one of the best exercises in real-time strategy that's come 
 around in some time. It take existing conventions and make them digestible to veterans while pushing 
 the genre forward into new territory by insisting that players get out of their foxholes and rush 
 the enemy lines using quickness and cunning rather than simple overwhelming force. There are so 
 many tricks up the sleeves of various units and Command Trees that it will undoubtedly make for 
 some good watching to see the action between a excellent teams of players. 
  
  While there are a couple of mistakes such as the pathfinding issues with vehicles, there's very 
 little to criticize. Gameplay is fun, addictive, fast, exciting, and will likely stay fresh for 
 a long time. Both visuals and sound have been given great attention to brilliant effect. The transformation 
 from a idyllic little town into a heap of crushed buildings and burned out husks of vehicles can 
 be shocking. Seeing and hearing major explosions that cause bodies (and bits of bodies) to fly 
 across the screen along with rubble from a nearby building simply puts you more into the battle 
 than any RTS in memory. 
  
  Even those folks that aren't major fans of the World War II setting should at least give the demo 
 a look before deciding to discount the game. Company of Heroes is definitely a game you don't want 
 to let slip by.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andyrew007
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  I got this game 2 weeks ago and have spent most of my time at home playing it, its a fantastic 
 game
  
  There is something for everyone on it. For example, I like to get loads of snipers and place them 
 in building all over the map, however if your someone who like using vehicles then there is a wide 
 range of vehicles that you can get, from jeeps and motorcycles to tanks, or if you like your infantry, 
 you can get rifleman squads, paratroopers, heavy machine gun teams, mortar teams and many others. 
 
  
  I strongly recomend this game, however you should play it on a decent computer otherwise it can 
 be extremely slow. I would have given this game a 10 if it wasn't for the long loading times.
 
  
  Overall though, I think we can overlook the loading times because this is a fantastic game for 
 everyone, even if you dont like WW2 games, I'd recomend you play this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RodinaRossija38
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I always hate the World War Two games that focus on the Americans, and there is alot of those. 
 I am offended that the Russians, for example, are not even mentioned nor are any other nations 
 too, except the obvious, Germany. But the game itself is amazing. All I have to say. A-m-a-z-i-n-g. 
 If you have any doubts whatsoever, I strongly encourage you to try this game out before making 
 your final decision!
  
  
  
  
   !  
 !  ! 
  !  
 !  ! 
  !  
 !  ! 
  !  
 !  ! 
  !  
 !  ! 
  !  
 !  ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aznrifleman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is without a doubt, one of the best RTS games out there. Lets start with 3 things 
 : Graphics, Audio, and Gameplay.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  This has to be one of the most visually stunning RTSs out there, the detail on tanks and infantry 
 are remarkable and the terrain looks like if you really did wage war.
  The explosions in-game are very satisfying too.
  
  
  Audio
  
  The sound design is marvelous, 
 ranging from your infantry's screams when fired upon by a tank, to the terrifying sound of the 
 V1 rocket. Voice acting is also very well done.
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  
  The way you manage resources are very similar to Dawn Of War, by capturing points, and this allows 
 for more intense matches as you struggle to regain captured resource locations. The use of doctrines 
 are also very unique.
  
  
  
  Overall, this is a must have for any RTS fan or WWII junkie, its an awesome experience and if you'll 
 excuse me I'm off to destroy Shermans with my Tiger tank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samualblack07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I would still buy it it keeps you playing for hours but still need some more realistic things in 
 there as you wouldent get 20 tanks into 1 battle without any infantry and why do you need a population 
 limit if its supposed to be realistic there isnt 10 people in the world and thats it. The infantry 
 isnt that bad but it could still be improved still the tanks and stuff like that could be better. 
 In the end good game very long and very addicting. All you realley do is attack then come back 
 and defend then you try to attack but then you get attacked very fustraiting. Ive never played 
 the multiplayer but it sounds better then then single player version. The campaign is quite easy 
 all you have to do is send some infantry up a map it isnt rocket-science. The tutorial is easy 
 to learn from but is as boring as the whole game it should be better to make you want to play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helbrec
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  Company of Heros presents itself as a WW2 RTS, simple enough to comprehend on the surface but that 
 doesent being to comprehend what Company of Heros brings to the table.
  
  What Company of Heros differs from other RTS's is no gather materials-build troops fiasco. Instead 
 you capture strategic points for materials and ammunition which you can do basic things like create 
 troops or more complex things like rush an enemy base to place demolition charges on a enemy building. 
 It'd defenatly worth the buy for any RTS fan and even WW2 genre fans as its very diffrent than 
 your typical RTS.
  
  The campaign itself takes place in a fairly nonlinear storyline as the missions are pretty open 
 ended. While they are do this, do that the option on how to do them is yours to choose and requires 
 strategic emplacements of troops and vechiles.
  
  If your looking for your "RTS-fix", look no further as Company of heros is here to stay!
  
 
  Score:
  Presentation: 9/10 
  Typical game case and manual and the menu is simple to operate aswell as letting you choose which 
 campaign to start off.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Graphics are first rate for a RTS, setting a bar for future endevours.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  
 The voice acting of nazi troops was pretty good and explotions and gun fire sounded extremely realistic.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10 
  The gameplay in a nutshell is INSANE. From ganking a panzer to driving over trees and fence, it 
 will blow your mind!
  
  Lasting Appeal: 8.5
  After the campaign itself is over which is a good 20 hours atleast including expansion, you still 
 have the multiplayer.. which isnt the greatest.
  
  Overall: 93/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_King
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  The Intro
  
  So, I recently got back into PC gaming having finally bought a new computer. I actually bought 
 CoH when it first game came out, having been a huge Dawn of War fan. That said, I couldn't get 
 the thing to run on my old PC and so they game lay on my shelf for a year and a half, collecting 
 dust. Along comes my new XPS and the first game I play is Company, naturally. Little did I know 
 just how good this game is.
  
  The Good
  
  Where to start. Let's talk about game balance. The game is all about balance. It's hard to rush 
 and it's even harder to turtle. Every unit can be countered and every build can be countered. Both 
 armies are equally good and every command tree is playably good. Win or lose, you will rarely feel 
 that you are breaking the game, nor will you feel that you've been unfairly screwed. Your win or 
 your loss comes down to your strategy and your choices, not due to your opponent maxing out on 
 one unit or following a specific build order. 
  
  Let me add further detail to that. Not only do your choices of what points to go for and what mix 
 of units to build affect your chances of winning, but so does what you do during an actual firefight. 
 Company of Heroes has perhaps the best micro-management that I've ever seen in an RTS. Many units 
 have abilities, such as tossing grenades, providing suppressing fire, or "buttoning" enemy vehicles. 
 These abilities are easy to employ, but it is never necessary, or even recommended, to spam them. 
 This means that while micro-management and your in battle instincts will obviously greatly help, 
 you CAN survive without going wild with these abilities. This turns micro-management into a neat, 
 fun, helpful part of the game (part being the key term here) rather than a crucial, frenzied click-fest 
 that shapes the entire engagement. Well done, Relic. Micro-management has been made fun, fluid, 
 and simple as opposed to a brain crushing affair of clicking as fast as possible and keeping track 
 of three dozen abilities.
  
  That said, Relic really rides the balance well here. While you won't be micro-managing like a maniac, 
 this often isn't about throwing units at each other and winning by having superior firepower. You 
 will have to be mindful of moving infantry into cover where possible, into buildings even. The 
 same goes for tank combat. Gone are the days of throwing tanks at each other, with the winner being 
 whoever has more. Rather, tank battles become a tactical chess game of maneuvering, as players 
 vie to get behind each other or bait each other in order to get that rear armour shot. Vehicle 
 combat that is usually a mindless smash-up becomes a tactical match with a bit more realism that 
 loses no sense of fun.
  
  The control point system inherited by Dawn of War works just as perfectly here as it did there. 
 It keeps the game moving, keeps combat coming, and stops the game from being dominated by rushes 
 and turtling. It keeps the game fast, fluid, and tactical and for the most part, steers it away 
 from the horrid land of 10 minute ravagings and memorized build orders. Basically, with standard 
 base building and unit production, the game feels like ye olde RTS. However, the point-capturing 
 gameplay prevents it from falling into any of the tired trappings associated with those games that 
 often render them stagnant and non-fun. 
  
  The graphics and the voice acting deserve special mention here. Both are superb. Despite being 
 two years old, the game still looks, not just good, but great by RTS standards. Such longevity 
 from a technical standpoint is impressive for any game, let alone a PC game. 
  
  Another general point. Everything in the game, perhaps due to the graphics, perhaps due to the 
 fluidly tactical and yet fun nature of the game, everything in the game feels inately satisfying. 
 The explosions are glorious, as are the kills in general.
  
  I think that part of this satisfaction comes from the rpg elements inherent in the experience system. 
 Getting the kill on an enemy infantryman feels all the more satisfying when you see that little 
 "+3" show up over the dying soldier. You can imagine how great it feels shelling an enemy unit 
 and seeing a veritable forest of numbers pop up. 
  
  Speaking of the command points system, it works out great. It makes your army for that game unique 
 while also forcing on the fly tactical decisions as to what you'll need soonest, while also giving 
 you something to look forward to later.
  
  As far as multiplayer goes, the game is great fun as any great rts is bound to be. The online works 
 reasonably well for a game that is so graphics intensive.
  
  With regards to the single player campaign, overall it deserves special mention for its diversity. 
 The missions all feel distinctly different without any sense of repetition or tedium. This is only 
 aided by a difficulty level that is almost perfect (with one minor exception that I'll get to in 
 a bit) . The campaign does at times feel brutally challenging, and yet it never feels unfair or 
 impossible. If you lose, you want to keep at it or give it another go. If you win, the satisfaction 
 is intense. Spending two hours on one campaign mission never feels like a drag in the slightest 
 and the payoff feels immense.
  
  Ultimately, this is a great RTS where every unit truly has its uses as well as its counters, where 
 nothing is unbeatable. Best of all, this is an RTS that is fast paced as far as RTS games go, but 
 one where it is also possible to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat. A game that looks hopeless 
 after 30 minutes can turn into a rousing victory at the one hour mark if you keep at it. It's details 
 like this that keep a gamer playing.
  
  The Bad
  
  Only a few minor quibbles, most of which have to deal with the design choices in the single player 
 campaign than anything to do with the game's design itself, which is essentially flawless for an 
 RTS of this age.
  
  First off, be aware that while fairly lengthy and challenging, the campaign is purely from the 
 American standpoint. You can only play as the Americans and the story is solely from their perspective. 
 A bit disappointing if you enjoy using the Nazis.
  
  Also, as far as the campaign goes, the storytelling falls pretty flat. It is utterly disjointed 
 and can't seem to decide whether it wants to develop a few characters or simply hit you with cutscenes 
 that basically point out that "war is violent, bad, and not  
 There are some cutscenes that show hints of character development and others that merely provide 
 cinematic setpieces to display another tableaux of the horrors of war, ultimately giving rise to 
 a story that lacks any unity. By the game's end, Relic seems to expect you to be attached to a 
 couple of the characters... despite never having adequately developed them due to so frequently 
 flitting away from them for another cutscene of war violence. Simply put, Relic should either have 
 decided to have no main characters and no story and simply played videos of war violence, or they 
 should have made all the cutscenes involve the characters they liked. They tried to have it both 
 ways, and it fails.
  
  Back to the gameplay. I have a particular issue with the "Mortain Counterattack" mission from a 
 design standpoint. As a mission, it stands out like a big red stain in an otherwise perfectly balanced 
 campaign. It makes the big mistake of relying on how you did in the previous mission... something 
 that has not happened thus far. Due to this being unprecedented, the player will not be as focused 
 as he should be on preserving his units at mission's end and thus end up being screwed for the 
 counterattack mission. Furthermore, despite how late this is in the game, it's also the first and 
 only time that Relic introduces the Victory Point scenario. If this was to be brought into the 
 campaign, it should've been introduced in an easier, earlier mission before this point. As such, 
 this mission can be unnecessarily brutal, all the more due to its being unexpectedly different 
 from the rest of the campaign.
  
  Finally, a minor technical quibble, but installing this game, if you buy it now, is quite a task. 
 Before playing the game, you'll have to patch it up. This takes a ridiculously long time, hours 
 even. For some reason, it isn't good enough merely to download and install the latest patch. Rather, 
 you have to singly download and install every single patch that's ever come out since the game's 
 release two years ago. That's just a bit silly.
  
  
  The Conclusion
  
  If you have a decent PC and have even the slightest interest in RTS games, BUY THIS NOW! The only 
 flaws are poor storytelling and one bad mission sequence in the single player. The rest of it is 
 RTS perfection, a flawless blend of rock-paper-scissors unit production and on-field tactical micro-managing 
 with each side balancing the other out so that neither side dominates or decides the game. Pick 
 this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes:
  Graphics: they are great for a real time strategy you would never expect so much detail in and 
 rts, but guess what there is a huge amount of detail, even when you zoom in there is dynamic lighting 
 on every bit of your soldiers costume!
  
  Game play: is a normal rts control system, but there is something different about it. I know its 
 the 100% FULLY destructible environments, you can your surroundings as an advantage? you can blow 
 up building so they crush your enemies allowing you to advance and blow up more memorable and loved 
 buildings. This is full world war 2,
  expect air strikes, lots and lots of tanks and a army of infantry.
  
  Multi player: once you 
 download the hour long patches and actually start playing other people you will find yourself playing 
 the same games from the campaign, but this is still a lot more fun than playing alone in campaign 
 mode. But Expect extremely buggy and laggy game play from others slow end computers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stappy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  I've heard alot of good and bad stuff about Company of Heroes, but when i finally decided to try 
 it, it amazed me.
  
  The graphics match those of World in Conflict. The detail on the models are just top notch, and 
 you'll need a rather mid-high end computer to run it properly. The gameplay is a mix of resource 
 based, and supply-and-demand.
  
  The AI isn't the best, but it works like it's supposed to. Most of the weaponry is correct for 
 the period, but there are a few things that didn't come before later. Buildings are pretty limited 
 too.
  
  Your troops may enter buildings, put up sandbags, mindfields, barbed wire, and observation posts 
 to help strengthen their defenses. If you do it right, you may earn a badge.
  
  The game includes skirmish, multiplayer, and campaign modes. If you're a fan of WWII RTS games, 
 i suggest you try the demo of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxhound1982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes, what can i say, Ive always been a console gamer but a few years ago bought my 
 first pc, a pathetic little thing, 512mb ram, puny cpu etc, got it just for net browsing, but for 
 a laugh i downloaded a COH Demo, i was so impressed with it (even on lowest spec) i decided to 
 raid my savings and buy my current next gen PC, i just had to play this on max settings, even though 
 RTS is not really my thing.
  Since seeing the film ive always wanted a "Saving Private Ryan" the game, and whilst Medal Of Honor 
 and Call Of Duty have often come close NOTHING has ever re-created the struggle of WWII so realistically. 
 Thats where this game breaks the mould, its a strategy game, but its genuinely more intense and 
 exciting than any First person shooter ive ever played,
  A major positive id like to highlight is the accessibility of the game, after developing a taste 
 for RTS i recently decided to try Supreme Commander, ive gone through the tutorial movie a few 
 times and im still not sure how to play the game, but with company of heroes one you finish the 
 fairly short and enjoyable training you will be ready for the main campaign, 
  The game can also be as basic or as complex as YOU see fit, on my first play through the Campaign 
 i used basically the same tactic every mission, gather as much resources as i can as soon as possible 
 to get a tank depot up and running, Tanks=victory,
  The second time i was more familiar with the game and decided to try a more tactical approach, 
 Overwhelm the enemy with armour, or outwit them strategically, its up to you, and with brilliant 
 AI its never easy.
  The graphics are utterly superb, zoom in on one of your units and the level of detail is staggering, 
 and the physics are some of the best ive ever seen, satchel charge an occupied house and the explosion 
 will send enemy hurtling through the windows onto the streets below, a well aimed shell from your 
 Pershing tank on a group of enemy infantry is particularly amusing!
  The sound is equally impressive, i use basic onboard audio with headphones and it still sounds 
 amazing, from the endlessly amusing chit-chat your troops engage in to a full blown rocket barrage 
 from your callaiope tank, this game sounds incredible, my personal favourite is the sound of the 
 Shermans main gun after you upgrade it, 
  To sum up this game is the reason i spent nearly 1000 on my first gaming pc, and im glad i did, 
 a masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  when i first saw company of heroes come out it seemed like a great idea, a world war 2 real time 
 stratergy, unfortunately my computer couldn't run default graphics so i had to tone them down a 
 bit, but it still looked great, the destructable enviroments, the great maps and the amazing units 
 made the game what it is. the story of CoH is that able company is going into the main parts of 
 world war 2, you go to parts like the D day battle and the air drop, the missions should take at 
 least half an hour each mission. the multiplayer and skirmishes are great, the fact is that even 
 in skirmishes you can get drawn in as up to 8 players (4 on each team) battle it out in a large 
 map, the AI is amazing and can be pretty tough, even on lower difficulties.
  
  all in all company of heroes is an impressive game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarCowAlways
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  - Pros -
  
  *Realistic sounds, with voices over the radio when you move far away from them.
  
  *Troops 
 will take cover and find the correct path to a destination on their own.
  
  *Everything is very well balanced, and in the offline campaign the enemy will attack you as you 
 build just as you would attack them.
  
  *Upgradeable everything adds a whole new layer of tactics.
  
  *Different squads (Paratroopers, 
 Riflemen, Heavy Weapons teams, Engineers, Mortar teams, Rangers [when specially unlocked] , and 
 snipers) have any number of weaknesses and strengths against enemies, and with the Veteran system, 
 those who fight best and most become much better, longer lasting fighters. This gives an incentive 
 to get them fighting, and to protect those best squads.
  
  *Every command is issued to a squad, not a single member.
  
  *Wide range of buildings, many 
 of which must be unlocked prior by building a different building, can give you different types 
 of troops, vehicles, health regeneration, defenses such as sandbag walls, tank traps, mines... 
 the list goes on. Also, many of the buildings can give troops or tanks upgrades.
  
  *Levels where armies have come in through paratroopers can realistically not build bases. This 
 means they must rely on special commands to bring in reinforcements or other special help.
  
  *Nothing that you will do in the game is especially unrealistic, although the reinforcement 
 cap (limiting how big your army can be) is your main enemy in the game.
  
  *Graphics and physics are exceptional for an RTS, with explosions triggering mud, water and enemy 
 infantry to fly up into the air.
  
  *Highly addictive gameplay realistically lets you approach the objective any way you want, with 
 total freedom aside from a few scripted events to begin with.
  
  *Solid story, all of it based on real-life D-Day/later events, and with incredibly realistic and 
 in-context levels.
  
  *Commander Points, which are attained through killing enemies, allow you to use (MANY) different 
 specialized attacks per situation.
  
  *Everything you see is pretty much usable or destroyable! See a heavy weapon someone dropped? You 
 can go pick it up! See a building in a nice spot? Make it into a base! See a mortar laying around? 
 Send someone in to man it! It's all very realistic when you can use a building with a proportional 
 amount of health as a base, and grab enemy weapons when they die, along with resources left around. 
 Did I mention pretty much everything can be blown up?
  
  *Realistic scarring effects areas that have seen battle. Some areas will become black craters after 
 air strikes.
  
  *All factions are playable (online) , and the AI has incredible intelligence, so anything is possible.
 
  
  *The game isn't hard, but could be if you allowed it. A good strategy is to lay back and bulk up, 
 especially with tanks such as Shermans, and then obliterate most enemies, with the occasional anti-tank 
 guns which you must kill with infantry such as Mortar teams.
  
  *Lengthy singleplayer will keep you entertained, while skirmish allows extra fun to be had offline, 
 and online offers a wide variety of actual, PvP fun, and from what I've heard in a new update new 
 scenarios can be created by the player, for a whole new attack and a whole new level.
  
  - Cons -
  
  *During fights, a noise plays in the background of shooting and yelling, even when 
 there aren't any enemies left (for a few seconds) and when nobody's firing.
  
  *Machine gun towers can pin down an entire army of infantry on their own. They're supposed to use 
 grenades and satchel charges to kill them, but they can't stand up while pinned.
  
  *The enemy will attack from all sides forever unless you can kill their base.
  
  *Enemy Mortar 
 attacks are very annoying, but give you motivation to storm in and kill it.
  
  ---
  Overall, this is an incredible game which deserves to be played. After spending 7 hours playing 
 it last night, I can firmly say this. Now, Jerry's waiting... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbow4
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are really nice and they do the job. But the game physics is something that really works 
 - it's enjoyable to see men flying around after a huge explosion. And the weaponry feels good, 
 it's very satisfactory to blow up a building with a tank.
  
  Voice acting is superb. And the amount of lines the units use is just amazing. One annoying thing 
 though is that in some missions there are objectives and some officer keeps on shouting how the 
 things should be done even if there is a lot better tactics around.
  
  Gameplay for the most parts is excellent. But sometimes it feels like my PC just isn't strong enough 
 because some of the clicks I make have no effect and this happens almost always when there's plenty 
 of action on the screen and it would be vital to get the commands in.
  
  This is an excellent game although one mission almost made me think otherwise (defend Fromond, 
 also the most buggy one since the game crashed on me two times) because there enemies appear from 
 nowhere - strangely enough the key enemy units travel realistically but their support units are 
 summoned. But the rest of the 14 missions are good and definitely enjoyable. The structures in 
 them vary and that keeps it interesting.
  
  Pathfinding of the tanks lacks all intelligence. Doesn't matter if I commence them to go straight 
 forward they go spinning around a while just to realize they were heading to that direction from 
 the get-go. Quite often those tanks tend to use the rear-first tactic which is not the smartest 
 of tactics when you have a tank that has an extra strong front armor. All the more reasons to use 
 infantry that truly excels.
  
  And again I've been complaining about this and that throughout my review just to say that overall 
 this is and excellent game and every fan of the RTS genre should give this a try. For me the demo 
 did the trick and I bought the game immediately and enjoyed it quite a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodcow666
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Fresh off the heels of milking yet another Dawn of War expansion, Relic try its hand in the crowded 
 world of WWII RTS, and strikes gold.
  
  Company of Heroes follows the exploits of Able Company through the invasion of Normandy and the 
 liberation of France. The story is told through both in-game cut scenes that translate flawlessly 
 into game play, and painted stills (much like World in Conflict) . While it's true to the source 
 the story lacks a lot emotional heft and the few 'main' characters are shallow and undeveloped. 
 But in the end it's the game play that matters.
  
  And the game play is where CoH excels. While you're still ordering units around and mowing down 
 anything in your way, it's the small refinements that make it one of the best RTS's in recent years. 
 First and foremost is the recourse management. Instead of the tradition economy based systems found 
 in games like Warcraft 3, CoH instead chooses to brutally beat it before throwing it out the nearest 
 window for its slow and tired ways. No more spending the first 5 minutes of a game building up 
 an economy, recourses are collected by capturing and holding strategic points littered around the 
 map. This focuses the game on front line combat as players will battle it out for strategic points 
 to increase their flow of recourses.
  
  Also aiding this is the fully destructible environments. Not is the destruction visually impressive; 
 as building and walls collapsed realistically sending chunks of dust and rock flying through the 
 air; they can drastically affect the overall strategy of the game. An MG nest defending a choke 
 point? No problem, use satchels charges to bust through a nearby fence and flank 'em. This keeps 
 game play moving and helps prevent against the uber cheapness that is camping at the strategic 
 points.
  
  These changes make for an exceptional online mode, as there are so many strategies that players 
 can use, that no game is the same. Your opponent is defending a control point with an MG holed 
 up in a nearby building? No problem, send in a sniper to pick them off one by one. Or maybe build 
 some mortars and flatten the building. All are valid, but what if your enemy has a tank? You get 
 where I'm going here. The only problem with the online mode is tanks. Only a few units outside 
 of other tanks can effectively counter them, so generally the player who builds the first tank 
 wins, though this is pretty minor as skilled players can find a way to win even without armour.
 
  
  I also found the presentation to be phenomenal. As long as you have a good enough video card, you 
 really be able to appreciate the amount of detail in the environments. Much of this comes from 
 the fully destructible environments. Houses catch fire and collapse, artillery shells will leave 
 craters in the ground that infantry can use for cover. By the end of a mission it really seems 
 like a wars raged there, collapsed phone line, burning husks of vehicles and piles of rubble really 
 add together for a stunning presentation.
  
  Much like the graphics, audio quality is also top notch. Soldiers scream as artillery shells rain 
 around them, you really get that "Holy crap an artillery shell just exploded in my living room 
 feeling!" Even the audio is without special touches. Like whispering orders at night time, or the 
 sound of planes as you call in a bombing raid, the soldiers even talk amongst themselves at times. 
 I still found the gunshots to be underwhelming and when the soldiers talked amongst themselves 
 they all had the same voices, but hey, you can't have everything right?
  
  The only complaints I have (you can see how desperately I searched for one) is that they're only 
 2 factions in the game, the Axis and the Allies (basically the Germans and the American) . But this 
 is handled well as though they are fundamentally similar, they play so much differently that it 
 makes up for it, though it's hard not to wish for more. My other complaint is that online you can 
 only do Axis vs. Allies. While historically accurate, it would be cool to see to Axis players face 
 off against each other. You can't have everything (except if you're Bill Gates) .
  
  Great multiplayer, a solid single player campaign and an innovative design makes Company of Heroes 
 one of the best RTS games in years, if not one of the best EVER. Do yourself a favour, run down 
 to your nearest video game retailer and pick yourself up a copy immediately.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dRn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I kinda stumbled upon this game accidentally but I haven't really been able let it go ever since.
 
  I downloaded the demo quite some time after the games release out of pure boredom, and didn't 
 really expect much because of the slightly cheesy name.
  But as soon as I started the game I was sold. After playing through the demo to death I quickly 
 picked up the game and started my journey into the "history" of WWI.
  
  This game just have it all. Stunning graphics with great detail and yet fluid game play. Everything 
 from the balance between units  tanks and infantry  the resource management and the terrain deformation 
 just sucks you into high paced action and make you feel like you're really in the game.
  I mostly played the single player campaigns and a few skirmishes, and enjoyed it tremendously, 
 but from what little I have experienced of the multiplayer, I really feel like there endless hours 
 of entertainment for for you, your friends of for the random opponent you challenge.
  
  If you haven't already tried this wonderful game I recommend you do as soon as possibly  this 
 really is a must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elitewhitewolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Its an amazing game, and these days, so cheap. (i got mine for 6 euros= 4 pounds) The graphics 
 are pretty good when put to high, the missions have a great story and great objectives, if you 
 play online, the fun gets extreme when you can play 1vs1, 2 vs2 or 3vs3 or, if you want to just 
 experiment, you can play against the pc. In Company of heroes you are one of the following teams:
 
  
  allies or Axis, if you get the expansion though, you can be british and Elite panzer aswell, but 
 lets get back to the campaign, 3 chapters, 1st: Invasion of Normandy (Play as americans) 2nd: Operation 
 market garden (Play as germans) 3rd: invasion of Caen (Play as British)
  
  At the beginning and end of each mission, theres an entertaining cut scene, it will show what happened, 
 and why, and who moved where, who dies, etc.... And at the beggining of each mission it will show 
 a tactical map wich shows you where to go, strategic points, etc... and you can return to it at 
 any time of the game.
  
  Basically one of the best RTS of our time, and thats a big sentance coming from me, because im 
 hard to impress XD
  
  Still plenty of players, always will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mostal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes really is an excellent game.
  
  I haven't had issues with bugs, although the graphics were a bit much for my semi-old computer. 
 But with a graphics card update it worked just fine.
  
  The strategy vs. RT immersion is astounding. It is the superior to games of its likeness [Age of 
 Mythology, Age of Empires I, II, III] . The ability to use objects in the field as shelter and adding 
 actual defense stats to your units is really great. Where previous games were BMoC [Big mass-o-crap] 
 fighting styles [where you just threw appropriate units into a giant make-shift fight] this one 
 affords multiple buildings that can be used for cover and even turned into bases.
  
  The multi-player has been surprisingly lag free and well balanced. The maps chosen allow so many 
 players and are therefore built to be big enough or small enough to accommodate the number of players 
 in the game. Also there is the upper-ground effect given by the ability to raise decent [but not 
 all powerful] defenses; so that it is more difficult to attack than to defend an area. It makes 
 one actually have to consider the likely defenses of an area you want to raid or take and makes 
 recon finally appreciated.
  
  It's very immersing and well made. My only difficulty was with high graphics, and in that case, 
 the fault dear Brutus lies with us; the under-equipped gamers that we are underlings. =p
  I recommend two things; get a decent graphics card and get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wael3000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Very nice game
  amazing graphics and specially the physics and effects in the game
  and it let you feel the battle and power of explosions this game is easy to play and enjoyable 
 game i think no game in the market until now reached its level
  specially when the battle starts. the missions are nice like for example missions to destroy the 
 AA guns to make an ambush to the enemies. About the computer requirements it needs a good graphic 
 card for example or at least 8800gt graphic card. could be played with 1 GB but its better to have 
 2gb based on experience with this game especially when you update or install the latest patch.
 
  
  Very nice game
  amazing graphics and specially the physics and effects in the game
  and it let you feel the battle and power of explosions this game is easy to play and enjoyable 
 game i think no game in the market until now reached its level
  specially when the battle starts. the missions are nice like for example missions to destroy the 
 AA guns to make an ambush to the enemies. About the computer requirements it needs a good graphic 
 card for example or at least 8800gt graphic card. could be played with 1 GB but its better to have 
 2gb based on experience with this game especially when you update or install the latest patch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I tried to like this game. I tried long and hard, and for a while I actually did. I was having 
 fun learning about cover, suppression "kill zones", and figuring out how to flank mg teams. But 
 there is a constant stream of little bugs that make playing impossible for me. While my Greyhound 
 is busy screaming about the mosquito bite rifle fire that does absolutely no damage, my engineers 
 are silently getting the hell blown out of them on the other side of them map. How the crap am 
 I supposed to know that they've engauged the enemy if they don't sound off? 
  
  Its just the little things like that that make this game not worth my time. Other bugs include 
 infantry CONSTANTLY diving OUT of cover, units will just randomly stop attacking enemies and stand 
 there unless you give them a move+attack order, but then you can specify targets. The messed up 
 suppression cone that mg guns have, they will clearly be firing on a squad way to their left.... and 
 my squad on the right gets suppressed while my left squad is getting hurt but they are unsuppressed. 
 They may not seem like a big deal but these are round breakers, they cost me wins all the time.
 
  
  And the final straw is the reliance on vehicles.... most fans of the game will feed you the story 
 about the infantry being the most influencial units in the game but check EVERY SINGLE REPLAY from 
 replays. com and you'll see that the decisive moves always involve vehicles, then anti vehicle measures, 
 then offensive vehicles. Its just not fun.
  
  Its called a real time strategy game, but it should be called a real time procedure rehersal game, 
 seeing as you will be doing the exact same thing every single round and pawn it off as strategy.
 
  
  Sigh.... when the game actually works its fun to play, but it just doesn't work :\ too many little 
 things add up and brake the game, thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afwsl2003
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Many of us don't exactly know what WWII was. We don't even feel how it would have been like. But 
 You know what you would feel the raw and bloody nature of the battles of the WWII while you are 
 playing this. 
  THQ has earned my respect from the day i started playing dawn of war, and they have really blown 
 me away with this one. They know how to make RTS games and they are the kings of developing RTS 
 games. 
  
  The missions get really hard and interesting when you play through. but once you master the game 
 controls you can beat the hell out of the enemy. 
  
  If you haven't played it and if you are an RTS fan you have to play it. trust me it's worth all 
 the money.
  
  Only problem you might face is the system configuration. you should have a decent graphics card 
 (at least a fx5500) and a dual core machine and minimum 1GB of RAM.
  
  Happy playing.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I knew what I was buying when I got this game for the PC. I was getting something that would be 
 very graphic intensive but a bit weak on the gameplay end. 
  
  So, i wasn't surprised by the Wow factor when looked at the cut scenes and got to play with my 
 tanks. Over and over I was disappointed by the maps, the sad little towns, and the inaccurate usage 
 of US forces vs Vermacht. I understand that they purposely limited the scope of the battles for 
 "graphic reasons" but the dumbed down version of this game kept me from buying the expansion. I 
 knew that I could just play as one type and spam the Uber-tanks repeatedly.
  
  Yes, I tend to be unforgiving when strategy isn't needed in a potentially good game. The was no 
 hull down, tank strategy or real good usage of infantry in this game as evidenced by the very limited 
 Campaign. 
  
  If you want pretty eye candy and nice sound effects, you can buy this game at the discounted rack 
 towards the back of the store. The music was charming but not that heart-pounding. 
  
  Its too bad you can't rent PC games, because I would recommend this one as a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalker700
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of RTS... really...
  The only RTS I've ever finished in my life was Warcraft 3 and that's because of the amazing story 
 it had.
  And so, one day, my friend pushed me to try CoH... and I was simply blown away.
  This is gotta be the most amazing RTS I've tried (and I TRIED a LOT!) . And the main problem I had 
 with RTS' is the difficulty, always it was easy for me at the beginning, but then it started to 
 get WAAAY too hard for me..
  This one is complicated, however, once you get the hang of it, it turns out as a very catchy and 
 not so difficult (at least for me) game (almost all of it) .
  The story is not so complicated: you follow the story of Able Squad from the USA army at the second 
 WW as they fight through the Axis army and liberate Europe from them.
  Now on to the review:
  
  Graphics - 10
  Without any doubt\mistake. This is the best looking 
 RTS I've ever seen in my LIFE!
  The textures look simply amazing everywhere: the soldiers look amazing, the environment is gorgeous, 
 the explosions, the weapons everything looks simply astonishing.
  The cutscenes are a feast for you eyes, it really looks and feels like you're watching "Saving 
 Private Ryan" from a different view.
  This game is probably enough to put some shooters to a shame graphically.
  And I'm sorry, did 
 I even mentioned the physics? Or the dismemberments?
  The physics are powered up by the Havoc engine, which are famous for their work especially with 
 games like Half Life 2 and Painkiller.
  And so the physics in this game are top-notch, everything flies and explodes like it should, and 
 the bodies are flying everywhere. So basically it really adds to the war-ish atmosphere of the 
 game.
  The game is also gory, and that's of course a plus for me since I like gory games, and the way 
 the body parts are flying here is very realistic and once again, it really adds to the atmosphere 
 and shows that war is quite simply-Hell.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Audio - 10
  Yet another strong attribute of the game.
  The music is simply amazing. The orchestric symphony of the battle really pumps the combat and 
 keep the action rolling.
  The sound effects are astonishing. The explosions, the screams of dying soldiers, the bombing, 
 the gunshots, all sound very realistic and amazing, they add a lot to the game and with a surround 
 sound system, this game is simply a mind-blower!
  The voice acting is top-notch. The dialogue is extremely well build both in game and in the cutscenes. 
 And the interesting thing is that you squad will talk differently when they are under attack or 
 not. The will shout anxiously when in combat as if you're a real commander. And talk calmly or 
 quite depending on the situation.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay- 9.5
  This game is slightly different from some RTS games.
  You take control of a small base of operation, where you can deploy and engineer and start building 
 structures with him, and from them you can build your army of vehicles and soldiers just like in 
 any other RTS'. You're given a number of objectives which you need to complete, and you finish 
 them in whatever way you see fit. Sounds just like any other RTS, right?.... Well, not quite.
  Since the whole game is taking place on a war zone. You don't really have time to build workers 
 and go collect gold and trees or whatsoever. So basically your only resources are Man Power, Fuel, 
 and Munitions. These are collected not by kidnapping soldiers in order to increase man power... But 
 rather take over certain sections of the map where you'll get a numbered amount of each resource, 
 and of course you'll need to protect this section from enemies and don't let them take over other 
 sections. This can be sometimes difficult, depending on the map's size, but it's a unique and interesting 
 way to collect resources and it's manageable.
  The enemies in the game are very smart. They will take cover, flank, assault or retreat depending 
 on the situation, and they won't make your life easier with their armor division, bombing airplanes, 
 and dozens of annoying Nazi soldiers.
  Another interesting part in the game is the leveling system, as strangely as it sounds, for every 
 objection you accomplish, any enemy you kill, or even when your soldiers get killed, you will get 
 an amount of experience. When enough exp. is collected you will get a point (or even two when collected 
 enough) of a sort. Those can be used in order to obtain some "special powers" in a way. There are 
 a lot of possibility what the powers are, in some levels you'll get access to airplanes attack 
 and support, reinforcements, supplies, or armor support and new troops deployment, depending on 
 the mission.
  Now, the main attraction for the game is the combat. As mentioned above, the graphics and the sound 
 really improve the gameplay a lot since with a high graphics settings and a good surround system, 
 you can really feel like a commander on a battlefield. With bombs landing near you, and explosions 
 everywhere, everything seems to go to hell!
  And that's exactly what's so special about this game: the atmosphere. It's really rare to see a 
 RTS that really sucks you into it's world. And this time, it's the world's biggest WAR!
  All of the biggest events of WWII are in the game: D-Day, Carentan, Cherbourg... which even enriches 
 the atmosphere as you're battle in those famous events.
  There are certain types of missions: Stealth missions-in which you need to use a special squad 
 you're given in order to sabotage the Axis' plans. Assault missions - just as it sounds, you're 
 given a target, you need to take it out with any means necessary, any questions? Defense missions 
 - you're given a base which you need to defend from incoming enemy attacks, and trust me, it's 
 not easy at all.
  I really could go on on and about the amazing experience in the game but this could take hours 
 for me.
  Now to wrap the gameplay up: the skirmish and multiplayer are of course in the game, but I really 
 don't like multiplayer and skirmishes in RTS' and as much as this game rocked.... The same applies 
 here.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Value - 9
  Probably the worse thing about the game: IT'S-TOO-DAMN-SHORT!!!
  I mean, it took me about 13~14 hours to finish the game, and I really was left with a strong taste 
 of "MOAR!!" in the mouth..
  And since I don't really play skirmishes and multiplayer in RTS', that was pretty much IT for me...
 
  However, the game was so fun that I started it again to collect all of the additional medals^_^. 
 So basically.... not really much more to complain here.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Closing comments:
  I always though RTS' is a genre that couldn't get anywhere and couldn't deliver something new and 
 unique. Always the same orcs, elves, trolls. Or the same aliens, robots and cyborgs.
  But this game showed me just how wrong I was. It really brought something unique and fresh to the 
 world of RTS'. And really was the first door for me to the world of RTS'.....
  The game has amazing graphics, amazing sound and ground breaking combat and atmosphere.. and that's 
 more than enough to make this a fabulous, and amazing (.... and short) ride, all the way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BunnHippo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Plot- The game's campaign is mainly based on the American Invasion of France from the American 
 Perspective thus leaving a 'US-only' Campaign. Missions range from breaking through Omaha Beach's 
 defenses to taking a Heavily fortified Hil. The story is decent and the voice work is great. THe 
 Cutscenes (which are in-game) are well implemented during gameplay aswell. The length of the game 
 is somewhat long if you are an Average gamer because of the Enemy's AI.
  
  Ai- COH's AI is top notch despite a few minor bugs. The enemy will exploit the slightest vulnerable 
 position. They wil flank, throw grenades, run-over you with tanks, and use Tactical Aids (abilities 
 such as an Artillery atack) . It feels as if you're playing with a human player. Your infantry can 
 also react without you ordering them to do anything. One great example is when soldiers take cover 
 whilst being bombarded with bullet's . Your infantry with head for the closest debris/hay/sandbag/etc. 
 I even find playing against Normal occasionally a challenge. Generally, I think the game is well 
 balanced and none of the units are overpowered. Tactics is a necessity, you can get loads of your 
 units killed by facing a Tiger/Patton tank head-on. 
  
  Sound:-Everything sounds so authentic. The music is decent but the game sadly does not offer enough 
 memorable music. Bullets make whizzes whilst in the air. Vehicle explosions feel heavy and devestating. 
 The Nebel Wefer's rockets makes a 'Whiiiiiiiiii.......' sound. My favorite sound is the impact 
 of a heavy Artillery strike onto the ground, it truly feels epic.
  
  Graphics- Truly a eye candy espeicially for Directx 10 users. I'm running the game on my Average-lap 
 top and yet, the game manages to work smoothly and the graphics are great for an Average-lap top. 
 On my desktop, it's just superb, sure it looks cartoony but it still looks remarkable.
  
  Overall- I truly recommend it for RTS fans. Non-RTS fans will have a hard time challenging the 
 Enemy AI. It provides a lengthy campaign, 10 and more skirmish maps which are balanced and will 
 test your skills. Multiplayer is enjoyable IF you find a low-ping server and if a 'Team player' 
 is on your team. There are tons of dedicated modders and mappers which makes the game more exciting. 
 I also recommend the expansion: Company of Heroes Opposing Fronts to COH Fans. It adds tons of 
 new units and 2 whole new campaigns based on the British offensive of Caen and the Panzer Elite 
 during Market Garden. The game however, is not technically perfect. Many bugs range from on-going 
 explosions on a building for no reason and can last for minutes to 'stretched' ragdolls. Anoher 
 complaint is the absurd amount of patches, some ranging to over 100 MB. In the end: Company of 
 Heroes is one of those 'Rare Superb RTS' games that introduces many revolutionary features and 
 just grows on you. Best RTS in a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Wolf88
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  This game is a very excellent RTS. Everything about it is pretty much top notch and just superb. 
 Single player is very challenging and the campaign is engrossing. Multiplayer is pretty decent 
 although slight balance issues can get annoying. 
  
  Unlike most RTS's though there is very little focus on strategy. Rather you are using tactics on 
 the battlefield to fight the war. Making good use of flanks and using cover of both you and your 
 enemy, cover can have its disadvantages, as well as good placement of support units and exceptional 
 use of artillery, tanks, etc. will lead you to victory. 
  
  Company of Heroes' cover system in this game is very well implemented. You can hold your own by 
 placing your units in a crater made by a artillery shell not even but a few seconds ago or have 
 them garrison a house long abandoned. Cover also greatly reduces your troops chance of being suppresed 
 or pinned down. Of course all cover is destructable and also has a few downsides of its own. While 
 in cover units are somewhat more susceptible to grenades and napalm.
  
  The single-player campaign is a decent length and will provide quite a challenge especially on 
 higher difficulties. You will play as the Americans, namely Able Company, as you liberate Normandy 
 and fight the Wehrmacht. This other faction becomes playable in the skirmish and multi-player features 
 of the game.
  
  Skirmish mode can be just as engaging as the single-player campaign and just as difficult. However 
 the AI does tend to repeat it's tactics and strategies allowing for you to counter it fairly well 
 and then make a push for victory. This however was addressed in a recent patch, though intended 
 for the expansion Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts, and improves upon the AI.
  
  Multi-player provides even more as you can play with others of equal skill or better. Despite the 
 fact for the most part that the community is decent and the games are somewhat fair there are some 
 flaws. Skilled players will make new profiles, which is allowable, and will start fresh with a 
 level one rank. This is misleading and they use this to just bash lower skilled players. Relic 
 online is also somewhat unsure with connections. It is very easy to lag and get dropped even with 
 a decent connection.
  
  Another issue with the online feature is that even if you don't have the expansion others who do 
 can play as the new factions that were introduced, Britian and the Panzer Elite, against those 
 who only have the Vanilla Company of Heroes. These two factions are somewhat unbalanced when matched 
 up with the vanilla factions and often overpowering. This however does not mean they are unbeatable.
 
  
  Company of Heroes also boasts having the most detailed and exceptional graphics of any RTS. Textures 
 are superb and lighting is done well. The men fighting for you have detailed faces as does every 
 other units. The physics engine is also outstanding. Buildings are destructable and fights will 
 literally shape and mold the battlefield. Explosions kick up dirt and make craters while units 
 are blown away. The sound nicely compliments the game with a inspiring soundtrack.
  
  Despite the games flaws it is easily one of best RTS's to come around of late and I would highly 
 reccomend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2005wrxsti
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  So I decided to pick up CoH after all of the reviews being stellar. Yes, it has great graphics, 
 yes it's a strategy game where you can blow everything up. But I don't understand the awesome reviews 
 that it's getting. The story is half baked and over used, paratroops lost behind enemy lines... yes 
 yes yes we've heard it all before, we understand.
  
  I'm sorry I just don't get the fetish with this game. It's not the best strategy game around, in 
 fact I'd call it average at best. Are we that desperate for a good looking strategy game? C&C was 
 more immersive, and at least it was a somewhat new plot that kept you pushing forward from mission 
 to mission. Who knows, maybe I need to go back and play it a little more, but I just wasn't impressed 
 by it at all. It's kinda like NASCAR, it's exciting for the first three seconds, then it's completely 
 boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  In company of heroes, theres a multiplayer, campaign, and skirmish. The campaign is fun and addictive, 
 and Ive gone through on all difficulties, still not getting enough. The campaign is about partroopers 
 parachuting over Normandy-basically the Allied assault of Normandy. You play as the Americans thru 
 the whole thing. The skirmish is the best thing for training. What is so cool is that your rifleman 
 as the Americans can be upgraded with grenades or the M1918 BAR. You have 3 division sorta things 
 to pick from, the Airborne, Infantry (artillery) , and Armor. The Germans however I never truly 
 play, but the pioneers (engineers) are like cockoaches and cannot be killed easily by infantry. 
 Thats the only bad thing about the game.
  But it is flawless and cannot be beat. It is very addictive! You'll find yourself playing for a 
 long time... I recommend this to any Strategy/war game fan. Its a bit tough at first, although 
 after awhile you get used to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordjab
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Great game that has it all. Great graphics (need at least a 8600 to play) , great sound, great multiplayer, 
 and great single player. It deserves all the talk and good reviews it has had. Probably the best 
 army RTS i've played.... much better than command and conquor 3, but I guess it depends what you 
 like. Company of heroes requires much more mico-managing to be successful. (you get limited troups 
 and any loses are typically devastating) Moving in and out of buildings and dodging attacks is 
 pretty fun though.
  
  I thought the single player story was just fantastic, and a bit better than the multiplayer. Multiplayer 
 is a bit repetitive imho. I tried to get a friend off of age of mythology and we played for a few 
 months, but in the end coh just didn't do it for him. That's the primary reason I gave the game 
 a 8.5. I think the multiplayer aspect of RTS games varies alot for each person depending on the 
 amount of variety and micro-managing.
  
  The game is a very common addition to video cards, and it's definetely worth getting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFalcon25
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  The shells pounded off in the distance. My Sherman Tank detachment took a heavy hit from German 
 artillery. Suddenly, their ground troops flanked me with Panzershrecks and MG42 light machine guns. 
 My force lay there, decimated.
  
  Ah, but I had one more ace up my sleeve. Selecting my 105mm howitzers, I targeted the location 
 of the ambush. Massive booms followed suit. Scrolling to the location, I watched as explosions 
 ripped through the German infantry, creating craters in the ground and leaving his half tracks 
 smoking and disabled.
  
  This is the beauty of Company of Heroes. Made by THQ and Relic, this real time strategy defies 
 all that was previously possible, pushing graphics and physics to the limits while simultaneously 
 adding addictive game play to the entire equation. But, what amazes me most about this game is 
 the level of detail and realism. Your soldiers are intelligent, taking cover and hunkering down 
 if your men come under attack.
  
  The story mode puts you in place of the Americans invading Germany and spans all the way from Normandy 
 to the final days of the German retreat. Several characters dot the cut scenes and add some color 
 to the story, such as your wiry Lieutenant or your wise and steady Captain that guide you to victory 
 through the strategy map.
  
  The objective of Company of Heroes can be two fold: Annihilating your enemy's forces and buildings, 
 or holding Capture Points (kinda like King of the Hill) . Various resource points lay scattered 
 around the map, providing resources such as Fuel, Munitions, and Manpower. These are necessary 
 for building tanks and upgrades, throwing grenades and buying weapons, and training every unit 
 and calling in support powers, respectively. The more territory you control, the more resources 
 you receive per minute.
  
  Two distinct factions make up the game, one being the German Wehrmacht and the other being the 
 American forces. Each side has a distinctive playing style with three "General" abilities that 
 grant access to special abilities. For example, the Allied Tank General allows the player to double 
 the speed of their tank factories permanently while the German Blitzkrieg General allows the player 
 to activate "Blitzkrieg," which speeds up your tanks, makes them fire faster, crush obstacles in 
 their path, and also speeds up infantry.
  
  This is all true, provided you have enough experience points. These can be gained by eliminating 
 other units and building buildings. Yet, the tactical depth does not stop here, as your main production 
 unit may place sandbags, barb wire, tank traps, mines, and bunkers to further con fuddle and choke 
 your enemy.
  
  Now, this game certainly can be intense. I'm sure it would be even more intense if the load times 
 were cut down. Then again, it is understandable considering the level of detail. Perhaps that's 
 another problem. Any individual with a regular computer will either not be able to play this game 
 or have difficulty running it. This can be a huge turn-off. Even though there are only two factions, 
 the General Powers adds diversity. The maps are filled with detail and the sheer amount of things 
 that can happen in one game are close to endless.
  
  If you love real time strategy, have a decent computer, and/or are a big history buff, pick this 
 game up! Trust me. The detail, the intensity, the sheer scale of the battles... it's beautiful.
 
  
  -Matt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bear0429
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  What an awesome game. When I first got it, I went straight to skirmish and got my *** handed to 
 me by an easy player, so play the tutorial first. The sound is awesome, like I was really there. 
 The artillery ROCKS and tanks feel realistic, no more basic infantry blowing up my massive tank 
 armada, yet there far from invincible. The control point idea is genius, and the fact that resource 
 come in at a steady rate makes the economy a breeze. However, I'm a bit disapointed that the two 
 races are basically mirrors of each other except a few attributes here and there and some different 
 units. Either way, this game is destined to be a classic, and shows that theres still hope for 
 the COMPLETELY streched out WW2 Setting and definetly I fully recommend it to every RTS fan and 
 those who wish to give strategy a try. Also look out for Company of Heroes Opposing Fronts, which 
 fixes most of COH's minor problems which are few and far between. A definete buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdeeth
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  This is my favorite video game period. That being said, I think anyone who likes rts games and 
 hasn't already tried this out should get to the store ASAP. The graphics alone are breathtaking 
 while the gameplay is very fun. The game takes on the general aspect from C&C Generals and adds 
 it to a very detailed WW2 enviroment. The realism is a bit off, but it works for the game. Would 
 not be fair for Americans if Tigers were just one shoting everything, (which they generally do 
 in two anyway) . The audio is spectacular and the sound of far off artillery really gives you an 
 eiry feeling that you are in a battle zone. Vehicles and infantry are very detailed, in that infantry 
 can't just take on a tank without first aquiring a bazooka or sticky mines and tanks move very 
 realistically. Sending an infantry squad into a building is an awesome sight. Opening the door 
 and running in, they will open shutters and break windows to fire out of. Fighting against such 
 positions are even more fun as the enviroment is fully destructable. using a tank or artillery 
 to blast at the house will leave custom holes in structures, not just some default damaged model. 
 There have been tons of WW2 games put out over the last few years, but this one stands out above 
 all the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is the best WWII RTS ever made and with a story such as it's own, there is nothing 
 that can come close to it for the comming months and even years.
  
  Like most WWII games the story begins on D-day and you at first land and attack a beach, in the 
 first 5 minutes of this game you notice that this is no ordanery game, in fact this really does 
 blow you away. the men move realistic and the artillary as it rains down upon your troops is in 
 itself is masterful.
  Ofcore you are not attacking beaches all of the time you finally get airborne and basically live 
 out the missions that the real soldiers did way back when.
  
  Building bases and units is thank god, a big part of this game. This makes the game 100% more entertaining 
 and at the same time challenging.
  
  I think it is safe to say that Relic have a game here that will go down in history as one of the 
 best, and so it should!
  
  This is more than a game, it's a tribute to all those killed who fort for our freedom, may they 
 rest in peace.. our heroes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  I really appreciate the ability to interact with environment in this game, because it's what older 
 RTSs usually lack. In CoH there are many types of obstacles on the surface of the map that can 
 be exploited to give your troops shelter. For example, sandbag, oil drum or destroyed automobiles... 
 The safety level of these shelters, which is symbolized as a shield, are different: red color means 
 easy to be shot, yellow: moderate safety but can't stay for long, green: very safe, can ambush 
 enemies. Moreover, most objects appearing on the map can be interacted. Whenever you occupy a building, 
 you can upgrade it into a barrack perfect for gathering troops.
  
  AI of the game can prove quite outstanding if you have played the Campaign and Skirmish. First 
 off, have a look at the way AI opponent struggle for resource. They defend the mines quite well 
 with enough number of troops to cause you trouble and even construct extra defensive building on 
 important locations. Even if you can gain control over some mines, you will find that machine force 
 is always ready to re-occupy them if they are ill-defended. On battlefield, AI also exploits the 
 environment to save their units and makes decision to annihilate or retreat according to the number 
 of troops you have. More amazing is its ability to combine power of all arms: Infantry, Airborne 
 and Armor Company (look like AI can "micro" units) .
  
  CoH has many other good points. Graphics and sound effect of the game are truly uncriticizable. 
 Besides, the game is also very balanced between different modes, since Multiplayer is as good as 
 Campaign and Skirmish. There is only one thing that disappoints me: the number of factions. Two 
 is probably too few for any RTS nowadays. What a pity developers of Relic did not repeat what they 
 have executed quite well in the earlier "Dawn of War".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes finally delivered the type of RTS game I have always wanted. I am a long time 
 RTS genre fan. I've played almost every famous RTS game ranging from Starcraft, Warcraft III, Civilization 
 III/IV, and every C&C game ever made. Starcraft, Warcraft, and C&C are awesome RTS games but RTS 
 games like that are all focused on massing the most units and building only the best units to do 
 battle. Once you tech up all other units are obsolete.
  
  Company of Heroes on the other hand... loaded with strategy, simple base building, NO TURTLING TACTICS 
 (OMG SO BORING IN RTS PLAY) , and units that do not go obsolete but manage to play important roles 
 during all stages of battle.
  
  In CoH base building is pretty simple. Both factions have about 7 or so structures that they build. 
 Both build orders have different ways of getting teched up.
  
  Best part of the whole game, resource gathering. I have always hated how easy it is just to get 
 money. Always conveniently placed tiberium fields, or forests close to your base. In CoH you have 
 to capture territory to increase your population cap just so you can build more units. The territories 
 produce one of three resources: man-power, munitions, or fuel. Man power produces... well you guessed 
 it infantry. Munitions are used to purchase upgrades such a ranger squad buying Thompson SMGs, 
 or to use abilities like throw grenades. Fuel is used to build base structures and to build vehicles 
 and armored vehicles.
  
  So instead of sitting by your money you have to go and claim your territories to start producing 
 your economy so you can build more powerful units. Only one problem... so does your enemy. From 
 start to finish it is an absolute in your face, quick change of strategy, pulse pounding battle.
 
  
  CoH actually makes terrain play an important role in battle. Some of the resource points are placed 
 in areas to where they pose as choke points and places to cut off your enemies resources. Even 
 though you may have a point under your control it must be connected to everything else or else 
 you gain nothing from it. Roads are important because capturing a point near the main roads cut 
 really wreak havoc and cut off an enemies supply lines. Infantry actually respond to debris, walls, 
 sandbags, etc. and use it as cover. If they are out in the open with no cover than an mg42 will 
 tear them to pieces.
  
  Units in CoH do not become obsolete. Every unit is almost identical to what it was in WWII history. 
 Sherman tanks are great mid tier heavy armor support but King Tigers are going to make quick work 
 of them and take a heck of a lot of damage. If youve always wanted to be like the ranger squad 
 in "Saving Private Ryan" will now you can. Infantry is not cut down so quickly like in other RTS 
 games, they can pose serious threats to even the toughest , most heavily armored units with sticky 
 bombs and bazookas or panzerchrecks.
  
  Graphically speaking CoH is beautiful. Awesome amounts of detail on every unit, building, and environment. 
 CoH's graphics settings can be lowered to even the lowest GPU. I run a GeForce 6600le and can still 
 play the game at 1024x768 and still have the game looking great.
  *UPDATED*
  Now that I have my new computer I recently had the chance to play CoH Maxed out. I have a 680i 
 LT, Q6600, 8800gt Superclocked, GeIL 2GB DDR2 800. I can play the game at the highest resolution 
 and every feature at its highest setting and never shutter below the games max fps limit of 60fps..... Simply 
 put the game will blow your mind by its detail. You have to see it for yourself. I can not describe 
 how cool it looks when an mg42 is unloading on an armored car and the bullets are ricocheting everywhere 
 or an entire area is getting hammered by artillery support.
  
  The only con about this game is patching and updating. If you recently bought CoH then getting 
 all the patches is going to be a pain in the a**. Patches download fairly fast but theyre just 
 so many to get now that if youre expecting to buy the game and play it right away you'll be dissapointed, 
 because you'll waste a good hour or two patching and updating your game. Relic is awesome and fast 
 with their patching system but it is just so time consuming and prevents you for a couple hours 
 from playing a spectacular, if not the best RTS game.
  
  Once you get up to date, youre in for one hell of an RTS game
  
  The expansion Opposing Fronts 
 adds to the gameplay with 2 new sides. I have it and love that too I recommend it to you because 
 experienced players of the first game should love what the new sides have to offer.
  
  *Final Thoughts* Company of Heroes is the Call of Duty of RTS. It brings up the intensity of RTS 
 play and presents a very authentic WWII feeling to it. I don't know why people complain about this 
 game involving no strategy because you can not have a predetermined "build order" or know exactly 
 what to expect. That kind of defeats the purpose of strategy, and reacting to enemies strategies. 
 Its actually funny because when you study WWII lots of mistakes and total guesses happened a lot 
 of the time... don't believe me read further...
  
  (Company of Heroes 10++++++++++++++++/10 All time favorite RTS)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_ozz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  Well before i start the actual review i would like to tell that i used hate stratergy games.. I 
 would find ppl who play stratergy games dumb.. SORRY.. But ever since i played COH i just love 
 playing stratergy games.. Now i realize why the stratergy genre ROCKS.. 
  
  THE REVIEW
  
  PROS: Stunning graphics
  Simply superb sound effects voice acing with some funny dialogs
 
  Completely destructible environment
  Best gameplay till date
  Great multiplayer community 
  
  CONS: Comparitively long load times
  Only two factions
 
  Issues with dx10 only with the cut scenes though.
  
  
  COH is an RTS set in World War II. COH is built on relic's Essence Engine and also utilizes the 
 Havok Physics Engine. COH is easily one of the greatest games not only in RTS but also when u compare 
 it with other genres just because of its absolutely stunning looks and intense gameplay and sleek 
 presentation.. 
  
  COH has only two playable factions- AXIS and ALLIES ie the Americans and Germans. In COH we play 
 only as ABLE COMPANY through out the single player campaign and our primary aim is to drive the 
 GERMANS out of Normandy.. The single player campaign will take around 10-15 hrs depending on the 
 difficulty.. Though we play only as the Allies we can also take control of the Axis faction during 
 the skirmish matches and online.. And the axis faction is fairly different from allies even though 
 the weapons at hand is similar. COH works like other RTS games do, by putting us in charge of base 
 construction, resource gathering, and tactical command of various military forces. 
  
  The gameplay is an area where COH really scores. u start with a Headquarters from where we can 
 build structures and produce enggineers and other squad members.. The map is mainly divided into 
 territoris and in order to capture a territorry we will have to capture its corresponding strategic 
 point. the resoureces are divided into 3 they are manpower, fuel and munitions.. These are automatically 
 increased as wu capture more and more fuel, munitions and strategic points. These resources are 
 used to generate squad members, produce tankers and other vehicles.. And using cover is another 
 important concept in COH.. As without using or building proper cover for ur soldiers it would be 
 nearly impossible to beat the enemies at higher difficulty. On the whole the gameplay is simply 
 superb and if u have played Dawn Of War earlier then u will be able to notice the similarities 
 in the gameplay. And even if u have not played Dawn Of War learing to play this game is a piece 
 of cake because of its superb tutorial which is not a surprise as all games from relic provide 
 awesome tutorials..
  
  The graphics in COH is nothing less than breathtaking.. From the character animations to the marks 
 of the bullet left on a building structure is taken care of really well.. The vehicle models and 
 the lighting effects are also praise worthy.. The explosions look stunning.. And ya this game is 
 kind of a system hog.. If u need to enjoy this game with all of its eye candy then u will need 
 a 7800 or greater card.. The sound effects are also great.. The guns sound simply superb so does 
 the tankers and the machine guns.. The voice acting is also done really well with some really funny 
 dialogs.. the game looks great on both dx9 and dx10 although the cutscenes do suffer from cropping 
 in dx10.. On the whole thos game is really an eye candy and u can literally feel how violent the 
 world war can get.
  
  The game is not all that difficult on the default difficulty.. But u also cannot rush ur forces 
 as you will have to ocationally hold back strenghten ur forces and then advance.. The AI is also 
 pretty smart who also retreat when they feel they are being overpowered. They retreat and get back 
 up. So the game is not all that easy but once u get a hang of it u will love every min of it..
 
  
  The multiplayer facilities provided by COH is really good. Well lets face it no other genre other 
 than FPS can provide excellent multiplayer but having said that COH is not far behind the FPS genre 
 as far as Online community is concerned.. COH provides excellent online fun.. The lack of factions 
 might just get to u when online but even with the two factions you can have hell a lot of fun becuse 
 of its intense gameplay..
  
  Overall Company Of Heroes is one of those must have games irrespective of the fact that u love 
 strategy or no. It provides excellent graphics, superb gameplay and exciting online play ,what 
 more can u ask?? Company Of Heroes is easily the best World War 2 RTS and m sure no game till date 
 has beat the standards set by this GEM.. And to produce a game better than COH will be one hell 
 of a task.. Double thumbs up to relic.. 
  
  ONE ADVICE: JUST GET THIS GAME.. THINK NO FURTHER
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: berlinORbust45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  The market in World War II era game is filled with so many talented and not-so-talented games. 
 Company of Heroes shows what a real WWII game should give to the players. In this game, you are 
 not a lowly private in some unknown platoon, you take command of an army of numerous different 
 types of units. Company of Heroes plays from a top perspective like many other RTS games. You can 
 choose either side you want to command. Want to free Europe from Nazi domination or blitzkrieg 
 the Allied Armies into oblivion? The single player only follows the American breakout in Normandy, 
 but that is half the fun. Once you have liberated Normandy, you can jump into a French town or 
 countryside in a skirmish match. Both the Axis and the Americans have their own strengths and weaknesses 
 in th game. The look and feel of the game is one of the most impressive parts. Infantry squads 
 react almost like real soldiers. They show cocky attitudes when they are beating back the enemy 
 squad, but panic and take cover if a tank is rolling their way. The vehicles have great looks too, 
 but thats not the only thing great about them. Will a M4 Sherman stand up to the Panzer IV? You 
 make the strategy. The most impressive part of Company of Heroes is the choices you make on the 
 battlefield. A M8 Greyhound armored car and a couple of American infantry teams can hold out on 
 its own, that is until the Panzers and Panthers roll out. A key to victory is reading a battlefield 
 and knowing how to counter enemy moves. Defending a crossroads can be more important than simply 
 advancing forward. Company of Heroes makes the players think and decide which action would be best 
 for the battle. Should a commander try to outflank through the rural French countryside or work 
 his way through the urban French towns and streets? Command, control, and conquer is what players 
 need to know if they want to lead their company to victory! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidebborn
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  From the explosive bloody beaches to the amazing torn-up cities. This game takes you to the battle!
 
  
  It ama-singly has gripped me onto my pc and wearing out my hardware. It isn't one of those build 
 a base, make an army, attack and win RTS games but a think and careful win games. It hookes you 
 on the game for hours. You play a map, finish it and either go off to have a break for five minutes 
 in a happy victory or a regret and thinking of how you should have moved those men a different 
 way. 
  
  The abilities the game lets you open up in are very well-done. Call in an air-strike to destroy 
 an area filled with enemies or call in off-map reinforcements to help push them back from your 
 base. Air strikes are also available with them coming down in the area you chose and leaving no 
 mercy in its strafing/bombing run. Other options like the retreat is a very useful ability as it 
 can pull your troops out of trouble and head back to base reinforcing them or could make them stand 
 up and run but get shot easily also. Grenades and explosives equppied on your troops can do devastating 
 damage onto your enemies. If an enemy sniper is in a building and has your troops pinned down, 
 you send another of your brave fighters around and throw a grenade into the window and 'boom!'.
 
  
  The graphics and effects are out of this world for an RTS game. You can zoom in and see a soldiers 
 face and almost feel the anger for his enemy or the fear. 
  
  This game is an RTS masterpiece and is worth every penny.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyzhaze
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  The reason why I say think Battlefield 1942, is because...
  The world war 2 setting gives it away as the obvious, however, in order to complete campaigns, 
 skirmishes and mulitplayer, nodes need to be captured, these in turn, offer resources. The resources 
 include Man Power, Fuel and Ammunition. You play and battle as either the Allies or Axis, only 
 2 factions which is a small let down, however, when you take in the scope and scale of the game, 
 this fraction is barely noticable as you frantically take control of European land.
  
  The games pace is great in the sense that it keeps you on your toes, while allowing you time to 
 set up your base and base defences, a well balanced system that current RTS's lack. With this in 
 mind the UI and gameplay is sensible, while there is a high level of complexity (especially if 
 you are new to RTS) , the design and layout allow for quick and easy managing, leaving you those 
 few great seconds to zoom in and see the devistation up close and person with the highly destructible 
 terrain and excellent rag doll physics.
  
  The story in the single player campaign is fixed and well paced (like every aspect of the game) . 
 Starting off with Omaha beach on D-Day and following through the events, jumping back a few hours 
 here and there to fill the gaps. Not a bad thing at all, as this adds to immersion that CoH has 
 to offer.
  
  The Gamespot review of this game does it justice. On a personal opinion, I do believe this to be 
 a grounding for future RTS's. The inclusion of base building while micro managing squads of integrated 
 and on-field upgradable units add a modern trend to the overly done WW2 theme in games makes CoH 
 by far the freshest beathe of air I have had the luxury of having in a long time. World in Conflict 
 is not to be missed if you enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazam_lp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  My description says it all. Company of Heroes is not only a well-balanced game but it has the "Commandos" 
 twist to it. There so many possibilities on how to defeat each mission. There's the sneak-hit-and-run 
 strategy and there's the build-and-bash strategy, you pick your poison and plow through enemy lines, 
 mission after mission. To add an extra flavor, there are medals that you win by doing the extra 
 bit of spice added. 
  
  Company of Heroes is a game that falls in the same category as Panzers would. If you have loved 
 Corename Panzers and Codename Panzers II, you'll instantly fall in love with COH. 
  
  Also, you're going to have to upgrade to a N8 series to enjoy the amazing graphics this game has. 
 I have a 8800GTX SLI on a nForce 680i and believe me, cranking up that nice DX10 engine with high 
 resolution and the good old anti aliasing gives you a phenomenal war experience. It is almost real!
 
  
  Lastly, for any hardcore PC RTS fan out there, you must get this game.
  
  Company Of Heroes will be an all time classic and a masterpiece that will always mark the history 
 of PC RTS gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ab_neo_007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a game like for sometime............. and finally it is released........ Company 
 of Heroes......... a proper real time strategy game... the AI is really good as you see a squad 
 fire and defend themselves in the battlefield......... you will see that the different members of 
 the squad take up positions which is best suited for every individual soldier. the game is beautifully 
 crafted and detailed that you will be drawn into it gradually... even when you attack enemy vehicles 
 attacking different part will result in various effects...... for example when you attack a battle 
 tank at its front part it wont effect much due to heavy armor........ then you need to attack from 
 the back where the armor is light......... you will love it when you see the vehicle gone out of 
 control or see its machines failed........ similarly you will require to defend your vehicles in 
 the same way......... even the artillery attack and other rocket launchers are quite practical, 
 when fired them may not land on the intended position........ you will need to depend on different 
 strategies in different places...... there is no hack and slash method in this game...... you will 
 be required to go step by step to actually proceed while capturing different srategic locations......... the 
 game is actually gorgeous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliblabla2007
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a World War 2 Real-Time Strategy game, developed by Relic Entertainment - 
 the same team that developed the Homeworld and Dawn of War series.
  
  You may notice several similarities with the other games:
  
  1. Great Graphics for it's time.
 
  2. Tactical Scale (Well, Homeworld battles are rather small-scale for space combat...)
  3. Great Soundtrack
  
  But now, on to the game itself.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
  
  Company of Heroes is similar to Dawn of War (Check my profile for my Dark Crusade review, I don't 
 want to copy and paste the gameplay section from there to this review) in resource collection.
 
  
  However, it's different as well. In Dawn of War, there are two types of resources, and one of them 
 (Power) can be 'collected' by simply building 'Power Plants' in your base.
  
  By comparison, there are three types of resources in CoH - Manpower, Munitions and Fuel. All three 
 are collected in the same manner as Dawn of War's Requisition resource - by capturing and holding 
 certain points on the map.
  
  Onto those points, unlike the Dawn of War system of Strategic Point (Standard) , Relic (Allows for 
 your races' most powerful unit to be built) and Critical Location (High resource rate, hard to 
 defend) , Company of Heroes uses a Low, Medium and High system. The amount of resources you get 
 from each 'type' of - Manpower / Munitions / Fuel - point is different.
  
  Capturing said points will also give you the control of their respective sectors - preset areas 
 on the map. You won't get the resources or the ability to build fortifications on those points 
 you captured unless they are connected to your territory via the sectors.
  
  Company of Heroes uses a different population system than Dawn of War. Instead of having a Squad 
 / Vehicle cap, the population cap is unified into a single cap - and unlike Dawn of War, where 
 a squad will take up a set amount of population, squads in Company of Heroes will take up equal 
 amounts of population to how many men the squad has alive.
  
  Total popcap for CoH is 125 - and you start with a base of 30 popcap. To get more popcap, you need 
 to capture said points. The amount of popcap you get from each point varies. 
  
  On to combat now.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
  
  Like Dawn of War, most infantry units are trained in squads. Such squads can be reinforced. However, 
 Company of Heroes is different in that you cannot reinforce a squad if it's not close to a nearby 
 barracks or HQ. 
  
  Unlike Dawn of War, this game has no melee combat - but ranged combat is far more advanced. Instead 
 of just the accuracy factor to take into account, terrain plays a part in how often you hit. Your 
 man could have an 80% chance of hitting a target, if you're not taking cover into account, but 
 that might go down to 20% if his target is hiding behind a tank trap.
  
  And that also differentiates CoH cover from DoW cover - In Company of Heroes, cover reduces your 
 troop's chances of getting hit, whereas Dawn of War cover reduces the damage they take.
  
  With tank combat, it's even more chancy. Your tank's shell could bounce off (therefore doing practically 
 no harm) , explode without penetrating (Doing more damage, but nothing critical) , or go right through 
 the armor and damage it to your shell's full potential. Other factors, such as what part you hit 
 (Your tank's shell more likely to penetrate a tank's armor through the rear than the front... yeah 
 I know that sounds a little sick) also come into play.
  
  Unlike Dawn of War's morale system, infantry in here don't have a bar showing how much courage 
 they have left. Instead, machineguns supress and pin infantry, making them slow to move and barely 
 capable of firing back. To get out of this, you can use the retreat option - which quickly brings 
 the squad back to your base for any needed restoration. You can't control the squad in this mode, 
 though.
  
  What makes this game's gameplay so dynamic is the destructible environment - You can blast craters 
 into the ground to create cover, or blast away enemy cover, or destroy an obstacle to create a 
 new path.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - -
  
  Company of Heroes is well balanced, but the only two factions aren't all that different. There 
 isn't much variety other than the US focusing on versatily and numbers, while the Germans focus 
 on more expensive, but more powerful units that serve their own purpose the most.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - 
  
  The Campaign is linear, 15 missions long and is for the Americans only.
  
  - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - -
  
  Why I like this game:
  
  Very dynamic. I already stated why.
  
  I can't offer a technical analysis of the graphics, since I'm not running it in max settings, or 
 sound, since I really don't know much about sound in the first place, but I think it looks and 
 sounds great.
  
  All in all..... buy this game and prepared to be blown away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellysontheroad
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Having recently started the C&C decade pack, I was surprised by A) How much strategy was involved 
 in those old games, and B) how crappy the current "RTS" games are. If you are playing on line it's 
 another story, but the campaigns in Company Of Heroes are basically just following orders. I gave 
 up after level 3 - it's so boring, everything is gray, and like everything nowadays you can't zoom 
 out. You can zoom in on incredibly detailed models, but who the *** cares. There are some minor 
 things you can do like flanking, and hiding, and planning where wreckage should end up, but mostly 
 you are just re-acting to things. There is very little planning involved.
  
  If you want to mindlessly play with your toy solders this is the game for you. If you want to think, 
 start digging out the old games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludacrisbeing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Company of heroes is an all encompassing Historical military strategy game. 
  If you want great graphical detail, intelligent AI and some pretty intense firefights and battles 
 then this is your game. 
  The campaign is relatively simple once you master the mechanics of the game (around 1-2 levels 
 you will be competent enough) and the levels are varied enough to keep your interest. Early players 
 will find that their battles will go for over an hour and closer to the 2 hour mark so you can 
 have a good time here in the beginning and watch your day drift away.
  I think multiplayer and skirmish is where this baby brings home the bacon. I have had some epic 
 battles here and can not give enough positive feedback in that regard.
  The only grip i have with this game is the variety of units, i do feel that a few more units could 
 have pushed this game to even higher heights instead of pushing us to buy the expansion.
  Overall i love this game and recommend it to anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootingrobot98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Nothing beats Company of Heroes. The graphics are amazing, the sound is cutting edge, and this 
 game has more depth than any real-time strategy in history of video games.
  
  There are a ton of different units in this game, and there are more options than anything in this 
 game. I really like the Company Commander system, so you can select the special abilities that 
 fit your style of fighting. You can use a lot of units that can man heavy weapons (Like the Nebelwerfer 
 artillery, anti-tank guns, mortars, heavy machine-guns, 88mm anti-aircraft/anti-tank guns, 20mm 
 anti-aircraft guns, etc.) , pick up lighter weapons (like the B. A. R, the Panzerschreck, the MG42 
 LMG, the Bren, the Bazooka, etc.) , and make infantry hide in buildings, protecting them against 
 fire, giving you the edge in a tight situation.
  
  The only thing that bugs me in this game is the population limit. In some missions, such as St. 
 Lo, were you are alloted just 80 men to defend your base against ambushes from German soldiers 
 and those extremely annoying Flakpanzers and Panzer IV's, and have just enough to attack the heavily 
 defended strategic points you need to capture, this can make the campaign mode excessively difficult.
 
  
  Apart from that one shortcoming, this is a spectacular game that I would reccommend to anybody 
 who really loves RTS games or people who are looking for a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineComedy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I consider myself experienced in RTS games, and I can definitely say that this is the game I had 
 most fun with since I first discovered the genre with Dune 2. The amount of detail in the gameworld 
 is amazing. I can observe the map for long minutes just looking at the graphics and the vast amount 
 of thought that went in every detail. Personally I hate micromanagement and I don't like games 
 that let you do everything, which usually means you are stuck too much on the not-so-fun parts. 
 CoH's gameplay is the perfect balance between combat and strategy. The resource management is very 
 well balanced, and the special abilities well thought of. I find the game relatively hard even 
 on medium is some missions. The graphics are excellent today as they were a year and a half ago 
 when the game was released. 
  This game brought the freshness the RTS genre needed so much.
  Relic should be praised for this 
 great achievement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  World War II... how many WWII games are there now? I lost count. Company of Heroes is the latest 
 RTS title from Relic Entertainment, and it capitalizes on one of the darkest wars in our history, 
 though; oddly enough, the game provoked little emotion from me because it just seemed so... "average".
 
  
  Story... it's a World War II game, if you don't already know the basic premise then you should 
 have paid more attention in your selective history classes. The game features a historically inaccurate 
 plot inspired by WWII films such as "Saving Private Ryan" featuring Abel Company, an American force, 
 as it lands on Normandy beach and assaults Nazi occupied France. Essentially Relic added in a bit 
 of drama making Company of Heroes feel, to me, somewhat insulting towards the men who actually 
 fought and died in the war.
  
  I can pretty much sum of Company of Heroes' gameplay in one sentence, "a dumbed down Dawn of War"; 
 which is ironic since usually it's the licensed games that are the victims of simplified gameplay. 
 The campaign missions are fairly fixed, it's when you jump into skirmish and multiplayer you start 
 to see the traditional base building, and unit training aspect come into play. Essentially, Company 
 of Heroes comes down to training some squads, and capturing "strategic points" in a manner similar 
 to Dawn of War, to expand your control area and gather more resources for more units. There is 
 one feature in CoH that is improved over DoW, and that is the reinforcing of a squad. In Dawn of 
 War you could reinforce your squads on the fly, and fallen squad members would have replacements 
 magically appear out of nowhere. In Company of Heroes you need the squad to be near your base, 
 or a strategic point, and the replacement parachutes in making squad reinforcement feel more natural.
 
  
  Company of Heroes has one glaring flaw, like Star Wars: Empire at War (without the expansion) there 
 are no mirror matches. All American players share the same team, and all German players share the 
 same team. This kills the life of the game significantly, since there are only two factions, and 
 you can't have German versus German matches, the game becomes a dust collector on your shelf in 
 a matter of days. This is somewhat disappointing, especially after Dawn of War which had four unique 
 factions each one able to fight itself in skirmishes, and online matches.
  
  Visually CoH is fairly impressive. Relic didn't hold back when they designed the graphics, infantry 
 and vehicles are very detailed, and the environments really give off the impression that the locations 
 you battle in are contested over regularly. The game also has impressive audio, although the large 
 amount of cursing makes it seem somewhat immature the voice acting is excellent, and the sound 
 effects really capture the WWII setting very well. As for the music... I was indifferent towards 
 it really, I didn't find it particularly memorable... in fact I don't even remember if the game 
 had any music, I paid more attention to squad leaders telling their men not to steal doylees when 
 garrisoning houses.
  
  Truth be told, I was fairly indifferent towards Company of Heroes. It evoked no real emotion from 
 me one way or another, it was just another World War II game and I've seen enough of those to last 
 several life times. Would I recommend it to someone else? Maybe if you can't get enough of World 
 War II, but since there's no German campaign, and no mirror matches for skirmishes and online play; 
 the game probably won't last you that long... you're better off sticking to Relic's previous game, 
 Dawn of War, and its numerous expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kye3k1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This is what a real RTStrategy game looks like. After playing CoH on multiplayer you will realise 
 other than CoH there is no other RTS game out there worthy of the S for Strategy.
  
  The most outstanding feature of CoH is the attention to detail. The part of the building that blow 
 up and fall apart when a rocket hits it is exactly where you would expect. Each bullet is modeled, 
 as well as the clip size, fire rate and reloading time of each and every rifle your men are holding. 
 Even the time your tank command takes to shout commands between firing shots is modeled!
  
  The other features other games boost as if it's something amazing is just taken for granted in 
 CoH. For example the difference in Tank's front, side and back armour; and the difference in damamge 
 modeling between penetrated and non-penetrated shots. In front of CoH the other RTS games are like 
 an bunch of idiots shouting "OMG! 1+1=2 !!! That is amazing!" (By other RTS games I mean: WiC, 
 StarCraft, CC3, AoE3, etc)
  
  The single player campaign is also very good, if you just go with the flow and take some time to 
 think the tactical plans through, you will find it is like a Classic war movie, and you are the 
 captain in charge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  CoH is one of the best RTS games I've played. Although it's not your typical RTS, in the sense 
 that it's nothing like Age of Empires. From the start CoH piles the action up and leaves it there 
 on the players. 
  From a graphical standpoint it's the best RTS out there to date. The models are extremely detailed 
 down to the last man and his gun. The maps look fantastic and everything in them are totally destructable. 
 I love hurling artillary into the middle of a battle and watching limbs, dirt, and other objects 
 fly everywhere. Leaving smoldering remains and huge craters. What makes it more immersive is the 
 sound/music. Everything sounds fantastic to the last crack of a machine gun. The learning curve 
 is quite big especially when you step into the multiplayer.
  Multiplayer can be so fustrating at times, 90% of the time your games will lag out and count as 
 a loss. It's slow and tidious finding a suitable game. However when you do find a good game, its 
 great to communicate with your team mates and set up attacks provided they speak the same language 
 as you. 
  The campaign is very filling and interesting. The story moves along at a good pace and the objectives 
 are pretty fun to get. However the multiplayer is what you'll keep coming back for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf13
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is yet another WW2 RTS with a twist. Gas Powered Games has out done themselves 
 and has released another winner in my book with there first being Supreme Commander. Unlike the 
 large scale forces you use in SC, COH forces you to use smaller groups of various units to accomplish 
 adjectives. 
  
  The Story:
  The writers must have been watching Saving private Ryan while trying to write the story line and 
 scripts of this game. It all starts on D-Day and the invasion of one of the beaches, then you follow 
 the story of Able & Dog company thru there struggles of securing supply routes and pushing German 
 force from areas. As commander of Able company you are the advance force for removing threats to 
 supply lines. Then of course you are called to do special missions like find lost units and defend 
 points until the calvary arrives. Then there is the Panzer threat which Able Company must contend 
 with as you push forward towards the German heart land... In the end you know your going to win, 
 but at what cost?
  
  The Game Play:
  Like all RTS basics you can build a base, calling air strikes and require resources to fund your 
 forces. As i mentioned unlike SC you have limited forces to command and unfortunally there is a 
 unit cap that will hinder your abilty to build large forces. This forces you to strategically use 
 your limited amount of units. This game also has the remnants of old school C&C Red Alert, you 
 have air born that you drop in behind the enemy and surprise them from behind. Units are squads, 
 you can replenish your squad near your HQ or if your air born you have them drop in. Individual 
 units have the ability to upgrade weapons like tommy guns pr bazookas. The real kickers are the 
 tanks, the Sherman work horse will dominate your resolve as it is best to handle just about every 
 situation. Resources are hard points scattered thru out the map, you have infantry capture them 
 and you gain points based on their type, Gas or Ammo which both are needed in large quantiles to 
 build a limited rolling force. You complete each mission by achieving set goals, some with a time 
 frame others with capturing pionts when you feel like it.
  
  Other
  The performance of this game is nice. Having received this game thru the purchase of an eVGA 8800 
 GTS in my new Vista system using DX10 is a must. The game looks good, the story is told thru the 
 game play graphics which are not that bad. The AI is actually pretty good, and you find yourself 
 challenged at times even on medium on how to acomplish some goals. But in the end i believe you 
 will feel as satisfied as i did that i could so that with so little units and survived. This game 
 is fun, but frustrating at the same time. The language for this game is a bit severe and not for 
 young ears. I had to wear headphone to play the hole game due the F-bomb being one the phrase the 
 grunts use when you tell them to advance.
  
  The Good:
  + Graphics
  + Has a decent story
  + Hurray for the Calvary
  + Long/Many Missions
  
  The ugly
  - Unit 
 cap of 75? 
  - Slow/None new unit integration
  - Resource take time to build up. 
  - The language! +18
  
  Over all
  If you like RTS's, make sure to pick this one up. But make 
 sure you don't play around children or you will might be getting alot of questions. I didn't' try 
 the Multiplayer as the game it's self is enough for me, can replay to get medals on the timed missions.. 
 
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangell99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  It's easy to say a game is amazing, but CoH really is. The graphics are superb, with a full 360 
 zoom that lets you get right up to the faces of the soldiers. Explosions look awesome and realistic, 
 and as the battle rages on, the terrain will be strewn with bodies and blackened craters. 
  The sound is brilliant - your men respond when commanded, tell you when they're under attack, what's 
 attacking them - all packed into a large collection of expletive-riddled phrases. They speak just 
 as WW2 soldiers would, and when they report in off-screen, it sounds like it's coming through a 
 radio. 
  The game is about full-on frontlines comabt, and you can't affort to turtle up in your base. You 
 have go out and capture and defend territories to get resources, and this puts you at a constant 
 fight with your enemy. A really realistic, effective, and cool feature is cover. Everything can 
 provide cover, from abandoned cars to walls to crates. Hedgerows hide your men, while flat or marshy 
 terrain can leave your infantry exposed. And the really good bit - your infantry find their own 
 cover, within a radius from where you tasked them to go. When an explosion creates a crater, this 
 will also provide a source of cover.
  You command a large WW2 arsenal, including Tiger tanks, howitzers, MG42s, Sherman tanks, and you 
 can outfit your infantry with equipment and weapons such as Panzerschreks, light machine guns, 
 satchel charges, barbed wire cutters, and grenades. You can construct defenses, such as mines, 
 barbed wire and tank traps, but all have a counter, so no defensive strategy is perfect.
  This game is very much about tactics. For instance, when planning an ambush in narrow city streets, 
 you might use mines along one route, to funnel the enemy into an area covered by your fixed guns. 
 As I have said, you cannot afford to turtle up in your base. As a result of this, alot of skirmishes 
 will revolve around fighting over a point. You may want, for instance, to paradrop some men behind 
 enemy lines to wreak havoc, and draw the enemy away from the front, letting you push forward. All 
 vehicles and tanks have weaker armour on their flanks and rear, and tank skirmishes involve each 
 tank trying to get round the other's flank. Trapping an enemy tank between two of your own tanks, 
 for instance, would therefore be a sound strategy.
  Multiplayer matches are fast and intense. In the beginning, players will try to "rush", but matches 
 can be quite long, and always extremely tense and fun. Often, control of territories will constantly 
 change. You'll need to think and react quickly. Maybe one downside is that there are only two factions 
 - the Americans and the Axis, but each side has a different "Company Commander" tree, that allows 
 you to purchase special units, call in strikes and support, and ultimately use different tactics. 
 The expansion is excellent and adds two more factions, if you wish to buy that to enhance your 
 COH online experience.
  This game is a must-have. It has revived WW2 RTS, and made it fresh and exciting again. It has 
 beautiful graphics, but at no expense to gameplay. COH provides a memorable and challenging experience, 
 whether you're taking part in the thrilling multiplayer, or completing the fantastic campaign. 
 This is superb RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 10
  Sound:10
  Value:8
  Tilt: 9
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Company Heroes is one of the most realistic games I have ever played and it is defenently the 
 greatest strategy game to date. With amazing graphics and sound you will be stunned. The game takes 
 place in World War II and it greatly shows how brutal and violent the battles were. As a general 
 of your army, you can place land mines, barbwire, and much more to get ready for battle. One of 
 the best battles for me was when you had a certain amount of time to prepare for a attack. You 
 had to protect a building, that the enemies wanted to destroy, by placing machine guns and tanks 
 in front of the bridge and much more. When the time limit ended all hell broke loose. Tons of enemy 
 soldiers attacked, making it one of the greatest and most difficult battles that I have ever played. 
 Overall, if you want a stunning graphical game with a amazing gameplay that puts you as a real-life 
 general, then get Company of Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciaranlynch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Lets get straight to the point Company of heroes is a great ww2 game. this game would be for people 
 who like rts games. If your a fan of tps i would recomend you rent it before you buy it. The best 
 thing about this game is the freedom you have playing for example:1) Say you you have a sniper and 
 are after capturing a stratigic point beside a house you can put the sniper in side the building 
 he protect the area by sniping any enemy within the range. (note you can put MG crews infantry and 
 engineers in buildings aswell 2) your team will seek cover if under HEAVY fire . Every game has 
 something wrong with it the thing about this rts game is that you have to have a powerful engin 
 to run it and the and sometimes if your team members get shot they wont take any damage. You can 
 also get upgrades if you are the Allies and have a mg42 you can aquire armor pirceing bullets the 
 same can be done with morters there are alot more upgrades for the Allies than the AxisI WOULD 
 DEFINITELY RECOMEND THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jernas
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  It was so hyped that I just had to try it out. Even though I really didn't think, this game is 
 something better than existing WW2 strategies, I gave it a try. And you'll find out what I think 
 about it. OK, I like Total War series and AOE and also World in Conflict, but I hate strategies 
 like Battle for Middle Earth or Soldiers: Heroes of World War II... So let as begin.
  
  First of all, I noticed that technically this is a nice looking game that runs great on my system. 
 There are no bugs that are worth mentioning, that's a big plus also. In terms of gameplay I like 
 cover system and that your units are doing what you want from them and not shutting when you want 
 them to hide. But sadly that's all the good I can say about this game.
  
  On the other hand, I hate this rush thing, it reminds me a lot of LOTR: BFME. And that your enemies 
 always apear suddenly from the edge of the map and take your command posts. I also hate this limit 
 of units, so it is impossible to cover three outposts at a time. Also there are only like three 
 different classes of infantry (and sniper, which is cool) , two tanks, one jeep and one heavy armored 
 vehicle.
  
  Yeah, I was pretty disapointed when I finished it. It is just a WW2 mod for BFME and nothing more. 
 And I haven't even started bashing the multiplayer... Well there are some nice moments, for example 
 when five of your mortars takes out the village, especially because of the nice graphical effects. 
 But overall this is just an average strategy game. I will now go back to Medieval 2: Total War 
 and you should too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calwilliamson
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  This is just flat out one of the best RTS PC games out there. Fully destructible enviroments, realistic 
 graphics and B****ing Sound, also its easy to play and isnt hard to learn about the game E. G. the 
 controls the units and buildings.
  Also the ability to zoom and rotate the camera so you can get into the thick of things.
  
  
 Im lucky enough to have an awsome PC so i can enjoy the best graphics and sound.
  
  Also its one of the only games ive ever played that when your army is backed into a corner with 
 2 squads of engineers, an AT gun and a random medic that seems lost, you can bounce back and take 
 over the entire map which makes this game amazing.
  
  To round it all of... buy this game, dont give me any excuses like, im sorry callum dont have the 
 time, BULLS**T!!!
  if you dont have this game then to bad i do.
  LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraivyne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Finally a game that combines both the brutality of WW2 in such a realistic way that you almost 
 feel completely responsible for the squads that you control. This is one of those games that you 
 talk to all your friends about just to get them all to come online and play. Its just such a perfect 
 combination of strategy, squad management and game play bundled along with some sick graphics that 
 bring the game up to date with the realism and in depth of FPS games. When you first try out CoH 
 it feels as if there is a lack in units due to there only being two armies, but as you play on 
 through the campaign you see the versatility of both axis and allied armies, especially the rank 
 upgrades which helps to differentiate each multi player battle. If you have yet to play this game, 
 go pick it up and get the expansion just to increase the visceral pleasure you will get from playing 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  A very good game, no argue about that. But still, just a good game, nothing more. By the way, why 
 do they call it a RTS? There should be a new genre for games like this: RTT, or Real Time Tactical 
 game.
  
  What I don't like about this game (and almost every game I have recently played) is that you only 
 respond to some scripted events, rather than triggering them with your own decisions and actions. 
 This is becoming really boring, as you don't have the feeling something actually depends on what 
 you do. Come on, we're in 2007!
  
  Having said that, try to guess what's my favorite game for the last couple of years. Yep, you got 
 it right, it's S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Now that is some real-life experience! It makes you feel like you 
 are part of a breathing world that reacts and changes upon you actions. I wish CoH was closer to 
 this.
  
  But still - a nice game. I only hope there will be some less intensive missions where I will FINALLY 
 get some time to make myself familiar with all the buildings and upgrades! Because I have this 
 strange feeling I am going to need this knowledge later on. In the end, what's the point of having 
 all the upgrades and specialized vehicles if you are thrown into the action from minute 1 and don't 
 have the time to scratch your ass, let alone study upgrades or plan something in advance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossazurri
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Company of heroes focuses on operation overlord of WW2. The campaign, played from the american 
 perspective, starts on D-Day, and brings you all across the rest of France. You can also play in 
 skirmish and multiplayer mode as either the americans or the wehrmacht german army. There is no 
 campaign from the axis side however.
  Throughout all gameplay, whether it be campaign, skirmish, or multiplayer, the gameplay is simply 
 amazing. The reason for this is because COH differs from most RTS games because of its natural 
 strategic design. Unlike Age of empires or red alert where you have to destroy your opponent in 
 every way possible, COH focuses on capturing and holding strategic points called victory points, 
 and the fighting really never gets to your base. These points bring each players score, down and 
 when one player reaches zero, he looses. Back to the strategic importance; COH will have you making 
 decisions every second of the game. You can spend your resources making extra troops, fortifying 
 you frontline, or upgrading your base to produce better infantry/vehicles. Small decisions like 
 these come along constantly in a match. For example, I play as axis and I am defensive minded, 
 so I tend to fortify my frontlines with MGs and barbed wire and push from there. To do this, I 
 must spend the manpower resource quite often, meaning I will receive my tanks later in the game. 
 A more offensive minded player would make heavy infantry and conserve his resources to receive 
 his tanks earlier. Every player has his style.
  COH offers cutting edge graphics, physics, and sound. Make sure your comp is good or there will 
 be freezing. I have an alienware laptop and I still don't get perfect frame rates. The battlefield 
 is totally destructible, meaning every thing you see can be blown up. This allows for excellent 
 graphics and physics when bullets and shells start flying everywhere. After a match is done, you 
 can view the battlefield and see half the buildings blown up and many craters in the ground, where 
 tanks or artillery shot. As for sound, every weapon has its own distinct noise. Also, you can hear 
 gunfire from one corner of the map, to the other. Once you start playing for your first time, you 
 will be amazed about the detail of every aspect in the game. Ballistics are modelled so there are 
 no guaranteed hits, making gameplay even more realistic.
  As for online, you can play through standard LAN, or you can use relic online, which is very practical 
 for beginner players because you can join any game fairly easily and/or let the online service 
 automatch you to a player of equal skill.
  Overall, COH is an amazing RTS game and I definitely recommend anyone, even an RTS first-timer, 
 to buy it. I can almost guarantee you will become immersed in the gameplay and maybe the game will 
 inspire you to go out and learn more about history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonnewby
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Really good and balanced. Lots of fun missions, awards etc. I also liked the idea of 
 companies like airborne company. When you start fighting the game becomes fast paced and really 
 fun. The only thing i don't like is that you can't play as nazis in campaign.
  Graphics: I really love the graphics and physics in this game. I think they are also very revolutionary. 
 The fully destructible map make the game very fun and interesting. I also like the explosions.
 
  Sound: Sounds are awsome! Explosions and music is what really impresses me. I don't really turn 
 on the sound so i'm not gonna talk about it much.
  Value: It costs a lot, but i think it's worth the price
  Multiplayer: Multiplayer is really fun 
 and easy to join in a game. You can join a specific game or just click "play the game" and you 
 just join random game with a person about the same rank as you. The games almost never lag for 
 me and are really fun and fast paced which makes them really fun.
  That's all for my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deiviuxs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The best RTS game I have played so far! It's addicting, fun, and it's just an amazing twist to 
 this type of genre.
  
  Gameplay: fun and fast with lots of thinking involved (well it's RTS however) . Th e missions are 
 different and fun but couple more missions could be added.
  9/10
  
  Graphics: just incredible. the cut scenes look amazing, as well as the battlefield. Destructible 
 buildings look realistic. Some of the character models could look better though.
  9/10
  
  Sound: from the voice conversations to exploding buildings, the sound effects are just perfect 
 and it really makes you feel that you in the middle of the war.
  10/10
  
  Replay: definitely gives you a second chance to play but that's probably it because it only offers 
 two factions but there is also online multiplayer who won't eat lots of your time but will make 
 you come back time after time.
  8/10
  
  VERDICT: 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 87013
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about a week ago and man it' s addicting. The game' s graphics are truely amazing, 
 sometimes you just need to pause everything and take a closer look at the soldiers and tanks and 
 buildings, it' s just too damn beautiful.
  
  The sound is also nice, you can hear your men shouting and swearing when in the heat of battle 
 and that puts a really nice touch to the game.
  
  The difficulty of this game really depends on how you set the difficulty. I mean on easy you should 
 get through the game without any difficulties, on medium it gives you some challanges but not quite, 
 on hard really gives you a hard time and on brutal, man you can spend hours trying to get through 
 the objectives and still might fail.
  
  The only bad side is that you need a well equipped PC to get this game running on a smooth frame 
 rate, you can always lower the resolution and graphics settings, but then you' ll get to miss out 
 on the outstanding graphics that this game has to offer.
  
  All in all it' s a great game and all those who love RTS games and WW2 themes, then this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telemedp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Let me list what I like in this game. You have heavy historical background, though the WWII Operation 
 Overlord (Normandy, D-Day) is a bit overused. I personnaly doesn't think this matters. The graphics 
 of this game is very good, and doesn't require a powerplant. You have awesome sound effects, the 
 people have unlimited speeches, they talk to you differently in battle for example. Explosions 
 are nice, but what's nicer is that everything can be destroyed and sent flying. It's so cool. The 
 campaign, and the way you can control your squads in battle is well thought out and the tanks are 
 nice too.
  BUT: the people who play online are : 1. Super turtling techers 2. Are using some illogical but 
 incredibly effective strategies (I hate them) . I suggest the Exp pack like at supreme commander, 
 because it has some improvements like specific 1 on 1 matches, where you can't turtle (I usually 
 win those) . The game is good, the players annoy me.
  
  By Medve 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sauronthehun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is easily the greatest WW2 RTS of all time, maybe even one of the greatest RTSes 
 ever. The graphics are great, although unfortunately 
  it will occasionally lag. The physics in this game are great, the maps are completely destructible. 
 Also, a changed terrain is not just cosmetic, it affects the cover of the infantry. Cover in CoH 
 is a great idea -- moving behind ruined tanks and craters affects the hit chance of a unit to be 
 hit. The gameplay is extremely fun. The resource collecting system is superb, and the way how each 
 faction has 3 different "branches" to choose from makes up for the fact that there are only two 
 factions. The sound is incredible. The voice acting is great, and the music sounds like a war movie 
 type music. Company of Heroes is a must buy for any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corchosky
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I'm fan of realistic strategy games, and I'm a fan of WWII related games. Company of Heroes is 
 one of the best strategy games I've ever played. It has great graphics, animations and sound efects. 
 It shows soldiers move like real soldiers, and act like them. The fact that you do not produce 
 single units, but entire platoons, gives the player some leverage when atacked, because you have 
 more fire power with a platoon than a single unit. Beside, the fact that you can win XP in battle, 
 and get upgrades according to every player choice and way of playing, makes the game even more 
 appealing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDATLFOREVER
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  First off the awsome. When I first bought the title it had already been out for almost a year. 
 It had flash. It had tactics. It had a good multiplayer. It didn't have any of the snake oil (DRMs) 
 that people are putting in games these days. It defined what a good RTS, or RTT (Real Time Tactical) 
 as I prefer to call it, should be. The game itself was pure unadulterated gold. Had I rated it 
 then It would have a 9.8. A few easy to fix bugs gone and it would have a 10.
  
  (If you only want single player, skirmish, lan, and plan on not going past 1.71 version then just 
 read no further.)
  
  Then the expansion came. The expansion came and killed every ounce of that. The thing that made 
 this so terrifingly horrible is you never had to buy the expansion for it to hit you. Relic/THQ 
 in an all incompansing move decided for you that by wanting to play online that you wanted to move 
 to the expansion. They did this by "merging" the games. This ment a 1.7 GIGABYTE patch, A host 
 of technical issues from a rushed expansion, An increase in system requirements that made even 
 more people lag than before, and a DRM added to a year old product. Thats right they added a DRM 
 to a game that one of its "features" was that it had no protection because Relic/THQ admitied it 
 only got in the way of honest paying customers. Their DRM forces you to log onto the online servers 
 just to play a "offline" skirmish or singleplayer among other issues. This sudden influx of people 
 onto their severs also killed both online and offline play for almost a month, because the servers 
 would come up just long enough that the game would require you to log in and then crash so that 
 you had to turn the game off.
  
  All of these problems and all you did was try to play online by patching your game; which, by the 
 way, if you don't do you can't play online.
  
  Summery:
  In all honesty I have found Relic/THQ to be a very risky investment. Their first titles have always 
 been beyond reproach and amazing. Homeworld = gold. Homeworld 2 = silver. Dawn Of war =Gold. Winter 
 Assault = Tarneshed silver at best. Dark Crusade = Iron Ore saved by mods. Company Of heros = Possible 
 plantium until merged with Opposing Fronts = nuclear waste.
  
  There is a scary pattern here. Their first titles are good. Each succesive expansion they make 
 gets collectively worse than the previous expansion to the point of retroactivly making the original 
 bad with it.
  
  Plenty of people are happy with the current game. maybe you will be too.
  
  Plenty of people are very pissed off with the current mess. maybe you will be too.
  
  All 
 I know is I will NEVER feel comfortable buying a relic/THQ, a Relic, or a THQ product again. I 
 will always be very careful and make sure that playing the game offline at the retail version is 
 acceptable to me before I buy one of their games again. That is my advice to you. take it or leave 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aw3920
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  When I finish playing Company of Heroes (and its little brother Opposing Fronts) I feel like I've 
 accomplished something great. Then I realize that I've just wasted two or three perfectly good 
 hours. It's hard to imagine a more well-done game for the PC. I love the way you sit back and play, 
 not having to learn multiple keyboard commands, and play like you're using a word processor program. 
 You just use your mouse. All computer games would take a giant leap forward if they realized that 
 computer games should only be played with the mouse (or a gamepad-but NO KEYBOARD.) . If you haven't 
 played this game, you're missing a thrill like nothing since Doom One and Two. Maybe I've missed 
 out on something but for me, nothing compares to the first two Doom games until COH came out. Every 
 time I play the game over, it feels fresh and I curiously feel like it's a new experience. Believe 
 it or not, this game is also educational. I've learned a lot about WWII weaponry, and important 
 battles. I'm looking forward to another installment of the game. How about the Soviet campaign. 
 Please, and hurry. It's cash well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The RTS genre has recently started to undergo a renaissance, with titles like World in Conflict, 
 Supreme Commander, Command and Conquer 3 and more offering unique takes on the legendary game genre. 
 A recent upstart in the genre, Relic had already proven its strength with its Warhammer 40K series. 
 Not wanting to rest on its laurels, it did a quick about face and released a World War II RTS with 
 the ability to shake the RTS genre and its gameplay conventions at its roots.
  The first thing you will notice about Company of Heroes is its fantastic presentation and large 
 levels of cinematic detail, whether it be in the powerful story-driven campaign or its highly-competitive 
 multiplayer. The units you take control of, whether they be tanks or infantry, are beautifully 
 and meticulously animated. You can see mortar teams going through the individual motions of loading 
 and firing their mortars, infantry squads taking cover behind walls and buildings and reloading 
 as they would in real life, etc. The amount of detail put into the game's presentation is staggering.
 
  
  Both the multiplayer and the single player rely on the mechanic of capturing and holding three 
 types of supply points: reinforcement, ammunition, and fuel. The more points a player or a team 
 possesses, the faster they gain their respective resources. This virtually eliminates the old RTS 
 tactic of turtling as both sides are forced to constantly be in a state of tug of war over a constantly 
 shifting frontline in order to outsupply and outtech the other team.
  
  The two sides, American and Wehrmacht, are well-balanced against each other. Drawing on historical 
 context, neither side has any overarching "superweapons" as found in other games which allow the 
 controller to completely devastate his opponent. This historical and realistic theme extends to 
 the combat, as ill-equipped infantry squads will never be able to drop the hit points of an armored 
 tank. In order to do that, a player would have to call in AT guns or his own tanks. The vehicle 
 combat in Company of Heroes is also surprisingly tactical, with most vehicles having weak spots 
 in their armor protection, most often at the sides or in the rear. This mechanic leads to some 
 surprisingly tense vehicular battles, as both players try to circle their vehicles around each 
 other in order to be able to pound the weak spots.
  
  The use of infantry is also deeply tactical, infantry can be positioned behind cover in order to 
 survive longer. The catch is that all of Company of Heroes' environments are destructible, meaning 
 an infantry squad can quickly find itself without cover after an enemy decides to call in an artillery 
 strike on their position. This high degree of destructibility introduces a dynamic battlefield, 
 forcing players to constantly adapt to the changing landscape.
  
  As stated before, Company of Heroes simply oozes high production values. This extends to its graphics 
 and sounds. The Essence graphical engine behind CoH is one of the best in the business, bringing 
 a level of detail to environments and units which rivals that found in the best FPSs. The battlefield 
 sounds extremely realistic, in all aspects. Relic even incorporated an impressive soundtrack which 
 complements the game's mood well.
  
  Anyway you look at it, Company of Heroes is simply one of the most unique and well-presented takes 
 on the RTS genre released in years. Where other developers might have simply slapped a World War 
 II skin onto an outdated RTS engine with overplayed mechanics, Relic has gone above and beyond 
 the call of duty in order to supply a PC gaming-exclusive experience that everyone is sure to remember. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinpu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  To date, CoH is the most realistic WWII based RTS game and, without doubt, the most immersive. 
 It will catch you immediately, and instantly you will find and incredible pleasure on commanding 
 your troops with intelligence and following an own strategy to get an objective with the less number 
 of casualties possible. The campaign is just breathtaking. One of the greatest goals of CoH is 
 its resources system, which forces you to spread your troops all over the map and simultaneously 
 protect several strategic points to be able to enjoy a greater resources supply. The game is perfectly 
 balanced, in part due to the great post-release work done by THQ. In addition, include an awesome 
 troop's cover system joint with an incredible artificial intelligence. At last, with the Opposing 
 Fronts release CoH becomes a complete master piece, with some new graphic options, and new troops 
 to command; and it places CoH as one of the best RTS videogame ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slitherdude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  PROs: Level of detail (audio, video, gameplay) is amazing
  CONs: Too short, high system requirements to fully enjoy
  
  
  
  Company of Heroes (COH) 
 is a refreshing oasis in the midst of a harsh desert. With the plethora of WW2 games out there, 
 COH's offerings separate it from the pack.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is the level of detail on the game's visuals. Bodies flying after 
 being bombarded by mortar, medics struggling to carry their fallen allies, tank gunners panning 
 their heads to look for enemies... it's all beautifully done. If your system can hack it, maxing 
 out the level of detail in this game is truly an experience.
  
  The audio component is no slow poke either. The screams of wounded soldiers elicit just the right 
 amount of panic, and forget about maintaining your poise once the barrage of mortar from destroyers 
 begin to pound your base. The sound of COH brings the already amazing graphics to a whole new level 
 of realism.
  
  The gameplay is also well thought of. The game discourages no-brainer attacks where the player 
 just swarms the enemy with superior troops. Rather, the use of tactics is emphasized by allowing 
 the mightiest units (say, a Panzer tank) to fall under less mighty enemies... if they use their 
 heads. By employing superior tactics (like hitting the tanks from behind) , even a guerilla force 
 can overcome an established stronghold.
  
  There are very few bad things to say about Company of Heroes... in fact, you'll like it so much 
 that it will only highlight the game's glaring flaw -- that there is only one campaign (Allied) 
 and that you'll beg for more. An Axis campaign would have more than doubled the game's enjoyability.
 
  
  The multiplayer AI might also pose some problems. Even on the 'medium' setting, the AI secures 
 strategic points as fast as the cartoony road runner runs... and he can quickly overwhelm you. 
 For a player like me who enjoys 'turtling up' before attacking, this could be problematic.
  
  All in all, Company of Heroes is a great addition to any player's collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerry_123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  this game has nice graphics and every thing in the game is destroyable walls 
  houses it's fun to be able to destroy everything . and the good thing too is that tanks are completely 
 bullet proof unlike "Red Alertso you can smash infantry with your tanks unless they have anti 
 tank missiles. and the tanks are stronger in front and weaker at the rear like real tanks . and 
 what I like too is that soldiers try to evade grenades when thrown at them and not just standing 
 there like an Idiot and get blown up to pieces . and the other thing that I like about this game 
 is that 70% of bullets doesn't hit the enemy just like real humans and the soldiers shout when 
 they are under fire which makes me feel like I'm inside the game . and I also like flanking so 
 I hit with one squad at the front and send the other one from the rear . not to mention that you 
 can pick up weapons that fall from your enemies like Heavy Machine Guns, Panzer Shreiks, Mortars 
 , Assault rifles and even Field cannons . the only things I don't like about this game is that 
 tanks have a very high population points so I think they should have split the population points 
 between tanks and Infantry so that each one has It's own population points limit . and the other 
 thing is that the Skirmish is too hard to play . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArCHAN6EL
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  Company of heroes is a real-time strategy game set in during the second world war. From the beginning 
 you journey with the brave men of Able Company in their fight to eradicate the Nazi menace. To 
 say that Company of Heroes is intense is to undermine it, 'bloody real' is more like it. 
  If you are a hardcore strategy fan not satisfied with the trappings of EA and Blizzard, this is 
 one game that will blow you away.
  
  SINGLEPLAYER
  
  Company of Heroes centres around the brave men of Able company during world war II, the game chronicles 
 their progress from the landings in Normandy during D-Day all the way to the Operation Market Garden. 
 The boys of Able will hunker through an assault on Hill 22, sabotage a V1 Rocket and take the town 
 of Carentan from determined Nazi foes. 
  The game (much like Relic's previous title Dawn of War) uses a point-capturing resource system. 
 However in Company of Heroes, it is not as simple. There are munitions points (for upgrades and 
 special abilities) , supply points and fuel points (vehicles, buildings) 
  Add to this the fact that if any one sector's point is cut off from the chain of supply, its production 
 drops rapidly and you've got an intense game in which your counter-attacking back and forth while 
 trying to launch an offensive aginst well-emplaced, well fortifed opponents. 
  The game engine itself is also worth a mention, possessing graphics akin to a yesteryear FPS, this 
 on an RTS scale makes the game look stunning. Facial animations and little animations bring to 
 life a bunch of otherwise digitized soldiery that most of us wouldn't give two winks about. However, 
 the engine's uses do not end here. Using a real-time physics system the game lets you destory terrain, 
 throw grenades through house windows, and scare the land accurately, as if from a truly realistic 
 war perspective. 
  The campaign spans a good 10-12 hours on the default difficulty. And even then, towards the end 
 of the campign starts to become extremely challenging. The game also ships with a skirmish mode 
 for practicing offline, and provides endless oppourtunities to relive the hectic single player 
 battles and get to grips with the Nazi faction (not playable in the single player campaign)
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  Company of Heroes multiplayer is worth the treat, and offers up plenty of 
 matches at your disposal. There are numerous clans operating, so if you're a newbie you can join 
 up and quickly learn the killing tools necessary to survive online. Interestingly, the game does 
 not allow joint sides for team matches. All players on one side must be Axis, and all on another 
 must be Allies. While this is at times frustrating, from a realistic perspective Nazis fighting 
 with Americans does make little sense. Though it would have been nice to see a Tiger Ace on YOUR 
 own team at some point.
  
  
  VERDICT
  Overall, Company of Heroes is the next logical step for fans of Relic's Dawn of War series, and 
 a must-have for an serious RTS gamer. 
  intense, gritty and sometimes overwhelming, this title screams genius, and demands the utmost tact 
 out of any gamer to succeed. A challenging, creative title that expands on Relic's intelligent 
 understanding of real time strategy mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macpoule
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a surprisingly good RTS situated in the Invasion of Normandy of World War 
 II. The history of World II is outstanding and telling it in this game is really well told.
  Since it is a RTS, it has to have some sort of a strategy formula and CoH cannot have a better 
 one. The resources are: manpower, munitions and fuel. To acquire more of those three resources, 
 the player needs to capture strategic points. There are many strategic points strategically placed 
 in the dozens of skirmish maps.
  The textures, the models, the details and everything that has to do with graphics is outstanding. 
 Everything is extremely well made. Textures are also extremely detailed. This is one of the games 
 where we need to zoom-in the closest level possible to textures to just take a look at them. Zooming-in 
 is kind of addictive.
  The sound of CoH is the best part of this game. They are obviously all World War II sounds. Putting 
 these sounds in CoH is very well made. Lots of sounds are playing at the same time ranging from 
 birds squawking to tanks rolling and artillery pounding the allies or axis. The player knows when 
 artillery is coming because he/she hears the artillery tearing the sky. Voice acting is the opposite 
 of terrible. It is astonishing. Especially in the cinematics where when there is danger, the guys 
 will not speak with a small voice, but instead, shout. Voice packs are well made; when in war, 
 you will not start speaking in a family language but with grumpy words. For example, in war, you 
 will not say ''Move over there,'' instead you'll say ''Move your a**.'' In CoH, it is simply like 
 this.
  There are two factions with various well-balanced units. The buildings are also well varied. There 
 is also defensive structures to built. A new concept in tanks is that the rear, the front and the 
 sides have different damaged HP. The rear is the part to attack to get more HP off the tank and 
 maybe get a damaged engine. Units also have three kinds of cover: Heavy, light and vulnerable.
 
  The campaign has 15 missions with one medal to unlock in each mission. Skirmish has lots of maps 
 ranging from two-player maps to eight-player maps. Multiplayer requires you to have all the patches 
 and each patch is 100+ Mb except for one or two. The last patch is 1.8Gb and not everybody has 
 unlimited downloadable space so not everybody can have this patch to play online.
  Bottom line
  With an intuitive UI, fantastic sounds, outstanding graphics, a great lengthy single-player 
 experience and great multiplayer, it is a MUST for RTS fans even if you dislike world war II RTS'. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeseboy666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Company Of Heroes Just might be the best game i have ever played besides Starcraft. Games with 
 this kind of fun gameplay, superb balancing, and Blizzard worthy patching and online support just 
 dont come around to often. I have only owned it for three weeks, but the game speaks for itself. 
 Combining realistic tactical gameplay with Havok-physics makes for some pretty entertaining games. 
 The pretty little French towns that make up the games terrain will never be the same. 
  COH features one single-player campaign that retells the heroic actions of Able Company from Omaha 
 Beach to the closing of the Falaise gap. The Campaign is challenging, and you will probably want 
 to play it on the easy setting first. The fifteen missions will help improve your skills for multiplayer 
 though, so don't ignore it just cause you want to dive straight into some online action. The mission 
 design is very original, and definitely shows attention to detail. Mission objectives are great. 
 Not once are you told to wipe the Germans off the face of the map. Instead you clear roads, capture 
 strategic points, and take out certain units. The cutscenes are well-done, and pretty entertaining. 
 Seeing a Goliath remote controlled bomb-thingy owning some riflemen big-time is better than "The 
 Earth is depending on you Commander!" any day in my book. 
  Unfortunately, there is no Axis campaign. It makes sense completly, by the end of 1943 there we 
 virtually no victories for the Germans (save for the Disastrous Operation: Market Garden) in WW2. 
 And seeing as how the American one is so well done in mission design and just overall, This can 
 be overlooked, especially since the recent expansion pack includes one for the Panzer Elite. 
 
  Skirmish mode is solid single player fun. The AI makes clever use of the terrain and buildings, 
 and seems to do something different each time. This, coupled with the fact that EVERYTHING ( and 
 when I say everything, I mean everything) on the map is something you can blow to Kingdom Come, 
 make for alot of replayability. With greatly designed maps and not a cookie-cutter in sight, skirmish 
 mode is great fun and practice for...
  Multiplayer. This is what makes COH so great. The game is regularly patched, and with the slick 
 balancing, matches are all the more enjoyable. Not once did I ever think something in the game 
 was broken. Well, except for the strafing run ability. God, that thing is so broken! Anyway, multiplayer 
 is a great experience if your an RTS fan or even just a casual player. Automatching is a breeze, 
 and never takes more than 3 minutes for me. This is what will make you come back for more after 
 your done with the single player COH experience. Much, much more. 
  But at this point you must think I'm a sycophant. Well I'm not. So right now I'll list everything 
 that could use some improvement.:
  1. Strafing run. The strafing run ability available for the Allied Airborne Commander does nothing. 
 Nothing. Half the time I cant even tell that I cast it. Last I checked those planes have eight 
 freakin machine guns on them. So? Whats going on? 
  2. Axis Puma spamming. The Axis AI all to often seems to spam Puma armoured cars in skirmish, along 
 with a lesser extent Stugs. 
  3. Rangers. I dunno. To me, It just seems like when I get a whole bunch of Rangers to go tank hunting, 
 they just die. Everytime. This is a personal opinion mind you. I dont know how other people feel. 
 
  4. Scaling. The graphics in this game are nothing short of epic. But if your like me and play it 
 on mostly minimum settings, then it takes a big dip in looks. Ironically, another Relic game I 
 own, Warhammer 40000 Dawn Of War, looks better than COH just cause of the engine it uses. 
  Overall, COH is an amazing game well worth the 30 bucks it goes up for nowadays. If you got the 
 hardware to support it, and even just an inking of interest in WW2, then buy this game. Now. Come 
 on, stop reading a review that some guy you dont even know wrote. Get Company Of Heroes. You wont 
 regret it. 
  
  
  P. S- This is my first review ever so don't go saying "you suck!" to me. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orasanen95
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  This is a game for those who want a good looking game, a game with a right amount of challenge, a 
 game which is an RTS blood and bone and of course most important it is just fun to play. Of course 
 it has a few downsides but what game doesn`t... I know at this point youll say Knights of the old 
 republic, Medieval Total war 2 or Rise of Nations or World of warcraft or final fantasy 7. I know 
 .... I know I would want to join you myself but I have admitted myself that every game has a glitch 
 or a downside. So back to the main point. If you have founded you belong to this profile and have 
 the right age and you dont already have this game you have two choices.... Get to store and buy 
 the game (unless youre reading this at a time when shops are closed but hey you can order fom 
 internet or then just wait) And other choice..... You can stay here in Gamespot and read others 
 of my perfect rewievs oh its review well you get the point. ( as much as I like this game I recommend 
 the latter) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrbongos
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Real Time Strategy since the days of Battletech for DOS, and Blizzard's second 
 game Warcraft (There was one before that, set in the future, where you fought the orcs in a sci-fi 
 prison, attempting to escape) . I've gone through Command and Conquer, KKND, The Total War series, 
 Warhammer 40k Dawn Of War, etc, et. all. But when I first sat down at my buddy's girlfriend's family 
 home one day I found a game I must have. Being poor at the time I had to wait until within the 
 last month to finally acquire this gem of strategy that is Company of Heroes.
  
  With the ground shaking, the sounds of weapons fire sounding appropriately distant when its far 
 enough off screen, troop chatter strangled by radio interference, and the various little quips 
 one hears while waging war in the 1940s I was blown away, and I've said this for maybe 2 games, 
 by what I was presented with. Now while the WWII genre game is getting -way- overdone, this was 
 refreshing in the fact that it wasn't ANOTHER First Person Shooter. You weren't down there in the 
 dirt with crappy AI who always seem to only be there to get hit by bullets and leave you alone 
 to carry the day, (except for one of the Call of Duty games) But -you- do have the glory of watching 
 your men charge the hill, ducking fire, throwing grenades, spitting, cursing, and panicking when 
 Jonesey that they went through boot with take one in the head and drop cold. 
  
  And finally, a game in WWII that has the shortest invasion of Normandy beach EVER. I think the 
 level took all of 20-30 minutes if you went at it careful and cautious. But the journey, following 
 the trials and tribulations of the actual man, Lt. Conti, of the Able Company division of the US 
 Army in WWII is a bloody, seat gripping, thrill ride. Taking you through real conflicts on the 
 French front of World War 2, that this man led to the success of the closing of the Falaise Pocket 
 near 3 months after June 6th when the American, British, and Canadian forces invade on the various 
 shores of western France.
  
  The only drawbacks to this game is that when an enemy force holds building you cannot send your 
 own men in to engage and capture the structure, vehicles couldn't just run down enemy forces (with 
 the exception of the Sherman tank equipped with chain whips) , often enemy AI wouldn't turn to move 
 heavy weapons to engage flank maneuvers, and that Axis bunkers must be destroyed rather than captured. 
 In this game... thats about all I found faltering. Not bad for a guy who scrutinizes the games 
 he plays nearly constantly. If I missed something, then Relic and THQ did a damn good job of covering 
 them up. 
  
  But the AI is top notch, combined with the rag-dolling of forces when their KOed... or their vicious 
 chunkification when slapped with an artillery shell. Lets go, for example, into my foray into Cherborg. 
 Taking the western front of the Axis controlled French city, I positioned forces behind a wall, 
 two tanks, four rifle squads, two .30 cal machine guns and two mortar teams. Knowing where the 
 Nazi forces were, I pounded my tanks through the wall and was surprised when the AI didn't just 
 turn to fire, but I heard a German accented voice shout "Ze Amerikanner are breaking shrough ze 
 wallz! Get to cover!" and the enemy squad did, moving to get behind a rubble pile before engaging 
 my units. For so long I had been used to the AI controlled troops to simply turn and begin firing 
 at their imminent death. What would have taken a couple of seconds to go through in other games 
 ended up as a 10 minute firefight, as panzershreck fire forced me to back off my tanks and gave 
 the Nazi forces just long enough to bring up Volksgrenadiers with panzerfaust, and a trio of .30 
 cal squads of their own. The sheer volume of battlefield chance is immense. Especially when spotters 
 for mortar barrage survive long enough to get a few of your squads bull's eyed, or when a round 
 from your Sherman tank ricochets off of a rock and hits the jeep you have scouting instead of slamming 
 into the Stug you've been hunting.
  
  This is also one of the first games I can recall where you, the commander, gets experience for 
 what the unit is doing in the field, allowing you to access the various special maneuvers of the 
 Airborne, Armor, and Infantry divisions, sending in paratroopers, the dreaded Sherman Calliope 
 barrage batter, or the formidable American Howitzer artillery. As well as the various Axis bonuses 
 in skirmish (God I hate fighting tiger kings and panthers... but I love using them) 
  
  It was also quite nice to hear soldiers talking like soldiers. Not cheap Bravo! Go go! Take alpha! 
 Move! But to hear, "Ok boys, we're moving... Johnson tie your F**CKING LACES!" or in some instants 
 "We've got automatic fire! MOVE GO! GET THE F**CK OUT OF HERE!" I only wish there had been more 
 chatter between units when idle rather than the, unfortunate, stock 5 or 6 conversation snatches 
 you'd hear. 
  
  Action is fast and heavy when it happens, bullets fly, shells drop, grenades land when you least 
 want them too, and units get pinned by suppression fire when you would've preferred they charge 
 the field to put a grenade into the machine gun nest you were storming. Realism is extreme, you 
 assault a sandbag entrenched with infantry? If there isn't decent cover you're going to lose a 
 good number of your squad on open ground. Artillery aimed at you, or the enemy, hits a building 
 instead, the side of the building is blown out, a corner blown off, and shrapnel hits the ground 
 that can send a speeding motorcycle or jeep out of control and flip over, its happened to me at 
 least. And of course the fact that if you send infantry at a tank without so much as using grenades, 
 bazookas, or stolen panzershrecks, you're going to have one dead infantry unit. 
  
  The lack of in game music was a good tactical choice, being able to hear units moving towards you 
 through the fog of war, and gives prudence to paying attention to the world and not the tunes, 
 no matter how good the music is for the game. Friends of mine who've been in the military were 
 wowed by the fact that the Browning Automatic Rifles (BARS) .30 cal machine guns, .50 cal anti-air 
 guns, and so on sounded like the real thing, so that there is a good inclination of how much digging 
 Relic did for their sound effects. 
  
  I was also rather impressed that when an infantry unit became veteran, they gained more than just 
 hit points. You'll note an increase in accuracy, terrain negotiation, and better movement under 
 fire, reducing casualties, which can be replaced when near HQ or at field barracks you can set 
 up in the midst of the combat grounds, an ability I've seen before only in Warhammer 40k Dawn of 
 War. Which brings up a note: I've heard many complaining about the strategic point system of the 
 game, and how short on supplies you can quickly become... Um, in war situations, especially WWI, 
 WWII, Korea, and Nam, taking and holding sections of the battlefield were essential to unit supply 
 lines and pushing the enemy back to either force retreat, or a tactical error through desperation. 
 The lack of supplies is also quite correct, as combat zones are especially short on supplies, since 
 their being fired at the enemy as fast possible. The reason manpower is the most plentiful of resources 
 in the game is because of all things had in world war II manpower was the one thing they had plenty 
 of. Soldiers on call to do work, ammo and fuel being much shorter in ready stock, unless you could 
 manage a few days, or hours, of lull between firefights.
  
  And finally the fact that they used a real army unit for the main 'character' of the game was phenomenal, 
 from Able company's taking of hill 192 in the aftermath of the destruction of Charlie company, 
 to the hunting of Tiger Ace Shultz after the destruction of the Panzer Lehr division. Living history, 
 rather than doing an impression of it. 
  
  If you don't have this game, and have the system to run it. GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Micromanagement. That's the name of the game. Remember the old days of Age of Empires? Build up 
 your base, attack the enemy base, done... (ok, a little bit more complicated than that if you played 
 against a decent opposition, but the main concept was always the same) . That's all in the past, 
 as Company of Heroes brings whole new depths into the Real Time Strategy genre.
  
  
  If you DO try the old build up and assault strategies, you'll find yourself without an army halfway 
 through to the enemy base (if there is a central base) . Snipers and Machine Gunners can wipe out 
 entire infantry squads in a matter of seconds, mines and artillery emplacements can take out a 
 whole line of tanks just as quickly... It's all about strategic positioning, and I think I speak 
 for the whole nation of RTS fans when I say we were dying for this feature to finally come into 
 the spotlight.
  
  
  The end result of a battle will (for I guess the first time in RTS) be almost entirely dependent 
 on your ability to lead your troops. No matter how strong the opposition is, it can be countered, 
 and in many occasions by the weakest of troops. If well covered, an infantry squad can destroy 
 a Panzer tank. If well placed, a machine gun crew can hold off the enemy advance long enough for 
 reinforcements to arrive. It's all about finding the proper cover, establishing command posts in 
 key locations, and knowing where to place each type of soldier so they can be of greater use.
 
  
  
  You truly are a Captain in this game, not a General. A General leads through his lower officers, 
 as a Captain deals with issues directly... In COH, you deal with the details, you follow your orders 
 through, by the blood of your men, the true responsible for winning a war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxMidgetxxJ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  People would say this game is one of the best rts's. But the fact that some people out there aren't 
 as fortunate to have good computers and good graphic cards like me. Well I have a vista comp and 
 graphics are obviously terrible and I don't know what computers people have.
  
  But besides that its hard to recommend as I don't even play it. This game is very hard especially 
 online, I only win by luck. Its weird how you guys say its very strategic as I see people just 
 spam pio's or just capture bases and camp until u have tanks and bomb their base. 
  
  It takes forever to play an online game or even just a game as I don't have much time but people 
 with alot of time its worth playing this game. Maybe I don't aprecciate the fact that you can't 
 just camp, YOU HAVE TO GO OUT THERE AND CAPTURE FLAGS. I love rushing to bases and blowing resourses 
 up instead of capturing flags. Its boring.
  
  Only 2 classes and both are pretty even. I always have online problems and disconnect. So I suggest 
 any people with vista not to get this game. 
  
  Hard to recommend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchihataru
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  well i just got my new graphic card 8600gt and it had company of heroes in it as a package.. so 
 i thought to myself why not give it a shot.. so i did.. and.. i got addicted... im playing this game 
 for like 3 hours a day and i love it.. the unit detail is amazing.. the movement of the armies are 
 just right and there are many diffrent types of unit like paratroopers, tanks, or artillery .. alot 
 of of it... however, the downside of it is that.. the first mission which was D-day.. didn't have alot 
 of soldiers running to the shingle which disappointed me.. i thought that there was going to be 
 like a few hundred men running up the beach but there was only like 30-50?.. well its still a wonderful 
 game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertoleyva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  i have been playing this game, at the first, the graphics and gameplay are great, after some minutes 
 playing... the sound, the actions, everyhting is great...
  definitevely its different gameplay give us a hard moment to learn it, but with some prractice, 
 it is done.
  
  but it is a shame that only 2 factions, really poor in this, and the lobg periods to load, are 
 also very disgusting...
  and sometimes, yes sometimes !! i can really get so frustrated for the ai, sometimes they are very 
 tough !!
  
  it is one of the games any good rts fan would buy, must buy !
  enjoy it partners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death5ter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Historically they say, youve probably fed up to a game which have a WW2 story, albeit in an RTS 
 or in a FPS genre. Same old story as they say, beating the Nazis is a well flavored action stories 
 this days or in the past years that came. Well, CoH have this storyline too, (ouch) by first arriving 
 at the Normandy beachheads and attempting to be a part of the largest amphibious invasion in military 
 history then rallying your troops through famous and not so famous battles in inland France and 
 across of Europe. As a non traditional style of RTS, gathering resources were a bit twisted just 
 the same in DoW 40K (Relic also made them) by capturing certain strategic points scattered on the 
 map instead of cutting wood or mining minerals you are required to capture immediately 3 resources 
 (manpower, ammo, fuel) . Requisition points and building them with observation post to cut those 
 troop upkeeps were vital to escalate your war needs, ergo you have an intense style of gameplay. 
 (Boom, Boom, Boom)
  
  With its 15 single player missions, (I finish it in a day) decent though you will graphically experience 
 aside from the eyecandy you have an intense and brutal battles that youve not yet experience before 
 in an RTS genre. Bodies and debris came flying, multiple devastation, the pounding of artillery 
 strike are so beautiful to behold while in the game. Single player AI in the Veteran difficulty 
 proved to be tough and memorable in the 13th mission Mortain Counterattack.
  
  The sound are so Perfect, even if you have a 2.1 speaker setup my room mates just kept asking on 
 what film im digging to watch at nights.
  
  Good
  RTS style+Great Sounds+Excellent Graphics = Great Game to delight and to lick again another WW2 
 RTS game
  
  Bad
  No Axis Campaigns
  Game Menus are a bit large 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzo1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  Company of heroes is my favourite strategy game ever. There is nothing bad about this game. The 
 explosions and graphics are fantastic and the game is very challenging. I love playing multiplayer 
 and after playing this game for about a year i have never had a crash, bug or glitch. When playing 
 the campaign even on the normal difficulty i really need to think 3 steps ahead of my opponent 
 and thats what I expected. The only negative thing about the game is that most of the levels should 
 of been just like the first level but that does not really matter too much. Anyway this is a great 
 game that you should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lois123456789
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  epa jogei o jogo e ta memo xelente, fdx e k nao da pa acreditar, nas explos&otilde; es e td o resto 
 ... mas so falta uma coixa, mas divercidade nos veiculos, mas de resto ta memo bacano. Comandar 
 os nazis &eacute; memo xelente, entao e os snipers sao fracotes mas mete uma pica ver os gajos 
 a darem gandas headshots nos outros e o sangue a xorrar e o caralho memo loco. Melhor k mt k tentam 
 mas nao conseguem por ex o age empires simplesmente perdeu a mistica, tornou-se num jogo secante 
 e de dificil aprendizaxem, pois ate conseguirmos saber o k fazer fdx vouta contar ainda bem k nao 
 comprei mas tambem um gajo hoje em dia so saca ou pede a um amigo
  my friends hasta
  peace in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duduong
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  The original COH was great, until this expansion comes out. Opposing Fronts is extremely buggy. 
 The game freezes all the time. Worse, after you kill the frozen game, it won't recognize your DVD 
 any more. So, you have to reinstall it. Worse yet, the updates cannot be downloaded into your hard 
 drive, so you will have to wait for the 200MB download every time you do the reinstallation. If 
 you think this is frustrating enough, you have not seen half of it yet. The Panzer Elite faction 
 in this expansion was made super strong, as in the super human sense. Even a newbie playing Panzer 
 Elite can easily, and I mean easily, defeat a veteran of the original game. I suppose the vendor 
 wants to make sure you buy the new package instead of staying with the old COH. To make sure you 
 absolutely do not have that option, they also force you to play against Panzer Elite in multiplayer 
 setting. There is no way to opt out!
  
  And to add insult to injury, they sell the expansion pack as a stand-alone , i. e. full price. After 
 I bite the bullet and pay up, I realize that I still cannot get the great gaming experience back 
 because everyone else in the multiplayer lobby wants to play Panzer Elte, and two such players 
 cannot play against each other. So, I either have to join the other 17 players in waiting for a 
 clueless canon fodder to come along, or I have to be that canon fodder. Either way, it is no fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Name654321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game showed me just how awful war is. I watched as my troops bravely ran up the beach only 
 to get shot down by several nazis from above. This made it all the more satisfying when i killed 
 the bastards. The way Company of Heroes sets the scene with its beautiful cutscenes makes it seem 
 important that you complete your missions, and it makes it all the more bitter when just one of 
 your men die.
  
  The graphics are incedible, the detail on your soldiers and tanks, the destroyed houses and fantastic 
 effects make everything so immersive .
  GRAPHICS - 96%
  
  The gameplay is great, the sniper shooting an enemy soldier is as satisfying as the perfect headshot 
 on Counter-Strike. Every minute of this is pure fun (except when my PC can't handle it) . Strategy 
 is everything, you could complete each mission with few to zero casualties. Each class is has good 
 weak points and strong points. I find the experiance to be unnecasary and just makes it more complecated 
 ( you earn experiance for kills etc. and can get things by doing this ) . The game is quite easy 
 though, so for hardcore players you won't find it too challening.
  GAMEPLAY - 90%
  
  The controls are good, pretty much the same as most RTSs, nothing special. The layout of the abilities 
 and map is good and it is easy to find and use special attacks or build defenses. Nothing innovative. 
 You can't change the layout like you can in SupCom.
  Controls and Layout - 86%
  
  Company of Heroes is great value, you're gonna get alot of playtime having fun with the missions 
 and skirmishes and you get a free copy of Warhammer 40k: Dawn of War ( however, once you get bored 
 of CoH you won't find DoW refreshing ) .
  Value - 100%
  
  This game feels right, and is as rewarding as it is fun, buy it! Overall Score - 95% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NAMAN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  This is a huge jump forward in online strategy gaming as far as I am concerned. This game sets 
 a new bar for strategy titles. It has incredible graphics, good sound, great gameplay. This game 
 is intense, exciting and just plain fun. I have actually played all missions then went back to 
 play them again and try to win the medals for secondary goals during each mission. I play almost 
 every night online and I am completely addicted. The game is a must have for any serious strat 
 gamer. It could have used a few more 8 player maps, but other than that I cannot think of anything 
 more to add to the game. It is close to perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  I usually am not a huge player of rts games, but once in a while, i will buy one for something 
 different. this one had been getting pretty good reviews, and was on sale at future shop, so i 
 decided to buy it. I was amazed immidiatly by the detailed graphics and destructible environments. 
 The gameplay was challenging but satisfying. the sound was incredible, especially how when you 
 are far away on the map from combat, you can hear it over the radio. The campaign is a good length, 
 and there are tons of skirmish maps ranging from 2 to 8 players to have fun with. Compared to other 
 rts games, this one will kick you in the behind if you don't think about almost every move you 
 make. i lost many skirmishes even with the enemy a. i. on easy. It's very historically accurate, 
 i was informed by a friend who is a historian at the age of 16. overall, it's probably the best 
 rts i've played (save WIC) , and i urge any rts fan to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_dangelo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  company of hereos is a ww2 based RTS. And i know all of you will say oh boy anohter ww2 game... why 
 odn thtey jsut leave it alone... well this isnt a FPS.... the graphics are DX9 and DX10, and it has 
 decent hardware requirements for both ends.. allowing for midrange to hihg end users with great 
 graphics and physics.
  
  the single player campaign focuses on missions that are based after the ohama and utah d-day landings.... you 
 play as able company (airborne infantry) and fight the nazis through historically accurate stories.
 
  
  the online multiplayer in this game is great.. not much lag an dthe game will allow u to vote to 
 kick laggy players out... the community and friends lists are structured very well and many units 
 and amps are added throughout patches that the very dedicated dev. relic puts out... all and all 
 this is a great fps... but very different from age of empires... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  If i didn't write a review for this awesome game its a huge mistake. No doubt its one of the best 
 RTS games i've ever played. Its a all rounder story, gameplay everything. Usually im not very much 
 into Strategic games i would say but there are few which i always appreciate, and this is one of 
 those. No matter how many WWII games i've played, i always like them specially the OMAHA beach 
 scenario i think i have played in many games but still i fell in love with this game because its 
 different. Starting off with graphics as usual, i would say impressive .... the maneuverability 
 of units with the ability to control the camera is pretty neat .... overall look ... in terms of 
 environment and explosions and the rest were just great and in my opinion doesn't require heavy 
 resources as well. The only thing lacking here is the time change / day night change and the weather 
 which is added later by a patch it seems. The story is something which we already know through 
 other games and movies ... and so on but it was presented nicely and the transformation of that 
 real scenario into the gameplay is successful. Each mission contains different objectives where 
 many strategies can be employed to achieve the same objective. Very dynamic and i highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who prefers Strategic games. The game is challenging and side medals adds more 
 into it. However, after reading the expansion pack details i real think that would be a complete 
 game without any disappointments :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacen_G
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This is one game you should not miss out on.
  
  First of all, Company of Heroes is innovative and intense. Even at minimum settings it still looks 
 awesome. This is a game none like the other RTS. In CoH, you have to think of the entire battlefield 
 not just the enemy's base. There are resource points that you must capture. Controlling more of 
 the map brings you more resource basically. However, each map has its own hazards and special environments 
 that could be helpful or give the enemy the edge. For example, when a tank crosses a swamp, it 
 is a sitting duck to anti-tank guns. A high building gives a sniper an eagle eye view over the 
 grounds.
  
  The graphics is simply perfect. It requires state of the art systems to get the most out of it. 
 If you use the in-game zoom to see a close-up of an individual character at highest quality, you 
 can easily understand the amount of hard work Relic has put into Company of Heroes. to as Every 
 single object is destructible! No games are ever the same.
  
  The artificial intelligence is superior. When in battle, a line of defence is very difficult to 
 hold. The AI knows where and when to cut of supplies. It is amazing seeing how two enemy squads 
 engage in combat. The AIs in CoH are very intelligent; they use their environment to their advantage. 
 They will find cover behind rubble, a fence, or up on a perch of a building.
  
  Company of Heroes is the best strategy game ever made.
  Cant wait to get Company of Heroes: Opposing 
 Fronts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  RTS fans would want to have this game at all costs because this particular game thrives on tactics 
 and planning rather than base building and resource gathering. it is a very challenging game with 
 superb graphics which would make you drool all over :P but all that comes at the price of having 
 stronger hardware if you want it to look absolutely cool. No wonder it won the game of the year 
 award because it offers a lot of fun while playing on LAN or Internet. Variety of maps and units 
 makes this WW2 based RTS game amazing and a must have for any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussieboy911
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  COH is an exceptional RTS: its one of the first RTS games to actually feature decent graphics among 
 other things, it has an interesting campaign and flawless multiplayer.
  
  one of my few problems with COH is how small the units list is: riflemen, machinegunners, mortar, 
 sniper, halftrack, armoured car, AT gun, m8 antitank, sherman and croc sherman.
  
  this may sound like a big list but when compared with games like Age of Mythology...... the list 
 is pitiful!!!
  
  and although the incredible graphics represent war more realiksticly than they have ever been before, 
 the maps just dont work right: in wars you have fronts of battle, with trenches separating them. 
 although most RTS games have some sort of resource gathering, you wouldnt find a general losing 
 because he needs 100 more manpower to bring out that pershing.... or tiger ace... so although i 
 prefer the strategic point resource gathering style to the old style of games like Age Of Mythology, 
 it doesnt seem relevant to a game of this setting. battles of WW2 werent won by taking the enemies 
 strategic points- they were won by strategically placing units around the battlefield to surround 
 or cut-off or rush over.
  
  overall i say its the best RTS of 2006 but does not accurately portray how battles would have been 
 fought on the way to berlin.
  
  Graphics: 10/10- the best graphics ever in an RTS
  
  Sound: 9/10- fantastic explosions and gunfire, loved the talkback from the units (doesnt get annoying)
 
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10- allies and axis are balanced well and strategic point battles are more exciting 
 than old resource gathering ways
  
  Replay Value: 8/10- great multiplayer but slightly short campaign.
  
  Overall: 89.9% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fsleeper
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 11, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  I loved the first game - the details and in cases the strategy required to some degree.
  
  It appears that in order to try and make the game *harder* - instead of coming up with a way to 
 increase the need for real strategy and associated complexity, the makers have attempted to implement 
 this by employing the hated approach: SPAM Mobs (UGGGG) - i. e....
  
  &gt; Force the user to find a way to build as fast as possible just to hold off the spam of infantry 
 or tanks running at you at some points. It's a quick - stack up the units in the build queue and 
 try to last through the spam of tanks, infantry game - mission after mission - wee...
  
  Too bad - With the first game I really, really enjoyed the capability to try and think about how 
 you want to proceed toward a specific objective.
  
  What I was REALLY hoping for (with version 2) was more units (and at the same time) , more zoom 
 control and it would be AWESOME to be able to SLOW the game down - not for advantage - but just 
 because I LOVE to be able to have the opportunity to zoom WAY in and actually look at the great 
 graphics and enjoy the awesome animations, etc. Now THAT would be fun.
  
  Playing on Expert all the way through the game was OK, but one mission was ridiculous on the spam 
 so I had to turn it down there - it just got old. Another issue - very large save game size. Well 
 - 25meg or so - not terrible, but if you like to save a lot, either don't or have a wealth of space 
 - and be patient.
  
  Finally, I REALLY don't like the requirement to enter your version 1 game CD Key in order to unlock 
 the special mission (s) . If you're like me, you have kids - and they like to loose things - i. e. 
 - your version 1 game CD case. It would be far preferable to have your keys online (like this install) 
 that other installs could simply reference - versus forcing you to find your old games CD Key. 
 Maybe this functionality IS built in and it's just not working for me? i. e. - time for a call to 
 Customer Service to see what we can work out... (like that's going to help) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinese_J3ST3R
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is the best World War 2 RTS out there and no other game out right now will ever 
 be able to do what it has done for the RTS genre. It brings back the intensity of war to your computer 
 with its great graphics and great game play. The detail in the graphics are very very well done 
 they few could match its graphics and its game play. When playing skirmish the A. I alone will amaze 
 and how the units will react and talk as you give them commands. I would undoubtedly recommend 
 this game to anyone who has a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzaneski
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  There's no denying that this game is in fact, totally awesome. There are many things to say about 
 CoH so I'll organize it for you.
  
  Singleplayer Campaign - 9.5
  The campaign mode is excellent, there are plenty of worthwhile hours in all of it's 16 missions. 
 Missions in this game usually take me 1-2 hours each to complete on hard mode, and even though 
 I'm not the best RTS player out there, this game can sometimes be incredibly frustrating. On hard 
 difficulty I would often be bogged down in a stalemate that would take me a while to get out of. 
 The story is mediocre, but it does add a nice sense of purpose.
  
  Multiplayer - ??
  I'm not going to rate the multiplayer section, mostly because I haven't been able to join a game. 
 The online service relic has, to me, is very inefficient. You must create an account in order to 
 play which is a nuisance. After I created my account I got into the game room. The community seems 
 overall friendly but like most RTS games, if you're new to the game you'll have a tough time finding 
 game rooms that will let you play. I spent probably a full hour searching for a game. Most of them 
 were too laggy to even join, or people would boot me for unknown reasons. After I was finally able 
 to join a game, most of the people in the lobby we're AFK or just unresponsive and wouldn't hit 
 the ready button. So after 20 or so minutes of waiting for people to come back from dinner I decided 
 to give up.
  
  Skirmish Mode - 8.0
  Skirmish mode is basically singleplayer but just quick instant matches with computers, these can 
 be really fun but they isn't much to say about them.
  
  Graphics - 10
  The graphics couldn't be better and the physics are amazing. Almost everything is destructible 
 which makes for some very dynamic gameplay. For example if the only enterance to your enemy's base 
 is blocked by a bunch of MG nests, you can simply use a tank of rocket to blast through a wall 
 to flank him. Overall this game is amazing, and it definately should be placed as one of the best 
 RTS's ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeterna789
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  This is a great RTS game with an absolutely amazing gameplay, this is not your traditional RTS 
 because of the squad based infantry with an intelligent AI. Playing this game will make you redesign 
 your RTS strategy. The attempt on Realism also takes the game to the next level. Tanks are invulnerable 
 against gunfire (like they should be) , Infantry takes cover if under fire (like they should be) , 
 different and unique voices for every unit gives the battlefield life. An almost fully destructible 
 terrain and ambient lighting places you in 1944 war torn Europe, in such detail. Of course you 
 cant avoid the occasional bugs and lack of additional features like melee combat when in close 
 combat. Another downfall of the game is the lack of an Axis campaign which restricts your campaign 
 experience to only the allied side. But overall the game is one of the best RTS to date and I recommend 
 it to all RTS fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw the visuals for COH it was mind blowing. It was one of the best looking rts i 
 ever played. The different unit types are pretty cool, but there are a few bugs to deal with. Sometime 
 when a unit picks up a weapon he instantly dies. Overall the gameplay is very fun and will have 
 you playing for hours straight. Another cool thing is fully destructible terrain. You can use almost 
 anything you find for cover or you can blow up or destroy almost everything you see. The mechanic 
 of this game is pretty smart because you have to capture strategic points to obtain resources instead 
 of collecting it like in other rts games. The audio is pretty solid too, the sounds of gun shots 
 or the screaming of your men in battle sounds very realistic. Overall this game is a pretty looking 
 game and is very fun that will keep you playing for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theblackdouglas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant, superb, fantastic, I could go on and on the best RTS I have ever played and believe me 
 I've played and completed most.
  
  Ok I reviewed call of duty3 earlier on (check it out) and as I was saying there are too many world 
 war 2 themes (games) but hey who cares who your fighting in an RTS cause you'v e got to be fighting 
 and killing somebody so who cares if it's germans again cause this RTS is the best I have have 
 ever played. FACT!
  
  There are only two drawbacks that I can find, you play the Americans to fight the Germans there's 
 nobody else no Russians , no French, no British but I hear theres an expansion pack coming out 
 soon (opposing force which includes the British and the Russians) .
  The thing is to appreciate the pure graphically beauty of the game with fast gameplay you do need 
 a very high end pc to appreciate this. This is the best RTS at the moment and I seriously recommend 
 it , i can only say this RTS has taken RTS 's to another dimension and I must say that any Games 
 company making an RTS right now will have to do a lot to beat this one.............. Let this be 
 a learning curve to you!
  
  Judging by this game........... (company of heroes) is a huge leap forward for the strategy fan 
 and from now on I feel with what Relic have done with this,,, RTS games are only going to get even 
 better from now on . A true Leap forward from all the Rest .................. A MMMMMasterpiece 
 should I hasten to add but more of a RTS revolution!
  
  
  P. s At time of this Review World at Conflict is available and as yet I haven't played or Reviewed 
 it but I do hear it could be better than Company of Heroes but just remember where the new leap 
 forward came from 1st. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  As a hard core RTS player, I must admit I reluctantly bought this game, pulled into it by the wonderful 
 reviews from both, players and PC gaming websites alike. I usually try to avoid too hyped RTS games 
 after my big disappointment with Rise of Nations (didnt like it at all, repetitive and too complex 
 micro management to enjoy it) , but this time I gave in
  
  And Im glad I did. Company of Heroes is by no doubt one of the best RTS games ever made, with 
 a simple yet challenging game play superb graphics and tons of action and fast play, common on 
 FPS but not that common on RTS. If you add that I am a real fan of WWII games, this game is very 
 close to perfection. Ive been playing it for about two months and I still enjoy it very much, 
 sometimes doing the same missions over and over again using different strategies to see what happen. 
 Even if the results are the same, this a very open game that you can play the way its best suits 
 you
  
  If you play this game on a Vista-DX10 environment, you are in for a very nice surprise on explosions 
 and fights that look amazingly real, and 3D effects you probably havent seen before. Granted, 
 you will need a relatively powerful PC with at least an Nvidia 8800 series card (or ATI equivalent) 
 and a fast CPU to run this game at all its beauty and- stable enough, but you wont be disappointed 
 at the results if you spend some money to view this game at if best. But, in any case, the game 
 still run very nice at lower resolutions and effects, and the game play is basically unaffected 
 by not having a high end PC
  
  In summary, a game that for sure RTS fans cant miss, and not so fond of the genre will enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navinagx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the visuals, just two words: JAW DROPPING! possibly the best visuals that i have 
 seen for any RTS so far. There are some games like world in conflict that have some better effects 
 and stuff but overall more attention has been paid to almost every detail in company of heroes.
 
  
  The game play is also very very addictive. the missions aren't very linear and are fun to play. 
 there are some problems with vehicle AI though as they tend to be quite poor at pathfinding.
  
  overall it's a must have game for any RTS fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaNemesis28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  CoH brings the RTS genre to light as you take command over WW2 and every aspect of it.
  
  We'll start with the graphics. If you haven't already I recommend you update to the latest 1.6GB 
 Patch as it revamps the graphics, menus, and some gameplay stuff. The graphics ORIGINALLY were 
 great, but now they are even more awsome and detailed in DX9. Wanna know about DX10? Well, it's 
 amazing that they could actually take a DX9 game and make it DX10 with a single patch. And yes, 
 it's a difference in both performance and graphics.
  
  The gameplay starts up long and tedious work attempting to roll out the troops and move faster 
 then the ever increasing speed of the CPU enemy but always ends in a rewarding, strategic, fun 
 game. For anyone who likes RTS, this game just right for you. Same goes for the history fanatics 
 too as the game has a very accurate vision and visuals for a WW2 based game. The story, location, 
 vehicles, weapons, ect are spot on and couldn't have made better.
  
  The one thing that drags this game is the repetitive and slow game play that starts the game off. 
 Even in Single player, worse in Multiplayer. You can either get very used to it or get very sick 
 of it depending on how you respond to this.
  
  The Multiplayer is very full fulling as there is plenty of maps, and more coming each day, with 
 plenty of gameplay options.
  
  The sound track is very rich and the effects are crisp making the perfect sound you can ever ask 
 for especially with a high end sound card. In speaking of high-end hardware, I found this game 
 to work perfectly find at Medium settings DX9 on a very slow, old laptop of mine. I was surprised 
 quite frankly as I didnt even expect it to turn on after installation but I was able to do a scrim 
 without any serious lag. Obviously, you're gonna get more out of it from higher end hardware but, 
 as long as its playable - it's playable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_lim81x
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I've review this game before and it was great. It worth to be the editor choice! But not until 
 they came along with expansion and all their updated patch, this game totally turn into chaos! 
 Before the new patch arrive, there was already a game improvement on system performance. After 
 you have download and installed their patch, you will notice a bit different. (Trust me if you 
 are running a mid-low end pc you will know what i mean.) there's an option to unlock the two series 
 once you brought their games and i say it was rubbish. My point of view is do not focus on the 
 expansion or rather than stick around with your first CoH. Here's the message to Relic, if you 
 want to prove yourself worthy, pls act one now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron3i
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  RELIC shows that how far can go RTS genre. This is one of the best game of year 2006 and definitely 
 number one strategy games for WW2.
  
  GOOD: AI is really impressive. Unit looks good. Story is not quite but ok. Good feelings of war. 
 Littlebit realistic. New resource system. Tutorial is effective. Graphics is excellent. Lots of 
 action available.
  
  BAD: Only two major types of units. Play with only US (allied) side. Need more missions. No need 
 for unit combination, because TANKS can do the all jobs. Custom game mode is not impressive (My 
 opinion) .
  
  Company Of Heroes done a good job. Thanks to RELIC for give some new direction and taste to Strategy 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reno7728
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has taken it's hold on my life. It takes hours of my time online because so often you 
 get into an epic ww2 battle with other people. It's not that you can't stop it's thata you don't 
 want to let down yor team mates. The campaign is equally good and takes up your early time. I also 
 love how the destructive buildings which makes the (dissapointingly) small amount of maps always 
 replayable. i also think that this game revolutionises the world war 2 rts genre. Finally this 
 game is almost perfect but it's lack of factions maps and deviation just knock it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  Company of Heros is the breakthrough RTS game we have all been waiting for. If the extremely high 
 reviews (PC Gamer 96%, IGN 9.4 Gamespot 90 and so on) do not impress you than take my word for 
 it. This is the best game to come out in years, let alone RTS. Why is this game so good? Let me 
 explain.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on this game are extremely astounding. The characters are greatly detailed, 
 the terrain is vivid and alive, and the explosions make me duck for coverok maybe I dont duck 
 for cover but you know what I mean. The games graphics set it aside from any other RTS game to 
 date, and its definitely this games high point. Not to mention the game has a TON of cut scenes 
 through the campaign, and they are a joy to watch and add to the emotional experience.
  
  One of the most impressive things about this game is the terrain and what happens to it. When a 
 game is fresh, trees stand tall and buildings tower over the ground. At the end of the game trees 
 are toppled and buildings are desolated. Everything in the environment can be destroyed, thanks 
 to your clicking finger.
  
  Sound:
  Brilliant sounding fire fights, explosions make my house shake. Its extremely well polished and 
 crisp. The squads will cry, scream, yell, curse, encourage, and cheer. The sound is perfect in 
 this game.
  
  Computer AI: Computer AI has always been a low point in RTS games. The AI in Company of Heros 
 is so good, that I spent most of my games in skirmishes and not online. The computer feels very 
 smart but not to the point where its cheating. The AI flanks you, dodges grenades, and just overall 
 fun as hell to play against.
  
  Multiplayer/Online: When I buy RTS games I buy them to play online. Most the time I dont even 
 play campaigns (but I made an exception for this game, because the campaign is so original and 
 fun) . So my biggest concern was whether the online play would be fun and lag free or laggy and 
 lame. Ive played 5 online games and experienced no lag at all. Online play is as smooth as playing 
 single player, and the online interface is clear and easy to navigate. Ive 100% pleased with everything 
 about the multiplayer. Its about time a game got it right!
  
  Well there you go, thats just a sample of the great things to expect in Company of Heros. There 
 are so many more things I could sit here and write about, but frankly I want to get back to the 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freestyle16
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Puts the strategy into RTS. GOTY no doubt. Revolutionary.. and possibly the best strategy game 
 to ever come onto the PC. So many different tactics to use and your strategy depends on what the 
 opponent is doing. You have to position yourself, adapt and use STRATEGY to win the game. It's 
 not about a nuclear arms race or hording massive weapons. Not only that.. comebacks can be common 
 unlike most strategy games. Near perfect balance and it's hard to find a useless unit in this game. 
 You need a good comp to run this baby, but well worth it because it looks beautiful. Anyways that's 
 all I have to say and just trying to fill up space to get to 100words now.. blah blah blah blah.. 
 see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  all right..
  opening words.. (HAVEN'T COMPLETED THE GAME YET!)
  this game is totally amazing! i've never come across any RTS in the world that has a GRIPPING STORYLINE 
 and AMAZING VOICE CAST and the FEELING OF LOST (such when Capt. Sam Mackay got K. I. A)
  and the Realism of WAR is really portrait into this game like hell!
  (playing this game.. i was 
 like RYAN! RYAN! Capt Miller! Capt Miler! Sergeant Horvath! -SAVING PRIVATE RYAN-)
  
  KUDOS TO RELIC FOR MAKING AN EPIC GAME FROM AN EPIC TIME!..
  
  Storyline- Driven by amazing 
 voice cast!.. i don know who they are. but they are damn talented to give a sense of grit and fear 
 in the war. and the storyline itself is the main point on which the u can't stop apply. this is 
 not just a regular RTS since it didn't focus on any 1 character (something like COMMAND &amp; CONQUER: 
 TIBERIUM WARS. all the characters are like in a safe situation where they can't be killed and didn't 
 have anything to say to the troops that died) such as those guys in D-Day.. a lil briefing and all 
 shot to death. and how that guy (forget who) says how come able is always shot first? den another 
 guy said nah! its you who are in the front shot first and both got sniped. it focuses on 1 character 
 that u feel sadden that they're gone. 11/10 for this!
  
  Graphics- Its damn good!.. the frame-rates are stable and the detail is almost perfect! the M4 Shermans 
 are modeled to perfection! and the CGI for D-Day and Capt. Mackay's death are absolutely stunning 
 thou i would love to have more of that! 9/10!
  
  Sound- Need i say more?. its astounding! like for example. if u click on an infantry on screen 
 it'll say it thru voice. but click it offscreen and it'll be Radio'd. cool!. and from the empty-ing 
 of shells and buildings crumpling down. its a treat of SOUNDS! they must have really record sounds 
 from a real Thompson Gun to the firing of Panther Tanks. Voice Casting is PERFECT! 10/10
  
  Playability/ Units- well the Campaign is damn long and sometimes it gets incredibly hard at times 
 such as the destruction of the V2 rocket silo. but at least every mission is different! such as 
 defending/holding the line, annihilation, capture and hold and some of the units are surprisingly 
 not for sale only for recruitment such as the PERSHING tank the allies use or the Rocket Shermans 
 and Rangers and also in every mission u can't choose your own Squad Commander (airborne units are 
 the best since they can practically reinforce their forces anywhere on map and they have AT weaponry) . 
 8/10
  
  Round up scores and i'd say 10.. i can't give any lower than that! ITS AMAZING!.. REVOLUTIONARY GAME! 
 hope they make more of something like this. a standalone game from the Japanese side of WWII? Allied 
 missions would be something like American's Island Hopping to the dropping of atom bomb. and the 
 japanese would be the take over of China-Singapore? well dat is all folks! hope this helps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammy_Dodger
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a real time strategy game that puts you in charge of Able and Fox companies, 
 units within the US Army. Your mission is to guide them from the beaches of Normandy on D-Day right 
 up to the routing of the German army at the Falaise pocket.
  
  This game is excellent. The presentation, the graphics, sound, gameplay, controls, all of these 
 elements are put together superbly and well polished. The pace begins gently with primarily infantry-based 
 engagements, but by the end of the game you are controlling tanks, artillery, infantry, air strikes, 
 engineers, the works. Environments range from the Normandy beaches, to marshland, open fields, 
 bombed and ruined towns, Nazi bases and vital bridges which must be seized and/or held at all costs.
 
  
  Controlling your forces is simple and the game dispenses with overly elaborate base building and 
 slow build-up of forces by enforcing a population cap. This means you can only have so many units 
 and must capture and hold resource points in order to keep your cap at its maximum and also secure 
 ammunition and fuel supply lines in order to keep your troops moving.
  
  The cap is a good idea which makes you work with what you have and come up with sound tactics rather 
 than building a huge tank army and rolling over the enemy. It is also frustrating when you are 
 occasionally forced into sacrificing units so that you can then bring in different ones to deal 
 with the enemy you are facing. Also, any stationary field guns you capture count towards the cap 
  you cant abandon them. But overall the cap forces the gameplay dynamic well and the pressure 
 to take and hold resource points makes you think fast.
  
  The game can be played at a slow pace, but some missions barely allow it and a mobile offensive 
 is usually a must. The enemy AI can be aggressive and will often make you fight hard for every 
 square inch of land. Fortunately, you have a wide range of forces at your disposal: tanks, jeeps, 
 half-tracks, anti-tank guns, howitzers and infantry (regulars, paratroopers and rangers) . Your 
 units gain rank as they become more experienced and can be equipped with extra weapons (for example, 
 a Sherman tank can have a turret-mounted machine gun added to it for dealing with enemy infantry) .
 
  
  You accrue command points as you move through a mission which can be spent on off-map assistance 
 such as artillery, air strikes, paratrooper drops and the like. These use up ammo and fule points, 
 so you need to make sure you are always controlling enough resource points to use them.
  
  Graphically the game is great, all of the units are well animated and gunfire, explosions and the 
 like in the middle of a firefight look great. Sound is also impressive, your units even get stressed 
 in battle and tell you so (as such, the language can get rather fruity) . You ideally need a reasonably 
 powerful PC to get the best out of the game, but it can be scaled to run on most PCs OK.
  
  If you enjoy real time strategy and havent tired of World War II games yet, Company of Heroes 
 is an essential purchase. It is simply one of the best examples of its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead789
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes just absolutely BLEW ME AWAY the first time i played it. This has got to be one 
 of the biggest shocks of my gaming career. I thought that another WW2 game would be the same as 
 every other WW2 game out there, mediocre and boring. Never in my life have I been so glad to be 
 wrong. The Game looks great, but what really brings it home is the sound. It actually sounds like 
 you are in the middle of a battle in Germany when you are playing. Not only that, but all the environments, 
 yes ALL OF IT, is destructible. Rubble from a fallen building can be used as cover for your squad, 
 as well as artillery shell pits can be for the same purpose of cover. The best part, the game gets 
 harder as you go, just enough to keep up with your skill level and then some. The only problem 
 is the 1.7 patch, or the DX10 patch. On my comp, there is some extreme lag with the DX10 enabled, 
 but no lag without it. Aside from that, this is an amazing RTS and it deserves RTS of the year 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes does most things that other RTS games had not done. It has great looking graphics 
 and sound. Awesome game play and A I. It is every thing that an RTS gamer wants. You play the Americans 
 in this game around the Normandy invasion. You start out on the beaches of Normandy then you go 
 through a bunch of other fun and intense levels. Like I said before, Company of Heroes has great 
 looking graphics. Buildings fall down when they get blown up. When a tank goes through a fence 
 or a wall, it shatters, and the whole environments just look great. The sound in Company of Heroes 
 sounds great. Things explode and soldiers screams and gun shots sound great. there are a few problems 
 in this game. Sometimes enemy tanks won't blow up after you shoot it with tons of rockets and throw 
 loads of sticky bombs on it. Another problem is that sometimes I had problems were guys would not 
 respond to my commands. But those bugs do not happen a lot and there probably is a patch out there 
 to fix them. If you like RTS games then you should buy this game. If you don't like RTS games then 
 this game may be the one that gets you to start playing them. Over all this game is a must own 
 for the PC and is one of the best games of 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  This game is an interesting take for RTS games, with slightly different dynamics, but familiar 
 controls, it keeps the genre fresh. The graphics for CoH are amazing, but will look good without 
 using the most high end PC hardware. Graphics is Best graphics you will ever see in RTS. You can 
 zoom in to your units and see their faces and guns done to a certain detail. You can even see individual 
 bullet shells.
  The sound in this game is amazing. Every guns has their unique sound. When units are off screen 
 you can hear them radio in. The voice acting is top notch and is accompanied by great dialogue. 
 I am proud of Relic that they didnt put forth corny dialogue or cheesy characters. This is an 
 ultra-real WWII video game, no jokes about it. The dialogue is strong in strategy and will help 
 the players advance if they are stuck on the next step in the mission.
  Value is Fun for about the first 20 hours then You get bored.
  Company of Heroes revolves around 
 collecting three main resources: fuel, manpower, and munitions. The player must capture strategic 
 points all across the map and with those points comes the resources. If you arent a big RTS player, 
 Company of Heroes could prove to be difficult at times. I suggest sticking to the easy difficulty 
 from the beginning and trying your odds at that for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorNisse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  As the title explains, you're cheeks will mary your computer seat for real this time. You become 
 so alive in the game. It's like playing a first person shoot 'em up, but this time you're units 
 most often has a tank beside them. It's not too many tanks either, like in other strategic games. 
 Nope, you won't be using too many tanks, as that only takes up too mutch command points... Think 
 of it as Battle field 1942, but instea of first person you are controlling EVERY one. And don't 
 worry, your tanks won't be driving into the water (as was my habbit in bf 1942 and all other games 
 where you drive) . Tough you might get pissed at how they are driving anyway. They seem to have 
 a small problem to have a problem of avoiding eachother, its like each tank is higly magnetic, 
 but a special kind of magnetic, it does not disarm your opponents nor your allies. It only draws 
 towards every other tank on the map, espacially your own. Can be a little annoying when you are 
 in a hurry to save som of your other boys.
  
  But if something is bad about a game then it has to be something good. And the other way around.
 
  
  So heres some good parts of the game.
  Everything that differs this game from a first person shooter is infact that it isn't a first person 
 shooter. Its an RTS. Infact, its just like a fps but you got controll of everything, and the units 
 aren't placed at strict locations. Some times you can take a perfect defensive/offensive spot from 
 your opponents, but there is no one there. Witch you can take advantage of. So instead of blowing 
 this spot to dust and make the best of it, you can use the terrain, but sometimes it won't be long 
 until your opponent comes down on you with a few tanks on one side and a few units on the other. 
 Or perhaps they got some nice artillery to blow this place to rubble. Not very nice at all precius. 
 But still, thats one of the things that make this game so great, your perfect defense can be turned 
 into rubble in the manner of a few seconds, and you can do the same. Tough always be sure to protect 
 your back, and be carefull not to shoot any artillery close to your own units, too mutch friendly 
 fire won't win any battles, maybe give you more losses or a hell alot of draws...
  
  And now something for all we who loves defending, blow up those bridges, if you are playing against 
 a computer you won't need to bother about that bridge again. But online it might be another story 
 to that bridge. If you are defensive however I recommend playing as germans, as they have alot 
 stronger offmap artillery. Americans needs 2 offmap bombardments to destroy a bridge, while the 
 germans only needs 1. Tough if you are short of bridges to blow up then its best you learn how 
 to be offensive, this game is not nice to defenders.
  
  The thing I still miss in a game is a german campaign from start. But what can you expect when 
 the game industry seems intent to throw the fact that the allies won the war in the face of everyone. 
 The campaign is strictly american, but you can play as german in the skrimish. But it might be 
 confusing to play the germans at first, since its kinda differs from the americans in alot of aspects. 
 Don't go online the first time you play as german, try them out alot of times before. Since it 
 might take some time to get a few good strategies with them, as it does with americans. Do not 
 mass tanks online, even if it does work offline, people can quickly see if you are massing tanks, 
 and might just make a few more anti tank weapons to fire upon you. And these are quite dangerous 
 against tanks. In fact, 1 tank has little chance of surviving toe to toe against a anti tank weapon. 
 Flanking your enemy is a must in this game, since thats what will make you come out alive of a 
 battle. But always watch your flanks, and your back. Tanks don't survive long if they are attacked 
 from the back, and your soldiers are easily picked off if they dont got cover at their backs. You 
 can go through a skirmish by only using regular rangers. And I do recommend you try this, since 
 they can more easily flank an enemy, and they can more easily find cover then tanks. They can also 
 destroy tanks quite easily. a rocket launcher amongst your men, or sticky bombs will make short 
 work of those tanks, tough you need to remember it takes a few of both to really make rubble out 
 of tank.
  
  All in all, its a great game that has to played by all who loves RTS and FPS games. Its really 
 addictive, and will become a classic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonOfSparda018
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I've been hearing a lot of hype about this game, but I couldn't understand it until I tried it 
 out myself. And yes, the majority was right, this truly is a great RTS game.
  
  Its not that this is the first awesome RTS, but what makes it so special is its variety. You get 
 to control various squads and each can be assigned to do a particular task, or you can choose to 
 have everyone attack one place at the same time. Its really up to you and it depends a lot on your 
 strategy tastes. This is not a game of just click and attack. You have to place your soldiers carefully 
 in safe areas, issue them separate commands to throw grenades, make them use artillery guns, pick 
 up weapons dropped by the enemy, etc etc. Altogether this makes up for a big, varied experience.
 
  
  The battle gets into very interesting small details. For example, to hurt tanks really bad, you 
 have to attack them on their rear end where they have their engines. When taking control of artillery 
 guns you have to choose the range of attack yourself and place the gun facing that way, just like 
 in real battle. Occasionally things may get a bit hard in the mid of battle, and this could maybe 
 scare off newbies in the RTS genre.
  
  The bottom line is this: this is one of the best WW2 RTS games out there! The graphics are stunning, 
 and so is the sound. If you play through the tutorials you'll get the hang of things quite quickly, 
 and this could become one of your all time favourites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcani-of-Rome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  The main campaign is pretty good but rather short, and the skirmishes aren't as fun without direct 
 goals to acquire. These are the only major flaws, it has a great strategy aspect and makes tanks 
 a lot harder to blow up than red alert 2. Though with the next coming out (or is it?) i would wait 
 for the second, it should be good. Good game where graphics are concerned, not spectacular but 
 pretty good anyways. Good game for anyone who likes strategy/war games. It doesn't take long to 
 learn the basics but can get old. i haven't tried out the multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huineng9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes (CoH) is a real-time strategy (RTS) computer game developed for Microsoft Windows 
 by Relic Entertainment. It was announced on April 25, 2005, released on September 14, 2006, and 
 was the first title to make use of the Games for Windows label. The game was released on Steam 
 on July 17, 2007.
  
  Like any other RTS game, gameplay mainly depends on mouse for selecting Squads or vehicles simply 
 left click on them or draw square around multiple units to select them using Marquee method (click 
 &amp; drag) followed by right clicking to desired position on battlefield to order selected units 
 to move towards desired position, garrison or attack depends on whether you click on clear area, 
 building or enemy respectively.
  
  The game allows for multiplayer matches of 2-8 players via LAN or the Internet.
  
  For Company 
 of Heroes, Relic began using a new online gaming system called Relic Online. Previous Relic games 
 used GameSpy Arcade or World Opponent Network services. This new system includes many features 
 that the previous systems did not have, including a built in automatch and ranking system. Numerous 
 complaints have emerged about the net code that COH runs on. Some players cannot connect to each 
 other online because the game was written to work on peer to peer and not client servers. Certain 
 routers have also caused problems with connecting multiple computers on the same network to Relic 
 Online. Linksys routers have been known to generate the best results with playing multiple online 
 players using the same router.
  
  Resources
  
  The resource management in Company of Heroes closely follows an earlier computer game, the RTS 
 version of Axis and Allies but while retaining micromanagement details such as reinforcing troops, 
 which in A&amp; A is done automatically when the unit is in supply range. This has the effect of 
 creating a more tactical RTS experience.
  
  The resource model found in Company of Heroes is also similar to that of another Relic game, Warhammer 
 40,000: Dawn of War. Players must take control of certain points on the map. The more of these 
 points a player controls, the more resources they acquire. This concept demands constant expansion 
 of a player's territory. These points are connected like supply lines, and so, during the course 
 of a battle a player can capture one point in the supply line , isolating the rest which had been 
 connected to the base through it, therefore severely reducing the enemy's resource intake.
  
  Players collect three resources: fuel, munitions, and manpower. Fuel allows players to purchase 
 tanks and other vehicles, as well as global upgrades. Munitions allows players to upgrade individual 
 squads or vehicles and use special abilities. Manpower is necessary for all units. The player can 
 decide, at a manpower cost, to place observation posts on their resource points in order to increase 
 their production and make them more durable against enemy takeovers, which means sacrificing resources 
 in the short-term for a greater long-term intake.
  
  Game units generally require a sizable amount of resources to produce. This separates Company of 
 Heroes from other games in the RTS genre, where large amounts of massed units are a common sight.
 
  
  Units Allied units tend to be cheaper, more numerous, and more versatile, whereas German units 
 tend to be more expensive and fewer in number, but often more powerful in their role than their 
 allied counterparts.
  
  The German Wehrmacht forces include infantry, like the conscript Volksgrenadier militia, and mid-tier 
 infantry like grenadiers or elite squads comprised of Knight's Cross awardees. German field operations 
 can be supplemented by specialized equipment like the Nebelwerfer rocket artillery. German armor 
 is far less mobile, but in direct combat generally superior, fielding equipment like StuG IV, StuH 
 42 assault guns, Panzer IV and Panther tanks. With specialized commander focus, German forces can 
 deploy superior units, like the Tiger I tank, in two versions: crewed by normal crews, or crewed 
 by a designated Tiger Ace .
  
  Expanding on the cover system implemented in Dawn of War, units in COH automatically seek out covers 
 (such as sandbags, walls, and destroyed vehicles) without orders from the player to give them an 
 advantage over enemy forces. Units hiding in cover gain a defense bonus, making them more effective 
 in combat. Green cover signifies heavy cover, while yellow signifies light cover. Utilizing cover 
 effectively in COH is essential to victory. The advanced AI is also aware of its surroundings and 
 reacts realistically in certain situations.
  
  Infantry units, such as an Allied rifleman squad, can pick up heavy weapons (Panzerschreck, M9 
 Bazooka) , man heavy weapons like machineguns, anti-tank artillery, or mortars, and pick up and 
 use certain automatic weapons (examples are the Browning Automatic Rifle or for the Germans, the 
 LMG variant of the MG42.)
  
  Unlike in Dawn of War, squads of units must be near a headquarters (HQ) , forward barracks, or half-track 
 vehicle to reinforce (replenish) lost units within the squad. American airborne troops are exempt 
 from this limitation as reinforcements are parachuted to the field.
  
  Also like Dawn of War, some units can be upgraded, like a .50 caliber machine gun with gunner for 
 a Sherman tank, or Panzerschrecks for German infantry units. Certain add-ons or upgrades affect 
 unit abilities, like the Sherman's crab flail which can clear mines and destroy enemy infantry, 
 but reduces the speed of the tank while in use.
  
  Because COH features a physics engine, different types of cover are more effective against certain 
 units. For example, some types of cover can be destroyed by tanks.
  
  Several units, such as the medic station and the Allied anti-tank gun, have a small COH on their 
 sides.
  
  Buildings
  
  Units can occupy a building and convert it into a field HQ, allowing certain units or squads to 
 be created by that building.
  
  Infantry units can also occupy buildings and use them as cover or a garrison to protect against 
 attack, but this limits their firing range because the infantry are a stationary, immobile target, 
 rendering them vulnerable to sniper fire and easy to surround. Also, while garrisoned, infantry 
 units can only shoot out of windows or holes blown into a building. Certain weapons are immensely 
 effective against units holed up in a building; satchel charges or infantry-carried rocket launchers 
 can demolish a building, tank fire can blast the building, and infantry or tanks armed with flamethrowers 
 can literally set the building on fire and burn out the occupants. However, there are advantages; 
 infantry are well protected from small arms and most buildings are sturdy enough to stand up to 
 limited tank fire before collapsing.
  
  Occupied buildings can be destroyed after taking fire from enemy units or any other attack like 
 artillery fire or demolition charges. Civilian buildings cannot be repaired or rebuilt. However, 
 both the Allied and German forces can construct garrisonable buildings (the Allies can build a 
 .30 caliber machine gun nest, while the Germans can construct bunkers) .
  
  Story
  
  Company of Heroes is set during World War II where the player commands two U. S. military units 
 during the Battle of Normandy and the Allied capture of France. Depending on the mission, the player 
 controls either Able Company, a United States Army unit, or Fox Company, a unit from the 101st 
 Airborne Division. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KurialGod
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You couldn't believe how the gameplay is. Very simple. You command a squad or two and 
 win the battlefield. Campaign mode isn't messed up, realistic, and fun.
  
  Graphics: Richly designed graphics. If I had to rate this game from the following 4: Gameplay, 
 graphics, sound, and value, I would rate the graphics the highest.
  
  Sound: Simple battle commands, german acsents, and american swearing. What more can you expect?
 
  
  Value: This game is worth more than 10.0 but you cannot rate the game higher than 10.0. I would 
 rate it 20.0 xD. Overall, I enjoyed this game very much, especially the campaign. The skirmish 
 is fun too since you get to be the Nazis. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm no major RTS fan but i used to love Red Alert 2 to bits back in 2000. I've played alot of recent 
 RTS games and COH just seems miles ahead of the competition in terms of graphics sound and gameplay. 
 The single player game is just top notch and of a average length also it's very cinematic and draws 
 you into the game. The only real down side to the hardcore players out there is everything is pre 
 set and quite linear compared to other RTS games but thats what you get with a WW2 game because 
 you can't rewrite history and tell the story of WW2. The UI is fantastic and similar to ALOT of 
 other RTS games but slightly refined and works very well with clear indications. As for most RTS 
 games out there there can be alot of micro in the multiplayer which will obviously give you the 
 advantage for acing quicker but as i'm not a experienced RTS player i just tend to use my mouse 
 which still works great. Also with COH is in the multiplayer it can go upto 8 players 4 vs 4 but 
 you can't play germans vs germans or allies vs allies. This is a down side to the game but obviously 
 Relic were going for a more realistic WW2 RTS game at the stake of some minor gameplay. What's 
 kool though is theres 3 types of progression for each side side in the multiplayer and this can 
 really enhance teamwork aswel as gameplay and can really make each team suit your style. Also the 
 Axis and Allies are very balanced obviously seeing as theres only two sides and each play very 
 different from eachother. The Allies tend to be weaker but able to get more units out fast, while 
 the Zxis tend to have all the best stuff but costs alot of resources and gain access to them slower.
 
  
  What really makes the multiplayer great is how you have to defend points for resources and this 
 really makes for a dynamic and interesting battle with the fronts constantly changing. What also 
 makes this cool is the team play comes into play here having to help eachother out alot instead 
 of just your normal rush game on alot of RTS.
  
  There are some downsides for me however and thats the fact that there is only two sides but this 
 is a opinion kind of thing because it is based on WW2 and it does help balanced + each side has 
 alot of customization anyways. Also theres a expansion coming out soon that adds two more sides 
 which is really kool. Also the single player like i said above is quite linear but it's also really 
 fun so.... The last downside i have with the game is the online service is quite laggy and is quite 
 hard to get into a good game. Also theres alot of droppers but you get this in every RTS, is annoying 
 however. I would like the online service to be alot more like GPG. net on Supreme Commander.
  
  The graphics of COH are fantastic and the best out there with the map constantly changing as 
 almost everything can be destroid. It looks beautiful and is probably is the the first RTS to have 
 DX10 features in a update and expansion. The sound though is probably the best thing and sounds 
 soooo realistic and so well done and the best that any RTS and most games have to offer. It's very 
 obvious that Relic spent alot of time on this and it really pays off.
  
  One last point i'd like to say is the AI is very good aswel if you want to play against the computers, 
 also how your own troops will find their own cover instead of just standing there being shot. Really 
 makes for less hassel while playing and just great to watch your men have a mind of their own.
 
  
  So COH is probably the most complete and most satisfying overall RTS experience i've ever had with 
 great multiplayer competitive play and a fantastic single player. There are some downsides which 
 do get on your nerves but overall it's a fantastic game and everyone should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Great design, great sound, great graphics means great gameplay. Small elements that turn into the 
 deciding tactical factors like the use of environmental cover or which connecting command point 
 you spend time on capturing make what could have just been another race-to-tech RTS a true gaming 
 masterwork. The balance between the game's realism and simplification for the sake of the gameplay 
 work perfectly within the limitations of gaming. The artfully crafted landscapes, and atmospheric 
 visuals lend the game a natural feel, while the great sounds, voices and music electrify each skirmish. 
 Don't waste anymore time looking for your next purchase. This is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  I have avoided this game for a long time because i as bored of WW2 games for a time .... but after 
 a time i felt the feeling that i need a good RTS so a friend brought me Company of Heroes ... the 
 1st reaction was not so good but after i've played the 1st 3 missions i have started to fell the 
 tru RTS .... &amp; true tactics in my blood .... i'm a very big fan of W40k &amp; RELIC but i didn't 
 expect such a deep expierence from a WW2 RTS game ... practacaly the A. I. of your units or the 
 A. I. of your enemies is so convicing thhat you quite feel that you are besides them ... evan the 
 story mode is like a movie maked in engine &amp; inpsipred by Saving Private Ryan . Talking about 
 the engine imagine your seelf that your playng Call of Duty 1 but from an RTS wiew it practacaly 
 looks better than the Q3 engine for the 1st Call of DFuty &amp; lets talk not about the off the 
 effects witch are so realistic ... imagine a man steping on a mine his body will explode in realistic 
 raggdol in to pieces or tank ... go thru wall &amp; biulding ... &amp; the expirence is so depp 
 because everyunit not only has weakneeses against other unit but it has wweak spots thats a main 
 gameplay factor that will force you to be carefull with your tanks because you can loose your engine 
 , or your control over the canon etc. ! This game is alot more fun in the campain mode than other 
 games than it is in skirmish ... skirmish is fun but it takes a liltlem ore time &amp; you practacaly 
 never need that last units or you will defeat the enemy A. I with out reaching maximum technology 
 point ... but the multiplayer is another thing ... the game mechanincs practacaly forces you to 
 be on a constant look out for your waypoints ... withc are much more different &amp; complex that 
 those from War400K because from some you will be gathering munitions from other fuel &amp; the 
 rest represent the manpower! Company of Heroes is a fantastic brakethru in the RTS genre &amp; 
 i recomend this game to any RTS fan &amp; especially to the ppl who likes challenges ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oaiaroz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  First, the most important thing to mention is that I actually finished the single player campaign 
 and I'm thinking of playing again on a higher difficulty setting and/or earning all those medals. 
 This makes the game remarkable because I'm not a heavy-weight category gamer. I only play occasionally, 
 if I find something to truly enjoy. There are so many games out there nowadays, and so many of 
 them just don't have it.. that special something to make them absolutely enjoyable. Relic have 
 managed to create a game that is captivating to play and has a fresh, authentic feel. You can't 
 get bored by it because every mission is so different, the graphics is stunning and everything 
 works great, no issues whatsoever. The story is authentic history, everything is believeable and 
 real. It's just lots of fun, for people who don't particularly dig on weird monsters and colorful 
 laser guns. Alright, enough of this. Now let me get back to my Company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  There's a lot that's been covered on this game, so I won't pretend to say much that's new. Basically, 
 this is a unique RTS in that it isn't about gettting a huge number of units and just steamrolling 
 your opponent's base like every other RTS. There's a lot more strategy in this RTS. Particular 
 units are extremely important for particular goals and tactics and so even experienced RTS fans 
 will find a bit of learning here. That said, I disagree with some of the reviews; this game is 
 NOT too hard. Some think this game is way too hard; the truth is that it just isn't mindless like 
 other RTS games. You need to think, which causes some people to think it's just hard. I also disagree 
 with those who say you can't play a defensive game. Not true, being defensive and cautious often 
 pays. But here's a bit of a rundown of some components.
  
  Graphics: Amazing. There are some clipping issues and some very odd geometry flashes here and there, 
 which shouldn't happen on my computer since it's powerful. But the detail is very very nice in 
 this game, same with the explosions, all great.
  
  Story: Well, it's WW2, which can turn some people off. But I think this is the best portrayal of 
 WW2 in any videogame I've played. It's very well done and doesn't trivialize the war by making 
 it pure entertainment.
  
  gameplay: very solid. Lots of depth and strategy to be found here, though I did find that some 
 unit were simply not all that useful. But perhaps that was because of the particular tactics I 
 was using.
  
  Sound: Excellent. From the gunfire, voices, to the music, all of it is top notch.
  
  Additional 
 Complaints: Not many. The biggest problem I have is the lack of ability to play the axis (Germans 
 in this case) in any kind of campaign. The single player campaign is long enough, but it would 
 have been very nice to play as the axis, even if it was a shorter campaign.
  
  The save system is very odd, creating a new file every time, which is quite annoying. You can't 
 simply save over the one you've already created.
  
  And that's about it for complaints. This is a very nice game and well deserved of the critical 
 praise it has gotten. I'd say the biggest complaint I have is the lack of an axis campaign, followed 
 by the weird geometry flashes. Worth Buying? Absolutely, no question. This RTS will change the 
 way people make RTS for the future. You can't go wrong buying this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeb127
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok, if you have tried it you absolutly must. This game is in a class of its own. The dialogue that 
 the soldiers say is worth the experience of playing it alone I hear all the Nazi's are eight feet 
 tall or Johnson, no stealin' doileys this time . I have completed the campaign 3 times to date 
 and play it on LAN with my girlfriend from time to time. If there is one RTS you play, make it 
 this one.
  
  Only negative things I have to say about this game:
  1) A Russian Faction, British or even Canadian faction woulda been nice.
  2) Alternative Campaign
 
  3) More maps for the skirmish mode
  
  Other then that its almost perfect. Its worth buying, I play this game atleast 3 hours a week. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTHoodlum423
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I have been a big RTS fan for years and I can honestly say this game blows the rest out of the 
 water. Relic had a huge success with Dawn of War, and I love that game to death, but Company of 
 Heroes is simply more fun. The game play is intense, the graphics and animations are superb. All 
 the unites are fun to play with and have their own tactical advantages and disadvantages. It is 
 a well balanced game. As you earn experience during a battle for various achievements you can the 
 points towards upgrading your army, from faster build times to artillery and air strikes to reinforcements. 
 It adds a strategic value to the game play. The only thing I could ask for differently in this 
 game was a campaign for the other team (Germans) , but they will be delivering that with the second 
 Company of Heroes. I cant wait for Company of Heroes 2 to come out. If you are into RTS games, 
 this is a must have and I promise you that you will be addicted from the beginning to the end and 
 beyond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james28893
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Everything about this game surpassed my expectations (except v1.7) . Superior graphics to any RTS 
 game I have come across, with physics to match (body parts are blown off, buildings crumble when 
 hit by shells, trees and walls collapse when run over by armored cars and tanks. If in possession 
 of a DX10 card you will probably want to download the 1.7 patch, but I must insist that you dont, 
 as, despite some improvements, there is a drop in frame rates (though this is acceptable) but more 
 importantly all explosive effects are gone (from muzzle flash to tank shells) . However I am not 
 sure if there are similar problems with the off-the-shelf DX10 ready game. Still for the majority 
 of you this is not a problem and even then it will no doubt be ironed out in a later patch. This 
 game is truly groundbreaking, proving that an RTS game can be as fast paced as any shooter. The 
 difficulty can go anywhere from nice'n'easy to punishing depending on the setting. A must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonka123456789
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay set in WWII and it tells the story of able company, from the hit series band of brothers 
 
  
  The game is so relistic when i played the first mission, i thought someone threw a greanade in 
 my room. The game is very, very relistic and really puts you into the battle, you will find the 
 campains fun but in later levels hard, and like you really need to put some effort in to do them, 
 but its worth it because the game is just so damn good.
  
  This game has great graphics, awesome physics, awesome units, awesome multiplayer, awesome campaing, 
 awesome single player, wait why am i not playing the game right now?!? :D
  
  If you like RTS games you will love this game, If you are a WWII game fan, you will love this game, 
 If you liked DoW you will worship this game, If you have a computer you WILL love this game. Heck 
 this is not even a proper review, because its so good, everybody should own this game. Just buy 
 it, you wont not like it, i promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokeracc
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a truly amazing WWII RTS that will truly amaze you. The sound was shaking 
 my entire room, and the graphics were gorgeous. I have spent many hours playing Company of Heroes 
 and am still learning new strategies and tactics to help win the war. With a stunning campaign 
 spanning 14 missions you'll be cheering for Able Company all the way. Skirmish mode allows you 
 to play as either Allies or Axis and also adds both a Victory Point mode and a basic Elimination 
 mode. In the Victory Point mode players must capture and hold certain strategic points. If you 
 hold more than your enemy than their counter will start decreasing. First person to have his counter 
 run out losses. (Counters may start at either 500 or 1000)
  
  In the Elimination mode players must destroy the enemy's forces completely. Once the enemy is destroyed 
 the other player wins. While setting up your game you can play 1v1, 2v2, 3v3, or 4v4. Sadly I wasn't 
 able to make the enemy over power me in a 2v1 or 3v2 game. But Relic makes up for that by being 
 able to change individual difficulty levels so in a 4v4 game you can play against an easy opponent 
 a medium opponent a hard opponent and expert opponent, depending on what difficulty you choose. 
 You can also change that for your allies.
  
  Units range from infantry, to tanks, to half tracks, to AT Guns. Mortar teams will devastate your 
 MG nests and other emplacements forcing you to send a half track or infantry after it. You MUST 
 have some sort of strategy in this game; you cannot pick it up and half-play while talking on the 
 phone. Unfortunately I have yet to get Online play working for CoH but since that was clearly my 
 problem as thousands of others play online I couldn't bring myself to dock points for it. CoH is 
 by no means a perfect game, but all of it's flaws and errors are to small to take points off. I 
 had and am having an amazing time with this game. Feel free to let me know if this helped you out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RudeKen
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is without a doubt the best RTS I have played this year, if not my entire life. They 
 packed this game with so much detail and player abilities, that is seems there is never a time 
 in which you have nothing left to do . The battles are intense, and require the player to think 
 extremely strategically, and the building/base improvements are fun and plentiful. The missions 
 in which you face, never feel like repeats. Ever mission is a total new agenda, and requires you 
 to plan and attack/defend a different way each time. The units in which you control have a very 
 good AI system (except for the anti-tank team) , and are easy to control and command. There is a 
 well thought out system of cover for your troops units as well. For instance, a bad player at this 
 game would let a squad of troops attack from in the middle of the street. A good player can save 
 many units by simply ordering them to take position in a house, or behind sandbags. In this system, 
 it is quite possible for a team of three to take out ten opposing players from inside a building. 
 It's the guerrilla warfare system of fighting. Aside from troops, tanks have an interesting defense/attack 
 layout that is highly appealing. For instance, all tanks have a weak spot, being their rear armor. 
 A good play will try to have his/her tank attack the back of the bad player. Overall, this game 
 is a great PC RTS, and worth buying. The game can be a little tricky and frustrating at times, 
 but if you are good at strategy it should be no problem at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endtype
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This RTS is amazing. It has a great squad system that everyone will enjoy over the normal unit 
 system. The graphic are amazing, and w/ a patch can support DirectX 10. The Tech trees and buildings 
 are too complex, and not too simple. This game has depth to the gameplay. It is my favorite RTS 
 yet.
  Everyone should try this game. There is so much substance and Online gets even better. There is 
 a level system to recognize good players. The levels have no effect on your performance though. 
 The system requirements aren't low for this game, and a good video card is necessary for the best 
 performance. I would recommend this game to any RTS fan and WWII fan. Also newbies to the genre 
 should try this game. It is a great entry port to Real time strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Company of heroes, the newest RTS game from Relic, is simply amazing in every aspect, from the 
 new next-gen graphics, to the incredibly realistic woaw did a mortar just go off in my house?! 
 sound!
  
  The game aspect is simple, Your the allies during d-day, pushing back the Germans back into, well, 
 Germany. You fight it out on maps, such as Carentan, St. Lo, and Cherbourg. But whats best about 
 this game is the immerse graphics and physics.
  
  Gameplay on the surface sems to be traditional RTS fare. You build a base, build units and attack 
 the enemy. But, it's a little deeper than that, Instead of making buildings to gain resources, 
 you capture strategic points. The Three Resources are: Manpower, which you use to make units. Munitions: 
 Which allow you to upgrade units with better or more advanced weapons, plant mines, uses abilities, 
 or to give armor plating and a better gun to a tank. Fuel: Used to make structures, buidings, vehicles, 
 and tanks.
  
  This game uses cover for your units. Instead of standing in the open and taking shots at each other, 
 units can take cover behind various obsticals, like ruined vehicles, haystacks, sandbags etc, each 
 of which provies a certain amount of cover. Doing this effectively with your squads is necessary 
 to ensure they live long enough to accomplish the mission. You can garrison inside buildings, set 
 up forward barracks', and use special abilities you get from whatever commander you chose to use 
 for the battle (Allies get Airborne, Armor and Infantry, and the Axis get Terror, Blitzkrieg and 
 Defensive) .
  
  The graphics are some of the best I've ever seen. Everything responds to realistic physics. Blow 
 up tank and it explodes somewhat realistically and extremely impressively. The particle effects 
 are very good, it's always fun to see artillery shells blast craters in the ground and see dirt 
 fly everywhere.
  There is so much more to the game, but it would take forever to type up. You can check out the 
 review here on GS for that. But, I can assure you that the game is simply amazing on almost all 
 levels. The depth of strategy is impressive, and will take a long time to master. There are a few 
 balance issues right now, as there always is with new RTS games. But that should be fixed over 
 time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notyourraven
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 10, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  I bought this game to play on my new system, and I was amazed by the graphics. The first campaign 
 level, D-Day, looked just amazing. My troops were frantically huddled behind cover as MG-42's fired 
 down from the cliffs. Smoke rose from burning objects, craters formed in the sand when artillery 
 and mortars hit. Explosions are so detailed in this game that it feels like watching a movie. Artillery 
 cause great hunks of dirt and rocks to erupt upwards, then rain back down alongside the limbs of 
 any unfortunate infantry. I find myself watching slow-motion replays of my games so i can see the 
 incredible detail that goes in to a bridge being demolished, or a jeep exploding, etc. These replays 
 do feel very much like movies, especially with Cinematic Mode , which follows different units with 
 movie like camera angles. Unfortunately, it does not work very well, and will often give you camera 
 views through buildings.
  
  The sound in this game was also very well done. The sound of artillery falling is very realistic, 
 with the shell impacting first, then hearing the whistling and the massive boom. As well, units 
 all have unique speech based on their status. Troops and vehicles will sound panicked if under 
 fire or heavily damaged. if you upgrade and engineers with a flamethrower, they will make comments 
 about burning the enemy.
  
  The game play is also lots of fun, and the sides are, imo, very well balanced. The game is based 
 around capturing resource points to provide manpower, munitions, and fuel. Manpower is used to 
 build every unit, munitions is used to buy weapons and use abilities, and fuel is used to build 
 certain units and structures. The game also has a very interesting commander system, in which you 
 choose one of three branches, and then get to choose abilities with points. You gain points by 
 accomplishing tasks during the battle. This does not carry over between games.
  
  The only problem with this game is the sometimes awful A. I. This includes both unit A. I and CPU 
 A. I. Units will often doe very stupid and pointless things, For example, my rifle squad was cornered 
 by a tank. i gave them orders to retreat, which they could have done by running away from the tank. 
 Instead, they ran one by one in to it until they were all dead (a six man squad...) As well, Allied 
 CPU players always seem to build huge amounts of jeeps, a weak unit, and not tech at all. They 
 also constantly order their units to get in and out of buildings so they are just running around 
 near the door. Also, they sometimes retreat units when they have an advantage (e. g engineers vs. 
 rifleman, the rifleman are told to retreat) .
  
  But, AI aside, this game is completely fantastic, and anyone with a decent computer should own 
 it just for the cinematic experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boaan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  You may or may not think so, but this game makes the events of World War II seem like they were 
 directed instead of being real. In a good way!
  
  Every little sound, every little graphical element, every little action is enough to get you hooked. 
 Especially in the campaign which, I must say, gets my full respect. The reviewers at Game Spot 
 got the right score for this game. In fact, they could have went for a 9.7. If you need more clarification 
 of why this game needs to be in your RTS collection, just read their review.
  
  Three thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secondshooter
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  OK. Bottom line-if you like real time strategy games, you have to get this game. Now, I'll go into 
 detail. The gameplay is increadible. You can play and get hooked on the game for hours, and not 
 get bored with it. The difficulty is pretty good. There are different settings. But, it can be 
 very hard on the harder settings. The graphics are increadible. Even on the lower settings they 
 look good. But on the highest settings, you will be amazed. The sound is also great. The gunshots 
 and explosions sound real. The voice acting is also great. So, if you are a fan of real time strategies 
 and World War II, you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beowulf2525
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is a very addictive game. You can immerse yourself into the battle very quickly. 
 Just zooming in you watch your Flak 88 crews adjusting the angle of the barrel to the target, or 
 watch your half-track armed with quad .50 caliber ejecting all the spent shell casings and even 
 see the bolt moving back and forth between each shot!
  
  Graphics: One word - Incredible. Sadly however, you have to have one serious machine to experience 
 the grandour of it all. Many people will be forced to run on Medium or Low settings.
  
  Sound: Very realistic sounding. You can immediately identify what you're being shot with by the 
 sounds. The difference between the Allied mortar and the Axis mortar is very noticeable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3t3t3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Best RTS game. Very fun.
  
  Gameplay: better then the average RTS. Tactical gameplay allows you to destroy buildings for your 
 own advantage or your opponents disadvantages. Special ability are a big part of what makes this 
 game great Hard to manage your units.
  
  Graphics: Best graphics you will ever see in RTS. You can zoom in to your units and see their faces 
 and guns done to a certain detail. You can even see individual bullet shells.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is amazing. Every guns has their unique sound. When units are off 
 screen you can hear them radio in.
  
  Value: Fun for about the first 20 hours then BOOM! You get bored. If your a RTS lover you might 
 be able to last longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan6692
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It is so versatile, with 15 campaign maps and multi-player. Now I have to 
 say this game has the best graphics of all time. Dirt and mud can be seen an you infantry. It is 
 so easy to learn how to play this game and it will keep you playing for a long time, I bet you 
 that. I can't wait for the newest CoH opposing fronts. I hear that it is going to be better the 
 CoH (the one we play now) . There isn't really much to say about this game other then it is amazing. 
 The best I have ever seen in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcjacal
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game ive ever played!! EVER!! its got great graphix and still manages to keep 
 a pretty smooth framerate. it dips a little bit when there are tons of explosions but besides that 
 its good. its got terrific audio, its almost like the units are really there, they kno where they 
 are in the map and say things like enemy is down but we took heavy damage, requesting repairs! 
 . as u probably know it has destructible environments which is so cool. the only problem i can 
 think of is that after u play it for a while it starts to lag but even then it only misses a frame 
 every once in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stif42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  I used to play fps games like Call of duty, brothers in arms or Medal of honor but when I tested 
 Company of Heroes for the first time, I was shocked. In fact, there is no ther game in which you 
 feel more involved in the fight than this. Graphics and sounds are simply amazings and if you got 
 high end hardware you can put all options to top and see the beauty of the effects (take advantage 
 of DX10 since 1.70 patch) .
  
  Solo campaign is great and will give you hours of nervousness and satisfatcion. Historical background 
 between the missions help you to feel the importance of each fight and.
  
  Multiplayer mod is really good, even if you just have two factions to play with, and you don't 
 have to rush your opponent to win the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  A WWII Real time strategy game from Relic that includes destructible environs, smart infantry AI, 
 and a beautiful system for controlling territory. It takes many mechanics from the Dawn of War 
 RTS but refines them and makes them work in a WWII setting. You will not find an RTS with better 
 graphics or sound. Not only are the unit cues/responses funny and entertaining, they are INFORMATIVE 
 as well, which really lets you handle the battle.
  
  Awesome graphics and sound. Very easy to adapt your army in response to new situations that arise. 
 Micromanaging your troop units is extremly fun, even though it is completly uneccessary. The resource 
 system allows you to focus on battling. No overly complex mechanics, but great depth when you really 
 get into it. The singleplayer missions are amazing, not just kill everything but actual objectives 
 as part of each mission. This is the most intense multiplayer strategy game ever.
  
  The only weakness I really see is when controlling vehicles. They have some pathfinding issues 
 when you try to move more than one at a time. This is relativly minor, and you won't really have 
 a lot of tanks in the single player campaign anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bess94
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  If you like C&amp; C or Dawn of war you like this, itis a Command and Conquer type game, build your 
 base and attack the enemy.
  
  Play as the Allies (Americans) or the Axies (Nazis) and choose from an option of companys*. Infantry: Defence
 
  Airbourgne: Air Support
  Armored: Tanks
  
  You can play campaign with the allies or skirmish as both Allies or Nazis there are many units 
 such as Rifleman, Gunner, Sherman ect.
  There are also upgrades for your units: Smoke launchers, Granades ect.
  There are both Unit buildings 
 and Defencive buildings. The combat is very good you can take position in houses, drop from above 
 from an aeroplane or set the units were you want them to overlook .The graphics are detailed depending 
 how high the texture is; you can knock down the buildings and see the broken down rubble or set 
 light to trees and see the detailed flames.
  
  *The Axies have the same kind of companys but with differant names and units ect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcetra
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is blasphemous and the swearing (with no option to turn off) is disgusting. It is boring 
 after the first fight. Do not waste your time. They dont swear with Allah or Budah but instead 
 use the name of Jesus as a cuss word. They use the F-Word repeatedly. I understand it is rated 
 M however I do not want to hear that foul garbage. They could have put something in to turn it 
 off. Relic is lazy and lacks accountability. Too bad. I believe man war veterans would take issue 
 with this game. Especially during that time they did not all talk like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 112505
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  I was at first skeptical of Company of Heroes when I just took it home. I thought it would be just 
 another generic Real Time Strategy game with resource gathering and massed units destroying bases 
 but boy was I wrong. Company of Heroes would give me tens of hours of fun just with the singleplayer. 
 The reason was because it required much more than just the old generic spamming tanks tactic that 
 most strategy games still use. This game needs lots of micro-management which might be a drag for 
 some but I found it pretty awesome since it gave me something to do instead of just leaving the 
 troops to duke it out in a battle based on statistic. The graphics of this game are beautiful though 
 a bit too monotone in some places. Each unit model is very detailed and the vehicles look fantastic. 
 The soldiers all act very fluidly (a lot like a Battlefield 2 soldier) throwing himself prone on 
 the ground, reloading magazines, moving around and actually aiming their rifles at the targets. 
 Plus it also has a physics engine. The explosions just look great with every little fragment of 
 a building being blown away into small pieces while having tanks knocking over trees and buildings 
 in a fear inspiring way.
  All I have to say is that visual department of this game is very well done.
  
  Company of Heroes 
 is also coupled with very nice gameplay as I've mentioned before. It isn't just generic having 
 lots of units to win the game type of strategy. As the resources you get in the game is generated 
 quite slowly, you'll have to learn to use the units you have efficiently. There's also the sound. 
 Every unit has unique voice overs and they all sound great. Some of them even made me crack a laugh 
 in real life (though they can be offensive to some people) . The sound of the guns, vehicles and 
 soldiers is the game of the year material. To be honest I didn't find any problems at all with 
 the sound.
  
  Basically Company of Heroes is a great game. That's all I have to say. You should try it out yourself. 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sorry if my English is bad. It's my second language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdauz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing COH for three days now... non stop - this game is everything u would want in 
 a real time strategy game and more. In fact it plays more like a tactical game. U cant just throw 
 units at the enemy. People scorn at the low unit cap rate. But infact that works find with the 
 amount of micomanagement. COH IS THE BEST GAME IN MY OPINION ON THE PC IN ALL TIME it beat Red 
 Alert 2 which used to be my favuorite game u will have no experience of WW2 as on COH - its even 
 better the Call of Duty 2 and Medal of Honor has nothing on it BUY THIS GAME - its worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breezey29
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Fan's of WWII will really love this title. Also RTS gaming at it's finest.
  
  The game focuses strongly on action, the heat of the battle. Allowing many unit's and upgrades 
 to be purchased outside of the base of operations.
  
  The graphics in this game are breathtaking especially in huge battle's with artillery raining down.
 
  
  The physics engine is superb with everything from bit's and buildings and tree's to half a soldier 
 flying through the air. It is very visceral in it's combat like the earlier rts title from THQ 
 dawn of war.
  
  There are many action's for trrop's deaths and explosions making the game very refreshing to watch.
 
  
  One flaw i have to say with the game is that you can only be Axis or Allies and obviously online 
 you cannot be fighting with the same side as your opponent.
  
  I would love to see an expansion pack adding maybe Russia or Japan to the fray to add a little 
 spice to the online side of things.
  
  Still that being said there is alot of variation in the play style's and forces online. With tech 
 tree's unlocking according to how you spend your battle experience.
  
  The germans for example have a Blitzkrieg tree allowing Heavy vehicles to dominate the field and 
 call in the illustrious TIGER.
  
  Or you can choose a different path and maybe take the Defensive tree allowing base fortification's 
 and defensive artillery barrage.
  
  All in all the game in my opinion now sets the standard for any RTS in the near future. Its sleek 
 visuals and fun deep game are only surpassed by it's authentic feel and the sound is second to 
 none.
  
  Get it, Play it, repeat step 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  This game looks amazing. The graphics are awesome, and so are all the historically accurate french 
 towns. This game excels in many areas. First being the fact that everything in the map is completely 
 destructible. You can completly reshape the battlefield with tanks and explosions. Second is the 
 sound, which is quite truly, amazing and brings the battlefield to life. The game play is also 
 very inventive, which gives the player a ton of things to do. You basically start on the frontline, 
 and have to base your attack on a mixture of gaining resources, with pushing the enemy back by 
 capturing sectors, the more sectors you have the more you dominate the game. The online multiplayer 
 adds even more game play to the game, which is also extremely nice. The loading times (which can 
 be justified in comparison to the amazing graphics and massive maps) are rather long. A powerful 
 machine really is a must have for this game, to play it well, and to fully appreciate the amazing 
 graphics. Also, you can only play as either the Americans or the Germans. Being a true brit, it 
 would have been nice to see our contribution to the war. Although that will be included in the 
 expansion pack opposing fronts.
  
  However, from the innovative gameplay, and the quite amazing graphics, this is the best RTS around 
 at the moment and is a great buy for any budding armchair general. The first time you play it, 
 you really will be blown away by the sheer detail in the maps and the explosions. And boy does 
 this game have explosions!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonVitoCarleon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  WW2 all over again was my first thought oh bother , thinking of all those great shoot'em up's i 
 have played about WW2 .I thought not another like too many boring horror films ,then i saw the 
 words Historic Real-Time Strategy
  This game is one of the more addictive great games . My first impressions My first peak of this 
 game on Gamespot was , this looks brilliant .As they say first impressions are important and it 
 it was right .After watching at least 5 or 6 trailers of all its different aspects of play , it 
 just looked better and better .I could not wait to have this game in my hands .First day release 
 i was there to pay the more than decent price with Dawn of War free .The makers of both games Relic 
 are making an everlasting impression on our PCs .As i was geting home i read the manual it simplefy's 
 things .Soon as i ramed the door i was on the Computer waiting for the last seconds of it to install 
 .I was soon at the main menu with so many options .I went to the campaign and set it to hard to 
 get used to the game before doing anythin stupid ,and this game does take alot to get completely 
 used to .The battlefield adapts to creaters in the ground and been able to use anything nearly 
 as cover .The first mission was simple take one of the beaches on D-Day .While you keep recieving 
 renforcements riflemen mainly with enginiers to blow up some AA guns and bunkers . This was simply 
 fun and nothing diffacult , a perfect way to start .I discovered the further uyou into any building 
 ,soldier or group ,tank ect it just keeped geting more complicateed to how to build soldiers ,how 
 to get the right types recources to build buildings and soldiers ect .This game takes a few hours 
 to get really used to what your doing and how everything works . At the same time geting harder 
 every mission you go through .From taking a towns, vital buildings brideges ,holding them ,helping 
 fighting troops .There is so much to do . Reviewing the aspects The Gameplay was complicated and 
 takes a while to get used to , but all worth it in the end and thats why i have given a 9 for Gameplay 
 The Graphics are a real credit to Microsoft ,no matter where your looking from it looks beutiful 
 .
  Therefore a 10 is only right The sound was brilliant ,from explosions to men screams for their 
 mums .the sound adapts to how fare you are away from the battle .The only problem with Stratgys 
 as always is what your men say when you give them orders it gets enoying sometimes ,but they do 
 respond to what's happening around them . Which as fare as i know has not been done before ,and 
 the ocassional curse word which adds to the atmosphere .
  So i give it a great 9 The value i feel there should be more maps and more armys like the Japenese 
 italian british and soviet so its a 10 An Expierence to be played with  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hibikino
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is one of the best strategy game ever made in years. Unlike other strategy games 
 like C&amp; C, Warcraft 3 and even Supreme Commander, CoH requires players to pay more attention 
 to their frontline assault. I remember playing the Skirmish game for the first time, I ordered 
 my Sherman to attack on the CPU's base while I moused my screen back to my base to start making 
 some upgrades. It was only a mere 15 seconds, I found my Sherman left in ruins and the enemies' 
 Panther is heading towards my base. CoH is somewhat like an action game by itself. It's no longer 
 just about a large army clashing into another large army. For instance, you can take out 3-4 squads 
 of Infantry units with only a single unit using special ability (like grenade) . The gameplay is 
 very unique and exciting as an action games. The game is not very difficult to master. You may 
 wanna go through the tutorial once, but after that you can use your skills and the units' abilities 
 to finish the entire campaign. It may require a little bit of thinking and combination of units 
 to earn medals as you have to fulfill certain requirement in order to acquire them.
  
  The graphics is extremely cool and realistic. You can see the grass moving, reflection in the water 
 and realistically well-rendered shadow. The cut-scene, which is also made from the in-game engine, 
 is made such that it seems like you're watching a war movie like, Saving the Private Ryan and Band 
 of Brothers . The game story is based on World War II and the game has really adopted the theme 
 very well. There are moments that are really worth remembering throughout this game. The sound 
 is extremely loud and glorious. If you have the 7.1 speakers, you will really be able to appreciate 
 what this game has to offer.
  
  The only downside is that the campaign only features the Allies and there are only 2 fractions 
 to play in the skirmish. Overall, this game is just about everything you could ask for from a strategy 
 game. CoH is simply the most unique and intense frontline action ever made. The Multiplayer is 
 fun to play. CoH is simply one of the best games out there you wouldn't wanna missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Editing note: GameSpot refuses to let me add spaces to some of my paragraphs so a giant line has 
 took it's place. Continue reading!
  
  I know what you're thinking Another WW2 game? Yes another WW2 game. It's a shame that just by a 
 setting alone people will shun a game away and never play it. I'm sure the recent crap Medal of 
 Honors and Hour of Victories haven't really help you believe that there is some promise for the 
 WW2 setting, neither did I at one point. But then I played Company of Heroes and I have to say 
 there shouldn't be another WW2 game ever made unless it begins with Company of Heroes: this could 
 possibly be one of the best RTS ever made.
  
  First let me say I'm not a big RTS fan so maybe my claims don't hold much merit. I think the most 
 recent RTS I have played is the Command and Conquer 3 demo on XBL. From the information I gathered 
 from that demo it looks like RTS is still the same. There's a bunch of Koreans that play all day 
 and demolish you, there's a whole bunch of weird units to make that do all these strange moves, 
 you have to deal with resource gathering which somehow people can do faster than you. I'm sure 
 by now you've probably given up on RTS as a whole because of how it's set up and you'll never get 
 into it. Rest assure Company of Heroes breaks the trend in a brand new way.
  
  Company of Heroes replaces the idea of massing units and rushing the enemy with tactics that are 
 believable and fun to use. The first thing you'll notice is the distinction between a vehicle and 
 an infantry squad. You've probably played Starcraft at one point and wondered why the hell a guy 
 with a gun can blow up a tank. That's not the case here. Vehicles play a big role, but before we 
 go onto their importance let's talk about what your squads can do. The big attribute of infantry 
 is their ability to take cover. There's three types of cover: No cover, Mild Cover, and Good cover, 
 you'll want good cover as much as possible but you'll mostly end up being behind a small pile of 
 rubble or something. Good cover is hard to come by, you'll have to rely on your engineer units 
 to place sandbags throughout the battlefield. Cover is very important since it makes the difference 
 between a tank shell missing or blowing up you and three other guys. When two squads face off against 
 each other it's a rather interesting battle. Despite this being an RTS the developers added small 
 details like a solider reloading, or passing his clip to one of his buddies. These battles usually 
 don't get very far by themselves, most of the time you'll have to bring int he calvary like an 
 armored car to speed things along. And those vehicles put a whole new spin on things.
  
  Vehicles are a scary sight for a rifleman who only has bullets, whether it's a tank or armored 
 car you can't damage it with your gun alone. You can of course always bring another vehicle, or 
 some times a bigger one. A tank being made to take out a half track might be over doing it, but 
 if a big Panzer tank is giving you trouble, you may want to bring in some armored tanks. All vehicles 
 have a weak point in the rear. Hitting them here will do almost x3 more damage and can even effect 
 some attributes of the tank such as how fast it goes, if it shoots slower, or at all. However you 
 have a weak point too, so just charging past a tank to hit it's backside while revealing your own 
 might not be the greatest idea. But you don't always have to counter a vehicle with another vehicle. 
 Your infantry can be upgraded and obtain sticky bombs which can take out the treads or the engine 
 leaving the enemy tank immobile and a prime target. There's also some units that can use armor 
 piercing bullets to cause a small amount of damage, or a sniper can kill the gunner riding on top. 
 This variety of tactics makes all the battles interesting.
  
  The final addition to gameplay is special abilities. Within the game there are three companies 
 you can choose to specialize in: Infantry, Airborne, and Armor. When you choose these companies 
 it gives you a small technology tree about what you can gain from each one. Each part of the three 
 has an ability such as vehicles repairing themselves for a short amount of time, or being able 
 to air drop units. The way you purchase these abilities is as you kill more enemies you gain experience 
 in a sense that's added to a circular bar. When the bar fills up you gain a point, you can use 
 that point (or points) to buy these abilities. You start off with simple things like an airplane 
 doing reconnaissance, but eventually you get the ability to do bombing runs and other advance things. 
 These abilities can save your life in a lot of occasions, say there's four tanks blowing up your 
 HQ and they're all next to each other, one bombing run later, no more problems.
  
  Of course there needs to be a way to gain all these units and abilities right? Now, resource gathering 
 wouldn't really make much sense in World War 2. You can't really have soldiers going to an oil 
 river or something and bring back buckets. Instead your units capture resource points. There's 
 three types of resources: Manpower, Munitions, and Oil. Manpower is gained by the number of territories 
 you have, those territories also control how many units you can make before going over the limit. 
 Manpower is used for anything you build, units, or buildings all take some manpower. Munitions 
 is used for your special tactics, loading armor piercing bullets or placing mines costs munitions. 
 Oil fuels your ability to make buildings and vehicles, tanks being the units that take up the most 
 amount of Oil. This resource system works well with the setting and makes a battle for economics 
 another tactic to the many. Instead of rushing in and trying to blow up everything like Rambo, 
 you can take all the Oil resource points and wait for all the enemies vehicles to be destroyed, 
 and then roll in with a few of your own, leaving your opponent defenseless. 
 
  You'll spend most of your time using these tactics in the Campaign mode. The game is fairly long 
 taking around 30 hours to complete in one go. There's plenty of reasons to go back and replay missions. 
 Since battles rarely ever play out the same way you'll play the same mission differently almost 
 every single time. But if that doesn't give you an incentive there's always trying the game on 
 higher difficulties which works in a way so you never really feel like you're at such a disadvantage 
 it's impossible. Or you can always go for the secondary objectives like saving a dock from being 
 blown up or killing 300 Nazis in one mission. You can always go for the skirmish mode but it's 
 not as exciting and intense as the single player can be. However it does allow you to play as the 
 Axis. Playing as the Axis is hard to get into though. Despite being equally developed in their 
 own way and having a separate technology tree (so they're just not the same thing as the Allies 
 with different names) they don't have any sort of tutorial or short missions to help you warm up 
 to them. You have to learn as you play against an opponent which isn't a very friendly learning 
 place. Once you get the hang of them they're fun to play as and makes you design new strategies 
 since the Axis receive certain units earlier than the Allies, like a sniper or small tanks. They 
 also have different companies and abilities that do some interesting effects. Such as a Terror 
 company that makes enemy units afraid to fight and retreat. If you don't like playing against the 
 computer player you can always take it online for player vs. player skirmishes, though as usual 
 human players are more aggressive and try to rush. This is a pretty big change from the often passive 
 computer player, but you get the hang of how to adapt to the gameplay style pretty quickly.
  
  The only problem I've have with the game is from a technical standpoint. The game is filled 
 with a lot of crash glitches. Luckily gameplay doesn't have many problems besides the occasional 
 unit who stands up straight and sort of floats everywhere. But the big problem is loading screens 
 and fatal button presses. Several times I've tried to press Main Menu or Continue after a mission 
 and the game would crash. To add to that the game doesn't count you beating a mission until you 
 see the next cutscene or go to the main menu. Forcing you to replay a lot of missions. Patching 
 the game is quiet a task as well. Instead of just downloading the latest patch you have to get 
 the 20 patches before it and then download the latest one, making the experience rather tiresome.
 
  
  Which leads to the other big problem, DirectX10 inclusion in recent patches. This is a terrible 
 idea. I have a GeForce 8800 GTX video card. It should be able to handle DX10 easily. Before DX10 
 support was added my frame rate counter would go into the 300s, now it barley ever makes it past 
 40FPS. The game wasn't designed with DX10 in mind so it causes gameplay to slow down significantly. 
 Which is a big problem when you're trying to get the best out of the game. Obviously the game still 
 looks beautiful at it's Highest settings but you feel like you're getting shammed when you can't 
 take it higher without suffering a bad frame rate.
  
  Despite these graphical short comings and glitches this is a great RTS. It actually makes me wonder 
 why aren't more people talking about this? As far as I know no other RTS has added cover systems 
 or the realism of a rifle not being able to effect a tank. Also this game manages to remain interesting 
 even though it's placed in World War 2, that alone is an accomplishment. NOTES:
  -I have Windows Vista which could be the source to many of the crash glitches.
  
  -This game 
 can be very pretty but it doesn't have to be, you may miss out on some of the cool explosions on 
 the low settings but you can still enjoy the game fully don't be afraid if you don't have a great 
 video card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahidofhonor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  This is the best strategy game i hav played.
  Gameplay is almost like Age OF Empires bt much more simple......
  
  Its about World War II. 
 like other world war 2 games u will find Saving Private Ryan here... and Omaha Beach is not missing.
 
  cut scenes are in game graphics. and u will see the detail level is like a 1st person shooting 
 game..
  
  i never felt that iam playing a strategy game. and i never felt boring. all the time u hav to fight 
 and fight. u command a squad of 6 soldiers and see how they take cover, attack and how they shout.
 
  
  and the most important thing is all the characters, vehicles and buildings are in scale. (not like 
 other strategy games that u will find human is bigger than house)
  
  though its a strategy game, i compare this game with medal of honor or call of duty.................. 
 its story line, gameplay , cut scenes will turn this game into a WWII movie......
  
  Edit/Delete Message 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneMarine76
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This games combine, great gameplay, graphics and sound to really engross you in the gameply. The 
 game includes a full fledged campaign mode, Skirmish mode, and its addictive Online mode wich runs 
 very good. If there was one complaint, it would be some balancing issues, that will hopefully be 
 resolved. One of the coolest parts of this game is that your soldiers have real ai, they react 
 to the changing enviroment, and seek cover when being fired upon. Overall this game is amazing, 
 any RTS or WWII fan should buy it, no questions asked, the game can be tough though, so casual 
 gamers might wanna rent it first. The game is pretty easy to learn, but hard to master, if you dont 
 micromanage every battle, you'll lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconghost179
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  this game is a great , it puts you right in the boots of Able Company and 101st Airborne . You 
 fight from D-day all the way up to the defeat of the Nazi party. You witness how it feels to loose 
 so much men but gain exceptional power over your foe (Nazis) . What i mean by that is , you will 
 form up maybe 8 squads of men/armor .. whatever and then hit a huge platoon of Nazis ... and as 
 we all know the Americans always on the move and the Nazis had their Mg's and armor waiting for 
 us. SO basically your on the offensive most the time trying to keep your men alive and kick Nazi 
 ass !! The one thing i love though about the Paratroopers is if you loose some men and have no 
 medic (s) you can call for paratroopers to drop in where you are to fill up your squad (s) again 
 or reinforce you ! That helps a lot too , so use it! The graphics are very nice , and so is the 
 enviorment sp** . anything can be destroyed and the death of your men/enemy is really nicely done 
 , if a mortor or arty hits a squad or whatever ... they blow the f*** apart , you get shot .. your 
 either dead or they are laying there screaming with blood coming out of them. Its a great game 
 , really well done. Its shows you what the hell our veterans went through.. i reallllyy recommend 
 this game to a fan of any war. It will open your eyes to the hell they all went through !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is literally one of the most overhyped games ever.
  
  Good things: The graphics for the game are beautiful. Shrapnel flying, dust kicking, artillery 
 barrages. It adds realism for that. It also has incredibly warlike sounds. Graphics lover's wetdream. 
 If your rig can handle this game then you'll probably be astounded.
  
  Bad things: Low replay value. If you make 2 factions in a videogame for realism the least you could 
 do is add more units. It's incredibly boring after you finish the campaign and multiplayer alone 
 entertains you for about 1 hour before you quit mainly because theres too little to enjoy or play. 
 The gameplay isn't that good either. Somethings in the game are imbalanced or underpowered. . Bad 
 things (Realism issues) : Sure you can make a game realistic but not to the point where everything 
 costs money that's plain annoying. Why do I have to spend 100 ammo points just so I can get 3 thompson 
 machine guns? Why the heck do i have to spend ammo for a grenade toss. Is there a special reason 
 why you have useless powers that cost overloads of resources. How come units hidden in buildings 
 get killed faster than out in the open? The nerbelwerfer artillery is suppose to be on the most 
 valuable weapons in WW2 but it seems it can't even take out a small squad of infrantry out in the 
 open. For some reason my 5 men rifle squad can't even take out 2 german engineers. Veterancy and 
 upgrades for your infrantry is complete bogus. My completely veteraned german volksgrenadier squad 
 can't take out a machine gun nest even though they are supposed to be experienced. (They were in 
 cover and flanking the mg nest) . Why is the AT rifle capable of killing my infantry and why is 
 the blast radius so big? It's piercing caliber ammo.
  
  The game itself isn't that good if you cut it open. Most people just get lost in the clever graphics, 
 sound, and hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Well it would seem the simple games are very often the most effective. If you have played Dawn 
 of War you will find several similarities in Company of Heroes but the differences are significant. 
 I will start with the only negative thing i have to say about this game and that is with the choice 
 of only two teams to play as. The americans and the germans. However the game does make up for 
 this a little by letting the player choose three different technology paths to go down with each 
 team. Each path is very different from the other. Other than this small letdown the game is certainly 
 a step forward (albeit a smallone) for strategy games. You start the game with a base and need 
 to quickly build your scout/builder units to start taking territories. (1st major similarity to 
 DoW) As you get more resources from holding said strategic points you can build better buildings 
 and from them come better units. Fairly standard stuff so far. However, when the fighting starts 
 is where CoH differs from its peers. With most games the strategy stops when the fighting starts. 
 With CoH it just gets more intence. You have to micro manage your troops to combat the enemy. An 
 example is the presicion needed to prevent the enemy tanks from hitting your own tanks in the rear. 
 The micromanagement is just right and rarely feels overwhelming. Your men can also enter buildings 
 and start to fire their various weapons from the windows. With all of this you end up with a very 
 realistic and interactive battle scene which very few, if any, games have given us before. The 
 graphics are also similar to DoW but upgraded. They arent ground breaking but they certainly do 
 the job in creating the gritty battlegrounds of WW2. Talking of the backgrounds almost everything 
 is destructable. If you have some infantry holed up in a near impossible hole, just blow the barricades 
 up!. This makes for some very fun battles where houses and walls are smashed and destroyed. All 
 in all this game is an enjoyable strategy game which should be an example to some of the other 
 competitors. To Summerise + Destructable scenery
  
  + Actually has Tactical combat + Graphics are nice
  
  + Sound does its job well
  
  - lack 
 of initial choice when choosing teams 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CroCorwin
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  This game is just incredible. From the campaign in which you play through the end of World War 
 II ( starting from D Day) as Americans, to the skirmishes where you can play as well as the Germans. 
 The campaign itself is very long and hard, and will keep you occupied for quite some time, and 
 if you get bored with it you can always experiment in the skirmish.
  
  The main reason I liked this game is the feeling you don't gather resources, the way this is handled 
 is by capturing fields on the map that increase your bullet and oil supply. Another pretty cool 
 touch is the role of a good cover. If you start shooting while out on the open you really risk 
 much. On the other hand if you hide in a house and the enemy happens to have a cannon or a tank 
 you have to get of there very quickly. The enemy AI is very good, they will try to flank you or 
 even avoid you if they want to achieve something else other then kill a couple of your troops. 
 All in all you have to think your actions through, because just massing troops and launching an 
 attack will not get you anywhere. All in all, a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  When I first saw a review of CoH I dismissed it as another old-school WWII RTS. But that view dramatically 
 changed when I got to play it. It's just too hard to describe in words.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The first thing that I noticed when I played the game was its cool graphics. It's a got this kinda 
 realism realism that makes a guy who's been stuck up with Red Alert 2 graphics, drool over. The 
 explosions are worth watching. But that same graphics can get a little buugging at times. It's 
 that shadowy effect of over-realism that makes units hard to spot sometimes on the game area and 
 becomes a little too much on the darker side. But, then come on all games must have their downside.
 
  
  SOUND:
  
  Sound is another place where CoH scores really well. The sound is another place where the realism 
 factor is given its due. The background score is great. The voice acting is also done great. The 
 in-game shouts and taunts of the soldiers are done to perfection. The army slang is cool and not 
 overdone.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Winners don't do different things, they do things differently 
  This is the best description 
 of the gameplay. The basic gameplay is jut as similair to any other warfare RTS. It has the same 
 base-building, defensive structures and army-building. Though having done away with the traditional 
 method of resource gathering, it has very well compensated it with a novel way of resource gathering 
 with the strategic points, which have to be captured to secure a steady flow of resources.
  Enemy AI is challenging enough to make the game interesting enough and keep us engaged. Overall 
 the AI is good.
  The use of strategy has been stressed. All newbies to the game should put behind the idea, bigger 
 is always better or greater numbers will always lead the way. It all depends on strategy. A tank 
 caught in a swarm of infantry can be easily taken out with the sticky bombs that work well aginst 
 vehicles. At the same time a batallion of riflemen can be taken down by a strategically placed 
 machine gun. Anti-tank cannons are effective on the long range but up close... better be warned. 
 A sniper hidden in a building can spell disaster to troops on the patrol. So can a machine gunner, 
 epecially on the offense.
  
  MISCELLANEOUS:
  
  The physics is astounding. The explosions, the various 'natural physics' effects has been done 
 to perfection. The units are in scale. The environment is almost fully-destructable and the best 
 part is that it stays that way till the end-those craters formed by shell bursts, etc.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  Great game. All RTS fans should have it. Others may also give a try, if they 
 like those kabooms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elstoneman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Right from the off, this game just screams PLAY ME! PLAY ME NOW!! The box art (I got the limited 
 edition) had me screaming for my PC to load it even faster. When I finally started playing, I was 
 astounded. Everything seemed amazing.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics here were frankly amazing. Units were so detailed, the terrain was fantastically rendered 
 and everything looked amazing from ever camera angle I could think of. There was so much detail, 
 and the effects were awesome. Some of the incoming fire looked so real, I could have been watching 
 a movie rather than a game. What was really good was the completely destructable environment, the 
 way that pretty much everything could be blown apart, then stay that way.
  
  Sound: Once again, this was fantastic. The German soldiers sounded actually German, for once, and 
 everything was said in just the right way to make it sound like I was actually back there in 1944. 
 The explosions and firefights made my house shake, and the detail in some of the characters' voices 
 was brilliant. I was really impressed by the way that my troops seemed to talk, scream, swear and 
 yell their way through firefights without even being selected, making the sound really realistic. 
 At times, the incoming artillery even made me want to duck.
  
  Gameplay and everything else....
  
  Like everything else, this too was seriously impressive. 
 The AI in skirmishes and the campaign was smart, trying flanking manouvres, softening me up with 
 artillery and even tactics like pinning my infantry down with overlapping MG fire so snipers could 
 pick them off. You quickly wise up to the realism, and start realising the benefits that using 
 real tactics and cover have.
  
  The completely destructable environment was also really impressive. German sniper in a building 
 keeping your men pinned down? Simple, bring up a tank and knock the building down. Rubble and destroyed 
 vehicles hang around, making brilliant cover, and completely changing what the map looks like, 
 and how your tactics work.
  
  The game was superbly balanced too. I guess a lot of you, like me, have been sick of games where 
 the side that gets tanks first is pretty much assured victory. Here, tactics are everything, and 
 whilst a tank might be brilliantly useful in blasting its way across a wide swathe of countryside, 
 in an urban map, tanks become prey to your marauding infantry. All the units have authentic weapons, 
 like the US sticky-bomb (see Saving Private Ryan) which means that your infantry can flank that 
 pesky panzer through the rubble and blow it apart. Again, the realism of conflict is really impressive.
 
  
  All the vehicles in the game can be damaged in various ways, with their engine or main gun knocked 
 out, for example, or various crew members killed depending on where you hit. Not only do these 
 show up on the vehicle, but they also have a real effect on its performance. For example, a tank 
 with its main gun knocked out will still be able to drive around just as before, but if faced with 
 anything more than infantry, will be practically useless.
  
  Although through the game, you can access a whole horde of increasingly powerful units, a series 
 of upgrades means that even your initial base units are a match for them, and shows the way that 
 all the units have to cooperate to gain victory. An isolated tank can quickly be surrounded and 
 disabled by quick-moving infantry whilst unsupported infantry can easily be pinned down and picked 
 off, or simply overrun by an enemy vehicle, whilst artillery barrages called down across half a 
 map can be staggeringly effective, but up close, the artillery crew would do more damage with a 
 broken chair-leg.
  
  So, after this long and rambling review, what am I really saying about Company of Heroes? Well, 
 this game isnt just good, its a brilliant and staggeringly realistic example of how brutal WW2 
 could be, and which shows the need to use proper tactics and combine your forces effectively to 
 gain victory. It might just be the breakthrough RTS we've wanted for so long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine646
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Com dezenas de jogos sendo lan&ccedil; ados com o tema da Segunda Guerra Mundial, Company of Heroes 
 se tornou a grande supresa de 2006, justamente por usar este plano de fundo, mais conseguir reunir 
 em um so jogo todas as qualidades existentes em outros jogos. Com o seu engine bem feito, aonde 
 todo o cenario por se usado ou destruido, e que tem algum objetivo, como pode usar por exemplos 
 um muro para prote&ccedil; ao dos soldados, mais que aos poucos vai sendo destruido, nada &eacute; 
 figurativo. Na parte grafica, &eacute; um show a parte, com um bom pc e uma placa de video top 
 de linha, os detalhes sao excelentes, bem construidos, pode acontecer de esquecer de jogar, so 
 para ficar olhado as cenas que aparecem, na parte de som, seria como o jogador estivesse mesmo 
 na guerra, com todos os ruidos caracteristicos dos melhores filmes de guerra em um jogo. Um dos 
 poucos problemas seria nao ter uma campanha pelo lado alemao, que seria pode aproveitar a visao 
 de ambos os combatentes. Company de Heroes se torna um classico instantaneo, um dos melhores ETRs 
 ja lan&ccedil; ados ate hoje, aonde ate mesmo que nao &eacute; chegado deve ganhar algumas horas 
 de diversao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Company of Heroes for my birthday about a few days ago and I've been playing it non 
 stop. It's just one of the best games I have ever played. The graphics alone are worth the package 
 supplying the user with some of the most beautiful graphics out there for an RTS. While this game 
 has a somewhat steep learning curve, once you get the hang of it you'll be singing for more. The 
 gameplay is well done and the squad AI is amazingly well done. For the first time ever the AI has 
 been a true challenge. The sound brings this game to life, with full speaks on the explosions and 
 various other sounds truly make you feel in the middle of a battle. The squads often say things 
 after which can often be funny and the sheer detail they put into sound is amazing too. This game 
 is an amazing buy and it will last anyone for a long time. RTS fan or not, this game is a must 
 have for any PC gamer's collections. With the new expansion coming before the end of the year, 
 this is a game I will be playing for a VERY long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyropower
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  This game is an excellent combination of old fashioned RTS combined with it's very new and innovitave 
 system. You have to take these certain positions to gather all of your different resources.
  It is difficult, because you can't just sit back and build up an army, you have to defend, deploy 
 and lauch small raids. Or the enemy will just constantly batter you. It is quite difficult to win 
 an easy setting skirmish. So if you are looking for a true RTS game that is actually going to be 
 hard then get this. The sequel of this is coming out opposing fronts . Its stand-alone, but it 
 would be better to buy the first and the second, then you can get al of the armies. Thanks for 
 reading.
  ADB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antsiu
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  CoH has outstanding graphics. Every single object is destructible! No games are ever the same. 
 When closed up to the units, it looks as real as Call of Duty! The gameplay is engaging and also 
 does not leave the story line hanging. The artificial intelligence is far superior, no line of 
 defence can be held because they can easily flank them. The audio sounds as if it is WWII. The 
 only lacking is the attempting to adjust the view. This is the best game ever and there is no doubt 
 that is can be even rated lower than a 9.6 by any gamers. Company of Heroes is the best strategy 
 game ever made. Can't wait for opposing fronts to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacyp
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Probably one of the best RTS games I've ever saw. Tactics are actually consistent, flanking DOES 
 give you advantage, instead of other games that what counts are number of units and how upgraded 
 they are.
  
  Sounds are just no comments . Put the volume on maximum and your neirbours will gently ask you 
 to turn down the volume of your TV and the war movie you are watching. It's like you are on the 
 battlefield and hell is breaking loose.
  
  Graphics, ow my god the graphics! I have the privilege of playing this on maximum video settings. 
 And boy, what's that!? My mother, who doesnt have a clue about games, once saw me playing it, stood 
 right next to me and said Is this a game? Looks so real! .
  
  There is no recipe to win the game. You can do it with tanks, infantry, light vehicles, I dont 
 care. The tactics are flexible and everything can be countered. The problem here is that for human 
 players is very dificult to manage too many units in an effective and fast way to counter massive 
 tanks, for example. That makes playing against the AI very dificult, BUT ONLY if you are playing 
 as a Nazi bastard.
  
  One of the flaws of the game is the very poor AI of the Axis. The Allied AI is superior by far, 
 they can counter ANY of your tactics if you extend the game too much. But in multiplayer, things 
 probably get very balanced cos of human phisical and mental limitation on managing too many units 
 at once.
  
  The other flaw, that I find much more important, is that sometime battles can get you very very 
 tired. Nothing is more annoying than 2 squads shooting each other on open field with no cover and 
 taking a minute to kill each other. Come on, I know that one shot one kill cant be much of the 
 rule in a RTS game, but neither 15 shot one kill if you have no cover. Curiosily, set the game 
 dificult to maximum and they will kill each other faster, but it's still annoying sometimes. Tanks 
 should have a minimum range too. Sometimes they manage to shoot someone who is totally near it. 
 That is also very annoying, as you can then play just with tanks with no problem, and I think thats 
 very unrealistic to see on a battlefield. On the other hand, when a tank shot hits a simple anti 
 tank weapon, man, BLOW IT! But no, it takes 3 shots to destroy the damn thing. Come on, I understand 
 shots on other tanks rebounding on the thick armor, but not on simple small anti tank weapons.
 
  
  Apart from these things that could be corrected with simple patchs if the developer wants it, the 
 game is still great, and you can still win some battles with less units than your enemies, though 
 you cant rely on that always, as it depends on terrain advantage, cover, a very good positioning 
 tactic and the right weapons for every moment.
  
  Anyway, beautiful great game and I'm waiting for the expansion KNOWING that it will blow the game 
 market once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picean
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of RTS games, civilization, medieval, etc. this is the best of all the rest. 
 granted at first it seems hard and a bit to fast with all the management but relax the AI gives 
 you time. plan, excute, zoom and enjoy. also it is replayable you can win many ways each decision 
 brings a new outcome. I have played it all the way through and did it a second time with new results. 
 the better you get at it the more you can enjoy the graphics. but be forewarned that at times the 
 AI will attack other places and won't let you know so don't stay hung up on one thing. after all 
 you are the commander of a large force and a lot is going on. an extra is the skirmish mode a bit 
 different to keep things fresh. the basic game has bugs but download the patches and enjoy. when 
 things get tough, the tough get going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkskater2007
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best RTS i have played. If Call of duty was an RTS, this would be it. Its 
 a great game, Graphics looks incredible, Sounds very real, fro full enjoyment crank the speakers 
 up and play. Fully destructible battlefields makes this game look and feel even more real. The 
 closest you can get to really being in world war ll. Before i got this game i kept hearing it was 
 great and i kept looking at it for a long time wondering why do people like it so much? Then I 
 finally bought it and i thought WHY DIDNT I BUY IT EARLIER! If your unsure if u want to get this 
 game jsut go for it becasue you won't be disappointed AT ALL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcrosthwait
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This game simply blew my mind. A friend recommended it, and I went to the website to check it out 
 and immediately had to buy it. When I picked it up I didn't stop playing for a day. It still gets 
 me sucked in when I turn it on.
  
  Gameplay - Incredible. Commanding squads is fun. They're even pretty smart in that they take cover 
 when they're under fire. The ONLY ONLY ONLY complaint I have with the game is that the tanks are 
 kinda... dumb. Haha. They don't turn when being fired on (rear armor is weaker than front armor) , 
 and their movement is kind clunky. Other than that, tank fights are pretty exciting to watch.
 
  
  Graphics - In game looks amazing. The landscape and its elements look amazing and are very interactive. 
 Everything can be blown up (trees, foliage, buildings, etc) and used for cover, which is great. 
 The intro movies for missions are done in a conceptual style which looks awesome to an artist's 
 eyes.
  
  Sound - The music is cool. Gunshots and explosions sound realistic. The units have responses which 
 is cool, but I wish they had some funnier ones like in Warcraft 2 if you clicked on them enough. 
 Those were great.
  
  It's an amazing game. Even if you can't afford it, just borrow it from a friend (the CD isn't required 
 for playing the campaign) . It's well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdohaney
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  I once was a sucker for the newest RTS, but these days the genre is lacking due to the same old 
 blah, blah, blah over and over again. That aside, COH is a great game. Great graphics, sound, and 
 gameplay, but again, same as any other strategy game on the shelves. If you are a die hard fan 
 of this genre or haven't been introduced to this style of gameplay, this game is for you. On the 
 other hand, if you are experiences with this genre and have played everything from Ages to Civilization 
 to Total War you may want to hold of for a cold winter night when you have absolutely nothing else 
 to play. So to not take anything away form this game, it is great, but the genre is just lacking 
 the snuff it once toted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xile101
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  It looks like a good game from the video's and the images.
  Sadly i havent actually got to play it but you can tell alot about it
  from the videos and images.
 
  
  All of these new games are good but it would make them alot better if you could use all of them 
 fractions in the war america and britain are kinda boring. They should have made something like 
 you can use the german warriors or the russian ,etc and lets not forget that the only reason why 
 the allies won the fight in the first place is because germany tryed to mess with russia and they 
 had the rest of the world on them.
  
  anyway if you can actually use other fractions like the germans or russians ok but if its just 
 americans and british then thats just retarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xassk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  I've played Company of Heroes for sometime now, and I'm still hooked. It's a nice change of pace 
 from the traditional resource gathering RTS, well you still get ammo &amp; reinforcements resources, 
 but you just have to capture a command point to get supplies.
  
  This game has a great single player campaign as well. Which begins with storming the beaches of 
 Normandy, bringing back memories of Saving Private Ryan, especially when somebody gets splatted 
 every where by a mortar shell.
  All 15 missions are highly re-playable with special metals to obtain for clearing special objectives, 
 or just getting a lower body count the next time through.
  
  In addition to beautiful graphics, a memorable single player campaign, and awesome game play mechanics 
 Company of Heroes has a multi-player component that will keep you playing into the wee hours of 
 the night.
  
  If you are a fan of RTS games you will definitely love Company of Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaca_42
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is the best rts game to released so far but in my opinion its the ultimate rts 
 game to be created.
  the game has exelent graphics, sound efects, AI, distructible envoirements and much much more!
 
  this is the first rts game that you actualy have to use tactics now if you have tanks its not 
 game over to your enemy if you dont support them they wont last 5 minutes in the battlefield anyone 
 that played warhammer 40000k will feel familiar with the resource gathering in this game for those 
 you dont know how you gather resources il explain.
  the resources are gathered by capturing strategic points and there are 3 diferant strategic points 
 the firs 1 is manpower (youl need it to build structers, soldiers and even tanks) the second 1 
 is fuel (youl need it to build vehicles like tanks for example and for some upgrades) and the third 
 1 is ammunition (youl need the ammunition point so you can make upgrades equip you troops with 
 grenades, bazucas, call in air strikes and much more)
  and dont worrie about the ammo your units dont have limited ammo.
  now has i whas saying in this 
 game you have to use tactics because even if you have more units than your enemy they can still 
 beat you and this isnt a rush in game if you rush in on an enemy base your troops wont last loong.
 
  you first need to weak the enemy forces and when you think the time is right atack the enemy base 
 with everything you got but leave atleast some units on defense because they can still atack your 
 territory.
  and when you see an mg position dont rush it if your troops are caught in its line of fire its 
 curtains for the boys you sent there theyl first get pinned down first it will appear yellow blinking 
 on the units icon that means theyr being supressed and when that hapens theyl start crawling and 
 you prety much loose control of them its very hard to get them to the place you whant them to go.
 
  when a red colour blinking appears on that units icon it means theyr pinned they cant fire or 
 move so all you can do is order them to retreat by pressing in the retreat button on you tool bar 
 or what ever its called the button has this mark on it ! the exclamation point is the retreat button. 
 the game is very detailed youl even see the beard on your soldiers and seind a at gun crew loading 
 the next shell.
  now has i said the envoirement is fully distructible now a smiple whall cant stop your tanks or 
 soldiers whell the soldiers can be stoped by a whall unless they got a satchel charge or a bazuca 
 if you have 1 of those things or both you can destroy the whall and now that means you can destroy 
 the enemys cover or create a new flank and the enemy can use those same tactics agaisnt you.
  speaking of cover unlike the other rts games the soldiers of company of heroes can actualy take 
 cover.
  even a hole made by an explosion can be use has cover or even a litle peace of a destroyed house 
 in other words your soldiers can use everything has cover.
  now how do you know if theyr in the open or in cover its very simple theres a litle shield icon 
 right next to your mouse when the shield is red it means that your troops are in the open and exposed 
 to enemy fire and can easely killed.
  when the shield is yellow it means your troops are in light cover light cover is when your soldiers 
 are taking cover behind boxes or behind a litle ditch or behind bushes and other objects.
  when the shield is green its heavy cover in other words its perfect cover your soldiers are behind 
 a whall, sandbags, or behind a destroyed tank and much more.
  and you soldiers actualy miss shots they wont allways hit the enemy soldiers or tanks.
  the gameplays 
 is exelent and it will never be repetitive for example you go 1 way you find a few enemys and you 
 use strategy right?
  but if you play that part again and use the same strategy it might not work and mainely because 
 of the decstructible envoirement.
  the multiplayer is exelent it supports 8 players and you can play a 1 vs 1 match or a 2 vs 2, 3 
 vs 3 and 4 vs 4.
  there are 2 diferant type of matches there is anhialation ( im sure i speled that wrong) and victory 
 points.
  i wont explain what they are but theyr awsome.
  whell thats all the info i can give for now ;) its an exelent game and i highely recomend it to 
 anyone that likes rts games even if you dont like rts games you should still give this 1 a try 
 its worth the money and its fun to play.
  whell what are you whaiting for go to the nearest shop and buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  For me this is one of the best RTS games what i like very much from this game is the size of the 
 units, because the tanks are not from the same size that are the soldiers, the graphics are great 
 gameplay also, the vehicles of this game are really great, i think are the best ones I have seen 
 in a RTS, the missions are really great, also what i really liked of this game is that it has this 
 new type of getting covered behind things like in real life, also if you have two tanks and make 
 one shoot with one in front of the other it will hit your tank that is really great 'cause it gives 
 realism to the game.
  SO GO NOW AND BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ball88
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This was suprisingly better than I thought it would be when it first came out. I was checkin out 
 the previews and thinkin, Oh God another Command and COmnquer . But it was quite to the contrary, 
 it completely changes how modern (sort of) RTS games should be based off of. FOr instance the game 
 doesn't put a whole lot of emphasis on resource gathering and makes you take the fight to the axis 
 (or defend yourself if your playing against the allies) . The vehicle movement was a little clumsy 
 and could be refined. However there's nothing better then watching five or six Shermans just tear 
 through German lines, or using your howitzers to call in strikes adn leave craters all over the 
 battlefield. All in all this is an excellent game and is definelty something that all RTS and WW 
 II should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalkhaja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Company of Heroes for about a month now, and before that I wasn't a fan of WWII 
 games, because I found them all the same. However, this game is different. Its visuals are stunning, 
 and the real-time physics engine looks amazing (most of the time) . The graphics in this game are 
 so realistic, it makes you feel as if you are in Normandy. As for the sound, where do I begin. 
 Each weapon has its own sounds, so you know whats shooting at you. Also, the character voices are 
 very impressive, and on par with some of the greatest games out there. The music is cleverly combined 
 with gameplay, so scary music plays in times of suspense, waiting for an attack, and epic music 
 plays when you are sending the Nazis to hell.
  
  The campaign only consists of 15 missions, but once you start playing them you realise that 15 
 missions is a lot, as each mission can take up to two hours, and can all be replayed using different 
 tactics. The storyline is impressive, and the cinematic cut-scenes in the game are extremely realistic 
 (if you have your PC set on the high detail mode) .
  
  According to gamespot, the two main flaws in this game are long loading times, and the fact that 
 there are only two factions. However, loading times aren't that long at all (20 seconds max) , which 
 don't bother me because they do not occur frequently. I would rather one pretty long loading time 
 before each mission/skirmish than frequent loading times in between cut-scenes. And also, Company 
 of Heroes: Opposing fronts, which is coming out in late 2007, will add 2 new factions to the game, 
 so that should help make the game more interesting.
  
  As for the multiplayer mode, you can play online with up to 7 other players around the world, which 
 is pretty incredible when you play it. However, as with most multiplayer games, lagging is very 
 annoying, especially when its another player letting you down, but CoH deals with this well by 
 offering lag grace of 20 seconds, before the other players have an option to kick the lagger... Harsh, 
 I know...
  
  In conclusion, I highly recommend this game, even if you don't like WWII games, because this RTS 
 is easily one of the best and most worth-while games ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch774
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  What an amazing game. First of all, the models all looks so realistic, and it's amazing how far 
 in you can zoom and still see full detail. The Graphics in this truly are the best I've seen in 
 any RTS. I love the destructible environment and the way my tanks could crash straight through 
 buildings. The environment is truly stunning and looks completely realistic. Easy to understand 
 interface, immersive game play, great multi player and amazing visuals make this the best RTS ever!
 
  
  One thing that would have been good was a German campaign, not just the ability to be German in 
 multi player. (If there is one that I can't seem to find, someone tell me) .
  
  Overall this is a fantastic game visually, game play, and replay value. The expansion should be 
 fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tornadoboy12354
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  Having played many strategy games including c &amp; c, Medieval 2: total war, and Star Wars: Empires 
 at war, this one left the others a long way behind. I used to be a fanatical 1st person shooter 
 player, but this game has managed to convert me to a strategy gamer.
  
  The first thing that strikes me is the graphics. They are so detailled that you can go zoom in 
 and watch the soldiers with mind blowing graphics. THQ have paid attention to even the smallest 
 details. Every single shot is has a bullet. Men can be blown apart. Tanks can roll over buildings 
 and knock corners off buildings. Tanks can be scarred by conflicts. The WHOLE TERRIAN is destroyable. 
 Buidings, woods, bridges, you name it you can destroy it.
  
  Then there is the AI. The infantry AI is superbe. They dive for cover. Can be pinned. Shoot and 
 hide in buildings. Not detail is considered too small. They have very well designed actions for 
 every thinkable mavoever. Then there is the sound. It in itself is a massive achievement. The sound 
 of the guns is mind blowing. The explosions are so realistic. My ears are still ringing with the 
 fantastic sound to the Howitzer. The voices of your men and tanks is a nice touch and makes it 
 seem very human. THis is vital in creating the vivid atmosphere.
  
  THe game has such good atmosphere that it makes u feel as though u are actually commanding the 
 Allied army. The teams themselves are well match and i love the subdivision of armies with the 
 commander menu. THQ have also got rid all the mines and farms that are synomenous with most strategy 
 games and replaced them with a territory controll system.
  
  It completely revolutionizes the genre and will be the bench mark for years to come. It is so immersive 
 that it has me squealing with delight as my Tigers drive the Allies back. The only draw back i 
 have found is the long loading times. Oh, and you don't hav to hav a top notch pc to enjoy this 
 spectacular game.
  
  In short, it you are a war world 2 fan, ur mind will be blown away with the detail and historical 
 accuracy of this game. If ur a fan of gore and violence this game will not dissappoint. If ur just 
 some one looking for an involving game with overwhelming graphics and an unchallengeable atmosphere 
 this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wato669
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  After playing Rome: Total War and AoE i would say i am sticking to the CoH games. CoH gives you 
 one of the best ever gameplay experiences with a great sense of free flowing war, where as in other 
 real-time strategy games there is a big build up of building men then a big war well in CoH there 
 is none stop action which is from having to capute certain points for the resources, so it sparks 
 a battle that wages for the entire a game. Multiplayer for that reason is so good and is what makes 
 CoH one of the top online real-time strategy games of all time.
  
  All up i would say if your looking for a good strategy game play this and i mean PLAY THIS.
  
 
  Wato
  
  If you have any thoughts into messaging me about this game then please do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skelarot
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is an RTS that you don't see to often these days, When i first played CoH i realized 
 that its foundations were built on alot of previous RTS games that we have come to know and love. 
 But as i started to spend more time with the game, i realized just how much more this game took 
 the RTS genre to.
  
  The employment of the havok physics engine was simply stunning, there is nothing quite as cool 
 as firing a shell from your tiger tank into a sea of courages solders and see them fly into trees 
 and windows.
  
  The tutorial is very straight forward and easy to pick up on, so you shouldn't have to spend a 
 decade remembering hot keys and puzzling tech trees.
  
  Although the campaign is based on historical events that we all have come to love and know about, 
 you cant deny the thrill and action you get when reenacting these scenarios via a game, especially 
 with one as good as Company of Heroes.
  
  If you feel that story telling isn't your thing, then you could always blast away in a up-to 8 
 player skirmish, or a king of the hill style game play. Although my only complaint is that the 
 difficulty may be a bit too troubling for newer players and that it may take some time to get used 
 to.
  
  In conclusion Company of Heroes is a wonderful RTS that brings back oldschool vibes and napalm 
 new technology which will be sure to get you addicted.
  
  - Have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ereyes4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game is extremely awesome because your troops is well balanced you can build all sorts of 
 squads and armor your able to rush the opponent and at the same time you can capture victory points 
 and hold the position set up a defensive position. Boost troops morale, upgrade troops call in 
 artillery support and armor just simply amazing doing things all at once. You get to play two sides 
 either Allies or Axis. Both have have plus sides down sides. But the one that interest me the most 
 is the Germans (Axis) I like thier defensive capabilities you can set up 88's which is extremely 
 unapproacheable given a write support unit and location (terrain) sweet mercy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1stRifle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  A real-time strategy game set in World War II, Company of Heroes brings to life, in full cinematic 
 detail, the greatest war mankind has ever known. Company of Heroes is built on Relic's next-generation 
 Essence Engine and also utilizes the Havok Physics engine, delivering cinematic visual detail in 
 a world completely driven by realistic physics. Gamers will experience the journey of the brave 
 men of Able Company in a deep single-player campaign that begins with the invasion of Normandy 
 through their fight across Europe, all set against the most dynamic battlefield ever seen in a 
 game. Company of Heroes' completely destructable environment means no two battles ever play out 
 in the same way. Advanced squad AI delivers startling new realism and responsiveness, bringing 
 soldiers to life as they interact with the environment and execute advanced squad tactics to eliminate 
 the opposition forces. That's what THQ said, but what do u say? . That's what I say:-
  
  Tip:
  To make a WW2 game that matters, you need to make something special enough to cut through 
 that armour of cynicism.
  
  Company of Heroes: something special.
  
  At first glance it's a standard RTS... actually, scratch that. At first glance Company of Heroes 
 is immediately special. It's more that on paper Company of Heroes sounds like a standard RTS. A 
 string of single-player missions. Skirmish mode against the computer (with co-op partners too) . 
 Online multiplayer. Opposing sides with differentiated forces. The usual. In fact, since Company 
 of Heroes only has two separate sides instead of the genre-standard three, on paper it could be 
 taken even as inferior.
  
  Inferior . That's the last time you'll see that word here.
  
  Company of Heroes is inferior to nobody.
  
  The rest-smoke suggests a cannon strike is 
 about to hit this position. Perhaps luckily for the soldier.
  For a start, while it limits its format to the genre basics, it does them as well or better as 
 anyone else. The Skirmish AI is agreeably vicious, for a start. While many of the bigger RTS this 
 year - Rise of Legends, and Battle for Middle Earth in War of the Ring mode, come swiftly to mind 
 - have attempted to step aside from the linear string of missions grouped around a story traditional 
 model, Company of Heroes single-player campaign sticks close to it. There's a little addition in 
 having secondary medals you can earn through better performance, and carry your surviving veteran 
 troops onwards to give you an edge, but primarily it's dealing with tasks with a relatively small 
 fraction of the total tools. Essentially, it acts like a slow introduction to the various unit 
 types in the games, making sure you grasp the idiosyncrasies of each one, and putting them together 
 in interesting combinations. It enlivens things in terms of presentation - the in-engine cut-scenes 
 panning out seamlessly to the normal-camera view is immediately engaging and with pretty much perfect 
 pacing.
  
  But it's in the absolute fundamentals where Company of Hero takes the expected and pushes it into 
 the realms of the extraordinary. Not since Total War have we seen a primarily mainstream strategy 
 game decide to base its mechanics so firmly on real life. Most RTS still base themselves on the 
 idea that attacking an opponent will reduce their health by a certain amount, simply modified depending 
 on whether their unit is a counter to the other. In most, troops with swords can still hack down 
 castles. Company of Heroes takes a more naturalistic approach, which makes things more dramatic, 
 compelling and... well, tactical.
  
  Take the machine-guns as an example. A machine-gun, when it opens up at a group of soldiers isn't 
 just a thing which reduces their health bar. A group under machine gun fire is in clear mortal 
 danger. Company of Heroes picks up where Relic's previous Dawn of War left off with its morale 
 system, but extends its effects. Different weapons will cause a unit to become suppressed at different 
 rates, where they'll be forced to fall to the floor and take cover. If fire is maintained, they'll 
 become pinned, where they're unable to return fire and will just cower taking and be wiped out 
 swiftly unless fire is removed (i. e. someone rescues them or the enemy pull back) or they're ordered 
 to retreat (a command which makes the unit in question leg it all the way back to the base) . In 
 Company of Heroes, a machine-gun is a weapon which suppresses large groups of incoming troops very 
 quickly. Charging up to a machine-gun position with troops isn't even an option. Almost all troop 
 types are going to revolt if you try it, ending up falling to the ground. Immediately, machine-guns 
 have a specific tactical use which you'll bring to bear according to your tactical needs. Put a 
 machine-gun here and there's absolutely no way anyone on foot is going to come from that direction.
 
  
  The allies' swarms of bees prove difficult to counter. Someone nerf them.
  (Of course, machine-guns are entirely useless when applied against a heavy tank. Though it's telling 
 that unlike many other games where a unit can't harm another one, it doesn't stop the machine-guns 
 from firing at it. That they'll open up when it's hopeless is just one of a Company of Heroes many 
 great atmosphere maintaining touches.)
  
  You may have missed something implicit in that paragraph. That direction . When you set up a machine 
 gun unit, you say which direction you want them to face, which leads to a specific cone they're 
 able to fire at. If something's out of the area, they'll have a delay as they take apart their 
 gun, turn around, and reassemble it. So if you find yourself facing a machine-gun unit as foot 
 soldiers, you'll looking at the terrain and working out if there's any way you can flank it. Or 
 maybe there's enough cover to get near enough to lob a grenade over to clear it...
  
  And that's just the interactions between a couple of unit types. It's both completely naturalistic 
 (so instantly understandable) , detailed (the simple process of deciding which way your machine-gun's 
 going to point feels so right) and tactically compelling (the mechanics immediately make the gamer 
 decide what they're doing next) . It also shows how Company of Heroes balances the competing desires 
 of units to be self-sufficient while including satisfying ways to interact (i. e. micromanage) them. 
 In this case, when in position, if positioned securely, you can just forget about the machine-gun. 
 They'll deal with anything that comes their way. However, the specifics of what area they're to 
 defend is entirely up to you
  
  Similarly, the grenade throwing mentioned earlier. Grenades are an upgrade you can equip your soldiers 
 with, allowing them to expend resources to lob a grenade. Deciding where and when it's right to 
 reach for the explosives is an important tactical decision and... well, naturalistic, detailed 
 and tactically compelling. Or, to expand to other units than machine-guns and foot-soldiers, vehicles 
 take damage depending on which angle you strike them at. Tanks especially - and doubly so if struck 
 from a distance - can take little damage from a frontal attack, even having shells ricochet away. 
 If you can get behind them, or catch them in a cross-fire, or set up impassable barricades which 
 force incoming armour to have to turn at a critical moment to get hit by an anti-tank gun... well, 
 you'll take them down far quicker. Or if you have a tank in a precarious position, the art of clicking 
 just behind it to make it speedily reverse out of trouble rather than turn around and expose its 
 vulnerable hindquarters is enormously satisfying. Or, in short, Company of Heroes offers the gamer 
 a lot of micro-management, if you want to. But it's fun micromanagement, whose results you can 
 immediately appreciate.
  
  Before we get into more dramatic areas again, a quick take on the game's resource systems. A word 
 on expending resources: the game's economy is based on the three resources of manpower, munitions 
 and fuel, which you receive for having control of positions (ala Dawn of War) , so forcing a player 
 to expand and enter conflict if they want to gain in power. Manpower is mainly used for recruiting, 
 with fuel as a secondary resource for recruiting vehicles. Munitions is used primarily for upgrades 
 or one-off attacks, like grenades. Whether it'll be best to blow all your 125 remaining munitions 
 on a one-off calliope rocket-strike or a handful of precision grenades or anti-tank pipe-bombs 
 is the sort of thing you'll find yourself obsessing over in your passing moments.
  
  And another state-the-obvious time: It's beautiful, though that's entirely the wrong word. This 
 is a war game, so the word should be visceral or something. Models are hugely detailed for an RTS, 
 physics implemented impressively and so on. But relevantly, it's a functional sort of beauty (or 
 - er - viscerality) . The core facet of its appeal is how destructible each level is. Everything 
 from hedgerows to buildings can be reduced to... well, not hedgerows or buildings. Rocket strikes 
 turn the ground into craters - which then can be used as cover. It's clear which places have been 
 closely fought over. Most likely, they won't be there anymore.
  
  The buildings are particularly brilliantly executed, with foot soldiers being able to be ordered 
 inside where they set up at the windows, dealing with anyone who comes near (it's a particularly 
 brutal way to use your machine-guns, as they're able to change the direction they fire far quicker) . 
 In a built up area, they become hard-points of defense, slowly getting knocked down, the troops 
 inside visibly getting more exposed. Take down the building with explosives or thrown satchel charges 
 or the inhabitants with a carefully applied sniper, then move in.
  
  Any section of rubble, wall, or hole in the ground will be used as cover by your soldiers. And 
 you would too.
  Away from the buildings that are already there, your ability to build is as balanced as the rest 
 of the game is towards giving you the most entertaining decisions at any time. Constructing your 
 base itself is relatively basic. Conversely, the actual construction of defenses is hugely important. 
 Engineers (or foot-soldiers, if you take a certain upgrade path) can lay down sandbags, barbed 
 wire and anti-tank barricades to create cover, prevent the movement of infantry and prevent the 
 movement of tanks respectively. Except, rather than most games which charge you resources for this, 
 Company of Heroes just lets you create as much as you have time to do. This encourages much creative 
 thinking. For example, a machine-gun can be made even less vulnerable to frontal assault by a line 
 of sandbags. Yet again, it's the sort of interaction that's perfectly natural and completely satisfying. 
 And returning to the campaign, the genre staple missions - like the Defend this area for a time 
 limit ones - are improved hugely just by how these mechanics work. When you have all these options 
 with these robust tools, analyzing chokepoints, creating your own and so on... it's just about 
 as good as a strategy game gets. Which is Company of Heroes all over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brother_KJak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Totally immersive and realistic gameplay, this game is as shockingly beautiful as it is fun to 
 play. The explosions from a mortar team send dirt flying everywhere and the empty husks of destroyed 
 tanks remain on the battlefield for troop cover. My only gripe is that there is no free for all 
 mode in Skirmishes, Axis must always fight Allies. But due to the realism of the game, the realism 
 of not having a FFA mode makes sense. The gameplay is stunningly smooth and the opposing sides 
 aren't basically the same army with different names and looks. Both the Axis and the Allies have 
 unique gameplay points to them, especially when it comes to spending the earned command points, 
 another aspect of the game that I absolutely loved. Final Rating: Truly amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Few RTS's can mix intense strategy with personality, graphical prowess, and unique play so well 
 as Relic's Company of Heroes. The gameplay takes most of its queues from Dawn of War, and that 
 is not a bad thing at all. Like Dawn of War, the gameplay is based around controlling points on 
 the map to gather resources to spend. In company of heroes this takes the form of manpower, ammunition, 
 and gasoline. It's actually a brutal resource system, one that requires you to seek out more points, 
 or be dominated by a foe with a much stronger economy. This game is really about attrition more 
 than brute force and numbers. Sure you can amass a huge tank squadron and march on the enemy, but 
 if you want to win a game in less than a half hour or hour (especially with the expensive german 
 tanks) , then that strategy will not work. And there are enough tank counters to make a fleet of 
 tanks worthless. This game is all about coordinating units to do separate activities to dismantle 
 and capture forward points of the enemy. Its very unique, because its not just about attacking 
 all the time. Defending and holding positions can become everything. Finding ideal locations for 
 defense is important, because terrain has a HUGE impact on fighting ability and defense rating. 
 Units find cover automatically when engaging units, and can spend 10 minutes in a single fight 
 because it became an infantry trench war. Then a bunch of tanks roll in and destroy everything 
 and move on, only to be artillery bombarded and then all thats left is a smoky, crispy, and war-wrought 
 field. Artillery shells leave huge dents in the environment, and tanks leave destruction in their 
 paths, and craters amass from bombing runs. Its beautiful. The main thing that sets this game apart 
 technically is the graphics. I have not seen a game this beautiful in a long time. Supreme Commander 
 wasnt close, Command and Conquer 3 came close but lost, and i cant think of any others that would 
 beat this. And there are enough graphical settings to make this game suitable for almost any decent 
 PC. However, turning up all the settings all the way will kill most computers. : ) The AI should 
 be noted as one of the best in RTS land. However, they can be exploited and patterns do develop. 
 But they are absolutely relentless in difficult levels of play and can quickly overwhelm if not 
 countered. And then they get tanks, and things get really ugly. This game is simply wonderful, 
 most likely one of the best RTS's we will see for a while. I dont think C &amp; C 3 really carried 
 the hype, and Dawn of War is basically the same thing, just futurized. Maybe Starcraft II can knock 
 this game off the top next year in 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Son_Of_Odin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  From the very start you get hooked to the story and environment of WW2. Like most WW2 games you 
 start with the invasion of Normandy which follows a quick tutorial of game basics. The campaign 
 continues to give you different experiences of the type of situations the allied soldiers had to 
 deal with during WW2, and at teh same time gives you an interesting story line to follow with the 
 company that you are commanding at the time. But thats just the icing. What makes this game just 
 so close to perfect, the visuals and game-play. Stunning graphics, down to the very last detail, 
 and game-play. Addicting realism and strategy starts from riflemen taking cover in a crater, goes 
 to a sniper nested at the top of a church tower, and end with strafing bullets raining down from 
 a P-51 taking out columns of Germans trying to retreat. Throughout the game you will be learning 
 the use of different strategies and whats most effective. By the end you should a have a good concept 
 of what all is available to use and them pick you style. Thats where the multi-player comes in. 
 Easy to set up, ranking system to reward, and custom maps to make sure the fun never ends. If you 
 a fan of RTS like Empire Earth and fps DoD: Source, this is an awesome WW2 experience. Warning 
 though, must have close to high end rig to fully enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  I've seen RTS games, not to mention your Historical RTS (narrowing it down) and Company of Heroes 
 is just... It ROCKS!!!
  
  I haven't event scratched the surface with this game I am seriously enjoying the action that this 
 game has to offer. Yeah, CoH definitely has Realistic physics... For Relic to combine their In-Your-Face 
 Camera controls with such awesome game detail... It's a Spectacle it's own right!
  
  If you're into RTS... THIS GAME IS FOR YOU!
  If you're into Historical RTS... THIS GAME IS FOR 
 YOU!
  If you're into WWII themed games... THIS GAME IS DEFINITELY FOR YOU!
  If you're a fan of Relic's In-You-Face Frontline Action they introduced with Warhammer 40,000: 
 Dawn of War series... Seriously... YOU'LL LOVE IT!!!
  
  In my opionion, Company of Heroes is a ESSENTIAL for any lover of RTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nugster1121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  What a game! For an old man like myself (32) who knows a bit about the history of WW2 (history channel 
 nerd) this game's representation of the theatre of the Europen campaign is unsurpassed in any genre. 
 I've been playing games for a while now, and never have I been so impressed by a game so fast. 
 Almost everything is spot on. Keep up the good work, and I hope to be playing every single campaign 
 of WW2. There were a few. And what excites me even more is the fact that it's the first version. 
 I continue to be impressed with the advances that are made on a year to year basis, and feel that 
 CoH is going to revolutionise the RTS industry forever. Looking forward to palying online as i 
 get better at the game. Finished on normal. Doing again on expert now. Great fun and really enjoyable 
 to play well. The ability to recall vetran troops that you can build over the campaing is simply 
 awesome for an RTS. I hope this will be taken into account when expanding the U. S campaign. Cant 
 wait to play the Poms and those filthy Nazi's in the next version. And when you think all we have 
 played was 1 small campaign, the future looks very bright indeed for this game. Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gate131966
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes may not sound original or that intriguing when you look at its box art. It essentially 
 is another World War II-themed video game  thats right another war-based video game. Not much 
 new right? Well, not so fast.
  
  What Company of Heroes has going for itself is the simple fact it was developed by Relic. Relic 
 is the brilliant minds behind Company of Heroes. If you have no clue on what Relic has done in 
 the past, look no further than Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War and even the Homeworld franchise. 
 Known for their radiant video games in the past, its no surprise that Company of Heroes once again 
 delivers an exhilarating experience.
  
  Company of Heroes follows World War II like I stated, but particularly it revolves around the Able 
 Company and Fox Company Paratroopers. The Able Company must land on Normandy Beach and shoot their 
 way across the French scenery against waves of Germans. There are 15 missions to enjoy and each 
 come attached with a cutscene and briefing to aid the player to progress the storyline.
  
  If you have played Warhammer, youll feel right at home with Company of Heroes. Sure, it is a little 
 customized and there are a few personalized traits added in, but Warhammer vets will be able to 
 jump in with ease. Company of Heroes revolves around collecting three main resources: fuel, manpower, 
 and munitions. The player must capture strategic points all across the map and with those points 
 comes the resources. There are a few obstacles to overcome when capturing these points. First off, 
 youll need to connect these strategic points to your headquarters to receive any benefits. Secondly, 
 youll want to assess the importance of capturing each point of the map and weighing out the win 
 and loss situation. Would you be sacrificing too many soldiers and vehicles for a point on the 
 map that wouldnt provide any benefits? There are a lot of levels to the strategy of Company of 
 Heroes  no doubt many will have their own personal way of playing the game.
  
  If you havent figured it out by now, Company of Heroes only has two factions to use. The Axis 
 which is made up by the Germans, and the Allies, made up of the American forces. Each has their 
 own tactic and method of combat. Allies would be better suited to building up fast and attacking 
 at all angles. The Axis is slower and more methodical with building tougher units that are hard 
 to bring down. Theres a lot more depth behind the simple two faction structure than what meets 
 the eye.
  
  The beautiful graphics can be represented best by the incredible cutscenes. If not for the cutscenes, 
 gamers across all platforms will be able to appreciate the destructible maps. Everything on the 
 map and battlefield can be blown to smithereens with your weapons and vehicles. The animations 
 are solid to the point that the armed services should be thanking Relic for representing them so 
 realistically with the soldier animations. Relic also incorporated a realistic physics engine to 
 assist the animations of Company of Heroes. The only drawback is the slowdowns and framerate problems 
 when there was mayhem all over the screen. With too many explosions and animations, my computer 
 slowed down to a snails pace chugging along while it tried to keep up.
  
  The voice acting is top notch and is accompanied by great dialogue. I am proud of Relic that they 
 didnt put forth corny dialogue or cheesy characters. This is an ultra-real WWII video game, no 
 jokes about it. The dialogue is strong in strategy and will help the players advance if they are 
 stuck on the next step in the mission. Outside of the voice acting, Relic rounded out the audio 
 with superb sound effects for all the vehicles and action you could ever want.
  
  Multiplayer is run through Relics own online service which has launched with the release of Company 
 of Heroes. Up to eight players can join the matches that are tailored towards team-based action. 
 My best advice for online competitors  make sure to cut off any paths of resources of your opposition. 
 Its a pain to see someone attacking your strategic point way across the map and trying to gain 
 it back. The multiplayer is great to pick up immediately after playing the single-player campaign. 
 Youll be at your best after completing the missions and jumping right into the multiplayer will 
 show you a whole new world of maneuvers and cunning tricks.
  
  Speaking about the computer AI, they arent lacking in their own ploys. They are intelligent enough 
 to push the player into a corner and cut off all your resources. If you arent a big RTS player, 
 Company of Heroes could prove to be difficult at times. I suggest sticking to the easy difficulty 
 from the beginning and trying your odds at that for awhile.
  
  This is one of the better games in recent memory for me. What hurts is that I know in a few months 
 there will be onslaught of AAA video games released for this holiday season and Company of Heroes 
 may fall out of the spotlight. That definitely will be disappointing since I would love to see 
 this splendid WWII RTS take off in the right direction with sales and a solid fan-base. Only time 
 will tell if gamers catch on and make the safe purchase of Company of Heroes. Your money couldnt 
 be better spent on a title this fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I believe that this game has to be one of the most realistic and best WWII RTS ive ever played. 
 The games Graphics are stupendous super crisp and smooth textures explosions and fire fights and 
 building damage all perfect. This game is practically perfect. I say this because I was super impressed 
 even by the single player campaign the videos were extremely detailed and action packed. Finally 
 somone made a cover system that makes sense and works great. The soldiers AI is remarkable they 
 take cover and take matters into there own hands as if they had common sense of there own. Snipers 
 killed in one hit and was able to stealth you can create machine guns that can pin or surpess the 
 enemy. Mortor teams can lay down effective fire on positions while infantry are hardcore killing 
 machines that can fight it out until the end or retreat home and get there squad re-manned. The 
 tanks were quite amazing and realistic. Tanks are hard hitting and bullet taking monster machines. 
 So tired Ive been of RTS games where a large group of infantry can take out a tank just buy shooting 
 a rifle at it. And the best part is tank on tank combat is also realistic. Rear Shots count for 
 more damage and tank shells also may bounce off if hit right. They can also roll through brush 
 and hedges and crush through walls. Even scout vechiles and light armor are just have perfectly 
 distributed power. I thought the game was practically flawless in everyway. The sounds and the 
 combat and everything was stupendous.
  
  The only thing I didnt like about the game was the fact that the soldiers uniforms were a bit off 
 especially the Germans there clothes look like some offbrand uniform lol. Because for some reason 
 there wearing white camo lol? Idk but also the machine gunners are wearing some strange lookin 
 uniforms too. But nothing serious as to actual gameplay or anything. This game had some brilliant 
 ideas also. Such as the tactical map while I dont use it very much myself it is a great addon that 
 just lets you really overview the battlefield and get a good grasp of whats going on. It lacked 
 a little detail and the map is a bit bland but its very useful at times. And this game is always 
 constantly being modded and there are some sweet mods such as the Infantry Tactics which if your 
 not to into your infantry being able to be over run by tanks its a great mod. Sometimes its just 
 fun to play infantry only but there are several that if you find the slightest little thing you 
 dont like about the game there probably a mod lol.
  
  As far as the doctrines go in the game I thought that could have used some work. While it effects 
 your gameplay I feel like it just is a bit pointless at times because most of the powers or whatever 
 are expensive and you dont get to use them much which isnt neccessarily bad but I thought some 
 other choice of powers would be better. All in all this game was awsome to the core. Lots of Combat. 
 massive interactivity, and a combat and cover system that just freaking rocked. I recommend this 
 game to anyone at all because everyone should try this game its worth playing no matter who you 
 are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdhl89
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  If you want a realist RTS game, choose this one. Before I played this game I thought this was like 
 the Command and Conquer series, but after I played it, I was amazed, I had to think more and be 
 more strategic than the other games I played so far, like AOE, C$C, AOM, etc. One of the details 
 that I liked about this game is that you can send your units to take cover with anything, like 
 fences, boxes, rocks, and even destroyed tanks while attacking. Riflemen can throw grenades, sticky 
 bombs, not just shooting like other games; every unit has its special abilities. You can also train 
 machine gunners, and when they die, the machine gun doesn't disappear with the soldier, you can 
 send any other unit to use it; the same thing for howitzers, anti-tanks, etc.
  
  About the graphics, its really detailed, you can zoom and it looks like you were playing a decent 
 fps game.
  
  I recommend this game for anyone who likes RTS games and want a challenging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichavgo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  When I read about this game for the first time I thought I should give it a try. I bought and installed 
 it immediately and played. For the first time in my life I liked a game so much. All the graphics, 
 the storyline and the gameplay, all innovative. I mean, it's kind of a new way of strategy, mixed 
 with lots of tactics; the way soldier moves and how they take cover and the difference between 
 firing a tank on the rear side and the front side, etc. I kept playing for months and now I'm eager 
 to play its expansion pack: CofH: Opposing Fronts. The only thing: it only has two sides (Axis 
 and Allies) ; even though it's somehow compensated with the Commander abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ty2991
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Ah, this is and StarCraft 2 are the only RTS I will want to play until their next realease comes 
 out. All the units are useful, infantry have squads and your enemies have EXCELLENT artificial 
 intelligence. The strategy needed for tank battles is amazing and fun. At the same time the graphics 
 are the best I have ever seen for an RTS. You can literaly zoom into the battle and see each seperate 
 soldiers face, which looks unique and different from all the other soldiers. The cover method makes 
 the game so much fun, your troops can take cover behind rubble and fall out, using the enviroment 
 to protect them from attacks. At the same time units (like tanks) for example can fire at an infantry 
 squad and it will miss and hit a far off building, a huge chunk of the building will fly off and 
 crush a few people who were standing near by. The game is truely amazing and increadibly impressive 
 graphics and gameplay wise. Forget the overrated reviews for the terrible Command &amp; Conquer 
 3... GET this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAXimumGTR
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  when the first time i see it (not come out yet) , i am not sure i have to buy it, or not. But after 
 i watch the video, i changed my mind, and buy it. And the truth is, its killing me, i cannot stop playing 
 it. The soldiers can take cover, different item the builders use for building, great graphics and 
 sound. We can capture an enemy weapon, it is so great! Modifiable vehicle, garisonable building, and 
 2 type of cover for infantry: light cover and heavy cover, Destroyable environment, and even a hole 
 that made because of an explosion can be use for a cover. Even this is an RTS game, The soldiers 
 graphics is same as call of duty 2, which an FPS game. The point is, it is very worth it, the best 
 RTS ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofavondale
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionary. I loved playing it, i just wish it had an Axis campaign. The game play 
 was awesome tho. And has great replay value. The Allied campaign is highly immersive. I found myself 
 replaying the missions over and over trying to get the medals and beat my times. The AI in this 
 game is very tough. The coolest thing was actaully doing flanking manuevers and stuff, the idea 
 of controlling such small squads that act so real is awesome. I loved the game and i highly reccomend 
 it to anyone who likes WW2 games or RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxdemix
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that for the past few weeks I have been playing multiple real-time strategy 
 games. I have been looking long and hard for a game that's worth practicing and putting time into. 
 This is the only one that I walked away with. From the moment you begin the tutorial you can tell 
 that this game has something special and quite revolutionary to strategy games as were Dune 2 and 
 Starcraft.
  
  The game-play is superb. When you are playing the game, it feels very fluid and cohesive. The game 
 is very unique and raises the standard for real-time strategy games. How, you ask. Well, this is 
 the first strategy game to incorporate it's very own physics engine into the game mechanics. This 
 means that all objects have a density and are destructible, just like real life. Units each seem 
 to have their own AI. When you command them to do something, they don't just run to the spot that 
 you click. It feels more like you are commanding real people to do tasks and then they react upon 
 it.
  
  The graphics and sound are top-notch. The graphics can be finely tuned from being able to play 
 on a par computer to being on high and having some of the most incredible graphics to date. Everything 
 looks beautiful, from the realistic looking vehicles, to the mortar and artillery explosions. To 
 top that off, the sound creates the perfect environment and sets the mood. Unit sounds make you 
 feel like you are watching Band of Brothers, and MG42 firing at you send a chill up your spine.
 
  
  This game has a lot to offer. The single-player campaign will take several days for the average 
 person to complete. The game isn't without flaws, though. Some people will be turned off by the 
 fact that there are only 2 factions to be chosen from, Allies and Axis. The bright side is that 
 both sides are finely tuned and are perfectly balanced. The multi-player portion of the game will 
 appeal to even the most hardcore or casual of gamers. It is easy to operate and tracks your wins 
 and losses. Overall, Company of Heroes is one game that deserved it's multiple Game of the Year 
 awards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haveacry
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  From the get-go Company of Heroes might not have your attention. Wait until your at grips your 
 opponent and you might find enjoying and hating war at the same time. Rejoice and watch your 105mm 
 howitser shells pound enemies to dust and cringe as you see your men get burnt and vapourised by 
 V1 smart bombs, all in supreme detail thanks to its superior graphics engine. The sections that 
 really stood at in this RTS were the sound, gameplay, and graphics and were accoringly graded. 
 The gameplay might play partially the same as a standard RTS but the ability to turn a quiet French 
 pastor into a raging battlefield packed with barbed wire, sandbags for cover, mines and bunkers 
 all affectionately made by you or your arch enemy make this game an offering too good to miss. 
 On that note it is extremely possible to be either offensive or defensive with either the German 
 or American forces. Developing from this are the commander abilties, there are 3 per faction and 
 provide the player the ability to choose to specialise in a different area of each of the military 
 forces. These give the player the ability to provide additional customisation options to their 
 already diverse armed forces. However the beauty of it is that you dont have to choose immediately, 
 you could choose to wait until your opponent commits themselves to a commander choice and you pick 
 one as an appropriate counter. Once to choose your commander there is no going back so choose with 
 care. The gameplay has many nuanced elements including strategic points that come in 3 varieties 
 (fuel, manpower, munitions) . Each of these resources are needed for various abilities, upgrades, 
 and unit recruitment. Another element that enhances the realism is most definately the idea of 
 cover and COMPLETELY DESTRUCTABLE TERRAIN. Never before has it been done but this game has answered 
 this point very, very well. Tanks are made appropraitely dangerous in that sandbag wall provides 
 really no cover agianst a brutal Tiger Ace tank or the ingenious Sherman 'Crocodile' the flamethrower 
 varient of the main-battle tank. All of these units add its own flavour and point of interest to 
 the game making it all the better.
  
  The campaign is unlike your standard RTS campaign in that it gives missions and objectives most 
 logical to the given situation, eg. a road needs to be controlled, so take these locations, defend 
 here for X minutes until reinforcements arive. Of course this can be turned on its head where you 
 are the one giving the reinforcing or are the one taking and holding enemy ground or doing deepstrike 
 missions to destroy experimental german technology. Either way it is contributing towards the war 
 in some important yet minor way. Alas the deficiencies of the game must be brought to light....
 
  There are only 2 armies (factions) . Despite the number of units per team you only get 2. This 
 also compounds with you only ever being able to fight against an enemy who fights for the opposing 
 team. IE only Americans can fight Germans, not civil wars here lol. Another pet complaint is that 
 the tank AI is still in the making and is hardly perfect. There you have it. Every point that is 
 great and bad about Company of Heroes. All that is needed is the stand-alone expansion which will, 
 apparently, double the amount of content and should send the COH into a sky-ward spiral of success. 
 My advice? If you enjoy WW2 games or are a fan of RTS gaming heavy on combat with that extra realism 
 then COH is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbisco25
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 28, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  This game is what ever loving rts fan has been waiting for, form the moment, you start to paly 
 you will be hook their so many thing this game dose which no other game it hard to do it justice, 
 the first thing that hits you are the graphic which are the best ever seen in a rts game, and the 
 way you can in interact with the eviorment walls fall down hole building just turn into a pile 
 of rubble. and the al make tihs game a very challenge and enjoyable game to paly, a AAA game all 
 the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aasvesta
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 28, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  This game is immensely popular - both with the site and with the users. I do not mean to offend 
 anyone with this review, it is just one person's point of view, and a warning to everyone who appreciates 
 realistic WW2 games like the Close Combat series - YOU WILL REGRET BUYING THIS GAME IMMEDIATELY!
 
  
  The game scores well within a certain scope. Graphics, audio and gameplay (if you like arcade) 
 is great. The AI is not so great, however, if realism is a factor. But realism is obviously not 
 a focal point in this game. It has rather gone MIA. *No exploration of psychology, like in the 
 Close Combat series.
  *Little believable realistic AI
  *Unit stats and performance is fictional. E. g. the Panzer V, better known as the Panther, arguably 
 the war's best tank, has been reduced to being comparable to the mass-produced Sherman (who in 
 THAT perspective was superior, but, oh no, not ON the battlefield) .
  *Ammo points in farm fields as a resource. Hmm.
  *It goes on.
  
  This game is excellent as 
 a children's arcade WW2 game. For the more mature gamer, with a liking towards the realistic, it 
 is uninteresting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfCmnder
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 27, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  Good: Wonderful Graphics, beautiful sound, great gameplay, and fully interactive world.
  
  
  Bad : The load time is little less than desired. Only Allied campaign.
  
  
  Overall: 
 One of the best strategy games I have played in a while. One thing I love about the game is that 
 there isn't resource gathering. You have to capture points that give you ammo or fuel that will 
 allow you to get more forces. Sometimes you have to go building to building finding the enemy. 
 Once you capture a point you may need to hold on to it, the computer may keep sending wave after 
 wave to take it away from you. At times some missions are easy, others they are difficult and will 
 cause you to replay the mission over. One other thing to point out is that the game is addicting, 
 Sometimes I do not want to stop. If you love RTS games, this is a must have, just aware, the game 
 requires high resources and could give you fits if your computer is not fully up to speed to run 
 the game.
  
  Verdict: A Must have, and will play over and over, can not wait till Opposing Fronts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandresvillare
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  MY STORY (IF YOU WANT YOU COULD READ IT)
  BORED OF ALL THE FPS BASED ON WWII I STARTED SEARCHING SOMETHING NEW, AND THEN ONE FRIEND OF MINE 
 TELL ME ABOUT A WWII RTS GAME . WELL ITS WAS TIME TO KNOW NEW THINGS, BUT I DIDN`T EXPECTED IT 
 WAS THE BEST RTS based on ww2.
  
  REVIEW (YOU HAVE TO READ THIS)
  1.0. THE GOOD :graphics are a really fps transformed in rts game and maybe better , sounds make 
 my neightboorhood hate me , gameplay is new its feel like game-movie with so dedicated effects, 
 explosions, voices of the crew change during the game and moment of the battle thats really good. 
 2.0. THE NEW : its extremely adicctive ,extremely strategic more than others, diferent voices during 
 the battle or the day is something that make me get crazy.
  
  3.0 tHe BaD: 2 factions make me get sick and more sick at least thy could make 3 and the game would 
 win the world of the rts at least the expansion is coming =) , music for each faction is very repetitive 
 or the maybe the same.
  
  RECOMMENDATION
  play it the first week you will lose the feelling of being alive when youre not playing.
  
 
  EXTRA: FOR THE END OF 2007 WILL HAVE A LOTS OF RTS GAMES TO PLAY AND THEY AREN`T NORMAL RTS THIS 
 IS THE LIST: STARCRAFT 2 I THINK IM WONT SLEEP FOR THE FIRST MONTH.
  
  Medieval II: Total War Kingdoms GREAT.
  
  SINS OF A SOLAR EMPIRE A NEW HOMEWORLD.
  
  WORLD 
 IN CONFLICT WOW.
  
  COH OPOSSING FRONTS GOOD BYE WORLD FOR A FEW WEEKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nihar123
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is the best Strategy game i have ever played...
  
  
  
  The Graphics are stunning and sound supports 5.1 HD sound .. Simply Rocks ...
  
  Company of 
 Heroes is a visually stunning real-time strategy game that depicts all the violent chaos of World 
 War II with uncommon intensity. Set during the invasion of Normandy toward the end of the war, 
 Company of Heroes takes its cues from Saving Private Ryan, by portraying both the sheer brutality 
 of the war as well as the humanity of its combatants. Many other recent WWII games have also drawn 
 influence from Steven Spielberg's landmark film, but Company of Heroes is even more graphic. This 
 and the game's highly authentic-looking presentation are its distinguishing features, and it boasts 
 some frantic, well-designed strategic and tactical combat to match. Company of Heroes trades a 
 wide breadth of content for an extremely detailed look at WWII-era ground combat, and its action 
 is so fast paced that it's best suited for the reflexes of an experienced RTS player. So if you're 
 unfazed by any of that, you'll find that this latest real-time strategy game from the developers 
 of Homeworld and Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War is one of the best, most dramatic and exciting examples 
 in years.
  
  
  Iam waiting for the next version. Game Story Keeps u on ur toes .. And it simply rocks... So i advice 
 every one who play RTS ... Should Defenetly Try this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skateboardking
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 21, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is engaging and entertaining. Some missions are challenging, but on the normal level, 
 the vast majority of the missions break down into hording resources until you can build a large 
 force and capture enough territories to ensure an excessive resource supply. I felt that this game 
 seemed more like a movie at many times than a game. This is both good and bad. At the beginning, 
 I was amazed by the cinematic quality of the cut scenes that broke up the battle, but at the same 
 time, the plethora of animated sequences leaves you feeling like you could do nothing and the game 
 would play out the same way. Occasionally, there are levels that are very challenging and frustrating 
 enough to make you change your mind about the linear quality of the game, but these levels are 
 unfortunately sparse. Additionally, although the cut scenes are astounding at the beginning, their 
 effect wares off as the game progresses, and you will be tempted to skip them if not for the fact 
 that they sometimes contain info that will help you beat the level or earn extra medals.
  
  This game is an interesting take for RTS games, with slightly different dynamics, but familiar 
 controls, it keeps the genre fresh. The graphics are also amazing. I particularly enjoyed watching 
 the dirt fly up after an artillery strike. This kind of detail is rarely found in RTS. Unfortunately, 
 you have to have a lot of RAM to handle this game. I have 2Gbs of RAM and a standard speed hard 
 drive and the first 15 second or so of a level was often choppy or non-responsive and the beginning 
 of several cut scenes was cut off as my system struggled to get the data processed.
  
  Problems aside, this game is fun and I would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangu1ne
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 21, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Never has the true nature of warfare, the carnage, death, destruction and horror ever been so well 
 captured in a video than it has been in Company of Heros. This game has had me stop and think 
 at times, Wow, men actually fought and died like this and it gives a an air of respect for the 
 men that gave up the ultimate price for freedom in WWII. So its with no feelings of ill morality 
 that I took the reigns of Able company and their harrowing march across Europe.
  
  Single player mode is simply fantastic as the allies, of course there is little scope to be the 
 Axis (since they lost the war) so there is no single player for them, I think it even beyond Relic 
 to imagine (or want to) what the aftermath of WWII would have been with an Axis victory! The single 
 player has plenty of mileage in it, each map is challenging, but it is mainly the way the units 
 react unto each other in combat especially that makes single player what it is. Simple squad tactics, 
 flinging grenades into a building to clear out a garrison of using a sniper to remove the gunners 
 from a heavy weapons platform, such as a PAK cannon or mortar, really bring the game alive, each 
 unit has the ability (with varying degrees of success) to counter every other until there is, well 
 within reason! This adds much depth to the game and has a tendency to make you think like a military 
 commander, at least at field level, to accomplish your goals.
  
  For example, if you have a squad of US rangers and you come up against a Panther (German heavy 
 panzer) , there is the ability to equip the squad with Bazookas to give them an anti tank role. 
 With the help of a flanking support squad with Bazookas, cheap infantry can actually stand a high 
 chance of success against some of the Axis heavily armoured tanks. Similarly, if you require infantry 
 suppression, the squad can be equipped with light machine guns to keep the enemies heads down!
 
  
  The game play is extremely impressive, with many of the tactics one could expect to see in WWII 
 being employed, pinning, fire suppression, terror tactics and even armour facing angle all have 
 a role to play in making the game play fast and exciting and it some case painfully accurate to 
 real life!
  
  Units that made an imprint on the battlefields of Europe are all in this game, as are the weapons, 
 armour and support. VolksGrenadiers, Rangers, Paratroopers, Shermans and even Tigers! There is 
 the omission of the Waffen SS panzer and regular infantry but this is not sad thing for obvious 
 reasons. Even doctrination is fully captured, from the Allies ability to have an armour focused 
 leader with the power to command the Rocket artillery Sherman variant to the Axis terror doctrine 
 with the ability to call upon Panzer aces and the hideously powerful V1 flying bomb! You will also 
 be pleased to know there is also a Blitzkrieg doctrine for those who like a quick decisive victory!
 
  
  The graphics do compliment this game extremely well, the battlefields, whether they are bombed 
 out cityscapes, charred ruins or verdant fields all have a unique feel to them, just like you are 
 there. The cover is drawn well which makes getting your men into cover, which it is a really good 
 idea to, really easy, and the units react with their cover to give it an all the more convincing 
 feel.
  
  The sound is breath-taking! Explosions, screams, bullet fire, tanks shells and sly and off the 
 cuff remarks from your troops combined with a nail biting music score help you sink into the game 
 and help you to become the battlefield commander. In 5.1 surround the sound can be given nothing 
 less than 10 in this game. Of all my favourite phrases is when you select an Axis Grenadier squad 
 and they say Come on, what you think this is, Kinderparty?!!!
  
  Admittedly I do like the historical relevance to each unit, which is why this game is so thoroughly 
 enjoyable for me.
  
  Multiplayer however is a thing of beauty and is tremendous fun. There is a high degree of micro 
 management, especially the Axis, as all the troops are of a more highly trained standard than their 
 Allied counterparts, there are usually less troopers per squad and they have some nice abilities. 
 The game is supremely balanced, there is no way to mass one kind of unit, there is always an effective 
 counter to a mass of an unit with a few of their natural enemies. A good example is a massed infantry 
 strike can easily be countered by a few weapons teams equipped with heavy machine guns, or a tank 
 offensive can be easily brought to its knees with Bazookas or PAK cannons. I disagree with the 
 game spot comment of only two factions, because technically there was only two factions in WWII. 
 Im well aware Relic chose the title of Axis as a euphemism for German, but the Axis did include 
 Austria, Hungry, Italy and Japan to name a few, and it would have been nice to able to have a chosen 
 that sides particular specialities, the same for the allies. But that would have to take into account 
 different theatres of war.
  
  All in all this game does not disappoint, its a remarkable piece of RTS history and history itself, 
 I cannot hesitate to recommend this game, it is an instant classic and Relic really do rival Blizzard 
 for the top spot in RTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4ajid
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I will keep this review nice and short.
  
  My first impression was that this would be just another RTS game in WW2 settings, or a ultra realistic 
 clone of another ultra realistic WW2 game ...
  
  But i am a realism fan and i expected the game to be a pure arcade since it appealed to so many 
 people from so many different gaming genres.
  
  The Graphics are great the effects are awesome you would really like to also just watch the cinematics 
 and get a drink and sit back and enjoy but, hey duty calls.
  
  The sounds are great and you can really feel the guns and explosions.
  
  And the controls are 
 surprisingly well thought out and easy to learn.
  
  All in all its a great game to give to a friend, or just play until you drop. ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooya_d
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is the most amazing real time strategy game I've ever played.........
  as usual compare the good and the bad.........!!!!
  
  good : 1. great graphic and image quality
 
  2. very exciting gameplay
  3. sound is more than perfect....
  4. units are just what they are supposed to be.........
  5.6 different special abilities in two 
 armies are all great
  
  the bad :
  0. you might loose your girlfriend for that game (I did)
  1. you can't sleep
  2. you can't eat
 
  3. your addiction might kill you
  5. in multi player you might play as long as you or your rival is alive so must Have someone to 
 kick you out of the game or you're dead!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes have received five pc game of the year rewards from magazine and online sources. 
 When you pick this up, you will quickly know why. This game is really well made with great gameplay 
 with realistic game feeling. The sound added makes the game ever more exciting.
  
  The best thing the developers gave this game was the realistic environment. Explosions on the ground 
 from bombs, grenades and tank shells cause craters in the landscape. These craters dont ever disappear 
 and will remain throughout the battle. Tossing a few grenades in a building, a part of the building 
 wall will explode out in pieces. Leaving behind realistic damage to a building from bombs.
  
  Company of Heroes have very little micromanagement. Unlike making numberous of gathers to get 
 wood, gold or various of resources, you have to seize and fight over resource points. Battling 
 over against the opponent for these resource points to keep the population army high and strong 
 with lots of resource points. Battling in Company of Heroes is always fun. There is no single over 
 powerful unit in this game. The infantry are able to destroy tanks, anti tank guns, machines guns 
 and other weapons. A tank can be destroyed by infantry by a quick sticky bombs. Machine gun nest 
 can be destroyed by tossing a few granades. You could have any riflemen squad pick up any dropped 
 machine gun, and anti tank guns to be used against the enemy.
  
  Company of Heroes was rewarded pc game of the year by gamespot and it is definitely worth getting. 
 Currently it is priced at $40 and its worth every dollar you pay for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houseofdead90
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  The best strategy war game ever made... camera view is awesome... soldiers weapons and vehicles 
 are too too too good... airbones, enginneers, riflemen, and other soliers are included... skirmish 
 and multiplayer are awesome... multiplayer is the best... new maps can be download from gamespot... 
 you can also build a map using world builder... graphics are cool... gameplay is also cool... there 
 are some missions that can take upto two to three hous but when you are playing, you don't care 
 about time... nobody can explain it in the text or gameplay video unless YOU play it... COMPANY 
 OF HEROES rule! JUST PLAY IT AND KEEP PLAYING IT... YOU WON'T GET UP... Just buy it and PLAY IT!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SofaKingLow
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 11, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  There is so much to love about COH... Fully destructible environments make for unforgettable playbacks 
 and the occasional hilarious moment. I love the fact you can move the camera, and play from any 
 angle you wish. Excellent attention to detail. Everything just looks amazing. These guys really 
 know what I like in a game. Heck the only thing more I could want would be a pause button for local 
 multi-player games. Other than that, I simply can't go back to the old RTS games because... well, 
 I'm spoiled by COH. If you're looking for a great game with solid replay value then COH scores 
 perfection! You'll love it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FanaticFirearm
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 10, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  CoH is an amazing rts game. It has great rag doll deaths and graphics. The explosions are great. 
 The multiplayer/ skirmish modes are my favorite and it has endless replayability. With the world 
 builder tool you can create any type of map that you want to play on. I have a LOT of rts games 
 and this one separates itself from the others. It is very innovative and i think it is way better 
 than Command and conquer 3. I have had no problems with it crashing and there are no noticable 
 bugs. (Unlike C&amp; C3) This game is just plain fun. Its a definite must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game will not have much of a learing curve if you have played Age of Empires or 
 Warcraft so its easy to get in to. The campain is long and provides alot of intense strategic battles 
 for you to play and the online multiplayer provides lasting appeal. The online is very fun as it 
 reminds me of both Call of Duty and Age of Empires. You can zoom in on the battles and watch your 
 little troops fight for their life and country. 10
  
  Graphics: If you have a 17 + moniter and GeForce 7600GT/8600GT or higher you will be in for a beutifull 
 treat. With my 8600GT I can have all the eye candy on and this has some GREAT detail for a RTS 
 game. 10
  
  Sound: Not quite as real sounding as the CoD series, but this game captures the sound of war. The 
 gunshots just seem weird to me tho. 9
  
  Value: With a lengthy campain and great online this should last RTS fans awile! 10
  
  OVERALL 
 - 9.6 Superb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musixdude
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 7, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  I have played this game over and over!!! While the game itself is a resource hog it looks great, 
 sounds great, plays great. Keep up the good work and keep the add ons coming. This is hands down 
 the best RTS WWII game ever. Its almost the only reason I keep playing games on the PC. The story 
 is top nothc and has a wide variety of scenarios, from defensive to raids. The game could have 
 taken a neat route by taking a single player or players into a RPG scenario. If you have never 
 played the game let me explain, if you keep a company or squad alive during the whole scenario 
 you can spawn them per say into your next scenario as a veteran. Also, your suads get field promotion 
 and rank ups. Imagine for a second being able to rankup your field personnel and being able to 
 play with that squad in first person mode in a RPG scenario!!! Holy Moly this game wouldve taken 
 the gaming world by storm!!! As it is its huge and beautiful!!! But could have changed the genre 
 all together, just go and get the game whether you like WWII or RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom_HellKnight
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  Relic Entertainment, the creators of Homeworld and Dawn of War, bring us a brilliant new RTS, in 
 the form of Company of Heroes.
  
  Company of Heroes looks amazing, especially for an RTS game. I like the unique faces on all of 
 the Infantry units, making the game that little bit more realistic. But everything in general looks 
 great; Infantry, Tanks, Houses, explosions or the general environment. It's all good
  
  The game even sounds brilliant. From the explosion caused by a V1 right down to the unit responses. 
 Relic have added a lovely little touch to the unit responses. When you move your units from across 
 the map, off-screen their responses will sound like they are coming in over radio. A nice little 
 touch I thought.
  
  Obviously, a game needs to have great gameplay. Thankfully, this is one of the areas in which Relic 
 excels. This game has fantastic gameplay. Players will not to be able to simply turtle up in their 
 base and build up their defences, they have to get out there and capture resource nodes, which 
 cover the map. Once captured, these nodes will produce a steady income of either Manpower, Fuel 
 or Munitions, the game's three resources. Still, commanding the Intelligent Infantry and the not-so-intelligent 
 Vehicles (sorry Relic) is a blast. Infantry take cover behind objects that will provide them with 
 cover, be it a brick wall or an allied Tank.
  
  It's also nice to see Infantry that arn't impervious to tank fire, as seen in games like Command 
 and Conquer. In this game if an Infantry squad is unlucky enough to take a direct hit from a Tiger 
 Tank (for example) expect to see their limbs fly in the air and land all over the floor.
  In multiplayer, a player can't play Axis vs Axis or Allies vs Allies, it is strictly Axis vs Allies, 
 which is OK because thats how it really was, right?
  You also can't pick the colour of your team. Blue is you, Yellow is Allies and Red is your Enemy. 
 The lack of an Axis campaign is also a bit of a disappointment, but oh well we can't have everything.
 
  
  Suffice to say, if you consider yourself an RTS fan you have to pick up this game. Company of Heroes 
 may be a bit difficult for new-comers to the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matagatos86
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is the typical RELIC game, evolutioned, fun, totally inmersive and inredibly adictive. From 
 the first videos you find yourself completely inmersed in the story, the textures, the sound, you 
 even feel sad when you loose soldiers (uhm... maybe I got too envolved)
  The gameplay is similar to Warhammer Dawn of war but very improved and you find something I have 
 never seen before in any RTS game, the total logic of everything, that guy had a machinegun now he 
 is dead so I can grab it, in that location I can find ammo so I capture it and my ammo reserves 
 are increased, my tank got a hit in the engine so now it cant move, etc... everything makes sense
 
  
  The most notable think about CoH is the realism, bullets does no harm to a tank or structure but 
 an explosion can easily whipe out a whole squad of soldiers. When your troops get too many casualities 
 or find themselves in a dead zone they will become pinned and whont attack or move because they 
 feel threatened so your squads have feelings and dont obey your orders as if you where some sort 
 of GOD, so ilogic kamikaze attacks are impossible. The damage balance is absolutely perfect, a tank 
 can destroy a squad with only one shoot but he can miss or your troops can throw him a sticky bomb 
 or grenade so its realy up to you whether you kill him or not, whether you win or lose.
  
  The amount of options you have is unbelievable, houses can be turned into forward barracs, mines, sandbags 
 and tank traps can be build anywhere, some squads can be upgadded whith bazooka, machinegun or both 
 of them, you can call all sorts of reinforcements, direct artillery strikes or airborne bombardment. Your 
 strategy and tactics will be very important because you must know how to defend this or that location, you 
 can no longuer entrench yourself in you base, you must go out there, grab territory and defend it, and 
 decide where and whent the attack takes place and which units you will use
  
  Another great feature is the stroy, everobody knows it but in this game you will find yourself in 
 the battlefield and feel like if you where writing the it (man I got realy involved!) The cutscenes 
 are great and the story is veridic, no strange adds or things like that.
  
  So, if you are a RTS freak like me you will find this game one of the best of all times, the realism, the 
 action, the grafics, the sound will knock you down because believe me when I say this is a SUPERB 
 game
  
  P. S.: Sorry for my english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristialex317
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the Best game i have play on my Computer i have played: W0W, Command and Conquer III and 
 some of the best game out right now and im telling you no game can beat this game!! =) ) this is 
 a Masterpiece but the bad thing is that you need some upgrades to ur computer like if you dont 
 have 1024 of ram you will need to buy it but no worries you wont be spending more than $70 on it. 
 i would spend $500 dollars if i had to play this game MASTERPIECE!!! I also want to add that the 
 sound is great and you will at least be spending 10 hours on single campain and on multiplayer 
 is a hole differnt thing is just BEautifull Cant get Enough of this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_sarge
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Must have game for anyone who owns a pc. Anyone who loves military history and video games will 
 love this game even more. Character models and attention to detail is awesome. Very good explosive 
 effects. Worth the price just for the muliplayer. The next step in rts development. Although an 
 Axis campaign would have been nice. Voiceovers are very colorful and helpful in certain situations. 
 number of historical vehicles and infantry types is amazing. Did I mention great explosions? NIce 
 supply of evenly matched maps that fit the game well, great level design. campaign could have been 
 longer. The computer ai isnt perfect, they never repair blown out bridges among other small problems. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  Right, lets forget about the requirements of this monster. Technical need of this game just above 
 the ridiculous level that I understand, it is way above of my pocket. So I just tried to run it 
 on my baby. Intel Core Duo 2.6 Ghz, 1536 Mb RAM, 512 Mb GeForce 7800 GT, Genius Sound Blaster. 
 1024x768. Settings detected automatically, didnt change anything. Gameplay is just amazing. Set 
 on World War 2 battle scene, game simulates absolutely every detail of hard and horrendous environment 
 in battlefield, whether its in air or on the ground. Amazing destroyed buildings, vehicles of 
 that time, detailed personages, and environment makes game stunning. From first person view game 
 look like FSP game, and that shows how extreme graphics has got this game. I think describing this 
 game with just review is not enough to express the feelings that you going to have when you play 
 this game. If you have got decent video card and quite tough hardware, then go for it. Dont stop 
 even if you dont like RTS games. Just feel the power of new generation RTS games.
  
  Sound effects in game so brilliant that you just fell like you are there and cant resist the horrible 
 noise of guns shooting all around you.
  
  I think this is the best RTS game or generally game in strategy genre ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smghottie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I was reluctant to get Company of Heroes solely because of the fact that WWII games are constantly 
 being made with very few changes. But this game isn't a bland FPS we've all played, but rather 
 a challenging and well made strategy game.
  
  The graphics are phenomenal. I run it on an 8800 GTS on maximum settings, and never so much as 
 get a hiccup. The engine is so powerful, they use it during there cutscenes. The gameplay is very 
 simple in sleek. It's a basic set up that you should catch on to within the first 30 minutes of 
 playing, even if you've never played an RTS before. The two best parts of the gameplay are that 
 about 90% of the buildings are completely destructible, and your soldiers take cover like they 
 should, instead of just running to where you click and shooting. You have very smart soldiers at 
 your command.
  
  It's tough to rate the sound because I have onboard. With that in mind, I would say the sound is 
 good, and I've never had an issue with it. When the bombs start flying and your in the middle of 
 a fight, you can feel it.
  
  This is one of the best RTS's I have every played. I have Rome: TW, WC3. If you have played the 
 new CnC3: Tiberium Wars, and you like it, then you'll love this. It's an easy game to catch on to, 
 and you'll be playing it single player or online for a long time to come. Don't wait, go buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougie497
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Company of heroes is a fantastic game with the best graphics of any real-time strategy i've ever 
 seen. the campaign is a little too short but this game makes up for it by giving you a massive 
 variety of maps in skirmish mode. the gameplay is extremly realistic except for when it glitches 
 like most games. the sound quality second only to the graphics. this game is designed for tactics 
 rather than numbers so you have to think whilst playing this game. there are some mods out there 
 that can remove the population limits but unless you have a $1,000,000 computer there's no point. 
 Company of heroes is well worth what you paid for it, this game will never get old for me. the differences 
 in how the teams operate is massive making for a more realistic game. though the multiplayer is 
 somewhat lacking all in all this is one of, if not the, best games i've ever played.
  
  ,DouG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foll5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I bought CoH soon after the game hit the stores; that was around 5 months ago. Anyway it&acute; s 
 time to write a rewiew so here it comes!
  
  There are two factions in the game:
  The Axis:
  Nazi-German; who fields good troops in every aspect, but the units are quite expensive 
 so you will have to wait to use tanks like the Panther and the Tiger. All the Axis units are specialized 
 at one task a can handle any other missions than those they are assigned for. The Allies: Fields 
 only american units, there are no British units att al in this game. : ( Uses reliable units like 
 the Sherman Medium tank and the Rifleman squad. Have some special units like Airborne, and the 
 Pershing and Callicope tanks. Unlike the Axis units the Allies troops can handle numerous task 
 without failing. But if you put your Shermans against a Tiger they probably will not survive. :P
 
  
  The game is placed in the European Theater 1944, the Invasion of Normandy. At the the beginning 
 it&acute; s funny to storm Omaha beach with Able Company, to repair a bridge and hold the town on 
 the other side etc... But after a while ou miss, the Eastern front, the Battles in North Africa, 
 the Paficic Ocean... And the missing factions. The game could be a lot better game if you had added 
 some other campaigns and factions.
  
  I myself, cant play a game who's not has good graphics (Exepct Alien vs Predator and X-Wing Alliance) , 
 so I'm very pleased by Coh's graphics, you can count one of your soldiers eyebrow hairs!! (well 
 almost :P) The sounds are good aswell.
  
  The maps are funny, but as I told you; I want more factions! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d4588
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game if have at least decent midrange to upper midrange system which will allow 
 you to enjoy the graphics and physics effects at a decent rate. The only real gripe I have about 
 this game is the fact that once your units mount a weapon such as a mortar or machine gun they 
 can't unmount from this weapon. The Sudden Strike series has this feature just right. It would 
 also be nice to be able to couple the artillery pieces to vehicles as in Sudden Strike for faster 
 movement. Don't let this be a limiting factor in purchasing this game though. The graphics are 
 great and doesn't suffer from slow-downs until you try zooming and rotating the camera during sequences 
 of high action.
  
  The units on this game are very balanced, so there are no super-units that can't be stopped although 
 a well placed enemy sniper can cause havoc at your base. Another good option is the ability to 
 call on veteran units from previous missions at a higher cost, which can help turn the tide of 
 the battle. Keep in mind, if you charge a machine gun emplacement head on with Infantry, expect 
 to get mowed down as the game focuses on realism. So you'll need to flank that gun, call in artillery 
 or send in a heavy. Alternatively, if you have this feature unlocked for your squads you can for 
 a short time suppress the machine gun and have another fire team grenade the emplacement. Better 
 to still flank it though as you can be suppressed in your attempt to suppress.
  
  The tutorial is very helpful and explains the controls of the game and the importance of things 
 like seeking cover. Speaking of cover, realize that youre dealing with a morphing battlefield. 
 If an artillery strike pounds a hole in the road, your infantry has just been 'blessed' with a 
 firing position. Enemy AI is fairly decent, seeking out weak spots in your defenses and attacking 
 with mixed units. The manual is the standard pamphlet shipping these days that most people won't 
 need due to the excellent in-game tutorial.
  
  Sounds are decent but can get annoying after awhile since the standard stay with me and I'll keep 
 you alive phase gets used by the Infantry squad about a million times. The garbage from their mouths 
 can get a little 'rank' at times also and really adds nothing to the game. So if you have younger 
 kids as I do you may keep that in mind. Other sounds however, really set the tone of the game such 
 as multiple artillery strikes on your positions. All while Germans units advance in numbers toward 
 bridges you've been tasked to defend at all costs until relieved.
  
  I haven't tried the human-human multiplayer much although I have played quite a few skirmishes 
 against the AI. The game awards you with medals for completing missions objectives usually laid 
 out as a primary objective and a secondary objective in which you may get a bonus medal if you 
 manage to achieve the secondary objective. Obtaining all medals no doubt adds to the replay value 
 but there is no substitution for a good ol' skirmish. On the subject of skirmishes. This is one 
 game that after you finish the main missions you will no doubt keep installed for quite awhile 
 as you'll find yourself going back for a quick fight. You know the type, start at 10PM and next 
 thing you know its 3:42AM and you're still playing. Bottom line is this game is just fun and I 
 highly recommend not missing this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_doody_1999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  The graphics are ok, if you can be bothered to brave the obscene loading times, units are individual 
 and are quite well balanced and the cover system and interaction with the battlefield is unmatched. 
 However, i just find it boaring, theirs too much going on for my tiny mind to handle, i just dont 
 feel like what i order my units to do, has a convinceing reaction on the battlefield, its too symplisticly 
 black and white, your in cover, you can stay their all day, your out of cover you get shot to **** 
 and need to retreat, only to try again a second later, its probobly cos im used to bigger scale 
 C&amp; C or Sup Com, where unitts are so much more expendable, this is like playing the comando 
 missions in c and c over and over, you cant rely lose your men, so much more emphasis is placed 
 on each one, and given the setting it makes sence, but for an rts, i dont feel like it works. You 
 dont have bases as such, theirs no conventional resource management, my problem you see is that 
 when im playing rts, i love to build up my base, to turtle or headgehog out, and get some lazers 
 on the go, scroll through the tec tree, and make a massive army to steemroller the opposition, 
 this however offers none of that.
  If you ever played army men on the pc, then i think this game has alot of those floors, and that 
 game never scored very highly, company of heroes is is in my opinion THAT game, with a few bolted 
 on perks, like teritories and cover (impressive as they are) they dont make me want to call it 
 an rts or enjoyable, especially concidering how clunkey the tecnology is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMindwalker
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  Only recently did I try to run this demanding game on my low-end PC, fearing it just wouldn' t 
 run or, at best, be too choppy and sluggish to play.
  
  Much to my surprise, the game actually runs like a charm. And charmed I was from the very beginning... 
 although I'm aware that the graphics aren't nearly as impressive as they would be on a better machine, 
 they're still most excellent here. And that quickly became secondary, as I delved deeper and deeper 
 into this frantic little game.
  
  The difficulty grows gradually from mission to mission, challenging you more and more as you get 
 experienced. I've found myself cursing the Wehrmacht more than once as they repeatedly foil my 
 seemingly well-devised strategies, and it's been long since I'd got that personal with a game.
 
  
  Not being much of a RTS fan, Company of Heroes only comes to prove that when a game is this good, 
 it grabs you - regardless of genre.
  
  For now, I'll have to settle for multiplayer skirmishes until I can get my hands on the sequel... 
 I just hope it still runs on my engine, lest I'll have to go out and get a new PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_Lost
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  I recently bowed to my own pressure and bought Company of Heroes, a game that kept flashing up 
 at me with top reviews in any gaming site that I went to.
  
  I was a bit concerned that the reviews were nearly too good and that I would be disappointed. Definitely 
 not. This game has lived up to all the hype about it, and with the most recent patch, some of the 
 early imbalance issues, small as they were, have been dealt with.
  
  What I like about the game is the realism that is involved from a perspective of what can kill 
 what. Just building one type of fighting unit, infantry, light mechanised or heavy armour will 
 not win you the game. You really have to combine all three, and I have found that when I have done 
 that then I have had the greatest success. The special experience units are very good too, and 
 it is nice that you cannot choose all three special tracks, but that you have to decide on a track. 
 The final piece in the Satisfaction puzzle is that you are forced to go and take territory. The 
 supply points mean that you have to think and act on the fly, adapting your tactics and overall 
 strategy constantly. Buildings crumble after a while of pounding, barbed wire , sand bags, tank 
 traps and other support features are all essential to the final victory.
  
  The AI is also challenging and adapts well. Yes, for all you critics out there, of course it is 
 not perfect and has its quirks, but overall it reacts well to challenges not just staying static 
 and sacrificing units unnecessarily. I do admit though that the best games are multi-player. That 
 is where the term awesome comes in. I have given the game full points in game-play despite the 
 small AI gripe. I think that we expect too much. We have not yet developed the learning AI , and 
 therefore AI's will always be less than human opponents.
  
  What a great game. If you are a build base, defend base and build gigantic army for one huge assault 
 type, then this is not the game for you. If you are looking for a game that makes you think about 
 flanking an enemy, whilst keeping him busy, when faced with head-on resistance, and want to manage 
 an assault with front troops plus support units, then this is your game. Every battle is different, 
 even on the same map.
  
  I am enjoying every minute. Frighteningly I would probably have spent 30 hours straight on it if 
 I did not have other responsibilities (Wife, kids, job..;-) ) . Go get this game. You will not regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FootFetish24
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes takes place in World War 2 (in which has been done to death) and leaves you in 
 the care of the allied soldiers of the united states. The visuals creates a fully destructible 
 environment which has alot of detail. The sound of the main guns of tanks and the gun fire of the 
 infantry create of a real sense of you being there. The soundtrack isnt particularily attractive 
 as it has no memorable pieces. The gameplay is incredibly unique borrowed from dawn of war which 
 makes you expand more then other games. Because territories give you resources instead of the overused 
 goldmine at your base. The game also allows you to play the germans in multiplayer. Sadly this 
 game only has two factions for you to choose from. This rts is a must have for this year as it 
 is incredibly revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AstraNoString
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Unlike more traditional games in the genera Company of Heroes does away with farming resources 
 to build ones army Instead the game has players seizing control of victory points to buy more troops. 
 In CoH victory points are used to purchase new troops, build structures and call in reinforcements. 
 This makes for interesting game play as the player must quickly send troops out into the battlefield 
 in order to build up their armies. CoH won't allow a player tosit back and build up a massive army 
 to take over the enemy, and instead forces one to use strategy to over take their enemy. This is 
 a refreshing and much needed change since these are real time STRATEGY games. In addition you have 
 a lot of control over your troops. A player can send a platoon up to gain cover near a brick wall 
 instead of leaving them open in a field, or turn their tanks to keep the strong armored fronts 
 pointing towards an enemy. Snipers can be placed in church bell towers to not only keep control 
 of a sector, but, in fog of war, reveal a larger portion of the map. All of these many elements 
 create for an upfront, in your face game play style that will keep players on their toes. The multi-player 
 for CoH is as top notch as it should be, but is accompanied by an amazing single player campaign. 
 The A. I. is intelligent an acts much like a human opponent. The graphics for CoH are amazing, but 
 will look good without using the most high end PC hardware. The environments are detailed and destructible. 
 Every fence, tree, bridge and building are all destructible. When a match begins the map will always 
 look much different by the time it's over. Sound is great as well. Using a good seat of speakers 
 and sound card is a must for this game. The audio here really brings the battlefield to life.
 
  Any fan RTS games, or never taken the time to check one out make sure to pick this one up. If 
 you've tried RTS games in the past and for one reason or another never got into them you should 
 still pick up a copy of this game. There are enough improvements to the genera here to give RTS 
 game another shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pesci_fan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  I remember when I first saw the preview of this game back in 2005. I was astonished how they were 
 ever going make this game become as interesting as when Call of Duty first arrived on shelves. 
 During that time the World War II genre has been saturated and exhausted. Especially in the FPS 
 market, many were looking to Vietnam around this time. because almost everyone was sick of the 
 same old, kill Germans, and play as Americans. It seemed that when Call of Duty 2 came out, it 
 was the Jump-the-Shark moment for the WWII FPS genre, and it could go no further. There was of 
 course the RTS WWII market that has seen little to almost non-existent success. There was the huge 
 market failure of Atari's Axis&amp; Allies, and the failure of the promising, but poorly made Codename: 
 Panzer's. This has led to believe that the RTS WWII market was a dead zone. Until one August day 
 in 2005, when I saw a preview of Company of Heroes. It seemed almost too-good-to-be-true, situation, 
 and I figured it would suffer the same fate as Codename: Panzer's. Great idea, but poor success. 
 I purchased this game in January of 2006, as a late Christmas present. I played the first few missions, 
 and I will assure you, that this game fills in all the gaps that Codename: Panzers had. It is in-depth, 
 yet at the same time playable, and it doesn't necessarily mean that you have to micro-manage, or 
 baby-sit your little squads. The AI has an almost unbelievable improvement over its predecessors. 
 So after playing this game, I have finally came to the conclusion that although the doors for the 
 WWII FPS market, maybe closing. The doors of the WWII RTS market are just now starting to open.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  ______________
  
  The gameplay is very fluid, and easy. After about 30 minutes of CoH, easy-to-learn tutorial, you 
 will be accustomed to the basics, and after around an hour of gameplay, and memorization of the 
 hot-keys, you will find that the developers have made the mediocre part of pressing keys, almost 
 non-existent, so you can focus all of your time and effort on strategy, and actually playing the 
 game.
  
  Graphics:
  _____________
  
  The graphics will blow anyone away, and the even more interesting note on this, is that it is only 
 the DX-9 version that is currently out. CoH, is DX10 compatible, so when the DX-10 patch comes 
 out. (Probably will come out in May 2007) I will probably be even more amazed. In this game, you 
 will see that the developers took time and effort to really put the eye candy to good use. This 
 type of graphics, can only come from a dedicated developer, for which I am grateful. Although being 
 a WWII history buff, a part of me cry's foul, for its small mistakes in the historical accuracy, 
 such as all of the German troops are wearing jackboots, when most where wearing low boots with 
 leggings, at the time the game is set. But the historical detail set aside, the team members over 
 at Relic, delivers a jaw-dropping experience.
  
  Sound:
  ______________ This is where most games slip-up, but not in Company of Heroes. The sound is very 
 in-depth, and will impress any gamer, with it's epic explosions, to the sounds of mortar shells 
 wreaking havoc, amongst your men, and I cannot leave out the voice-acting. Each squad, has their 
 own unique voice actor, who acts as the sergeant of the squad, and will say lines that encompass 
 the very comical, to the very dramatic, depending on the situation. Although reaching back on historical 
 accuracy, there is a lot of cursing in this game, enough to give any novice curser a potty-mouth, 
 it does help drag the player (In which today, cursing is not as taboo, as it was back then.) into 
 the thick fight. Relic, once again impresses me greatly.
  
  
  So if you are a WWII game fan, this game is a must, if you are sick of WWII, you wont be for long, 
 if you just want a game that is fun, exciting, and worth the $50 bucks, then once again, buy this 
 game. -This is Pesci_fan reviewing for all your gaming addictions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jyc7792
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game early April, and I really regret not getting it when it realeased. Well , this 
 game really brought the RTS action to computers everywhere. Read this to see if this is the game 
 for you.
  
  Gameplay: The gamplay is great with different types of resource points. This RTS isn't like others 
 because unlike other RTS's like BFME2, you have to move and capture to win. There isn't much sitting 
 back in this game which I found out that I love. The single player is a great way to just play 
 with the story of D-Day. The multiplayer is a bit small but a very welcoming place. (not to mention 
 challenging for me at least) Thinking wise is the way to go because if you truly want to be good, 
 you've gotta use heavy, and light cover to get the extra edge on your enemy. There isnt going to 
 be a certain winner in the first 5, 10, or even 20 minutes of this game if both players are good. 
 The multiplayer is so much tougher to play then against AI with much skilled strategies then just 
 mass army rushing. There are many counters to certain troops but the mismatches shock me sometimes 
 on how some M10s can kill tigers if they can run circles around them well enough. The downside 
 to the gameplay is that there are only 2 factions, teams, etc because having played the Japanese 
 or the British, or Russians would have been ten times the fun. The only one complaint I have but 
 im sure that relic is going to fix is how sometimes M10 and some tanks fire blank rounds. ( But 
 hey, I think they can always fix that bug)
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game just blew me away. I dont have that powerfull of a graphics 
 card but I do have a decent Radeon x1600 series. The graphics in the game are very detailed and 
 I loved how I could zoom in close enough to feel like a FPS. Explosions are awsome like what you'd 
 expect to see a Tiger blow up. These graphics wont disappoint
  
  Sound: Sound ..... this is WW2 right? Well in Company of Heroes I think that the sound of total 
 war is there. Cursing troops, Mortar teams, massive exploding bombs, tank fire, Mgs, shrieking 
 troops in fear of bullets wizzing around them, etc., just every sound that you would imagine in 
 a seen of havoc is there. Now if only I had those $200 dollar noise-canellin headphones...... that 
 would make me just at the sound of any tank.
  
  Value: I got this game for $50 bucks and it has been half a year before the release. It was worth 
 it but I should've bought it sooner. There is going to be a '' Stand alone game '' that doubles 
 as an expansion so I'll also fork over another $50 for it. No doubt that this game is worth my 
 money!
  
  Overview: Overall, this game has got the best gameplay I've seen for a RTS. The graphics are great 
 and I envy anybody that has the top of the line graphics cards. The sound is just immersive from 
 the beginning to the ending of the match. Value? It's valuable, nough said for me. Get this game 
 if you are looking for any kind of fun. Thnx for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  Title says it all. This game is great, there's nothing really more to say than just that :P The 
 graphics, sound, AI, gameplay, and everything just seems near perfect. The campeign mode only lets 
 you play as the allies, however in multiplayer and skirmish modes you can play as the axis which 
 needless to say, is a blast in itself. Try it for youself and I promise you will instantly fall 
 in love with it (if your an RTS fan that is) . There's also a new expansion coming up that will 
 add British units and some new german units as well. I cannot wait for it's release but still have 
 plenty of fun with the current game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyw1988
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Well, I bought this game just because of all the raving reviews I have read about it. I was quite 
 impressed by what it offered and I dare say that it is prolly the best RTS produced in the year 
 2006. My review for this game however, may turn out to be a little contradictory. Reason being 
 that although I think it' a good game, I didn't really find it fun (mostly its because I found the 
 amount of micromanagement too taxing) . But then again everyone has different definitions for fun. 
 Mine would be to sit back relax and not use my brain too much. So i prolly don't find chess or 
 sudoku fun but I think they are great games nonetheless. Ok anyway here's the review.
  
  Storyline:
  The game takes place in World War II. In the single player mode (spread across 15 
 missions) , you follow Able company as they launch their attack against the Germans from the beach 
 landing all the way to Berlin. In my opinion there wasn't much of a storyline as in war you just 
 got 2 sides fighting against each other and most of the interesting bits come in when you see how 
 the advantage shift from one side to the other. This is what most battles in the single player 
 mode is all about. Multi-player you get to choose between these 2 sides.
  
  Graphics:
  Solid throughout. Everything from tanks to soldiers to environments are all done superbly well. 
 There is dust, there is gunpowder and the game can make you feel it from where you are sitting 
 with the 360-degree camera and the zoom function. Most of you have probably seen the screenshots. 
 All I can say that this game delivers exactly the same level of graphics as it promises.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is great too. Everything from explosions to gun shots to men screaming when they 
 take fire all sound so real. You'll feel as though you're in the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game trully excels here. The realism is just unparalleled. Let me start with the infantry units. 
 They can hide behind cover, throw grenades, pick up weapons and many more. They can do what real 
 soldiers can do. The tanks are just like what they are in real life. Big powerful war machines. 
 They can destroy anything infront of them and can only be taken down with rockets to their engines 
 which are normally found at their rears. All these and more are easily doable with the user-friendly 
 command panel. Furthermore, this game does not focus alot on passive base management but instead 
 forces the player to be more active. Gone are the days of sitting in your base and waiting for 
 the enemy to attack. In this game, you've got to capture resource stations that are scattered along 
 the map. The frequent venturing out of your base will lead to many small skirmishes as you fight 
 with your opponent to see who gets hold of that resource station. This is also a good thing as 
 large scales battles are harder to manage. A thing I would like to add would be average gamers 
 will find it frustrating to micro-manage and this actually imo lowers the amount of fun this game 
 provides.
  
  Much like most RTSes, CoH has a commander level system where you will gain levels as the game progress (by 
 killing enemies capturing resource stations etc.) . The points award with each level up can be used 
 to invest in skill trees that can help in turning the tide of a battle.
  
  My only complain is that in multiplayer, both axis and allies have similar units and thus its pretty 
 much that you muster one side and you'll prolly be able to play the other without much difficulty. 
 It would have been better if both sides were more unique.
  
  Value:
  This game has quite alot of value. The 15 single player missions should take around 15-25hrs. Adding 
 to that is the multiplayer mode which you'll probably not get tired off since it takes alot of 
 training to be able to fully muster this game.
  
  Overall:
  Like I have mentioned, yes this game is realistic. Its so realistic that I found myself getting 
 frustrated time and time again when my micro-managing skills fail me. But then again its just me. 
 In my opinion I think most average gamers or those who are new to this sort of game will probably 
 find the multiplayer mode really challenging and may end up being frustrated. Personally, I think 
 if you are an average gamer but would enjoy a movie like saving private ryan or the thin red line, 
 then this is a worthwhile game to have just for the single-player mode alone. Even if you aren't 
 really good at micro-managing, you should be able to pass the single player mode without much of 
 a hassle and enjoy it just like you would the movies (the graphics and sound are so good it feels 
 just as though you are watching a movie) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sligzz76543
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  One word can describe this game... amazing. The first time that i heard about this game from a 
 friend i knew that i would love it. It is different than any other rts game that i have played 
 and the realism in this game is outstanding. Also, controlling units in squads is a big plus. The 
 graphics are also fantastice. The only thing that upset me is that for some reason i am not able 
 to turn the graphics up high without facing the dreaded blue screen of death , but even with graphics 
 turned down it is still an amazing spectacle. Not to mention the multiplayer is great. Company 
 of heroes is and all time favorite on the pc for me and if you don't own this game, this game i 
 suggest that you go and buy it right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: energiedev
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best RTS I have played, well designed and executed. I have played many 
 in my time including the Medieval series, Command And Conquer series and ages of empires. 10 out 
 of 10. My advice to any new players is spend plenty of time in the campaign mode to get the basics 
 of the game them go tear up multiplayer alone or with friends. Great ranking/ladder system in online 
 play. Every aspect from Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, Tilt, is astounding.. Its well worth the 50 
 bucks. If you enjoy RTS, or even a fps aspect this game is worth looking over! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BartSimpson01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I play this game all the time and i never get board of it, It has great graphics ,great game play, great 
 sound good, music, good story line, I really like the airborne. but in mulityplayer you better set 
 some rules before you play or you will have airborne dropping on your base in no time at all. So 
 the germans get tigers and thats scary when you see them unless you can surround the tiger with 
 A. T. guns (anti tank guns) or shermans. The americans get sticky bombs but they do little damage. The 
 Allied forces had their work cut out for them in WWII, facing an enemy fighting on their own soil, 
 with superior armor and a strong defensive position. With such significant challenges, the Allied 
 troops relied on persistence, numbers and versatility to eventually win the war. This was not without 
 cost. The Allies sustained heavy casualties throughout the war, totaling approximately 17 million 
 military deaths, compared to about 8 million on the Axis side. In Company of Heroes you take command 
 of these troops. Harnessing their strengths and using their unique abilities to your advantage, 
 join up! and experience Relic's next gen RTS, setting a new standard for both graphics and gameplay 
 in the genre.
  
  Riflemen
  
  Allied riflemen are well-trained, versatile soldiers. Equipped with a standard M1 rifle, they pose 
 a considerable threat to enemy infantry, especially when the allies have heavy cover. In addition 
 to the standard issue rifle, riflemen squads can be armed with grenades, sticky bombs and BAR rifles. 
 Grenades are excellent for clearing out entrenched enemies. Makeshift sticky bombs are used to 
 destroy or immobilize enemy vehicles and armor. The Browning Automatic Rifle provides a rifle squad 
 with additional firepower to suppress the enemy. If used in concert with the M1 and grenades, the 
 BAR can be devastating. As you can see, the basic riflemen squads are properly equipped to take 
 on almost any enemy threat.
  
  Engineers
  
  Engineers are the heart and soul of the Allied forces. Although not very useful in heavy combat 
 situations, they do perform many tasks that play an important role in the long run. Constructing 
 buildings, repairing damaged vehicles, setting up MG nests and planting mines just to name a few. 
 In addition to the multitude of tasks carried out behind the scenes, Engineer squads can also be 
 equipped with a flamethrower for clearing out garrisoned enemy troops, demolition kits for bringing 
 down buildings, and minesweepers to keep the rest of the forces out of harms way.
  
  Mortar Teams
  
  Allied mortar squads are tasked with softening up enemy defenses from a distance 
 before an attack. Although vulnerable to direct attacks, their ability to use indirect fire allows 
 them to engage the enemy from safe or defensive positions. In addition to their basic attack, mortar 
 teams are able to barrage a location, or fire smoke bombs to mask friendly troop movements and 
 disrupt enemy attacks.
  
  Sniper
  
  The sniper is a lone wolf, skilled in the art of marksmanship. Armed with a long-range, scoped 
 rifle, the sniper can pick out enemy targets from a distance. One shot, one kill is his motto. 
 Snipers can also utilize camouflage which allows them to sneak around undetected, keeping them 
 safe and out of harms way.
  
  Heavy Machine Gun Team
  
  Machine gun squads carry a tripod mounted, M1917 .30 cal heavy machine gun. Extremely effective 
 at suppression and mowing down large numbers of advancing enemy troops, HMG teams can be devastating 
 to enemy infantry. However, HMG teams are susceptible to flanking attacks and grenades due to their 
 slow speed. For this reason, they usually seek out heavy cover such as sandbags, rooftops and buildings. 
 If upgraded with armor piercing bursts, HMG squads can take down light vehicles as well.
  
  The ground infantry was only one facet of the Allied forces, although arguably the most important. 
 Combined with heavy armor and other Allied divisions; the infantry continued to push until their 
 job was complete, and the war was won 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 19, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a great RTS to play. If you think you know all about RTS then it is time to think again. 
 This game delivers the best graphics you ever played in a RTS ( You must have a compatible pc ) . 
 The game play is great and the enemies are having great AI behaviour, so you can have a great battle 
 in this game. Have a good story line for a RPG game and you have several forces available to use 
 in battle. So you have to use them wisely by understanding the weak points of your forces and your 
 enemy.
  For the bad points the game has very long loading time ( I suggest that you should have at least 
 2GB to minimize this effect ) . The loading time is so long some times your screen saver get activated 
 during the loading time. The other factor is you just have two factions to play in this game. Anyway 
 for RTS lovers this game is a great game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellScream1359
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I feel the fun in RTS game again ... with the good of company of heroes ... No huge unit making 
 and building upgrading ... everything is the best ... Nothing More Nothing Less ... Go buy this 
 game and free your will to buy another junk from another RTS game ... Ha Ha ... The Last Word ... 
 You Must Play This Game At Any Cost ;) ... Be Cool ... In This Game everything Going To Be Cool 
 ... Do Not Forget To Install Latest Patch ... Have Fun With This Game ... Building Your Units Like 
 You Really Recruit Them In The Real World Cause Every Unit Have A Great Work On It And Use It ... 
 Have A Great Fun ... MoonWalker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonziter1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  What a great game. The only way I heard about it was doing a search for We Say 9.0 on the PC. It's 
 at least a 9.0 for sure. Great game play. Great action. Great graphics. Great sound. My only complaint 
 about the game is its touchy controls and the higher requirements. How is it that C&amp; C Tiberium 
 has just as good of graphics with lower requirements? Never-the-less this is a game for PC players 
 that love RTS and want abnother great game to add to their collection. I have to be honest. Other 
 games have come out since that have made this one take a back seat for a while, but its on my list 
 of playing because it just keeps drawing me back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snugglecakes13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Well well well. Another WW2 RTS I said to myself when I heard about this game. Just what we needed, 
 right? Well actually, yes we did need this. This game is freakin' awesome! You really don't need 
 a good computer to run it but if you have a good computer put this baby on all high settings. Best 
 graphics in an RTS that I have ever seen! There are only two armies, the Germans and USA, but they 
 are so completely different and every time you play the matches are not the same as the last. EVERYTHING 
 is distructable. Feel like crashing your tank through a house? Go ahead. Feel like blowing up trees? 
 Go right ahead. The game is pretty basic to learn but once you learn the basics there is a lot 
 of stratagy involved. This is a MUST HAVE for anyone who likes RTS, even just a little. This is 
 the best game I played in 2006. Must I not forget the single player! Most RTS single player are 
 poor and feel tacked on. But not CoH. Each mission is funner than the last and very compelling. 
 BUY THIS GAME!
  
  Gameplay-Amazing! Keeps you coming back for more! 10 out of 10
  
  Graphics-Again, they are simply stunning! 10 out of 10!
  
  Sound-Awesome! Every explosion feels 
 like its right next to you. The sound is very well done. 10 out of 10!
  
  Value-You can play this game FOREVER!!! 9 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  This game is a great gamefor the PC and i would expect nothing more and nothing less. In single 
 playermode it's easy to get a hang of and gets harder and easier like in real wars. There is so 
 much tactics to choose from you think that there is no way am going to die twice on this level. 
 The graphics for this game is great and there is no lag of any thing like that. You don't even 
 have to have a top notch computer for this thing to work. Multiplayer on this couldn't get any 
 better unless they added more things like new maps once in a while and new modes to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokyou
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  A game which on its highest detail can bring a good computer down on its knees, Company Of Heroes 
 does not disappoint. There is every little detail when you zoom in. Visually stunning, it's like 
 having a war on your computer. From howitzer strikes to bombing runs, there are some very unique 
 skills for different company commanders. The germans can build Flak 88's while americans can deploy 
 the howitzer to barrage a certain area of the map. COH is a game that relies more on special skills 
 than size. An example is one heavy machine gun team can almost kill every riflemen who are trying 
 to charge in. There are grenades and satchel charges to defend against multiple threats. A nice 
 thing is Ostwind Flakpanzers and 88's can shoot down airborne company planes. Tanks are very fun 
 to play with, although when you choose a few to move to one place they will get stuck in each other 
 so it takes very long. The sounds are great, especially the V1 rocket and howitzer. Get a good 
 speaker and sound card to fully enjoy the dulcet tones this game provides. Overall, this game is 
 a great leap for RTS games. A must-play, I recommend everyone to try this great product by Relic 
 and THQ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gah468
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  amazing, this game is just so awsome, i checked if i was still on earth cuz of the graphics. i thought 
 it was the best game this year, but i found out that it is the best game ever. it is like a hi-rez 
 war right on ur computer. however this game made me lose sleep cuz its so awsome. the bad parts of 
 it is the fact that the loading times almost were like 15 minutes. also they dont have a button 
 so that when ur retreating you could make em stop retreating. other than this game is awsome:) if 
 any of u say theres a better game out there, i ll say ur wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunwongwk
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Not long ago, I remembered flipping through a pc gamer magazine when i came across a review of this 
 game. The first thing that caught my attention was the screen shots i kept thinking wow, what lovely 
 graphics .The next thing i did was to check the title, company of heroes, a good title i told myself. A 
 few dyas later iwent to my friends house and played this game it was marvelous. I can still remember 
 the D-Day mission and all the explosions.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics in this game are the best ive seen in any RTS game up to date. The units and environments 
 are not too colorful as you might see in most RTS games, this give the game a sense of reality. Besides 
 that, the models in the game are highly animated and detailed but the best of all are the explosions 
 and the rag doll units flying across the map
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound in COH is very good.
  
  AI
  
  The ai in company of heroes are also the smartest 
 i; ve seen in any game. Units take cover from artillery strikes and keep away from tanks to avoid 
 direct fire.
  
  Overall, this is a a masterpiece and the most immersive RTS game ive ever played and im sure a lot 
 of other gamers agree on that after playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamartto
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this: the last RTS game that I played was Age of Empires II and its expansion 
 a long time ago, since then I havent really played any other RTSuntil now.
  
  When the game came out I wasnt interested on it (mainly because Im a FPS player) , but after reading 
 several reviews and watching a lot of gameplay videos, I decided to get the game right away, I 
 didnt even wasted my time trying the demo.
  
  First of all, the game ran pretty good on my PC (P4 2.8GHz, 1GB RAM, eVGA 6800 128MB AGP, WinXP 
 Pro) , obviously I had to tweak the settings to get good graphics/performance during the game but 
 overall the settings were something between med-high, textures on medium and AA enabled, which 
 tells me that the game was really well optimized to allow all kind of PC setups play the game as 
 long as the PC meets the minimum requirements.
  
  One more thing to add is that this game contains no copy protection, so you dont need the DVD 
 in the drive in order to play the game, kudos to THQ  Relic for this policy that benefit the end 
 users.
  
  After tweaking the game I started the tutorial to remember how to play a RTS game again, the first 
 thing that I noticed is that the controls feels so natural, and the interface isnt overwhelming 
 at all. The game plays like any other RTS but with the difference that you control groups of units 
 instead of single units (except for snipers) and the whole map is destructible, that means that 
 you can destroy building, trees, fences, and more in order to advance and capture territories. 
 The resource system is really good, if you want to build a structure or unit you must have: manpower, 
 ammo, or fuel, you can get resources by capturing territories but to gain resources all your territories 
 must have a connection between the territory and your HQ, this is call a supply line, if any part 
 of the supply line is taken by the enemy you wont be able to get more supplies out of that territory 
 until you re-take the control of that point. The balance between vehicles and infantry is remarkable, 
 and each unit has its counterpart so you really need to use strategy to beat your enemy.
  
  The campaign of Company of Heroes is really, really good, you feel that you are really guiding 
 your troops to the victory and the enemy AI, cut scenes, weapons/environment sounds, the rewards 
 you get when you won the missions and a bunch of details that you discover through the game helps 
 to enhance the whole experience even more.
  
  CoH is not a single player game; you can also play with or against your friends online or on a 
 LAN, this extends the life of the game even more.
  
  Conclusion, get the game not only because is an amazing game and its here to stay but also to 
 show your support to 2 great companies as is THQ and Relic.
  
  Thanks for reading ;)
  
  PS: This is my first game review ever, but I hope you get the message Im trying to give GET THE 
 GAME... ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inspectercoley
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  This is a great game that is well worth the &pound;13 I spent on it and its nice that you don't 
 need the cd to play. Most of the bushes and walls and buildings are fully destructible and destroyed 
 tanks stay on the map unless you choose to run them over with yours. However there are a few things 
 missing in my opinion.
  
  In single player the game seems to get progressively more easy as you go along with the first few 
 training missions being easy and then the middle ones being really hard and then the end mission 
 being very easy unless you are going for the medals that are earned from doing that little bit 
 extra. The majority of the maps involve a race to capture flags and then you have the computer 
 sneak infantry squads behind you and take them back offering some annoying back tracking to get 
 them back. There is also a limited number of units that can be built with the biggest and best 
 tank only available in the last mission. This is bey far the coolest tank and yet you hardly get 
 to use it.
  
  Also there is a lack of any air element to the game. While you can call in air strikes and para 
 troopers, you cannot control any planes or bombers directly which might have been fun to add. Some 
 of the levels take over an hour to complete and a lot of that time is spent capturing points rather 
 than fighting itself. The controls are spot on however and it is easy to find units across the 
 map that in other games can be a burden to look for if you are unsure quite where they when. The 
 enemy ai is quite poor with the enemy just sitting around waiting for you to come to them and occasionally 
 sending in a few tanks to follow you. But they do try to run away when they are low on health but 
 never to repair themselves. Some of the resources on certain levels take far too long to acquire 
 and oyu find yourself annoyed that you cant get them faster by having more units devoted to it.
 
  
  The population limit of 75 is also very quickly reached and then it is a struggle to get everyone 
 together to defeat a strong enemy force.
  
  I have not played this is multi player yet but look forward to as overall this is still a very 
 impressive and fun game. Be warned that the loading times are quite long and it does need a good 
 machine to play it on.
  I am running AMD 64 X2 Dual core 3800 with 1.5gig ram a geforce 7600 and for the most part it is 
 fine but does drop the fps in big battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete_merlin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  graphics are amazing! they really pull u into the game.
  the gameplay is great but a stop retreating button would have been helpful.
  the sound is frekkin 
 sweet! the sound of artiliary going off sounds (and looks) just like something from brothers in 
 amrs.
  this game is a must buy for any RTS fan easily!
  although this isnt quite the easiest game in the world, it sure is close to the most exciting RTS 
 game. i think my score says it all for how I feel about this game. there are a few things this 
 game is missing (no stop retreating button, cant phisically control the medics and other silly 
 things like this) ! this game is a serious must buy tho seeing as its so much fun and quite a challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joker_2b
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  After an hours of playing in medieval total war II I thought that I reached my highest level in 
 playing hours. But than came: Company of Heroes .
  I realize that the problem is in me. I like good strategy games and Company of Heroes is one of 
 the best!!!
  This strategy game that takes place in the most popular genre is highly addicted.
  Besides the 
 obvious features like: gameplay, sound and graphics there is the details in the game. If you take 
 a closer look on the units you that they do almost everything like a real solider. For example: 
 if there is a few seconds delay between etch shoot on 37 mm its because the soldiers is reloading 
 and you can acutely see it.
  If you ask me very interesting game that can give a hours of enjoyable playing.
  (Please forgive 
 me for my English) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game in general because of all the good points I look for in a Real Time Strategy 
 game but this game does has certain flaws. First off, the visual of the game terrain is excellent 
 and well drawn. The fact you can interact with the buildings trees creeks and rivers is excellent. 
 The way that you can damage houses, bushes roads with explosions or simply using vehicles to run 
 through the house, is well conceived. The individual units are detailed from the sniper to the 
 machine gunner. The unit buildings are detailed as well. The sounds are realistic in the sense 
 if youre viewing an area far away from the battles you can tell the distance of those battles 
 from the echoing of the artillery, rifle fire or explosions. The music score is basic of the era, 
 nothing grand nor too repetitive. Now the game play, the single player missions are well done as 
 they are loosely interconnected but I do recommend the multiplayer options. The technology trees 
 are basic and dont require too much developments. Unit grouping are simplistic to control multiple 
 units in an co-ordinate attacks. This game even though tanks are included you have to realize that 
 Company Of Heroes emphasize on the grunts. The game is setup with an extremely low unit limit in 
 my view and you will find that a handful of tanks is all the game will allow you. No there is no 
 grand battles like Battle of the Bulge. The single player campaign is one sided (allies) and I 
 find short. Now what I consider flaws are low unit limits and a steep system requirement even for 
 a low amount of units. The AI is adequate and even fun on harder levels but no major assaults, 
 just a lot of attrition on both sides. In all this is not a bad base to improve on, worthwhile 
 for any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domy_g
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  you might all wonder how come Ive just started writing a review just now any way finally Ive 
 taken a what you might call a spring break from my college &amp; exams so here I am finally getting 
 to play COH.
  and what do I think you say, will after dreaming fro the last decade for a revolution and even 
 praying for what I said before a something new , here it's fully fulfilled, this game rocks in 
 every area... the way you play, think and even struggling to hold on for a win.
  the game it self is as eye appealing as it gets except for the video sequences and close up but 
 on the other hand as the RTS view it's awesome and still playable, by saying playable I mean it's 
 not perfectly smooth and if any body was luck see my last review about the Supreme Commander he/she 
 will know what kind of a computer Im using and it's even pretty much overcloacked. Back to game 
 the learning curve is right on the spot but there are some tricks that wont get hold of it unless 
 you play the tutorials further more the game audio components is great but not perfect.
  overall and finally if you think you have what it takes to beat the Germans* with your brain not 
 brutal force this is the thing for, let me say in another words this the blurring line between 
 commandos and red alert so enjoy something new and something fresh.
  
  * With all respect to the German society but about the article were are just referring to the game 
 play mythology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heros is a Real Time Strategy game set in WWII. the game does an amazing job in single 
 player making the game feel like a movie.
  What i loved about COH , is when you make a soldier they come in 2 to 6's and it makes making soldiers 
 not as time consuming. This game looks amazing even on low settings. So if you have a minimun req 
 PC you will still see amazing visuals. The art in the game is so well done and i am truly impressed 
 at this RTS. i'm not a RTS junky . I love the concept but i have always felt ,it was so hard to 
 take over and annihilate other good players in RTS. In COH it works like Battlefield series and 
 you have to capture a point and points are deducted from the enemy. this makes the battles less 
 of a challenge and keeps both players on there toes. Sitting back in COH trying to build a super 
 army can be pointless if you playing a smart player. But you can take away that option and just 
 annihilate the enemy to win. Thats why this game is so good it's got both.
  
  Sound in the game is just is what you expect. Controls are easy and feel free to use the mouse 
 only and it works very well. I recommend COH to anyone who likes RTS and anyone who loves WWII 
 games. the story is very well put out there and challenges metal gear solid series in terms of 
 delivery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 10:06 pm PT
Review:  World War II has been over played in shooters over the past 10 years or so with Medal Of Honor 
 and Call of Duty and so on, so its very nice to finally see a really good WWII game released that 
 isn't a shooter. Company of Heroes offers fun, intense RTS gameplay with all the atmosphere and 
 excitement that you'd expect from games like the old Medal of Honor and Call of Duty games. The 
 use of cover and tactical positioning is key to winning in the game, and being able to blow holes 
 in buildings and walls and so forth is really cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 11, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  As a preface I've never been much into the RTS style of game, minus a few exceptions. I had just 
 purchased a brand new and shinny gaming rig and wanted to try out this new Games for Windows platform, 
 if you will. I read a bit up on the game and thought, well if I want to test my computer's performance 
 this is a great way to do so. The first few times I played a few skirmish battles I got my butt 
 handed to me in a basket and found myself just frustrated with the whole ordeal. After going through 
 the tutorials and a few of the campaign missions my opinion quickly changed. Not only are the graphics, 
 effects, textures and environments beyond impressive on the proper rig; the game play is superb 
 and very well designed. On certain skirmishes I've found myself on the edge of my seat plotting 
 and preparing for a massive invasion of an Axis stronghold. My only beef, the maps are huge and 
 the game play is fast-it can be hard to keep up if you aren't a typical RTS'er. Great game, worth 
 the buy without question!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thephoenix365
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  What hasn't been said about this game already? Most everybody on this site will have looked into, 
 at or played with it at least once. I'll be honest, when I first looked at the game, i wasn't too 
 fussed, WWII not being my favourite style of games.
  
  But im glad to say i could not have been more wrong. Company of Heroes is one of the best RTS games 
 i have ever played in my long computer games career.
  
  Taking a break from the idea of base building and massive number of units being the ultimate be 
 all and end all of the game.
  
  The balance between the many various unit types, and the population cap, as well as the idea of 
 capturing resource points, makes brains and speed of thought vital to succeeding in the game. Add 
 to that a solid AI and the various restrictions in what you can bring to the dance and you have 
 a strategy game that really prizes strategy over style.
  
  With the variation in styles of battle, from full blown assaults of french towns, to night time 
 parachute drops behind enemy lines, you are constantly having to adapt and adjust the style of 
 your attack to the situation in which you find yourself.
  
  The game engine that Relic have come up with really makes you feel like you are part of the action, 
 and that is even on my useless speakers. With destructible environments and varying levels of cover, 
 the route you take on you offensive is just as important as any other factor you must take into 
 consideration.
  
  Overall the game is one of the best in years, and packs a lot of style and strategy into a market 
 full of similar games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plumber59a
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  A little behind on my reviews, trying to catch up. This is a bonus for all gamers. THQ has scored 
 another big hit. They have opened Pandora's Box and paved the way for all future games. They have 
 given us what we want and left us wanting more. All we ( gamers ) can hope for is that other game 
 makers can learn from COH, and take games further pushing the limits of PC's and our minds. If 
 there is any game that causes people to upgrade their computers to get the full experience, this 
 is it and worth it to boot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GangstaGamer20
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a awesome game the graphics are amazing and gameplay is great. The AI on here 
 is relly smart so smart that I got beat by it many many times. Playing online is great too very 
 fun and simple with great maps. I love this freaking game its addicting and again very fun both 
 single player and online. The price though is qute expensive still 60$ bucks but its worth it. This 
 is one of thebest World War 2 RTS ive played since years ago.
  If you are reading this review and you dont have this game it is a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thundermare-pt
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I've been playing this game from the very first 1.0 version. It's one of those WW2? Been 
 there, done that sort of game, really. It's got infantry, it's got tanks, even shows off a few 
 bomb runs now and then. We all have seen it all before, right?
  
  Wrong. Just wrong.
  
  When I got the game, I tried the campaign first. It was brutal, to say the least. The missions 
 were very well structured, and all, graphics were amazing, sound was excelent, but all in all, 
 I had already played all of this before.
  
  So then I had a few skirmishes against the AI, and I actually found troublesome beating it on the 
 easiest setting. I mean, I was used to the usual RTS formula. First build, then attack a location, 
 reinforce and dig in, then attack some more, until you eventually reach the enemy base. Pretty 
 standart tactic. Unfortunatly for me, back then, the AI seemed to go breserk. They were literally 
 ALL OVER the map. They didn't dug in or built massive armies. They just spread forces all around, 
 and tried to take all the resources for them, at start. Then they would come for my resources. 
 And then I had to set up some defence, or else the AI would get away with it.
  
  The first few games were really troublesome. I had to almost entirely forget everything I thought 
 I knew about tactics and strategy. I had to learn how to be agressive right from the start. Defending 
 alone wouldn't cut it, as in pretty much every other RTS out there. Demolishing defences is a quick 
 and easy task, for an expert player.
  
  This is just the start of the game. The resources are territories, which give manpower (every unit 
 requires it) , ammo (required for upgrades and special abilities) , and fuel (for vehicles and tech 
 upgrades) .
  
  The units are the typical WW2 RTS's thing. There's some infantry, some tanks, then there are support 
 units, like MG's and AT's. The one thing unique about this game is that you REALLY really really 
 *really* have to take good care about your units. Loosing one is a disaster, especially in the 
 early game.
  
  Unit tactics play a major role in this game. If you send like 3 or 4 squads of infantry down the 
 road to meet a single MG, you can kiss them goodbye. Well, not goodbye, since the MG fire will 
 cause them to hit the dirt and crawl, right before they break up and panic. Flanking is a rule, 
 in this case.
  
  If you can't flank, then you can bring a sniper, to go for the silent kill. Or you can bring a 
 mortar to bring it down. Or you can bring any armored vehicle to waste the MG. Or you can simply 
 ignore it, and go around. There's many tactics, and each one has to be well planed and executed.
 
  
  Relic, the developer, is taking good care of the community, by balancing the game, releasing some 
 great patches, promoting events, etc. The only downside is that the community is not that big. 
 Why is that? Let's see:
  
  The game is frustrating. It really hurts when you play someone better than you, especially in your 
 first few tries. The game is hard, i'll say it. It's really hard. Not because of the controls, 
 not because it's confusing, but because it's new. I mean, you've got to take a LOT of time (i'm 
 still learning) to learn the basics. You've got to be sure your units are always in cover, and 
 always doing what they should. At the same time, you have to be building up your base and getting 
 new units out. There's a lot of stuff to do. I've had friends who LOVE RTS's see me play and say 
 No way i'm playing that. I could never articulate like you do . They are forgetting, however, that 
 I have well over 100 hours of gameplay, by now.
  
  It takes time, you'll scream and hurt a lot, along the way. You might even lose your head, once 
 in a while. But the adrenaline rush is so huge, it's just so incredible... you'll come back for 
 more, I promise.
  
  And I know there's no single perfect game. But so far, this is the closest to perfection any RTS 
 can aspire to be.
  
  Bottom line is:
  
  Graphics: Top-notch
  
  Sound: Unbelivably good
  
  Gameplay: Perfect
  
  Tilt: I'm all in!
  
  Value: 9/10 just 
 because nothing is perfect
  
  Whoever says this game is good or great is wrong. This game is colossal. This game is 99% perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBusta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Now, this game is a must ! Even though it's a strategy game the graphics are amazing! If you were 
 to zoom in down to groundlevel the graphics are better than MOH Allied Assault, which is a FPS 
 from, i'm not quite sure, around 2001-2002. Also the game offers an Commander ability like the 
 one in C&amp; C Generals. In the campaign you are in command of Able company, and the game starts 
 when your men are landing at Omaha Beach (like every good WWII game) . From there you must fight 
 your way through France and Germany to lead the allies to victory. The story is a classic one, 
 but with the revolutionary control systems the game is the best I've ever tried among strategy 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g4m3add1ct
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  I have been playing CoH for 3 months now, and let me tell u its the best RTS ever been released 
 since RA2.... its a WWII based game, but in a way that no one ever thought abt....
  
  Campaign: it was just awesome, the storyline is solid, the missions is fun, and u can end up playin 
 2 or 3 missions in a row, but it can be long though.... but who really cares when the game rocks! 
 ur playin as able company throught out the game (american) .... and u help the allies bring the nazis 
 down in dangerous missions based on real life missions... the only thing that was disappointing 
 that there was no axis campain : ( ... maybe in an expansion, who knows gameplay:
  
  its just amazing, theres no more harvesters or gold mines... or all these old stuff, relic invented 
 some new things called : points... there is 3 types of points : 1- munitions 2-fuel 3-a type of 
 point that connects all these sectors (fuel and munitions) together: strategic points...
  
  and u have to control these points so u can gather resources... many battles r fought over these 
 points... and u have to think abt how to get the points that u really need according to ur game 
 plan...
  
  that was just a brief review, the game has so much more to offer..... a MUST BUY.... u wont regret 
 it even if ur not a RTS fan.... relic ruleeez !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olgeir
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  one of the good things of this game is that you cant just fortify your base i tried that the first 
 time i though my base was 100% secure and no army could get through my defenses but i was wrong 
 a few bomber runs and the only thing i had was 3 squads of grenadiers and lets put it this way 
 they are nothing when they are up against a few tanks. the game is controlled by zones that are 
 ether red or blue Red (Germans) Blue (Americans) these zones contain ether nothing oil or ammunition 
 but the more zones you control the more manpower you get. the gameplay is just what you expect 
 from a RTS but what is better than in most is that you can destroy everything and thats my favorite 
 part about this game. the sound i very good. and thats about it
  
  P. S. Sorry if my English sucks i'm Icelandic and live in Denmark so i currently got 4 languages. 
 thx for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malaloko
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  I use to play RTS since Warcraft 1 just came out, yes the DOS version of it ;) , and NEVER thought 
 a game would be as good as Warcraft series was. But then they released Company of Heroes....
  
  Man, this game is VERY VERY GREAT....
  
  Every single campaing have a intro movie and right 
 after the movie its your turn to move on, like the movie didnt finish...
  
  It put you right into the action and its not like other games, where you deffend yourself while 
 gathering resources then you build a massive army and crush your enemy. Its very intensive, you 
 have to secure your resources point while enemy is constantly attacking you and you also have to 
 make your moves to accomplish the mission.
  
  The sound it makes when you fire your guns, the sound of tanks, missiles... It makes you shiver!!!
 
  
  The enemy AI is very good, their soldiers have good response on what you are doing...
  
  The graphics and sound are JUST perfect.... I cant describe it, it seems your are in the middle 
 of some WWII movie itself....
  
  As I first said, its a must-have!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  All right, here's my review.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Gameplay in this game is where it shines, along with every other category. The realism that this 
 game brings to the table is nothing that any other game can do. The realistic cover and units make 
 things more interesting than you could have every thought. However, it takes time for things to 
 happen, so casual gamers might have to get used to it. Definitely not for the average gamer, as 
 it might cause boredom and impatience.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Now this is the place where CoH really shines. The graphics quality is amazing, and the explosions, 
 gunfights, and destructible environments only makes things better. Unfortunately, on the downside, 
 it's a monster to run, and if you have a low-mid end PC, expect to turn everything all the way 
 down just to get decent framerates. Only those with big budgets to buy all the latest PC gaming 
 hardware can hope to play this game with everything on the Ultra High / High settings.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Have you ever fought in a war? No? Well, after playing CoH, you'll feel like 
 it. The sound quality is amazing, with (as stated before) the gunfights, explosions, and screaming 
 will bring you into the true experience. No downfalls here, except if you don't have any speakers.
 
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Not much to say, except that it's totally worth the price.
  
  All in all, CoH is a great game for the RTS fan or for regular PC gamers. New players can try to 
 get into it, and if they succeed, a world of fun and exctiement awaits them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  I've finished this game 2 days ago! I think is on of the best RTS games i ever played!
  
  Game play: playing the single player on easy mode is ok not so difficult just right! normal mode 
 is really better! Enemies AI is obviously better!! Is also very easy and immediate the learning 
 curve. Very instinctive!
  
  Graphics: Excellent. The game is fantastic but i expected some more on videos during the single 
 player campaign.
  
  Sound: Perfect! Absolutely fantastic the fact that when you are looking on a side of the map you 
 can hear the shootings, the fights or the bomb blowing up of the other side of the map were you 
 was looking!!! Hope you have a Dolby surround ! With that it seems to be in WWII! ;)
  
  The details of everything are well defined.
  
  Very nice the idea that is possible (in skirmish 
 mode) to choose your tactical category! Like defense, air forces, heavy tanks!
  
  Using German troops on skirmish mode is quite difficult (a lot of upgrades to do) at the beginning!
 
  
  Hope they're going to do a new chapter of company of heroes!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: islamthebest
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  the game is so good with agreat sound effects and great graphical work
  if any one like strategic games he will absolutely like it as it is the best in its series the 
 game play took some play method of generals but they did well in the game but i really didnt like 
 the scenario in some stages of the game and i think not all the scenarios good but also the game 
 is great in multiplayer game by alot of maps and alot of weapons u can use at it the difficulty 
 of the game is below hard and u can play in different levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, Really, i'm new to those WW2 things, so My opinion could be a bit wrong from a point of misunderstanding 
 the facts.
  
  Well, first of all, game is really awesome, but even then, i found few things that i didn't like.
 
  
  First of all, i didn't like the lack of clarity. Everything stands too close and it looks kinda 
 ugly from time to time. Then there should be more zoom out level. But ok. That were just minor 
 things that i didn't like. And they just don't stand tha all amazing things game has to offer.
 
  
  First you have tutorials, campaigns, multiplayer, and singleplayer to choose for. I prefer singleplayer 
 and campaign. Both were great. I was enjoying when i was killing and ordering soldiers on the field, 
 doing risky decisions and do things i like. The campaigns were a bit hard to me. At least further 
 on, when i was completing the rooms. But that's ok. Well, what impressed me, was the sounds from 
 soldiers and those deep loud explosions and machine gun. It's just amazing. Then soldiers screaming, 
 and it feels like just being in the loud battlefield ordering your soldiers and other military 
 objects like tanks, aircraft... to attack or defend. Really cool i must say, yes!
  You just can't get bored in that game, EVEN IF YOU WANNA TO do that! You have so much to do, you 
 almost forget that you live in a real life. Also the graphics are kinda cool, despite it's presenting 
 an RTS which didn't have that good graphics yet, not counting medieval 2: total war. It's so amazing, 
 though i don't have really cool computer, i must say even though it was showing really cool graphics. 
 I like that in games. Not many games have done that much, than THQ did.
  
  Really, this game was really an enjoyment, and it absolutely deserves to be one of the best computer 
 games YET (i hope) .
  
  Worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musti_44
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  nice nice nice very nice ...
  
  The game capture a few styles from dawn of war, like the capturing of waypoints hiding into small 
 holes. but the difference between the game to others is it totally show how war world 2 is like, 
 hiding behind walls, flanking enemy while they are being suppress by your team mates, and TANKS 
 dont always win in battles. in most RTS games, once you get hold of the most expensive unit, you're 
 typically indestructable. For company of heroes, each unit had their advantage and disadvantages. 
 ETC, sniper, sniper have a very far range and is good for both scouting and taking enemy off. but 
 with the jeeps near his perimeter, the sniper is sure dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrerep
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This game looks and plays amazingly. I had to upgrade my graphic card to play at high end graphics 
 because I had poor results. I got 117 fps now and I get no lag in this intense RTS game. The units 
 are very details and the game play is challenging. I dont know how many times i have done the same 
 level over and over again tring to get medals. The game is very progressive, you just cant take 
 on the germans with tanks you have to work your way from D-DAY to Carentan just to be able to use 
 tanks in your missions. Those panzers are tough and you really have to use strategies learned in 
 the tutorial to survive. If you are looking for an RTS and have CoH and Supreme Commander to choose 
 from get CoH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  When Dawn of War came out a couple of years ago it was apparant that THQ was onto something by 
 taking the RTS genre toward a smaller squad-based system as opposed to the grand scale of games 
 like Empire Earth. Base building became less important than capturing strategic points, putting 
 the focus on action rather than resource gathering which by then had been done to death. Overall, 
 Dawn of War was a breath of fresh air in a stale genre. With Company of Heroes THQ has perfected 
 what they began in Dawn of War. I initially blew this game off, as I felt that another WWII games 
 was the last thing that would hold my interest - much less an RTS. The more good reviews that this 
 game recieved piqued my interest enough for me to give it a try, and man, was I impressed! First 
 of all, this game is gorgeous. Graphics are often overlooked in RTS games, sure the backgrounds 
 usually look good but the models are often bland and the animation is less than impressive. Company 
 of Heroes has turned that idea totally on it's head. The models are stunning in their level of 
 detail... you'll find yourself zooming in during battles just to get a look at the soldiers in 
 action. This is easily the best looking RTS out today.
  
  What really makes this game a classic is the gameplay. Units actually behave as though they have 
 common sense. They use cover without being prompted and they avoid being shot as much as possible, 
 as opposed to the cannon fodder mentality of the units in other games. The enemy AI is equally 
 impressive and is challenging to play against without it resorting to resource cheating like in 
 so many RTS games.
  
  The single player campaign may be a bit on the short side and there are only two factions to play 
 as, but Company of Heroes is a great game to skirmish with either the AI or a human opponent. There 
 is just enough depth to Company of Heroes' gameplay that it doesn't feel light at all, without 
 being bogged down by an overly complicated interface or tech tree. Company of Heroes has come out 
 of virtually nowhere to become one of the best RTS games ever made, and that's no minor accomplishment 
 considering just how tired the genre had become for so long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorched1992
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about a week ago and so far I love it. I haven't completely finished the campaign 
 but so far it is really good. I've played a few skirmishes but haven't got a chance to play the 
 mutiplayer but this is what I think so far: First of all this game looks amazing. The graphics 
 are fantastic. Everything looks great. Another thing I found amazing was everything in the game 
 could be destroyed. I remeber the first time I dropped artillery on the enemy and limbs flew everywhere 
 and at the same time the building an mg was in shattered into pieces. The gameplay in this game 
 is great. It's just plain fun. It's got a lot of action. It's easy to learn how to play. I can't 
 really think of anything this game could have done to make it better. If you are an RTS fan get 
 this game. Don't wait. You'll love it.
  A+ Relic, Good Job 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mojohammer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  What is there not to like. The AI is better than any game to date, and that is saying a lot. The 
 graphics are superb. When, you zoom in on the sniper, you see him wiping his nose. The gameplay 
 is addictive and has high replayability within the first person. Their are very few games, that 
 I make it through the entire single player game. Typically, redundancy sets in an the game looses 
 its flavor. COH on the other hand is as far away from redundancy as you can get. Not only is every 
 chapter in the game different, but each time you play a chapter, it plays out totally differently, 
 as there is just as many ways to win a battle, as there are to lose it.
  
  The multi-player aspect is awsome also. Again, I typically do not go for MP RTS games, as there 
 is always the folks that drop out. In COH, there seems to be low rate of folks who drop out. Even, 
 when you lose in COH MP, you have an awsome time.
  
  Anyway, go buy this game. I rarely tell people that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumo28
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  This game leaves such a great first impression. Visually it is stunning and I spent a good deal 
 of time trying to tweak my system to get this running smoothly at the highest settings (to no avail 
 -- the requirements are steep!) . This is unlike any other RTS i've played. The campaign is a lot 
 of fun and is so much different than other game. I would say that the campaign has more action 
 elements and less strategy than a traditional RTS but that's not a bad thing at all. The campaign 
 is packed with action, great cut-scenes, and it takes you through an immersive story.
  
  Actual gameplay is pretty intense. The environment is VERY nice and has a certain wow factor to 
 it. It seems like everything blows up, and when they do explode, the shrapnel left behind is a 
 great source of cover for your advancing squad. It is a real treat to listen to the sounds of battle 
 and to see everything unfolding on screen.
  
  With all that said, there just seems to be something missing in the gameplay that affects re-playability. 
 The campaign is great fun, but I have no reason or desire to re-do the exact same battles again. 
 And the multiplayer... well, it's fun at first but the same two modes on the same limited amount 
 of maps with all the same settings get boring very fast. It was fun at first playing with a friend 
 because of the team / cooperative aspect of the multiplayer but after an hour we were saying to 
 ourselves so... when is this going to end... uh, what are we gonna play next? ... Dawn of War - 
 Dark Crusade time? . Bottom line is that there is no other game like this one. It is absolutely 
 beautiful and worth playing. The time that I spent playing it I just kept saying to myself WOW 
 this is CRAZY! . The only problem is that aside from the stunning visuals, environments, sound 
 effects, etc, there isn't much that makes me want to keep coming back and playing it. FYI I'd rather 
 give this an 8.5 or 8.6 but the rating sliders on gamespot don't make much sense IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjb428
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Company of heroes offers a great campaign, great multiplayer, great everything. The campaign is 
 set on D-Day to the ending of the war. it offers battles like Omaha beach (BEST OMAHA BEACH MISSION 
 EVER!) which is surprisingly realistic and the graphics just make it cooler. It also offers taking 
 and then defending carenten (best level of the game in my opinion) . The good things about this 
 game are 1. Great graphics. 2. Great campaign. 3. 10 out of 10 for realism. 4. Battles are dang sweet 
 to watch. 5. Skirmishes are fun letting you play as Axis or Allies. The list goes on and on. Usually 
 at this point i would list the bad things about the game but i just cant find anything bad about 
 this game, nope, nothing. if your thinking about buying this game, GO NOW!!!!!! IF YOU LIKE ANY 
 RTS GAME THIS GAME IS FOR YOU!!!! Or, are you reading this game thinking about ratings, well, the 
 blood isn't to bad, the swearing is there but during battles you wont really notice it , and the 
 violence is just shooting and explosions and stuff. GO BUY THIS GAME NOW!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 113871999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I have never really been a huge fan of RTS games but late last year when I say Gamespots review 
 for this and after watching the tournament I just had to go out and buy it. Straight away after 
 first loading the game up you can see how fantastic this game looks, every signle detail from the 
 blades of grass to the bricks that make up the buildings, its just stunning. Gameplay is also quite 
 nice, you have your campaign were you will take control of able squad and move forward through 
 the german advances on D-Day, you have a skirmish mode, were the objective here is to capture strategic 
 points, munnitions and fuel points, in turn these are your income. and for the complete newbie, 
 like myself you have a tutorial which pretty much covers every aspect of gameplay. the sound is 
 also amazing, you can here every bullet go flying passed and the screams of the wounded axis. Overall 
 this game got the recognition is deserved which I am pleased about, also adding the online multiplayer 
 modes, this game is trust truly awesome and is a must have for not just RTS gamers, but every gamer 
 out there who has an able P. C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardfloyd69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  This is the 2nd best game I've played (after COD2)
  It's takes skill &amp; practice to master, and it looks &amp; sounds great.
  I could play this 
 all day. It is difficult to master, but you keep coming back for more. I have not yet manged to 
 win an online game, and I thought I was ok at this type of game (C&amp; C) . The campaign game is 
 excellent, I have played it through twice, its so addictive. This game is an esential buy, I bought 
 a new PC just so I could play it, worth the &pound;600 for this game alone. In contrast to Supreme 
 Commander, a dissapointment. This game rocks. Have I got a hundred words yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonfaith
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I was very skeptical. I have played many RTS WWII games and 
 at best have been simply entertained by them. But this one. D*&amp;^. they got it right.
  
  This is a very very fun game. Addictive to the point of being eye crack. The very first battle 
 I fought in this game I got my ass handed to me by the CPU but I was having so much fun just watching 
 this games detailed visceral explosions and bodies flying I could hardly care. I immediately replayed 
 the multi player map I had loaded till I won.
  Fully detailed 3D soldiers and vehicles who talk like real soldiers on real battlefields. Wow. 
 At first the language may put you off a little but it sounds so believable you start to like it 
 after while. I might be sick of moving one more bag of F'ing dirt too if I had to build sandbag 
 walls all day. The battles are gritty and intense and shelling wreaks such havoc on the landscape 
 your guys will be running in and out of impact craters for cover all the time. The sound of the 
 game is so immersive you'll break a sweat trying to keep up with the action. I have 5.1 surround 
 sound and I wouldn't recommend anything less with this game.
  The single player mode is great and has you actually caring about your guys enough that you might 
 even cringe a little every time one gets his head blown off. My only complaint here is that it 
 is way too short. I hope expansions are planned in the future.
  The multi player? Oh my god it is so much fun. Playing against the CPU is slaughter house fun but 
 the real strategy comes in multi player form. You are probably going to be defeated a lot at multi 
 player but get over it. I image if this game was available during WWII generals would have been 
 training with it.
  
  Buy this game. Play this game. It is not disappointing and will be in my gaming library a very 
 long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_reardant
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  An utterly amazing game the detail is immense! The flexibility of your view is incredible all areas 
 of the battle field are viewable from some amazing angles allowing for superb tactical planning 
 and simply a great view. The range of units available in CoH is marvelous each with their own unique 
 sayings. However Company of heroes wasn't perfect. minor bugs and a distinct lack of the Americans 
 ability to combat the German tanks was I found a big problem. These issues have now been sorted 
 with a patch and a mod I believe.
  I found that once the campaign was completed there was only a few maps to play on skirmish and 
 that was it, it was all over. I'm hoping for an expansion to add more campaigns, maps and maybe 
 more.
  
  which leads me to a major disappointment, after completing the American campaign I was surprised 
 to find there was no German campaign. Yes, I know they lost the war but tons of ww2 games allow 
 you to play both sides, I was completely saddened that I couldn't play as the Nazi's, they may 
 have lost but they were awesomely equipped for combat.
  Oh and as a word of warning Company of heroes also requires a good computer to handle it well, 
 otherwise on low settings the experience is ruined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  Let me just get this out of the way straight from the get-go. Company of Heroes will test you to 
 the limit, physically and mentally. This is the most visceral strategy experience of my life. Relic 
 has managed to bring in some new ideas and keeping the tried-and-true ones intact, helping reinvent 
 the RTS genre.
  
  If youre familiar with Relics excellent Dawn of War, youll feel right at home with CoH. The 
 excellent resource system has been overhauled and brought over. Every map is divided into smaller 
 territories, each with its own resource point. There are three types of resources in the game, 
 fuel, munitions and manpower. This system favors aggressive expansion and as a result often leads 
 to skirmishes and battles at the very start of the game. It also effectively negates turtling, 
 as you must always be on the offensive, taking territory to fuel your war machine. A neat addition 
 is the concept of supply lines. This means that each player controlled territory has to be connected 
 to keep the flow of resources open. When an enemy captures a link in the chain of territories, 
 you automatically lose all resources normally accumulated by those territories. This adds some 
 serious strategic flair to the game, as you can literally starve an opponent to submission by controlling 
 key territories on a map. Defending them can of course get a bit rough, so its not a sure fire 
 road to success. While this resource system works well, it can make the game extremely hard and 
 daunting, especially for inexperienced strategy gamers.
  
  The excellent resource system is negated somewhat in the singleplayer, mainly because the enemy 
 AI isnt smart enough to cut off your supply lines. Also, since most of the missions are objective 
 based, capturing territory tends to take a backseat (although it is still vital to keeping your 
 army supplied and fresh) . Speaking of singleplayer, CoH follows the exploits of Able Company (the 
 game curiously refers to Able and Fox company as they were the only such companies in the US Army 
 at the time, when in fact Able and Fox simply mean A and F in US Military Phonetic Code) , as they 
 battle their way from the beaches of Normandy, through France and all the way to Chamboise in the 
 Falaise Pocket. Although calling the story deep would be a stretch, the game manages to infuse 
 some drama and personal attachment to the proceedings. This also means the only playable faction 
 is the US (multiplayer also features Germany) . While I was personally fine with that, some players 
 might feel the game would have benefited from a few other factions as well. Despite its glamorous 
 presentation, the game feels very gritty and plays realistically. There is a fair amount of tactics 
 and strategy involved, as simply rushing a German MG-nest would be pure suicide. You must decide 
 if you want to make an all out assault and destroy the entire thing, or try flanking the position, 
 killing the enemy and acquiring the MG for your own needs. This mix of all-out action and careful 
 strategic thinking, coupled with a fair amount of micromanagement can make the game feel extremely 
 hectic at times. The unforgiving enemy doesnt help matters much either. But as with any game, 
 practice makes perfect, and youll enjoy the game so much more once you get the hang of it. A nice 
 touch is the ability to give orders while the game is paused. This will surely be appreciated by 
 some of the more untrained players.
  
  Company of Heroes also has a neat feature in the company commander system. This systems lets you 
 choose three different (faction unique) upgrade paths that reinforce your core strengths. For example, 
 the Allies airborne path unlocks paratroopers, supply drops and P47 strafing runs, among other 
 things. The Axis blitzkrieg doctrine opens up stormtroopers and Tiger tanks for deployment. These 
 bonuses are usually quickly deployed, so they can actually help turn the tide in a battle. As you 
 fight and destroy enemy forces, you accumulate experience points that can be then spent on any 
 doctrine you wish. The six different paths also help alleviate the lack of factions, as two Allied 
 armies using different doctrines can feel very different. The multiplayer in particular benefits 
 from these different paths, and can lead to some fun matches, where cooperation with a teammate 
 using a different doctrine can prove to be vital.
  
  Graphically, CoH is extremely impressive. While it demands a top-of-the-line system for you to 
 enjoy the visuals to their fullest, it is worth every penny. Never before has an RTS captured the 
 thrill and terror of combat as perfectly as Company of Heroes. At times you feel like youre playing 
 a first person shooter, only from an isometric view. Its that intense. Effects, like explosions, 
 fire and smoke are beautiful, while the destructible environments not only look good, they make 
 a difference from a gameplay perspective as well. Seeing a tank tear the corner of a house clean 
 off with one clean shot is a sight to behold, as is watching that very same building crumble to 
 pieces a moment later as it takes a direct hit from a mortar. The game also features the Havok 
 physics engine, which helps bring each firefight to life with jarring reality. Of particular note 
 are the gory explosions when a squad of unsuspecting troopers get caught in mortar fire. Men are 
 torn to bloody pieces, flung high up into the air only to fall back down like limp pieces of meat. 
 Awesome!
  
  Sound is equally important in games, and Relic has spared nothing in this department. Units answer 
 in low, hushed voices during night time missions, pinned down soldiers sound genuinely panicked 
 and acknowledgments from off-screen units come in over a radio. The game even features a fair amount 
 of profanity, which actually helps set the mood even further. Unofrtunately, the profanity cant 
 be turned off for people wanting a more traditional RTS experience. Then again, there is nothing 
 traditional about Company of Heroes. Equally intense and atmospheric are the crisp and clear sound 
 effects. Youll more likely than not cringe every time a Flak 88 opens up on your men, or a Tiger 
 tank can be heard advancing on your position in the distance. Everything from machine guns spewing 
 hot fire from the rumble of a Jeep plowing through the countryside sounds so real and fantastic, 
 making this game a real treat on the ears (or pain, depending on the volume) . In typical WWII fashion, 
 the game features a dramatic symphonic score that would feel at home in any movie of the same setting.
 
  
  Company of Heroes is a game that only comes by a handful of times each year. Like all Relic games, 
 it is polished, atmospheric, beautiful, daunting and rewarding at the same time. The level of graphical 
 detail is simply astounding for an RTS, the aural fidelity is truly outstanding, and the gameplay 
 is revolutionary both from a single and multiplayer point of view. Relic has once again worked 
 their magic with this title, making it a must own for any fans of strategy games and WWII games, 
 or fans of games in general. Do not let this one slip you by... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  IMO the plays very much like C&amp; C altho you capture points for control it's still veyr similar, 
 in C&amp; C there are points to capture but not as intensive as this game. It's very fast and fun 
 + it has around about the same sort army sizes as C&amp; C though in this games theres only 2 factions 
 obviously Axis vs allies.
  
  I had fun throughout my time playing altho i got bored pretty easily because it was pretty simple 
 and i didn't find there to be much content actually in the game apart from Multiplayer which IMO 
 got old quickly.
  
  The single player was great fun altho the battles have been set out for you so it's all preset 
 and not much room for strategy at all actually.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Great graphics altho you'll need quite a good system to run maxed smoothly i have:
  
  2gb corsair 
 1000mhz
  core 2 duo 6700
  x1950xtx 512mb ddr4
  
  And it ran at about 30-40fps maxed out with the old driver, not sure about new ones but can only 
 guess it's improved.
  
  It's very WW2 style which is pretty obvious and it reminds me alot of COD the RTS lol.
  
  Sound:
 
  
  Great sounds and music, it's almost perfect and i honestly don't know where they could really improve 
 it much. There are some overused sounds in the game that can get annoying but thats the same for 
 anything you play over and over again.
  
  Value:
  
  Also great only &pound;20 for a game that gave me about 30 hours of fun...
  
  Hardcore RTS 
 players might not find the game as good as casual or newer players but still might find it fun 
 to give it a whirl. If you love WW2 or just abit of multiplayer fun with your mates then i suggest 
 to give it a try aswel.
  
  Fun game but i can't say anything amazing about it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamespayne6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best ww2 games i have ever played, it definitely lives up to all the hype 
 and other reviews, so no worries there. however; I have just got to about the 5th level and things 
 have started to get a lot more hectic on the battle map, ( lots of tanks. infantry, etc ) and this 
 up to now has sometimes caused a slightly lower frame rate for a few seconds and has then recovered. 
 I would like to note at this point that I have ALL of the graphical settings set to their maximum 
 and after installing the current v5 patch, the game runs like a dream for 95% of the time. Like 
 I was saying, I have now reached the point in the game where things are hotting up, and this obviously 
 puts additional strain on my graphics card and system. Quite how much strain was unexpected as 
 2 nights ago at a particularly hectic point in the level my pc turned off...... dead!!! No blue 
 screen of death, no error code, nothing. wouldn't turn back on either. Not blowing my own trumpet 
 or anything, but I happen to be a MCSE and after some testing the damage was that the 4-pin 12v 
 output on my PSU had been cooked inside the PSU!!!!! here is the spec of my pc and I find it hard 
 to believe that it would not be upto the job of powering this game. AMD AM2 Athlon FX62 @2857MHZ
 
  2GB CORSAIR XMS PRO 4-4-4-9 DDR2 PC6400 800MHZ
  ASUS ROG CROSSHAIR M/B
  XFX NVIDIA 7950 GX2 EXTREME 1GB RUNNING IN STANDARD ( NOT OVERCLOCKED ) MODE
  2XMAXTOR 320GB 
 HD IN RAID ( STRIPE )
  HIPER TYPE R 580 WATT PSU ( NOW KNACKERED!! )
  SB AUDIGY 2 PLATINUM EDITION
  NEMISIS MINI TOWER CASE
  LOGITECH G40 KEYBOARD
  LOGITECH G7 
 LASER MOUSE
  PIONEER OPTICALS
  WINDOWS XP PRO SP2.
  
  I hope my review has not put you off of this game as it is set to be a classic for years to come, 
 just be aware that this game will seriously test your machine's power and I recommend that you 
 start quite low with the graphical settings and build them up as you play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_hi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  If you loved Commandos, you will love this. At first, the tutorials are pretty boring and linear, 
 but when where they ever fun?
  
  So you go through the amazing graphics learning the history before you start each game...
  
 
  Whether its holding a house and waiting for reinforcments or sending in an air raid, you wont 
 get bored of this game for a while. The music and sounds are perfect. They reflect whats going 
 on and you never get tired of the voices. Multi player gaming could be better, thats where the 
 patches should come in handy... they should really have an option where you can find players with 
 the same skills and pings.
  
  If you like the classic Age of empires, battlefield and commandos games all wraped up in a nice 
 multi player package, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axecident
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  From the first Doom every RTS player is searching a game that had equilibrium, and where is the 
 brain the most important thing. Now we have it! Axis and allies are very different but equilibrate. 
 The all around possibility of interaction and the amazing graphic, is conjugated with a system 
 of victory point that kill the classic waiting for had the stronger vehicles. With the last patch 
 (1.5) this game is perfect, there are not strategies that work every time. Positive: Real strategic 
 Game, for now the state of the art of RTS
  Negative: The online clan game does not exist, and ranked 3 vs 3 and 4 vs 4 is ridicule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirkocoach
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  From the first Doom every RTS player is searching a game that had equilibrium, and where is the 
 brain the most important thing. Now we have it! Axis and allies are very different but equilibrate. 
 The all around possibility of interaction and the amazing graphic, is conjugated with a system 
 of victory point that kill the classic waiting for had the stronger vehicles. With the last patch 
 (1.5) this game is perfect, there are not strategies that work every time. Positive: Real strategic 
 Game, for now the state of the art of RTS
  Negative: The online clan game does not exist, and ranked 3 vs 3 and 4 vs 4 is ridicule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlyseal
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The guys at Relic did a great job turning Close Combat into a 3D RTS. c (o;
  Gameplay:
  Company of Heroes definitely stresses the S in RTS. You'll find out very early in the game that 
 you can't rely on your past RTS experience to smack around the Krauts. 90% of RTS strategy consists 
 of constructing a base that can pump out as many light attack units in the shortest amount of time 
 and march them at your enemy.. Using this strategy in COHs produces nothing more than a fleshy, 
 writhing pool of your post-traumatic granddaddy's ex-best friends. This game forces you to vary 
 the type of troops you deploy. Although your average rifleman squad is well equipped with a range 
 of weaponry, you need a mortar team here and there to enjoy the spectacle of a round exploding 
 over a fortified machine gun, reducing any man in the area to something resembling dinner at the 
 local nursing home. Relic did a real good job balancing the fire power and longevity of each unit. 
 For instance, Tanks are incredibly powerful but if you drive them blindly into a fortified area 
 without any troop support you just purchased some very expensive steel caskets for your men.. Graphics:
 
  The detail of each map and unit is gorgeous. Its one of the only RTS games that allow you to 
 really appreciate the graphics. Well... I should say that Relic forces you scour the beautiful 
 detail looking for snipers trying to a burning hot slug through your soft melon.... Seriously, 
 I haven't been that close to my screen since my inspection of that shot of Britney's mommy button 
 getting out of that limo.. That was before she went psycho.. Too many RTS games have you zoomed 
 out so far or skipping around the map so fast you really never appreciate how god the game looks.
 
  Sound:
  Loud Explosions, Obscenities, Its hard to screw up the sound of war
  -
  Hopefully they'll come out with a larger scale game where you can control ships and aircraft in 
 addition to vehicles and men. Maybe they could use the zoom feature from Supreme Commander (its 
 only good quality) to implement air strikes, bombardment, train artillery.. etc. Overall this is 
 a great game with huge replay value that deserves its price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Finally a good &amp; fun RTS game. I haven't played much of a strategy game since Starcraft came 
 out in '98. I did play warhammer, warcraft3, c&amp; c generals, and others but they only lasted 
 about 3-6months of my interest. I can't get enough of this game ever since I played the beta. It 
 has a really unique compaign missions. You feel that you are in the game and the cut-scenes are 
 amazing. The multiplayer is always fun, although they need to tweak the AI a little bit. The game 
 is straightforward and you will find it easy to get into it. The fun part of this game is that 
 you have to use cover to be successful, that is -- hide behind a wall, tree, enter a building, etc... 
 The game has great sound and the visual are top notch. I highly recommended to RTS gamers and people 
 who want to get in this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The__MCP
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Not only am I giving this game a great score, but I'm an admitted real-time-strategy hater who 
 is still giving it a great score! Frankly, I have grown sick of the RTS genre. I feel Microsoft 
 started to ruin it with their Age of Empires clones and the several companies that leased the engine 
 to build more of the same. Since then, the RTS genre has gotten stale with only a few notable exceptions 
 such as the Total War series, Europa Universalis series (which can be paused and played as a turn-based 
 game) , and the usual high quality entries by Blizzard. I didn't have high hopes for this game but 
 I've discovered its the exception in the RTS genre.
  
  The best way to describe how this game plays is that it takes what the latest Star Wars RTS game 
 -- Empire at War -- tried to accomplish and perfects it. It almost feels like the PC classic, Syndicate. 
 Technically you're playing an RTS, but it doesn't feel like one. Resource gathering, structure 
 building and unit upgrades all have their usual place in this game, but the awesome battle spectacle 
 that plays out before you, the emphasis on WHERE your units are (i. e. take cover behind anything) , 
 the destructible environment that allows your tanks to roll over and destroy anything as well as 
 explosives to demolish any building, and then the fantastic cutscenes with small history lessons 
 on D-Day just make for one of the most enjoyable WWII experiences in gaming history.
  
  If you remember the last scene in Saving Private Ryan where they have a limited time to fortify 
 a bridge leading into a town and then must holdout against a German invasion, well, you pretty 
 much have the scenario for half of the missions in this game. These aren't boring sandlot scenarios. 
 Sometimes you must hold out on a hill for 30 minutes with what seems like impossible odds, sometimes 
 you must defend 3 bridges leading to a French village and repel the Nazis tank invasion, and sometimes 
 you must do the opposite and repair a bridge and raid a town in a scenario that automatically starts 
 you out on strategically inferior ground. Everything is based on real WW2 situations that the allies 
 faced in Europe so if you're into WW2 history, you'll get an added kick out of this game and I 
 recommend you follow the game up with Call of Duty because it's a shooter that follows many of 
 the same roads and towns in this game.
  
  What's even more amazing is that I have yet to experience the online play which I'm sure will provide 
 its usual addictive gameplay that has helped boost the RTS genre in PC gaming. I just completed 
 the game, attempting to win the optional medals in each campaign, which provides more of a challenge 
 for any ambitious gamer. The game also comes with skirmish mode which I'm sure I'll play a few 
 times. This is one of those games that had such enjoyable levels, I played them a second, and sometimes 
 a third time. ESPECIALLY as I went futher in the game and realized the pros and cons of all my 
 units which ranged from snipers to various tanks to jeeps to mortars to engineers and so on.
  
  This game will never have the hype of an Age of Empires or Warcraft but you're doing yourself 
 a disservice if you don't buy it ASAP! I've played very few RTS games that were this enjoyable 
 and it's one of the few PC games that has me eagerly awaiting a $30 expansion. I hope there's an 
 equally brilliant mod community out there that adds even more to this classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_loughran
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  When I put the game in the first time. I was half expecting this game to play like the Age of Empires 
 series. To my surprise, the gameplay was so much more. With your squads strewn throughout a battle 
 field, its always about the best tactical plan to keep 'zee' Germans at bay. I found myself playing 
 the missions over and over again, always trying to fgigure out the best way to attack or defend 
 was great fun. The Mortain Counterattack was my favorite as I enjoyed setting up my defenses before 
 the battle starts and watch each German get blown to hell as they attempt to cross the bridges. 
 Anyone that enjoys a good RTS, this one is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanboy-buster
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  First off all, Im not a huge RTS fan, the last one I played wa Age of Empires 2 like 7 years ago, 
 but I thought they were just boring, they didn&acute; t had any action and were slow paced. Then 
 some friends started playing Warcraft 3 and it returned some nostalgia about playing RTS, so I 
 went to my local shop and bought Company of Heores, and I must say that I am not dissapointed with 
 my purchase.
  
  While intimidating, this game is easy to handle, and fun to play. It really made me a fan of that 
 game. Its is a lot of fun and it looks amazing. The best graphics I have seen in an RTS game.
 
  
  As soon as I installed it I could see that the game was going to be huge, and that came to my mind 
 becuase of the really long loading times (which are the only part I didnt like) . But as soon as 
 I got control of my first company and started exploring the enemy ground I thought it was really 
 worth it, the trees, the smoke, the explosions, the intelligence of the enemy troops who flank 
 you, take cover, and the engine that the game uses to improve your base. Well it was amazing.
 
  
  But then I got control of my Sherman, and I was really impressed, and I have to admit that I have 
 lots of fun blowing up houses, trees, walls, everything, becuase this game has amazing physics, 
 so real-like it is impressive to see those tiny pieces of wall flying through the air in amazing 
 speeds. Also blowing enemy tanks is fun, and the explosions are magnifecent, some of the best explosions 
 I have seen in games.
  
  Another thing that I like a lot about this game is the sound, imagine you are in youir base making 
 troops when you suddenly hear the gunfight, and as you approach the sounds of the gunfight, screams 
 of agony and support start going louder and louder and when you reach the fight all you see is 
 your troops with casualites, blown up tanks and a lot of dead bodies on the floor. The sounds efects 
 of the guns is also very good too. The voice acting is great and very variated, you dont hear the 
 same thing over and over again.
  
  The game has a lot of weapons, upgradeable companies and tanks and a some buildings, although you 
 can take buildings in the city to make Barracks and create troops closer to the battle field. You 
 can also find enemy weaponry on the floor and make your company to take it up and fight the germans 
 with their weapons.
  
  This game is awesome with all the words that make it. It is worth every penny I spent on it, I 
 dont have too many regrets about this game, but the only ones I could find is the long loading 
 times which can get frustrating and also the system requirements that can be quite a problem for 
 people with low specs on their PC's.
  
  Anyways, this is a must-buy game to every RTS lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackoWacko2006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  If you have a good graphics card and sound system then that improves the game ALOT, but if you 
 dont it is still a great game! At the beggining, (if you think you can play without doing the tutorial) 
 it can be very hard, even sometimes on the easy diffulculty. The controls are not hard, they are 
 almost identical to WarHammer or any other strategy game. But even though it is like Warhammer 
 it still is much better. For instance defenses and housing troops in villages, and supply lines. 
 There is so much that makes this game great. The online is OK, for normal pc gamers it is fun. (but 
 i have played xbox live alot, so all typing is less fun) . If you do not have a very good connection, 
 you will keep being disconnected from Relic Online (what you use to play online on it) . Also because 
 i dont have a great connectionmy ping go's wild! so be aware. There is two types of deathmatch, 
 being high resources or low resources. There is also matches were you play people at thr same skill 
 as you. Online play should be fun (providing you dont get kicked because you are lagging badly) . 
 You can have alot of fun with skirmishes, with your different units that you get from choosing 
 you speciality. EG Allies: Airborne, defensive and heavy armour, AXIS: defensive, heavy armour and 
 blitzcreig. You can be very happy with snipers (the best units!) especially in churches! The campain 
 is extremely fun. In my opinion the best mission being the first one D Day! Unlimited Units! The 
 missions stay fun and full of action, so there is no getting bored there! You can have lots of 
 units amd so there game is great! If you have a good computer with good graphics sound ect. Then 
 the gamepaly can be called nex generation gaming. Any person with a tactical mind a taste for strategic 
 pc gaming will love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigresse_mg
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I do not see the reason for rating this game so high. Grant you it has great graphics, but playability 
 is another story! Another one of those resource management games... After playing it for several 
 hours, I just get bored with the continuous going back to the rear area and selecting more buildings 
 to have more tanks or other units. I would have loved to see this game in the old Steel Panthers 
 or the Blitzkrieg playability method... selecting units, advance against the ennemy for contact, 
 recce, deploy troops to consolidate ground, artillery support, air support, etc. When you think 
 you have finished with the enemy in Company of Heroes, you keep fighting these groups of engineers 
 in your rear area trying to capture sectors, so you chase around after them until you have captured 
 all sectors on the map. Tank versus tank action is good, but having to keep one engineer group 
 with the tank to repair it when it's shot at, lacks realism. It's fun to play, but overall it lacks 
 the historical and the realism of WW2 fighting. I give it a 5.5.
  
  Marcus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  When I got this game, I was waiting for a normal RTS, but it proved not to be one.
  When I started the campaign, I was impressed by the beginning cutscene. But that's not important. The 
 first mission was an easy one and I didn't observe anything nice. But after that World War 2 was 
 coming to me.
  The graphics in this game are truly the best (for a RTS) and it impresses a lot. The cutscenes are 
 from an action game.
  But what's truly grand about it is the gameplay. You may not have many buildings, but it wears out 
 when you start the fight. The covers, the combat, the excellent level design permit tacticians&amp; casual 
 gamers to fight how they know to. Flank, shoot, throw grenade, classic WW2 tactics. The tank combat 
 is important as well because only with infantry, there are little chances to survive.
  The missions are well  are really something. The companies 
 you can use will define your multiplayer tactics.
  The atmosphere is great and when the rifles and tanks start shooting you feel hell is near you 
 and you want to get out.
  It is a little hard to understand the gameplay but when you do it, you'll leave it hardly.
  There 
 would be more things to say, a lot of them but I'm ending here.
  After all, my normal RTS gave me an offer I couldn't refuse: it told me I'm the best and so it is! Go 
 Relic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wertykamil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  One of the best games ever played. This is a strategy first game takes another look from a god-mode 
 and controles your army to victory.
  
  It has about 15 campain missions which every single one will take you more then 45min to beat. 
 Very realistic enviorment around. You also dont select people as on but as a unit. It has everything 
 a war game can have from rifles to high explosives
  
  The game can get boring after playing the same thing ove and over but the cinema of the game make 
 you play the whole thing
  
  Company of Heroes has to go as an instant classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nexusra
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game from being to end. It allows you to pick up the game quickly through excellent 
 tutorials and then ever increase difficulty of missions. Enough has been said about this game and 
 it is truly a no-brainier purchase. The graphics are first class the sound and voices are excellent, 
 the cut-scene movies do a great job of providing you historical context and give the game an epic 
 feel for a RTS.
  
  The most of the mission are excellent though there are 1 or 2 that are not great. This game has 
 great replay value.
  
  Good in both single player and multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btindall
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 14, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RTS I've played in some time. It's well balanced and fun. The campaign was well 
 laid out, although it's lacking a German campaign. However, the game really shines in multiplayer 
 and in skirmishes against the computer. The AI can be tough.
  
  There's a nice variety of units that seem authentic to the era and the weapons of WWII have been 
 adapted well to this game. The game's emphasis around victory points means that the action is nearly 
 always fired up.
  
  It has a few weaknesses:
  
  Need a pretty decent computer to run this one.
  
  The multiplayer is not as well developed 
 as it should be. No way to save in multiplayer. No way to send audio alerts to your teammates. 
 No way even to tell if one or more players have dropped from the game. No direct connect over the 
 Internet. This can make for an uneven online experience, though on the whole it's fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arronax2003
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  your sneaking through a blown out village, and it seems to be deserted. a german sniper pops out 
 the church window and shoots you ( that doesnt happen every day) while your squad starts firing 
 back... okay so maybe that wont happen unless you get really sucked into your games and relate 
 to every unit in an RTS. The Physics in this game are really nice, if you had a stick, and a seal.... 
 well ill leave that alone, but the physics are really good, buildings blow up and such. every unit 
 responds in some snappy patter and depending on their situation. for instance if your sniper is 
 in camo, he'll whisper his im a sniper yada yada yada or something like that, or if your boys are 
 being shot at they'll start screamin lines that'll contain a few words to make your grannies cringe (the 
 germans may do that in normal conversation though) . Graphics are top notch and really makes the 
 overall experience better, they're so good you could see the fly on the sniper if that pixel wasnt 
 burnt in from leaving the monitor on gamespot when watching 24 hour tournaments or something like 
 that (i jest, you cant see flys) .
  
  now i never really 'loved' dawn of war, i mean would people with massive armor and huge guns really 
 run at a bunch of green buggers when they could just shoot them?. anyway the formula works really 
 well in this WW2 style where territory is important. it may be harder to get good defenses with 
 such a large territory to cover, but i guess that just makes it a little more realistic.
  i said the learning curve was high, but by that i mean it would take that long to beat the hard 
 computers, players on the other hand are about as polar in their skill as arctic bears. either 
 they suck or they beat you
  everything seems to work together really nicely and the experience is the best WW2 RTS ive seen 
 yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdcw9
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Theres a lot I could say about this game. How its graphical detail is most probably the best we've 
 seen from an RTS. Or thats it's game play is second to nonce.
  
  But im sure you've heard all of that so many times, and so im not going to boar you with it. When 
 I bought the game, the most important thing I expected from such an RTS, was to have historical 
 accuracy. Now I know the action and the blowing up things is good too, but I have seen so many 
 ww2 games which all have one particular thing in common. America V some other country. Now dont 
 get more wrong, this game is fantastic, but i was really hoping that somewhere, sometime, someone 
 would create a game that put the British, and only the British into the heat of battle. I know 
 its been done, but only in the form of an FPS. And there was one thing that confused me about this 
 game. Based on a European front, a German enemy, and all but the Americans whom fought them. Now 
 seriously, only about 5 maybe 10% of world war 2 was America pitched up against Germany on European 
 soil. Most of their battle time was in Africa and in the Pacific. Now im fond of the Sherman and 
 the P-51 Mustang, which by the way, werent American designs. But to exclude almost every part 
 of Britain is a bit unfair, especially on European soil. But to put an end to this unnecessary 
 ranting, I shall indeed applause the best thing about this game. the easily moddable maps and units 
 e. t. c. Which allows such a great game, to be made even better by the brilliantly talented modding 
 community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  This game is just perfect,&amp; Relic again proves that they are the best RTS producers ever. The 
 game covers the war from Normandy, during 15 singleplayer missions. The maps are realistically made,&amp; 
 there are more maps in the skirmishes or in multiplayer. The main story based on gen. Mc Kay &amp; 
 col. Conti is great for a WWII RTS. The graphics are simply superb, they are better than the ones 
 from most FPS-s! The effects, the textures, everything, combined with the best phisics engine available, Havok. Everything 
 that's hit is vissibly hit,&amp; that remains in time. The sound is very good,&amp; the sound effects 
 give the game a very WWII atmosphere. The gameplay is great, it's a combination from the Warhammer 
 40000 Dawn of War gameplay, with a tactic one. You put your soldiers to trow grenades, to flank MG 
 42 nests or Flak .88 Guns or so, to take cover behind objects, buildings, fences, or in craters, You 
 can also command them to pick up special weapons found on the battlefield. You have special abilities 
 unlockable with command points, you can upgrade units, buildings, production like in Dawn of War. The 
 squads, strategic points, munition or fuel ones can be captured as in Dawn of War. But it's not a 
 Dawn of War clone, it's even better than it! With the same interface, but original new ideas, Relic 
 made the best strategy game ever,&amp; the TRUE Game of the Year 2006! *Message for Relic*: The 
 Normandy Campaign in the campaign menu is put there by letting place for other new campaigns. We're 
 waiting... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesRed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Very good World War 2 RTS When I first heard of Company of Heroes, I didn't know much about it 
 as details of this game was sparse (aside from the fact that it's developed by Relic Entertainment, 
 the very same guys that brought us Warhammer 40 000: Dawn of War) . Only when I played the demo 
 of this game, then I realised how good this game is. And, as you know it, I played the full game 
 as well and thoroughly enjoyed every minute of it, especially the campaign mode.
  
  Company of Heroes starts out during the Normandy landings and you will be introduced to two main 
 characters (and a few others) in the game: Lieutenant Condi (his older self is the narrator) and 
 Captain McKay. Over the course of the game, you will fight in authentic battles such as Carentan 
 and Hill 192 to name a few. In the campaign mode, you will be awarded with a medal for each medal, 
 provided that you complete the task to get that medal.
  
  In the campaign mode, you will be awarded with a medal for each medal, provided that you complete 
 the medal objective. The campaign is not very long as it only contains 15 missions. After completing 
 the missions, you might give yourself a go online or try out the skirmish (either for fun or to 
 hone your skills) . In the skirmish, you will get the chance to play as the Krauts (a. k. a the Nazis) 
 as opposed to the campaign where you play from the Allies perspective only (Makes sense. After 
 all, who wants to play as the Nazis in the campaign anyway when its all about the Allies?) . Visually, 
 the game is stunning to look at. Relic put a lot of effort in the detail of every individual soldier 
 and the vehicles. Heck, the graphics can even rival most shooters out there (as what the Gamespot 
 review mentioned) . Even the animation is top-notch, though there are some instances where you will 
 see some characters look stiff, especially when walking but still, it's a lot better than the Warhammer 
 series itself, if you ask me. As for the environments, its pretty much destructible thanks to 
 the Havok physics engine so if youre one who likes to blow up stuff and see the effects, this 
 game doesnt fall short on this one.
  
  The personality of the individual squad is well done (and colourful) for the Allies side. Some 
 of what these individuals said can be pretty funny (and witty too) such as, 'I heard the Nazis 
 are 8 feet tall' or 'Time to kill some Krauts'. I had quite a laugh when I heard some of these 
 responses. A word of caution: There is a lot of profanity in this game. Well, not up till GTA level 
 but still quite a lot for a video/computer game.
  
  As for gameplay mechanics, Relic manages to repeat the same method used in the Warhammer series, 
 that is, not to rely too much on tanks and armoured vehicles like what you see in most strategy 
 games like Command &amp; Conquer to name a few. As for taking cover, its much better than Warhammer 
 as any piece of the games environment can be used as cover (be it a piano or a low wall) . You 
 can even take cover in buildings for better protection. This is where Relic shines and it reflects 
 on this game as well.
  
  The AI in this game can be challenging (and can be very hard as well) , even in the campaign mode. 
 I havent fully tested the skirmish mode but I can tell that the AI will be even more challenging 
 than the ones youve encountered in the campaign mode. Not only is the AI challenging but some 
 of the missions can be very hard to accomplish such as the Capture Hill 192 and Mortain to 
 name a few. I even need to restart some of these missions a lot of times in order to gain the medal 
 and accomplish it. As for unit AI, its pretty decent and you dont need to keep babysitting them 
 when youre occupied elsewhere but they do tend to bunch up quite a lot and this will lead to massive 
 losses especially when theyre hit by either a grenade or a tank round for example. However, this 
 game isnt without flaws. The graphics are very demanding up till the extent that you will notice 
 slowdowns and hitching especially during intense action. According to Gamespot, even on a high-end 
 machine, the game will lag as well (on very high resolutions) . Dont expect to run this game at 
 512MB of RAM as youll encounter a lot of hitching during gameplay. Only when I upgraded to 1GB 
 then, the hitching is non-existent. If you want to put everything to Ultra, do yourself a favour 
 and upgrade to 2GB.
  
  As for the graphics, if you want to play at the highest possible setting, it is best to get the 
 top of the line graphics card like a Geforce 7900GTX equivalent or the latest Geforce 8800 GTX. 
 I tried Company of Heroes on my friends computer (Pentium D with 1GB DDR2 RAM and X1600 Pro) and 
 it ran fine but youll have to lower the resolution and some of the graphical options in order 
 to get a playable frame rate.
  
  I also encountered one very odd bug where the mouse cursor disappeared during the briefing in one 
 of the missions. I found out that I opened up the overhead map menu instead of waiting for it to 
 automatically pop up to initiate the briefing. Not very serious but can be slightly troublesome.
 
  
  Overall, I recommend this game to those who like fast-paced RTSes like Dawn of War and if your 
 computer is very high-end (if you want to play everything with maximum detail, that is) . I rate 
 this game 4/5 stars.
  
  Pros:
  - Great graphics
  - Destructible environment
  - Balanced gameplay
  - Good ragdoll physics
  - Good AI
  - Good gameplay mechanics
  - Interesting 
 personalities on squads and units
  
  Cons:
  - Very steep system requirements
  - Odd animation sequence
  - Units tend to bunch up at times
  - Some of the missions are frustratingly 
 hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Great Work , Relic. Company Of Heroes is a outstanding Real Time Strategy game not to be missed. The 
 game is set in world war 2 background .The game's battle takes place between Allied and Axis forces. The 
 player (with his soldiers team) has to take control over enemy outposts , immobilise enemy and 
 their vechiles ,build their own base etc .You get cool maps in the game. To get control over enemys 
 territory you have to use proper planning (strategy) and tactics. The game has excellent graphics 
 and visuals. The AI in the game is quite decent . The game has good soundquality , music with cool 
 cutscenes too. You get WW 2 vechiles likes Tanks , Jeeps etc .The game has good online feature also. 
 I highly recommend this game to every RTS fans who still now've missed this awesome game. Overall 
 its a great RTS Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanBlocker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a Real Time Strategy (RTS) game set in WW2. It pits 2 factions, the Allied 
 and Axis, against each other through an impressive campaign story. This is told using Slideshow 
 style images as well as game rendered videos. As well as that there is the highly addictive multiplayer 
 aspect of the game. Play across LAN or Online with up to 8 players.
  
  You play through the main campaign in control of the Allied forces. Starting with the brutal landings 
 on Omaha Beach you get the sense of a large scale war from above, as was intended. The aim of this 
 first mission is to push up the beach using the reinforcements being dropped off at shore. With 
 heavy Axis fire raining down from further inland this can be quite a challenge for first time player. 
 There is a selection of difficulty settings that do have a distinct difference between them. I 
 recommend you play through the game on Easy on your first time round as Hard and Expert are a struggle 
 for even the more experienced players. The Single Player Campaign is quiet lengthy. This is of 
 course mainly because some missions have set times and other requires a lot of running about. It 
 can get a bit mind draining from time to time if you take your time to micro manage everything 
 You will have a much better experience if you push forward more often than not. This is a personal 
 preference that is down to the players style more than anything. The AI in this game if fair. 
 It can be relentless sometimes in doing so many things at once. You feel under pressure so run 
 squads of men all over the map. This depends mainly of the difficulty setting you choose at the 
 start of the campaign. The AI is also smart about its decisions. Often retreating when loosing 
 a sufficient amount of men from a squad or when it figures out that it cannot win in a battle. 
 For example an engineer squad may retreat instantly when face with an MG crew. If a campaign is 
 a little tiresome you can try your hand at a Skirmish. This is essentially a multi player game 
 against the AI.
  
  The Multi Player aspect of Company of Heroes is intense. Players are split into teams. There is 
 a maximum of 8 players on LAN or Online making for some fierce 4 on 4 action. It seems a little 
 unfair when a player drops or lags enough to initiate a vote to kick that lagging player. Never 
 the less when everything is going well the game play is great. There are 2 modes two choose from. 
 Annihilate pits the 2 factions against each other for an all out death match style game. You and 
 your teams aim it to capture all the land to claim more resources and totally destroy your opponent. 
 All while trying to stop the other team doing the same. Eventually you get to the point where you 
 must over run there base, This is easily done when they lack the resources to fight back but take 
 a while to achieve due to the constant battle breaking out over the map. Fuel is frequently at 
 the centre of more fight. The team to control the fuel can manufacture tanks. This more often than 
 not make the end of the game is imminent unless you have a substantial force to counter the tanks. 
 Infantry are almost useless when faced with a tank but upgrades at you base builds can make light 
 work of some enemys, this is depending you have the resources. The second of the game modes is 
 Victory Point Control. In this more you and your team mates must not only capture the land for 
 resources but also the majority of Victory Points. This causes a count down to start. Each team 
 has a set amount of Points at the start of the game. The enemy must claim Victory Points to make 
 the oppositions Point fall. When a team point reach zero the came is finished. This is ideal for 
 game with 250 to 500 starting points but a 1000 starting point game userly end up with the game 
 turning into an Annihilation game.
  
  The graphics in this game are one of the best I have seen in an RTS. The camera is free to control 
 allowing for full 360&deg; rotation as well as zoom features using your mouse scroll wheel. If 
 you ever have the time its nice to zoom in close and watch the level of detail in the game. Mortar 
 teams loading there mortar, MG crew reloading the gun. The rotation is hardly used as many people 
 know their way around a map from a particular perspective. Its mainly used for looking in hard 
 to see places, Such as buildings for windows to shoot from. Theres nothing worse than taking 
 cover in a build only to find it doesnt have a window on the side you need to should out of. Another 
 aspect of the game that is stunning is the sound. This is without doubt a master piece in the area. 
 You squad whispers the actions during night missions and radios them in if there of screen. There 
 often quirky reactions to what you tell them to do. Weapons in this game have the sense of power 
 purely due to the sound. The immensely damaging V1 Rocket makes a terrifying buzzing sound before 
 it drops. This acts as both a sign that damage will without doubt be done as well as a sign to 
 run. If you do run however its often a wasted effort due to the huge range of damage this Rocket 
 has, easily wiping out anything in its blast radius.
  
  All in all Company of Heroes is an outstanding Historic RTS that anyone looking for a fun and enjoyable 
 experience should look into purely for the multi player alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobgotpwned
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  I love this game!
  
  Multiplayer
  Online-very fun but get some practice in before you play online because evryone has thier own style... your 
 style could work with you or against you depending on who you are playing against LAN-I play this 
 game with my brother and we are addicted to it single player-I am not much on single player but 
 my brother loves it This game you have to actually think about your every move every little move 
 you make in this game can effect you The graphics and sound are unmatchable this aint a game where 
 you build a huge army and walk right into the enemies base and game over (which is really fake) 
 and that is how most rts games are almost everything in this game is usable right down to the enginners/pioneers
 
  
  there are some things that are useless to me though (like upgrading to mine sweepers)
  and some of the options in the doctrines are pointless too and a waste of points that you work 
 extremely hard to get over all though thte balance is great if you understand the game and its 
 not hard to figure out 10 of 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mycros
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  To start i would like to declare that Company of Heroes (CoH) is original, ambitious, and a bold 
 new move in the RTS genre that is executed superbly and with an excellent degree of polish. It 
 brings several new, tactical innovations which are an excellent change from the sometimes tedious 
 base build orders and micromanaging of Warcraft 3 clones.
  
  Graphics-Gameplay and originality may make or break the game, but some eye candy never hurt anyone, 
 and CoH brings it in in bucket loads. Even run on the lower settings the detail is impressive, 
 with soldiers moving through cover, changing vantage points in buildings, keeping their heads down 
 out in the open, its all here. On the higher settings be prepared for a feast of excellent detail, 
 with animations smoothly done and models looking impressive to say the least.
  
  Sound- Quite possibly the weakest point of the game, but only because everything else is so great. 
 The sound is actually excellent, with tanks rumbling across open ground and the yells of soldiers 
 fighting filling the battlefield with an ambience of cinematic preportions. An excellent element 
 of the game, if somewhat overshadowed by the graphics and gameplay.
  
  Gameplay- The big decider for any game, and I am glad to say that CoH delivers. With a new, innovative 
 combat system focused more on managing your troops and less on getting a build order perfect, it 
 brings a welcome wave of originality. The cover system forces you to think your maneuvers through, 
 instead of blindly rushing, and as you progress, you will find yourself using new tactics like 
 artillery, defensive plays, offensive plays, *shock* FLANKING and using your troops to fulfil anti-tank, 
 anti-infantry or multi purpose roles. This new strategic depth is an excellent addition to the 
 game, and even though a build order must be at least worked upon in order to succeed online, its 
 not the end all like it has almost been in other games. Value- Although it offers the staple fare 
 of a RTS game, the campaign is lengthy and challenging (although the distinct lack of an Axis campaign 
 stands out) but what really gives this game its value is its dynamic ai, and especially the multiplayer. 
 The AI is quite impressive, with games often changing as you change tactics and so does the AI. 
 However, the real beef of the game comes from the challenge of other players on the multiplayer.
 
  
  To sum up, CoH is a new, welcome change to a almost crowded RPG market, and succeeds in standing 
 out with original gameplay, fast paced action and a great fun factor that just draws you back in. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhatFarm99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  OK seriously what RTS Game can you think of... that has rag dolls in it... that's the best thing 
 in the world. FOR A FREAKING RTS GAME I love how if you throw a grenade They Fly In pieces and 
 the shooting detail is great the only downside to this game is that I think they should have looked 
 at the difficulty levels against the Computer because they can get rather challenging. I like the 
 story and i think this game was a well thought up BRIGHT idea Get it if you have the chance..
 
  And if you ever wanna vrs online
  My Name is
  
  VOLKIT 
  
  thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Company of heroes probably the best rts i have played in the last 2 or 3 years. The graphics is 
 great and the system requirements are not that high. The game play is immersive and original in 
 it's own way. But what is really great at this game is the impressive AI... the infantry units 
 hide behind fences, buildings or event tank wrecks when fired upon. And from this point of view 
 the game rocks . Snipers can camouflage and hold fire for infiltration, units can become pinned 
 down or retreat... or even be motivated to rush the enemy lines. Besides the fact that the campaign 
 is short (15 missions) and that some times tanks get stuck the game is awesome. The missions take 
 you from d-day to the end of the war, from capturing location to holding the hill with special 
 abilities and special units.
  The movies and cut scenes are great giving a more detailed picture of war and the troops you command. 
 The multi-player is fun but has only a few maps. Great Game !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladin125
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I cannot stress enough how amazing this game is. I have been playing it sence it came out and haven't 
 stopped. Almost all other games that I have played sence I bought this game feel like they are 
 just ok, while everyone else thinks exactly opposite. All I can think, hear, dream, anything, is 
 about this game. The best part is that online especially, they have balenced out the game so well 
 that there is no perfect strategy or faction. There is always one stratagey to counter another 
 strategy, so I am constantly thinking up new ones. 
  The multiplayer on this game is probably the best I have ever seen. It is a great game to play 
 with freinds, especially on LAN. They are always patching, always balancing, always adding on this 
 game and that is just one more great thing about this game. 
  Even the campaign is fun. It is a great all around game. It has a lot of stratagey, which is actually 
 pretty rare in a game. Mainly, the reason for it haveing so much stratagey is that it is one of 
 the very few handful of RTS's with cover. A bunker or building can mean the diffrence between life 
 or death.
  If you wish to run the game, though, becasue this game has some pretty nice graphics, you'll probably 
 need a good computer to run this with smooth preformance. It is playable on a lot of computers, 
 though, even some lower-tech computers. Just make sure to have at least 1GB of RAM and NOT to have 
 an integrated GPU. That will usally allow for a bearable preformance with low or low-medium level 
 graphics turned on. And if you ever want to chech if the graphics level is too high for your computer, 
 they have a preformance test which can be very useful.
  If you are going to buy this game (which you better If you have the money) , make sure to get the 
 stand-alone expansion, Opposing Fronts. It comes with two more campaigns a couple more maps, and 
 two more factions, Panzer Elite and the Brits. 
  Also, if you are a map editor like me, they have one. It is slightly complex, though, so not everyone 
 can do it. It is called World Builder and can be used to make muiltplayer maps, campaigns of your 
 own, whatever. Google map editing company of heroes or somthing like that... and you should find 
 some useful stuff, especially on Wiki. It will tell you all about -dev.....
  BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue-Diamond
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  They did a great job with the game otherwise in all respects.
  Great store line and graphics inbetween missions. Conquer in all levels Easy, Normal, Hard, and 
 Expert.
  I've been playing RTS games since Masters of Orion and Civilization.
  No ref against GOD makes the game any better, and would never be missed. You can put all the curse 
 words you want, but I respect my GOD, it will only make your fans mad. Hope your patches fix this. 
 zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz  
 zzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz 
 zzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz 
 zzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz  
 zzzzzzzzzzzzzwaiting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gordeni
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics on this game are amazing and i LOVE being able to blow up ANYTHING i want. Whether 
 its a person, a building, or even a WHOLE city block!!!!!!! At first it was kinda overwhelming, 
 but after a while you get to understand the game more and figure out ways to be more efficient. 
 This is NOT a game for people who don't want a challenge. But if you like something challenging, 
 then this is the game for you. And whether you like history or not, you learn a little about WWII. 
 This game is probably the best one this year and gets a 2 thumbs up from me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STVeo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Company Of Heroes is most definitely one of the greatest Real Time Strategy games to be released 
 in the history of gaming.
  
  It all starts at the beginning of the Allied invasion of France and ends pretty much near the end 
 of WW2, and you as the player must lead your units to victory under great odds.
  Taking the tutorials first is a must for any RTS gamer simply because they are a joy to play through 
 and also are very helpful in helping you get to grips with how this beautiful game works.
  The game really is beautiful, even on my Radeon 9600 it still looks stunning and totally playable 
 for the low-end Pc's and yet it might even be worth upgrading you're pc just for it.
  
  The units are varied and interesting from the first engineer class of builder unit right up to 
 the devastating tanks of mighty destruction, there's no joke about destruction in this game because 
 most buildings and pretty much everything else you see on the map can and most likely will be destroyed 
 by the players artillery, tanks, satchel charges and various other explosive weapons.
  All the units either Allied or Axis (the two factions in the game) all have different and in most 
 cases hilarious voice over responses that still feel fresh and have kept me laughing to this very 
 day after months of play.
  
  The campaign lasts 20 hours or more if you really get immersed into it, which acts as a perfect 
 learning experience of sorts if you want to get into the multiplayer side of the game which is 
 highly competitive.
  With so many different tactics for you to figure out on the battlefield, difficulty levels that 
 are challenging and a unit system where you must have you're units work together to achieve victory 
 it really brings it all together to create a frantic and fantastic experience.
  
  There's so much substance and depth to this wonderful title its unmissable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2o35
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  this game is a really fun game if u like rts; about one in 10 rts games are actually good and this 
 is the one.
  the main reason its so awesome is because of its uniquness; wwII is so wicked in this game it brings 
 the excitement to this graphically intense game
  
  the only downside is there is a lack of diversity in the units; in a game like starcraft theres 
 a huge variety of units to choose from and 3 factions but in this game u play as only 2 factions, 
 germans or americans, and theres a limited number of units to choose from
  but that being said, there is a huge amount of different strategies you can employ with them
 
  
  all in all its a good game and im too lazy to type any more
  definitely get it if you like WWII or RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexdarvell
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I didnt think that my favourite RTS (Dawn of War: Dark Crusade) could be topped for quite sometime, 
 yet Relic have surpassed themselves with Company of Heroes and it is by far the best RTS I have 
 played in a long long time. CoH might not have tons of different units and a myriad of upgrades 
 but that is the beauty of it, it does not pretend to be something its not and it keeps the game 
 realistically simple. Riflemen for example only get grenades, sticky bombs and a BAR upgrade. Other 
 units get nothing at all, just what they get sent to war with; a helmet and a rifle.
  
  Upgrades are also 'purchased' from the unit in the field itself and not back at the base. In previous 
 RTSs it was all about base building and defending. CoH continues Relic's welcome trend of making 
 RTSs that are about the combat in the field and not about the construction of bases.
  
  Grenades are massively important when attacking units in a fixed position. A well placed grenade 
 can and will take out 3 maybe 4 enemy soldiers. Sticky bombs on the other hand are excellent devices 
 to use against vehicles. When there is no anti-vehicle support to be found, riflemen can at least 
 try and hold their own by taking cover and throwing these charges at the enemy vehicle. It may 
 take a few stickies and its probably not the best method for dealing with vehicles but sticky bombs 
 are great for getting out of a sticky situation (excuse the pun!) .
  
  Cover and the importance of it has been greatly emphasised in CoH, building upon the idea that 
 was first introduced in DoW. There are 4 types of cover: negative, neutral, soft and hard. Obviously 
 negative cover is anywhere exposed, such as the middle of a roadway. Neutral terrain takes up most 
 of the map (as would be expected) and is simply an area that is neither exposed nor providing decent 
 cover. The middle of a field might be just such an area of neutral terrain. Soft cover is the most 
 prevalent type of cover and ranges from a haycart to a tree or an area of long grass to a hedgerow 
 or fence. The best type of cover however is hard cover; this is more rare but extremely valuable. 
 Usually consisting of, for example, sandbags or a concealed ditch. Cover can also be created in 
 game as a result of explosions or destroyed vehicles. The battle for control of the middle of a 
 field might go from an area with little or no cover to terrain pockmarked with craters and burnt 
 out vehicles and plenty of places to dig in and hold.
  
  Using cover is vital to the outcome of every firefight, from small skirmishes to huge engagements. 
 A sufficiently placed squad of men can withstand and overcome a far superior force if their position 
 is better defended.
  
  Buildings are naturally important defensive positions. A squad or more men positioned in a strategically 
 located farmhouse or shed can hold a position a lot longer than a squad in the open. However, if 
 they take too much shelling the entire building will collapse and every unit within will perish. 
 These buildings can also be fortified as forward field bases. This allows for the production of 
 units onto the battlefield from elsewhere other than your main base. The only unit they cannot 
 produce are snipers. They still have to come from the Weapon Support Centre.
  
  Knowing what units to use in certain situations and to complement others is also vital. Where a 
 squad of riflemen may fail a well placed 3 man MG 42 crew may succeed. A great example would be 
 when I had a MG 42 crew in soft cover overlooking an open field. Maybe 15-20 german infantry units 
 charged headlong at the position. In the space of but a few seconds all the germans lay dead and 
 the MG 42 crew had taken no casualties. When assaulting the enemy position one cannot simply throw 
 themselves at the target and hope that force of numbers will win the day. Mortar teams must be 
 used to displace a well positioned heavy weapon team, snipers to be used against anti-tank crews 
 and the right type of vehicle to punch its armoured fist through the enemy's lines. While a Sherman 
 might be a formidable weapon of war it is flat out useless in attacking 1 let alone 2 or 3 anti-tank 
 guns. Similarly there is no point in hoping that a well dug in heavy weapon crew will be able to 
 hold a roadway or field without anti-armour support. Needless to say, tactics in CoH is vital for 
 success.
  
  Keeping units alive is of huge importance in CoH. A squad of riflemen cos 270 infantry points to 
 requsition and that indeed is quite expensive. If it becomes apparent that they are about to be 
 utterly annihilated, then retreat is always the best option. By hitting the fall back command button 
 the entire squad (or whats left of it) will charge headlong back to the HQ without ever stopping. 
 Once back at base you can then reinforce the squad back to full strength at a fraction of the cost 
 of producing a whole new squad. The moral of CoH is look after the units you have on the battlefield, 
 dont squander them and keep your men alive.
  
  Company of Heroes builds upon other titles in the same genre and takes this type of RTS to a much 
 higher level. It is a micro managers dream, constantly keeping an eye on each unit out there on 
 the battlefield, making sure to retreat them and reinforce them when required, using cover at all 
 times and not wasting a single man. This review has not covered all the aspects of CoH and hasnt 
 gone into nearly enough detail about the many factors of the game. However, there is no doubt that 
 CoH is an amazing game and one that is immensely enjoyable and well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy RTS games. Buy this one. I tottally upgraded my computer (900.00 machine) and now 
 have no problem running it on ALL highest settings. And it was well worth it. This game has a level 
 of immersion I havent seen in so long, and i was glad that I picked it up. Pros-
  -Fully destructable enviroment. FULLY!!
  -Realistic damage mathmatics.
  -Good use of veteran 
 system and experience system.
  -Graphics are best ive ever seen in an RTS. The detail is so fine youll at times be to busy gawking 
 at it to pay attention to the gameplay.
  -Story line in single player is wonderful.
  -troops swear and yell at eachother and feel like they have personality. Alot of times youll be 
 busy laughing at what they say and miss important skirmishes. -Innovative points system instead 
 of the usual cash gold trees minerals oil . I like!
  -Buy this game yestarday
  
  Cons
  -System hog. But no big deal if you have a mid lvl graphics card fast chip and 1gb+ of ram.
  
 -Would have liked to play the early part of WW2 as germans then be beaten back in allies campaign. 
 Where are the Russians!? -Never show atrocities of the war. Tend to stick more to the individual 
 sacrifice and duty+honor of the great men that fought in it. (good and bad i guess) . -none of these 
 cons should be considered reasons not to buy this game. If you purchase it I can gaurentee you 
 will be satisfied with every penny u spent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashtek
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  I have never been a big fan of the RTS games, but Company of Heros has won me over. The missions 
 based on facts of the war. Great graphics and realistic sounds, if you call in an artillery strike 
 you will see what I mean. The game play is easy to learn and not to overwhelming. The only drawbacks 
 I had were the camera controls; they could have been a little more user friendly, and some minor 
 glitches. All and all this is a fantastic game for both solo and multiplayer. If you have the means 
 I suggest you get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CausticBox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in this game are AMAZING (If it wasn't for GoW I would've voted for this 
 game for best graphics) . There's a large amount of detail on everything and when you zoom in on 
 your soldiers the level of detail on them is comparable to a FPS which is unbelieveable since this 
 game is an RTS. I could go on and on about this or I could just stop here and say this game definitely 
 deserves a 10 in graphics. Sometimes, the graphics are so good I just sit there and watch a battle 
 unfold and forget that I have other stuff to manage. The graphical detail, however, will be taxing 
 on your computer, so make sure you have a good computer before buying this game.
  Sound: Same deal as graphics. In some RTS's when units say something it gets repetitive and even 
 aonnoying sometimes, CoH is not one of those RTS's. The voices for the units are realistic and 
 when they're in combat you can almost forget that they're just a bunch of pixels on the screen. 
 Sound effects are good too with artillery and tank guns having a very nice BANG! sound.
  Gameplay: CoH's gameplay is simply amazing in its innovation (well sorta, most of the features 
 were in Relic's other RTS Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War, but this game vastly improves on them) 
 and depth. CoH presents you with some REAL strategy to combat. Instead of other RTS' where people 
 stand around shooting each other and whoever has a superior force wins, CoH sometimes feels like 
 a RTS with some FPS elements thrown in. CoH gives cover, flanking maneuvers, etc. which gives a 
 more interesting aspect to combat. Dropped heavy weapons such as anti-tank guns, machine guns, 
 mortars, etc. can be picked up and used by your units giving them more variety. Gameplay is also 
 more fast-paced with more emphasis placed on expanding and attacking than base building. Sometimes 
 the game becomes a little TOO fast though, you'll know it's one of those tiems when you have to 
 simultaneously manage a large battle as well as defend your territory from a bunch of marauding 
 infantry and meanwhile find some way to deal with a rampaging tank. Your units do a decent job 
 of finding cover and handling themselves OK, but they operate much better when you're controlling 
 them, especially when dealing with tanks. Some parts of the gameplay are sort of questionable though. 
 There's a miss factor in the game where your units will miss their shots. This adds realism to 
 the game, but it's overdone a lot of the time. For example, my tank misses another tank from 10 
 feet away TWICE or when my jeep's machine gun misses at POINT BLANK RANGE! There are some slight 
 balancing issues also. I know the Allied anti-tank gun was made to be powerful so it could balance 
 out the superior Axis armor, but sometimes the strength of this thing is impossibly strong. At 
 chokepoints 2 of these guns with AP ammo can probably easily take down an entire army of tanks. 
 Value: This is CoH's weak (relatively) point. There are only two sides and about 1/2 of the units 
 are the same thing with some minor changes to them. The units themselves somewhat make up for this 
 lack with each unit having a variety of special abilities and upgrades (kinda like quality over 
 quantity) . Company Cammander replaces the tech tree in CoH and it brings some variety to each side. 
 The campaign is of a good length although it's sometimes not challenging enough. I played it on 
 the normal difficulty and although there were a few tough spots the campaign was overall a breeze. 
 Skirmish will keep you occupied a while though with the hard and expert AI being challenging enough 
 to offer some seriously desperate (and very fun) moments. I never played CoH online so I can't 
 comment on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is and RTS game that builds on the engine Relic created for thier Dawn of War 
 games. In some aspects the game splays like those, but the similarites are in mechanics along and 
 everything in my opinion is improved. Those games are great too by the way too, but after playing 
 CoH you really want the changes that they made with this game to make thier way into those one.
 
  To break it down quickly, CoH is based in WWII. It has both a single player campaign and multiplayer 
 online play. There is also a skirmish mode that can played offline too. There are only two basic 
 game in this in multiplayer. One is based on points, which you gain or lose by holding key strategic 
 poins on the map. I fyour point go to zero, you lose. I personally do not like this mode much, 
 but to each thier own. The second is full on domination where you have to complete destroy your 
 enemies. Although this can lead to a much longer game I find this to much more fun. In the game 
 you have to capture stategic points, and resource points. The resouces in the game are man power, 
 fuel and ammunition and how fast they accumulate depends on how many point you have. Holding points 
 also gives you ownership of the sector of the map, which is broken up almost like a puzzle with 
 territories that you own in shown on the map in your color. You can also builf observation posts 
 on points which increses the amount of resources you recieve.
  The game is based somewhat on history so the units do not deviate from that. There are only two 
 factions in the game, the Allies and the Axis, however it is really only the USA and Germany in 
 this game and perhaps more will be added in an expansion pack if there is one. The inits consist 
 of various infantry units, light armor and heavy armor. Your main bulding unit is the engineer, 
 or pioneer for the Germans. This the unit that does almost all of the building in the game, though 
 on the Allied side the rifleman can do some defensive fortifications. Then of course there is your 
 infantry, which both sides have light and heavy versions. There is a little more that I will getinto 
 on this later because not all units are built and some can only be called on depending on which 
 tactic your side chooses. There are also snipers which can be hell to the opposing side because 
 they aren't easy to spot or kill. There are also heavy machine gunners and anti-tank gunners. For 
 light vehicles you have things like halftracks Jeeps, and armored cars. Jeeps and motorcycles are 
 important because they are the only units that can spot snipers. For Heavy armor you of course 
 have your tanks. The Germans have like 4 different kinds while the allies really only have 3, and 
 one is a special and another one has no cannon and rather a flamethrower instead. It should be pointed 
 out that for the most part both sides units are completely different, though some may function 
 sort of the same not two units are exactly alike. Allso most units feature some sort of upgrade 
 or two that you can elect to add to them at a cost to you amd some feature different modes that 
 effect how they attack or whatever.
  I meantioned Tactics earliers. In the game you earn experience points and this allows you to choose 
 options from the 3 distict trees avaiable to both sides. The things on each tree are different 
 but once you chose one you are stuck with it, so make it count. Each tree has a theme, for instanct 
 the Germans have the Blitzkrieg Doctrine so all the specials that come with that have to do with 
 being able to conduct lighning strikes. The Allies on the other hand have ones like Armor company 
 which allows them to call in ther Pershing heavy tank as a unit. It should be noted that in many 
 cases this is the only way you can even have access to some units. So this is a very important 
 choice.
  The biggest editions to the game as an RTS are 3 major things. First graphically it looks much 
 better than anything out there but accompanying that though is the edition of physics and tactics. 
 Tactics in this case I mean that you units have the ability to use the land and obstacles for cover 
 and how good the cover is varies. This si great because it beomes more than just charging in at 
 the enemy, and rather think about where to come him from. The Physics, like the graphics just add 
 to the game. It is great seeing chunks of buidings going flying or huge blast craters formed in 
 the terrain from where artillery hits, not to mention that everything is destructable. no, I'm 
 serious, it is. With an exception to maybe like only two things that can be rebuilt after they 
 have been destoyed, and of course strategic points, everything else can pretty much be run over, 
 knocked down, or obliterated. It is the first time I ever played an RTS and after the battle was 
 over the area really looked like a warzone. It's awsome. Oh did I mention that bodies go a flying 
 rag doll style too? Oh, and I can't leave out sound cause this is an area that brings you even 
 deeper in the game. I mean it is near perfect as far as blasts and guns go. You will fear artillery 
 when come raining down in your face, or when a tank rolls up on you infantry and they have nothing 
 to fight it with but a rifle. My only complaint on the sound is the tanks engines and track noise 
 should be considerably louder. Tanks today, (and I drove one for 3 years so I would know) aren't 
 that quiet and I can asure you that ones using diesal engines are very loud
  My favorite RTS prior to this was C&amp; C: Red Alert 2 which I just had a blast playeing but now 
 I have a new favorite. It will hard to go back to just normal rush RTS's after this, and really 
 why would you want to? If you have not played this, you have really denied yourelf from playing 
 one the best games out there. It will sure to be classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalay_BG
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 26, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Pity but thats just a copy of Dawn of War with less races , less units and gameplay that just dont 
 deserve such a rates . Are you blind guys ?? This game is 4 GB and there is no way to be better 
 than Warhammer 40,000 series .. its just one fair ww2 strategy . The storyline in the games is 
 good but thats not enough to make good game . The units of the Germans and Americans are more like 
 1:1 = ( For example the snipers ... well they are copies but with different clothes .. And there 
 is no balance in the game , heavy armoured car destroy tank ? i dont think so and the field guns 
 can destroy tank with 2 hits :) ) hehe in that time the tank can hit the gun cause he is missing 
 O_o But if you think its more likely Multiplayer game .. i put Fair result sorry but thats just 
 copy of Warhammer series ; ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcohenx
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  This is only my third tour into the world of RTS games and I have to say that I am very impressed 
 with both the game content and the playability of this latest entry. Company of Heroes is a WW-II 
 based real time strategy game set in Western Europe in the Summer of 1944. The game is subdivided 
 into 3 areas of content; single-player campaign, single-player skirmish against the computer, and 
 multi-player. There is also a short tutorial available to teach new players the basics of gameplay. 
 The GUI is very similar to other recent THQ games, any players familiar with the Dawn of War series 
 will find the user interface intuitive. Most combat units spawn from fixed structures at the price 
 of available resource points. Units may be selected via the mouse from a graphical panel in the 
 corner of the screen or from the use of hotkeys. The mouse can be used to scroll across the map 
 (only about 5% of the map is shown at any one time) , rotate views, and zoom in to see the detail 
 but most of the time the action is so hot and heavy that there isnt time to change views and the 
 default view is adequate more than 90% of the time. There is also a tactical map available that 
 displays a top-down view of the entire field of battle and units can be directed from this view 
 but no new units can be selected from here.
  
  Resource points are classified as personnel, ammo, or fuel. Resource points are normally accumulated 
 by holding territory and building improvements. Additional combat units and resource points can 
 be brought onto the field by airborne drops or by capturing key buildings or points. Additional 
 specialized skills and units can also be selected by choosing a specific military doctrine or discipline 
 but selection of a doctrine automatically locks a player into a specific tree of available improvements 
 to the gameplay.
  
  Combat units vary from the engineers and light infantry to heavy tanks and mobile artillery units. 
 Air support is also available in the form of reconnaissance aircraft, fighter/bomber strafing runs, 
 off-map artillery and even V2 rockets for players in Skirmish mode playing Axis. New structural 
 units can also be brought onto the field in the form of new buildings or defensive improvements 
 such as sandbags, barbed wire fences, etc. Two defensive skills that are notably missing are the 
 ability to dig foxholes or trenches. The single-player campaign is focused on completing missions 
 set in locations of actual battles fought in WW-II. Each mission has different objectives. One 
 shortcoming to the single-player campaign is that the whole campaign is played entirely from the 
 point of view of the Allied forces and the missions are all based on the months immediately following 
 the Allied landing in Normandy. The campaign menu screen was clearly designed with expansion packs 
 in mind so expect to see upcoming releases for future campaings. In addition to completing each 
 missions primary objectives there is the opportunity to complete secondary objectives for medals 
 and other badges of honor but these medals do not add any extra capabilities to the game.
  
  The skirmish mode allows one to play against the computer either 1:1 or fighting with or against 
 up to 3 additional AI players on a fixed map with the goal of capturing and holding key positions. 
 Each skirmish game can typically take 30-60 minutes depending on the skill level of the player 
 and the AI. Here is where your computer really needs to be up to snuff in terms of video processing 
 power because the 4:4 maps can have up to 50 different units in play and this will really slow 
 down computers that do not have up-to-date video cards, and CPUs.
  
  Multi-player is also supported for Skirmish games and users can create and download custom maps 
 from a number of community supported websites.
  
  Players must adopt a very strong offensive strategy to succeed in most games in Company of Heroes. 
 Players cannot afford to dig in too deeply because there are too many ways the opponent can wipe 
 out defenses very quickly. I learned this the hard way when I tried to sandbag and mine a key set 
 of bridges in Carentan only to see my hard work wiped out in seconds by an off-map artillery barrage. 
 One should also note that the differences between Axis and Allied forces are more than just the 
 colors of their uniforms and the names of the tanks. Each side has unique paths to unique unit 
 improvements so dont expect that being an expert at Allied skirmish will make you equivalently 
 skilled as an Axis commander.
  
  There are a few bugs in this game, mostly related to the start of short movies between missions. 
 I had several instances where missions would not start, pending a software queue to begin a movie. 
 After rebooting, the movie and mission played fine so I do not think this was a limitation of my 
 hardware. One should also download the 1.4 patch immediately after installing the game because 
 there is a bug in the 1.3 patch that allows vehicles to drive right through barbed wire and tank 
 traps as if they werent there (among other bug fixes and improvements, mostly for multi-player) .
 
  
  One feature heavily touted in this game is the visceral detail during combat. This is especially 
 apparent during explosions. Bodies fly, vehicles and buildings burn, buildings can even be reduced 
 to rubble given enough firepower during attack. Tanks will drive right through most walls so get 
 used to thinking outside of the lines in this game.
  
  There are 4 different difficulty levels available for all missions and one can switch between difficulty 
 levels during the campaing. At higher difficulty levels playing against the computer expect to 
 work very hard for victory. Other experienced RTS gamers have reported that this game requires 
 less micromanagement than many other games of this genre. Fortunately, one can pause games against 
 the AI and still scroll the map. This is a valuable safety net for newbies not quite ready for 
 the true real time experience.
  
  Overall, the game content and replay value make this game a great addition especially for players 
 new to RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andresruiz91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  woooo. where to begin? well lets start with the graphics. I have never seen another strategy game 
 with such good graphics. Its better than LOTR I and II, better than Empire at War, better than 
 Age of Empires III. The graphics on this game are excellent. You will feel like you're watching 
 a movie and you can control what the soldiers do. Next, the strategy. This game has good aspects 
 of what strategy really is. For example, if you put your soldiere company behind some sand bags, 
 they will have more cover than a person laying on the ground. Another example is, if theres tank 
 traps blocking your tanks way, what better strategy to get around them than by running over and 
 destroying part of the fence. O man its so awsome it makes my skin tingle.
  
  Next is the Campaign. Not as good as it could have been. The AI should have been better. Theyre 
 just to easy. The story could have lasted longer and could have been better.
  
  Sound. One of the games that gets the sound perfect. theres those who come close, and then theres 
 the ones who hit the nail right on the head.
  
  Value. This game is totally worth 50$ if not more.
  
  Gameplay. Some times I feel as though 
 some of the units are too powerfull. like the goliath. it kamikazes and destroyes many things. 
 I think its unfair the Americans dont have that.
  
  Overall, this game is a great experience and if you get the chance, try it out, I know youll like 
 it. Most of the game is close to perfect, but there is few games which are perfect. I reccommend 
 this game whos in to war strategy games, youll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nexchief
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is excellent. There are hardly any flaws with this THQ's masterpiece. For fans 
 of RTS, Controlling Units and war-game lovers.
  
  The first thing you will notice is the graphics.
  The Graphics in Company of Heroes is truly 
 spectacular. One of the best looking RTS games out there. Its not just the graphics. The gameplay 
 and how well everything forms and plays is just amazing. Destructible environments come into play, 
 which adds realism and WOW moments. For example, you shoot a building and when part of a wall breaks 
 down, you can see some of the soldiers in that building, running around like headless chooks.
 
  
  This game is the best RTS game like as of other classics like Rome TW and Starcraft and so on.
 
  I recommend anyone, to buy this game!
  
  If there is one bad thing, i guess it is having a pretty good computer to run this thing and playing 
 this game to the max, on max graphics and without lag.
  
  Excellent game. Truly wonderful. If only all games were this good or better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolston
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Company Of Heores is one of my favourite games. It captures the essence of war brilliantly with 
 it's historically accurate units and brutal battles. It's incredibly diverse, allowing the player 
 explore lots of different strategy's and to select from 'trees'. There are three for each army and 
 players will probably choose the one that suits their fighting style best. Graphically, the game 
 is incredible, though older systems may struggle with the intense battles. Explosions rock the landscape 
 as bullets stream down streets, cutting down advancing soldiers. Skirmish play revolves around capturing 
 srategic points, munitions points and fuel points, all of which will help the player in some way. The 
 sound quality is excellent-there is nothing quite like the scream of an incoming howitzer bombardment. 
 Campaign mode is excellent. Cutscenes occur between missions that really convey the brutality and 
 harshness of war, but also the personality of the different soldiers. Overall, Company Of Heroes 
 is one of the best games on the PC and probably the best strategy game on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalfalcon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  To cut it short it's the best RTS of world war ii I've ever seen and played. it is a mazing game 
 and really worth every dollar
  you can play this game for hours with out getting board.
  sound is perfect, graphic is good, game play is good
  each unit in the game has an important rol.
 
  campaign is good as well as single player game.
  multi player game is even better.
  and I really recommend this game for any one who likes RTS games
  this game is special and no 
 other game can be better or even closer to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divine_donkey
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 20, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  A great strategy game. Campaign storyline was well thought of and interesting. Sadly to say, campaign 
 only allows players to be on the side of the Allies. Lots of units and vehicles to complement each 
 other. Ranging from speedy jeeps to slow-moving but strong Tiger tanks. Infantry was varied and 
 includes snipers. Detailed graphics makes the game even more appealing. The sound was amazingly 
 good. Think of the Allies saying, Let's blow off the German's arse . The best part is probably 
 the ability of the troops to automatically move to a position of cover when firing or fired at. 
 Tons of possibility could happen during gameplay. Multiplayer was highly suitable for those who 
 love to blow their friends' arse . Once on it, you could barely leave your seat for a drink or 
 the toilet. Simply say EXTRAORDINARY . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galinoth
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I would like to start off by saying I don't like giving this game a perfect 10, even though it 
 comes very close to deserving it. However, when I looked at the attributes to rate the game I could 
 not think of a thing that didn't deserve a 10. This is truly a great game that broke my stigma 
 of giving games a perfect rating.
  
  Company of Heroes starts with the RTS skeleton. Get resources, build units, kill enemy. Next, it 
 takes those elements and blows your mind with them.
  
  Resources: Basically nothing more that flagpoles scattered over the battlefield they can give you 
 manpower, ammunition, or fuel. When one of these flagpoles are taken, you take control of that 
 territory. All territories must be connected to your HQ by other territories in order to provide 
 their resources.
  
  Units: Not a wide selection, but different enough to make you not notice. A mortar team is nothing 
 like a sniper which is nothing like paratroopers which is nothing like a machine gun team and so 
 on. Units also have special abilities to aid in their quest. Infantry can through sticky bombs, 
 paratroopers can upgrade to bazookas, and mortar teams can shoot smoke canisters. Kill Enemy: Most 
 of the game involves using your different units to best destroy the multitude of superior German 
 tanks. This is no small task as simple bullets are ineffective. The location of your troops is 
 important. Unlike traditional RTS games where units amble about and then hit the enemy with an 
 ax until dead, troops in Company of Heroes can interact with the things around them. Taking cover 
 is vital to winning a firefight, and having a machine gun team in a building nearby can be a real 
 blessing.
  
  Here is the main reason I love this game. In games like Age of Empires or Warcraft, fights last 
 30 seconds and you either lose all your units to engage in a slow speed chase across the map to 
 get behind your towers. Those of you who played Dark Colony should remember that in that game, 
 units didn't die as quickly as they do in AoE or Warcraft. If you heard Units Under Attack you 
 could look and see what was happening and choose whether or not to send reinforcements. That is 
 the operative word reinforcements . Even though DC was a sub par game, all was not lost if a few 
 units came under attack from a larger force. You could send other units in and help out. In warcraft 
 there is no such thing, If the fight is any distance from your base it's too bad so sad. Watch 
 as your units crawl across the map and just as you close in your last unit dies, the shroud closes 
 in, and you can't find the enemy force for all the tea in China. In Company of Heroes, attacking 
 does not mean you hit someone. Your units shoot at the enemy and hitting them is determined by 
 how much cover they have and such. If a scouting party comes under attack, you can have them jump 
 inside a building and dig in until help arrives. A unit coming under attack does not mean Well, 
 that things a goner anymore. You can actually choose to aid a unit in need and make it worthwhile. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6wheels
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game so much, and for those who like this type of game may remember Axis &amp; Allies. 
 which had a nice idea but it was bad in everything els. this game is just as Axis &amp; Allies 
 but improved in everything. the graphics are so damn good. game play is superb. however it has 
 some drawbacks or in other wards limitations, one of them is LAN &amp; Internet playing. you have 
 to be either Axes or Allies. and also i wish i could chose the commander from the begging just 
 like Generals Zero Hour, instead of choosing in the game. so LAN play would get more fair and exciting. 
 despite these limitations am playing it almost everyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  For any WWII game fanatic, this will definitely be something that you want to get your hands on. 
 For those RTS fans out there, this game will either be praised or disliked because of how much 
 you need to micro-managing you need to do.
  
  The approach on how to gather resources to help build your base and units was a little different 
 then what I'm used to dealing with. You don't just set up your base and your peons run off to gather 
 wood/food/gold/etc... You need to capture and hold strategic position; all while keeping a close 
 eye on your base and your other units you have spread out, in order to keep things moving in your 
 favor.
  
  Units consist of riflemen, engineers, snipers and ground vehicles (ranging from jeeps to tanks) . 
 The riflemen can be broken up into other units. - Mortar squad (3 man squad) - Anti-tank cannon 
 (3 man squad) - Heavy machine gunners (3 man squad) - Light machine gunners (up to 6 man squad) 
 - Anti-tank units (up to 6 man squad) - Im sure Im forgetting one or two, but you get the idea
 
  All above breakdowns of the riflemen squads can either be found weapons on the battle fields or 
 you can start a squad from your base, with the correct buildings and resources available.
  
  Advancing through maps, takes a combination of use from the above list of units. It's very 
 hard just to build up 6 tanks and hope you can muscle your way through a map. It takes a lot of 
 though to be able to understand the best approach of your battle. Sometimes you have to flank the 
 enemy, while other times you have to make use of your paratroopers and try to drop them behind 
 enemy lines. Or you might even have to use your riflemen to rush enemy occupied buildings and toss 
 grenades or satchel explosives, to clear the buildings.
  
  You get the options with a few units on defensive measures you can take to protect yourself: You 
 can lay land mines, barbed wire, tank stoppers (chunks of metal, like you see on movies like Saving 
 Private Ryan, that are scattered across the beach) , sand bags and you can build machine gun bunkers. 
 Sand bags, barbed wire and the tank stoppers do not cost any resources when you create them; they 
 just take a little time for your units to build. Land mines and machine gun bunkers take a few 
 resources, but they are very handy defenses to have in places you cannot afford to keep units at.
 
  
  This is by no means a simple game to breeze through, which makes it entertaining to play. You have 
 to use your wits and try to understand the layout of the maps before you can truly start to try 
 and overcome obstacles. It takes a bit of work to learn how to strategically place your defenses 
 on points youve captured, all while trying to afford to spare a few units to try and push your 
 way forward.
  
  Graphics are very pleasant and easy on the eyesalthough, the cut scenes could have used a bit 
 more of a face lift to truly bring all graphically aspects to the top-end.
  
  Sound is very good. Riflemen units spout out a few entertaining lines when you have them throwing 
 grenades, Let them eat pineapples! Youll even hear a good one after you command a unit to build 
 sand bags.
  
  I dont pay enough attention to the music that plays, Im sure the music is very nice and fits 
 the game well, but I cant comment on it because I dont recall what it sounds like.
  
  Overall, the game a lot of replay value and is well worth the money. There are built in skirmishes 
 you can choose to play instead of the storyline or you can take your battle online and play against 
 other players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trooperdx3117
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Company of heroes is quite simply amazing there really is no other way to put it. Gameplay: The 
 resource collecting for company of heroes is a much better way of getting resources as it means 
 that it means that in order to gain mor you have to go out immediately and take over as much terititory 
 as you can. It also means that the slow cautious player who oges on defence and stays in their 
 base and trys to build a massive army will find that they will be blown away by the player who 
 goes out immediately. My only complaint is the lack of factions because its just Axis i. e. Germany 
 and the Allies i. e. America. Although the different company commander paths do offer some variety.
 
  Graphics: They are amazing. Even on my computer at only medium detail they still look brilliant. 
 Explosions making craters is something that all games should have by now. If a RTS can do it then 
 why aren't FPS doing it.
  Sound: Also amazing. Each gun and weapon has its own sound it they really do sound spectacular. 
 Value: The single player campaign is quite good and on normal gets hard very quickly. The most 
 value comes from the multiplayer which will provide you with many hours of play.
  
  In all Company of heroes is a brilliant game and it is well worth spending you're money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AeroTow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Being new to the RTS genre, I felt quite strange trying out something new that I had never tried 
 before but COH has turned out to be one of the best games in my large collection.
  
  The Gameplay:
  
  Company of heroes sees the German Nazi Party (Axis) take on the good ol' US 
 Of A (allies) . In the campaign mode you re-live some of the most historic and bloodiest battles 
 of all time, in true RTS style having full control over your troops and vehicles. One thing about 
 COH that sets it apart is the fight for resources. There are 3 resources in the game
  Manpower
  Fuel
  Munitions
  Manpower is needed for almost everything from building and spawning 
 troops.
  Fuel is needed to build buildings that involved making vehicles, such as large garages that build 
 tanks and other vehicles.
  Munitions is needed for giving your troops and vehicles upgrades, such as giving your troops hand 
 grenades and your halftrack a flame-thrower.
  
  Views: COH allows you to view the battlefield from an isometric angle by default, however by holding 
 ALT you can zoom right in and change the angle so its almost 3rd person, so close you can see the 
 sweat on your soldiers faces.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Multiplayer could be better in COH, you tend to find the games are very unbalanced and unbearable 
 lag occurs. Veteran players of the games also seem to make it very hard for new players to get 
 some experience as n00bs are kicked from some servers.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  COH is one of the best games of the year, but can be quite tricky. If you are a big RTS fan then 
 you will love this, if you are new like me, its very hard to get into.
  
  AeroTow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Co_quitos
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Perfect presentation of the battlefield, maps, armies and guns.... how the game goes on, the level 
 of reality increases in the movements of the soldiers and vehicles. Even the medic squad moves 
 as real as it would be on the battlefield. Air strikes and recognition planes are great. Buildings 
 and the behavior of AI reponding to bombs and shoot are great.
  
  Lo recomiendo como uno de los mejores juegos del 2006 de RTS, especialmente para fanaticos de la 
 Estrategia en Tiempo Real. Se merece la nota tanto por dise&ntilde; o, grafico, interacci&oacute; n 
 del jugador versus la AI del pc, muy bueno, totalmente adictivo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m3ds
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I remember first seeing Company of Heroes at e3, well I wasn't there, but in trailers from e3. 
 Anyways, the game looked flat out amazing. The graphics blew me away, and at first I thought it 
 was a new fps. Several months later CoH was released and for the most part it lives up to all of 
 my expectations.
  
  Well, I'll get the obvious out of the way. The graphics in CoH are flat out the best in any rts, 
 ever. The way dirt is kicked up after an artillery barrage is amazing. Not to mention the fact 
 that you can zoom in so close you can see the insignias on your soldiers. I really don't have to 
 go on for too long, you've seen the screenshots. You know how amazing this game looks. The one 
 thing you may be concerned about is performance. The game ran at a very good framerate at medium 
 settings with a 6600 GT, a AMD 64 3500+, and 2 gb of ram, and since upgrading my video card to 
 a 7900 GS I can pretty much max everything except anti-liasing. The sound in the game is also top 
 notch with great explosions and great gun sounds. I love the battle chatter in the game. How your 
 soldiers will talk about whats going on and how good (or bad) of shape they are in. The music is 
 fairly typical for a WWII game. That same kind of army music you've probably heard a million times 
 before.
  
  The gameplay in CoH is very frantic. At any given times you will be forced to manage tanks, infantry 
 squads, powers (more on that later) , and it can be very confusing, especially if you are new to 
 the rts genre. I may as well start with the basics. The game has resource points instead of gathering 
 resources like traditional rts's. This allows you to focus on combat instead of resource management. 
 Infantry are controlled in squads instead of single units. And tanks are a thing to be feared on 
 the battlefield. Normal infantry can not do any damage to a tank. Infantry can be given upgrades 
 such as sticky bombs that can aid them with tanks, or other infantry squads.
  
  The game consists of two armies. The Allies (Americans) and the Axis (Nazis) . The two sides control 
 very differently and the inclusion of three separate factions for each army helps to greater vary 
 games. These factions focus on different areas. Infantry, Airborne, and Armour are three examples. 
 Each faction gives you powers. Such as calling in Paratroopers or the mighty Tiger Tank. The single 
 player game is fairly fun. It provides a solid 10 hours of gameplay and allows you to play as the 
 allies through various battles during WWII. I found the single player to become repetitive after 
 a while and I never did finish it. The multiplayer is where the real fun is at. Battles online 
 require strategy and fast thinking. It is very competitive and thanks to Relic Online you are able 
 to keep track of your stats and see how you rank up to your friends and the people at the top of 
 the leaderboard.
  
  Company of Heroes is a very good rts. Even though the game is set in the most overused time period, 
 it is one of the most unique rts's thanks to it's resource point system and the way it manages 
 units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smartmatt
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo and when I played it I was hooked. I saw that this game was going to be the 
 best WWII game that would ever come out in a lone time. So when the game came out I went right 
 out and got it.
  
  The good: The game play was the best I have ever seen In a long time. The game does a great job 
 letting you take your time learning the steps how to play the game. The cut scenes graphics are 
 the best I seen in a RTS game. But the best thing was the game play.
  
  The bad: The missions are a little to long to play. The on-line is funny because if a player has 
 a slow Internet speed the game stops so that the player computer meets up with the team computers.
 
  
  All-in-all, this is the best WWII game that I have play. I think that it is going to be a long 
 time before they can top this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zv
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm a little surprised that this game got such high ratings when there are MUCH better games out 
 there, like the standard-setting Soldiers: Heroes of WWII.
  COH is an ARCADE style WWII RTS game that is lacking in the STRATEGY dept. It's got TONS of glaring 
 problems like the lack of more than a few different types of units, weapons and vehicles. The worst 
 problem is the so-called resource and weapons/fuel strategy points you have to capture. Those points 
 are constantly harassed, precluding the opportunity to plan and execute co-ordinated attacks against 
 the enemy as your too busy trying to guard a stupid ammo point. I mean, this game just SUCKS, it's 
 all arcade-style fighting and rushing without the time to put together a strategy. No different 
 ammo types, no stealing vehicles, no picking up good weapons from the enemy, no looting, no good 
 tank battles, no refueling/rearming, ect. In other words, this is not a REALISTIC WWII RTS. I think 
 all the good reviews here are mostly due to the follow the leader mentality of grading a game based 
 on what OTHERS may think, or because some are newbies at the genre and don't want to be immersed 
 in a complicated game like SHOWW2, but that complication has given me some of the most memorable 
 battles I can remember. COH's missions are all the same type, there really are no lone wolf or 
 special forces missions to think of. In SHOWW2 you can do ANYTHING, if you want to grab a main 
 battle tank machine gun and run around the map causing havoc, you can!!! If you want to steal enemy 
 tanks and ammo and blast everything, you can!! Now the graphics in COH are decent, but a little 
 too sanitized and kiddie for me, I like the gritty washed-out greys and browns of SHOWW2, which 
 are more immersing. COH's is a starter RTS for the guy that does not want something too hard, after 
 you finish this very short game (only 2 campaigns compared to 4 in SHOWW2) then you can move up 
 to a big-boys game like SHOWW2 or even Faces of War, which is excellent also, made by the same 
 company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is one of the first of many Games for Windows Games to be released for new age 
 of Windows. Relic, the developer, has experience in making great RTS games such as Warhammer 40k 
 Dawn of War and Homeworld 2. COH flows very well just by the unit control command system and a 
 nice mix of realistic combat. The realistic combat is this way because of the graphics. Company 
 of Heroes' graphics are very polished and look amazing with barely any FPS lag on a medium end 
 PC. Not just the player models and combat animations are pretty, so are the environments of the 
 WWII battlefield be it a house used as cover in France or a bunker hill with lush trees and bushes. 
 The environment is also destructible which adds to the choas and beauty of COH battles. The audio 
 is also entising and makes it feel like you are really in battle with your Airborne troops. If 
 you are willing to go above and beyond the call of duty (No pun intended) you are awarded with 
 medals for completing extra objectives like taking a key HQ from the Nazis. There are barely any 
 downsides to COH other than fairly long loads that take you away from the intense battle sequences 
 of COH. If you are an RTS junkie or just a noobie who wants to get into RTS games Company of Heroes 
 is one of the best combat RTS games with a quality and authentic strategic feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathking1991
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  The game is just great. I play a lot of these types of games and this one is the best with the 
 amazing graphics. The fire fights are intense and the sounds. (with good sound system) it sounds 
 like the guns are going off in you house. To me it just a good game that any one should buy. I 
 heard about game about a year or so ago and just wanted it so bad. I was not disappointed when 
 I finally got my hands on and stated to play the game. the first thing I did was download the domo 
 just to see if I liked it it was more than what I hoped for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skunker4455
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes seems to be everyone's greatest game, but I have enough problems with it that 
 i could pull my hair out. The game is set in the greatest war mankind has ever seen, and boy does 
 it not even do it the slightest justice. Historical figures go to heck in a handbag whenever Relic 
 Entertainment starts tweaking stats to create fictional balance between one of the best tanks the 
 world has ever seen and an m4 sherman, the production decision that cost many american tank crews 
 their lives, but this is only the beginning.
  
  Despite its epic advertising and hype, company of heroes fails to live up to it. It's essence engine 
 is the essence of CPU usage, and the seen-it-before gameplay leaves you bored and disinterested 
 after a few runs through. Sure, replayability is guaranteed through physics, but the model isn't 
 even really that detailed. It's almost too familiar to dawn of war players, those resource points 
 seem to just be a little more absurd and in even more stupid locations. At least you didn't feel 
 like something was wrong when you ordered your soldiers to capture a requisition point in DoW, 
 but ordering a squad of WWII soldiers to capture an AMMUNITION POINT in the middle of a farm field 
 just makes me laugh. I really start to feel awful whenever i see my rifleman squad charging up 
 to a few meters away from a volksgrenadier squad and watching the two of them fail miserably at 
 basic marksmanship. Rifles like the m1 garand and k98 could hit a target very accurately at up 
 to 300 meters; the K98 was designed for 800-900 meter engagements. So why in God's name are my 
 soldiers missing? Because we get random number generators, oh and balance. Yeah that's totally 
 right, random number generators really mess this game up online. Take snipers for example, the 
 most tactical of all the early infantry combat troops. Well guess what? Your sniper's chances of 
 hitting mine are completely random, but once he misses, mine might (most likely will) pop him off 
 in a single shot, and then he'll be free to harass your MG's which are guarding a VERY crucial 
 early objective. This completely ruins the fun of the game, why play slots whenever you want to 
 influence the game with tactics and strategy. Truth be told there's very little of that in this 
 game, but the hype, sound (excellent sound by the way) and graphics have really lured a lot of 
 people to believe that it is much better than it is. To add to the mess, Relic might as well have 
 said : Historical accuracy can kiss our behinds. whenever they began development, because this 
 game is terrible in that respect. Just look at it, crocodile shermans which weren't even used (if 
 so they were incredibly obscure) on the western front, shermans that can deflect tiger rounds from 
 a foot away, riflemen with sticky bombs that destroy tanks, bazookas failing to penetrate lightly 
 armored StuGs (and knocking them out) , panzerfausts (which could penetrate up to 200mm of armor) 
 failing to even lightly damage a sherman. Woah, I'm already exhausted, but the list just goes on 
 and on! Troops that can barely shoot, paratroopers that magically reinforce, tanks that cannot 
 shoot both armor piercing and anti-tank rounds, and AT guns that shoot HEAP (magical HEAP too) 
 until they're ordered to fire magic AT rounds that can penetrate a Tiger and Panther with ease. 
 I mean come ON, it's a friggin 50 millimeter gun, that thing couldn't penetrate a tiger from 100 
 meters for christ's sake, I don't care what type of shell you're using! To top it off, the AI really 
 sucks. This so called intelligent AI leeches control of my soldiers and sends them hurrying in 
 the direction of my enemy, moves them out of the cover i sent them behind, and generally makes 
 a mess of things (to make it worse there are no stance settings) . The AI is so bad that a tank 
 will turn to face a point 20 meters behind it whenever an enemy tank is engaging it, thus exposing 
 its incredibly vulnerable rear to enemy fire. That's pathetic, these kinds of failures are simply 
 unacceptable from a big company like Relic Entertainment, and I feel those who purchased this game 
 (along with me) got slapped in the face without even knowing it. You would've been better off buying 
 Dark Crusade, or Medieval 2. If WWII was an unsettleable need, maybe Faces of War, but it has its 
 game killers as well (and boy they're bad bugs until you patch) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jp_moreno
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  it made me remember old time, old school, the best games, I have been waiting for a good game like 
 this, where the infantry and each man have a real value, life is so important in this game, and 
 the veteran too. it made me remember old time, old school, the best games, I have been waiting 
 for a good game like this, where the infantry and each man have a real value, life is so important 
 in this game, and the veteran too. it made me remember old time, old school, the best games, I 
 have been waiting for a good game like this, where the infantry and each man have a real value, 
 life is so important in this game, and the veteran too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shundhit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Filled with tactics, fun gameplay, jaw-dropping graphics, beautiful sound effects and LOTS OF ACTION 
 is Company of Heroes. This game is just plain MASSIVE!! It has a very clever (but sometimes dumb) 
 AI. The difficulty varies. Gameplay is excellent, there is cover on objects according to their 
 property (which is known as physics) : Light cover gives you a little protection from small arms 
 fire but can easily be wiped out by LMGs, HMGs, heavy infantry and armor. Heavy cover gives you 
 better protection from fire, bear in mind that some shots may make it to your men. This type of 
 cover can be destroyed by explosives such as bazooka/panzerfaust, shells etc. Sometimes they take 
 a little more time to be destroyed. You need to know and make efficient use of tactics to play 
 against the AI on harder difficulties and in multiplayer. No the game doesn't require you to be 
 a military expert. You need to know some basic tactics and strategy and more but advanced tactics, 
 don't worry though, playing through the SP campaign can easily make you a pro at these tactics, 
 but it is not guaranteed. Because CoH is a game for people who have some experience in RTS games. 
 ( I recommend playing through DoW or any other good RTS game before playing this one, the tutorial 
 isn't helpful that's why I recommend this) . Sounds and ambient effects are really cool, the gun 
 sounds are accurate and there a sounds for every little thing. Like when the bullets hit the ground 
 they make a sound depending on the terrain they landed on. The soldiers also comment on the battles, 
 please hear these comments in combat, 'cuz they're real effective if you wanna know when your squads 
 gonna get pinned , from where and what are they taking fire from etc. Graphics are AMAZING, the 
 units are shaded and detailed on every thing on their body, there are not much clone units but 
 you won't find this a hurdle to your gaming experience, trust me if you don't just ask around the 
 forums and stuff. The physics are real great, if you chuck a satchel charge through a building 
 it will collapse like in real-time (but you must have a beefy PC to do this) . To really appreciate 
 the tremendous graphics of this game, get a high-end PC to run the game on Ultra High. If you don't 
 have a high-end PC but exceed the minimum system requirements then the graphics will look good 
 even on the low/medium settings. CoH is a tremendous game, I recommend this game to EVERYBODY!! 
 I saw many people liking it especially RTS fans and all genre-gamers. Heck even RTS haters got 
 into the genre after playing it. So buy this game and have a great time. I will be releasing a 
 strategy guide for this game on Gamefaqs soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo_ang90
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  Graphics GREAT
  Gameply AWESOME
  Sound WAY GOOD
  
  Missions.. quite difficult. WHY NO CHEATS??? =D
  
  Haha. Good game anyway. Wait a minute actually 
 i need help in completing one of the missions. So yea.... a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 aaaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a aa a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahorner9
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes can be summed up in one word: wow. This game is easily one of the best RTS games 
 out there. I do not normally play World War II RTS games but after all the positive reviews I decided 
 to try it out. The graphics on the game are super. My computer is not a super-powered speed demon 
 but it ran the game just fine. The single player mode is engaging and fun to play. There are definitely 
 different kinds of strategies that one can use in the game and these are explored more fully in 
 the skirmish modes. Being able to choose between either the Nazis or the Americans is fun. It might 
 be nice if there were some other choices but the two are different enough that it really does not 
 matter. In short, the many different kinds of units and special characteristics of the two factions 
 makes this a game that you will want to play over and over again. I highly recommend this for anyone 
 with an interest in RTS of any kind or interest in WWII games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanvonroheds
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  Weary good game.
  I play long timing PC game. Fast and Tactic! Long end realistic story! For long time! if you finish 
 single campaign next is scenario! nice chance play Germans! I finish end im Happy play again. Good 
 Graphic nice sound! Models vehicles have more details. I finishing ou most every RTS game in World 
 War Two.
  Company of Heroes is The Best for me.
  Weary good game.
  I play long timing PC game. Fast and Tactic! Long end realistic story! For long time! if you finish 
 single campaign next is scenario! nice chance play Germans! I finish end im Happy play again. Good 
 Graphic nice sound! Models vehicles have more details. I finishing ou most every RTS game in World 
 War Two.
  Company of Heroes is The Best for me. Weary good game.
  I play long timing PC game. Fast and Tactic! Long end realistic story! For long time! if you finish 
 single campaign next is scenario! nice chance play Germans! I finish end im Happy play again. Good 
 Graphic nice sound! Models vehicles have more details. I finishing ou most every RTS game in World 
 War Two.
  Company of Heroes is The Best for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  I felt that this is the right time to review this game because I have been playing it for quite 
 a while now, a few months to be exact. I must say that this is the only game that I kept coming 
 back for more even though theres other new RTS out there. It is quite addictive and sadly I failed 
 my midterm because I played too much. Well enough about meand my rants, Company of Heroes is the 
 kind of game that would last for years. Not only does it have great graphics but the gameplay is 
 also really great.
  
  As in the past, I have seen a lot of WWII games. Games that are actually squeezing every piece 
 of history that WWII has to offer. Its a trend right now and will be in the coming few months, 
 mostly its in the FPS genre. But there is still room on the RTS genre. This is where COH comes 
 in. You might say that COH is revolutionary in terms of its graphics. In fact its true. The graphics 
 is really amazing if you have a high end video card. It felt like I was playing COD2, RTS form. 
 The level of detail on both infantry units and vehicles are amazing. It really sets a new standard 
 on how graphics should look in RTS. The graphics also makes from some real lifelike expressions. 
 An example would be a squad of infantry, when you order them to run to a location, youll see them 
 using hand signals to space up. Or when theyre taking armor fire, they quickly scramble for cover. 
 These are the small things that makes the game a bit more authentic. Apart from delivering an intense 
 combat, there is really nothing much to say about the sound effects. Its really good and authentic 
 overall. The voice acting is really life like and on par with war movies such as Saving Private 
 Ryan or Band of Brothers. The gameplay can get really intense. Micro managing is a must if you 
 want to survive. Saying all this, it can really get frustrating in a good way. Why? Because it 
 gives you the feeling of how to implement your tactics. Accompanied with destructible environments, 
 the game makes you rethink the approach that you take. Strategy, like in reality, can change in 
 a flip of a coin. This is no exception in COH as you try to defend and at the same time manage 
 your battles. Your resources would be thinly stretched as you try to capture and defend your resource 
 points. The AI is no push over either, especially on higher difficulties. Its like playing with 
 another human player. Harsh and shows no mercy. Since the AI is smart, your typical battles would 
 last at least 45 mins to an hour. However, once youve mastered it, you can see that the AI (expert 
 difficulty) tends to do the same thing all over again. If this gets boring, time to move on to 
 multiplayer.
  
  The only downside is the loading times and requires a high end video card in order to run it without 
 a hitch. Overall, the experience is intense, brutal and at the same time fun to play. And for $20 
 CND, this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Highlynder77
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome and I don't even have a PCIe machine. The game play is fast and keeps 
 you on your toes. I would recommend this game for anyone thats into RTS games but wants a change 
 from the boring base defense scenario. No sitting around in this game, its Go Go Go action.
  
  It will kick your butt a few times till you get the hang of it, but over all its a awesome 
 game. The only complain I would have is if there was a way to turn off the vulgar language.... I 
 personally love it, but I have a friend that would like to get the game for his son who loves RTS 
 games, but the language issue is big with him. The violence isn't any worse than any other RTS 
 game that lets you blow things up. lol
  
  Visually stunning and plenty of action, if your into that, you love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choas_theory
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is a breakthrough in RTS gaming with the aspects of graphics sound gameplay and your 
 moneys worth of value. Graphics well what can i say About them they are the best up to date in 
 the late 06 season of the year i have never seen any other game with the same aspects of graphics 
 gameplay has you hooked with squad tactics guerrilla tactics and special weapons sound the sound 
 is compelling in a game like this all u will here if the firing of MG42's , BAR's, RIFLE'S, TANK'S 
 HOWLING ARTILLERY AND MORE if you want an all out WW2 classic and the best you must have this this 
 is a must have for any RTS player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasp94
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I came to this game from Battlefield 2 (mostly because I was tired of EA's crappy patches and never 
 being able to get onto servers) . COH has amazing graphics, the explosions from shells and grenades 
 are rich and bright. Game play is challenging and at some times a little difficult, but that just 
 keeps you playing. What is the fun in a game that the AI doesn't really fight back? In champaign 
 mode the introduction movies are some of the best I have seen in a PC game, and the way there is 
 no break from the end of the introduction movie to the game play is really nice. Company of Heroes 
 is definitely a must buy for World War II gamers, I pay this game for hours and don't even realize 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  This is my first RTS game and I must say that I am not dissapointed at all. I have tried other 
 RTS game demos and disliked it but this one got me hooked. This is a must have game and here is 
 why.
  
  First the cut scenes are great but I always feel like its slowing down but its alright. The gameplay 
 in this game is amazing because every map needs a different strategy and you have to work hard 
 to achieved a goal because those krauts will haunt you down if you sit tight. The sheer amount 
 of weapons in the game is satisfying and it balances very well. Mulitplayer is a knockout. The 
 first time I got in I was hooked instantly. You have to own the game to understand what Im saying. 
 One aspect of the gameplay that is awesome is the environment destruction because this can serve 
 as an advantage or disadvantage depending on how you use it
  
  The graphics on this baby is superb and i have not seen anything thing like it. The environment 
 is fully destructible and everything flies out like tanks and buildings without loosing its details. 
 The soldiers look cool from a distance and even when you go closer. I get 20 to sometimes 60 fps 
 with my X2 4200+, 2Gb RAM, 7800GT and X-fi Xtreme music.
  
  Sound got me wincing in pain when my tank explodes and when my squad dies. Nothing else on the 
 market matches this quality.
  
  When you are done with the single player campaign the multiplayer is a blast and also skirmish 
 modes. This is a nice addition to my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wom5555
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a good game, don't ever doubt that, some say it's close to perfect.... I normally 
 don't believe in perfect games, a perfect game does not exist! In every game there are flaws or 
 minor things that can be improved. In this game you some minor setbacks, like only two playable 
 factions. That also makes sense cause you actually don't have Russians or Japanese troops in Normandy, 
 but that's something the next generation of Company of Heroes will fix I guess by having missions 
 in the Pacific or in Eastern Europe. Another point is that the interface is pretty basic, you have 
 the standard mini-map and the normal options in the lower part of the screen. I normally don't 
 like that, butt in this game it's hard to do without.
  Dam'n, hearing me talk about this game seems all negative. It's not besides this minor things this 
 game is a very very very good RTS. The land that has the scares of war is brilliant and the AI 
 is also good. The soldiers automatically seek cover and all that, thats good. I've been playing 
 this game for some time now and it's still very good. So people can't take a swing at this game 
 because this game is all it's cracked up to be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodlez_87
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Ladies and germs let me tell you a story, a story about heroes... in a company... a company of heroes 
 if you will...
  
  Ok thats enough of me trying to set a mood so lets get down to the nitty gritty. This game is INSANE, 
 its been so long since I have played a strategy game that it has me perfecting my skills in sweating, 
 swearing, laughing and slightly urinating myself in excitement (the last one was a joke..... ahem) .
 
  
  The tension is gripping so much so that if you blink you think you'v missed too much. Every unit 
 seems individual due to excellent voice acting and character movements.
  
  The gameplay is similar to Dawn of War (take over certain points to earn resources) but it seems 
 to play so much better. This simple gameplay proves to be such a strong point just plonk down what 
 you want to build get your units get those points then go kill something. Tanks can be a terror 
 on the battlefield unless you have some decent armor of your own or atleast some decent anti armor 
 which makes you adapt your tactics quickly in order to emerge victorious. The skirmishes are insane 
 and the cover system works really well and the magic retreat button gives your units so much more 
 fight in them rather than just chucking in as many units as you can and screw the losses.
  
  The sound rivals that of call of duty and even out does it at some points. the unit commentary 
 is amusing which brings abit of personallity to your men so they dont appear to be like drones.
 
  
  However there is no real thing as a masterpeice despite what other fanboys may think *cough* WOW 
 *cough* halo *cough*. Sometimes your units dont hide behind cover, choosing to go on the side of 
 the wall which faces the enemy or in the archway of a wall or in the middle of a road plus the 
 multiplayer could use some work like more than 2 people in a match or the introducing of russian/ 
 european forces.
  
  But hry thats what expansions and patches are for so for now if you havnt got your own copy of 
 this game i order you to slap yourself and match right out and get one and soon you'll have your 
 own pee pee bag to do your business in just like i have.......... uh-oh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iloveaubrey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect in every aspect. First off the visuals in this game are breath taking, from 
 the mighty explosions to the attention to detail. This game also takes advantage of a great physics 
 engine as well. Troops go flying through the air as a tank shoots the with a massive shell or a 
 grenade blows the in half. Another great aspect of the game is that it takes the use of your brain 
 to complete, you cant just run out in the middle of a field, you must use the new cover system 
 to give your troops a fighting chance. This game in my opinion is the game of 2006 and i don't 
 really like strategy, but wow this changed my mind. So dont hesitate if you have a good computer 
 go and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sajo7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  I could tell you about how great the graphics, gameplay, sound, online, all are. But frankly that 
 should be obvious. The maps are extremely detailed, your troops automatically seek cover, and some 
 of the fairest multiplayer I've ever seen.
  
  But this game gives you that feeling. The feeling of overwhelming excitement. While intimadting 
 at first, you'll soon be defending points with MG nests, crushing everything in your path with 
 tanks, calling air strikes down on your enemies. This game is the ultimate hybrid of originality 
 and fun.
  
  Even if your not an RTS fan, you'll still find this game hopelessly addicting. Just, go buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptJoey
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  This game is great in every aspect:
  Intensive multi-player
  Spectacular graphic
  Good sound effects
  Tactics
  Big maps
  ect, ect.
  
  But the one thing that makes this 
 game so bad that you don&acute; t know if you want to keep playing it is the AI. First of is the 
 infantry AI:
  The infantry AI takes sometimes cover if they are near a fence or a stone wall but it usually ends 
 up being you who has to give them the order to take cover. This may seem like no problem but try 
 doing this when you at the same time is defending your base from enemies, building troops, taking 
 controll points, proventing enemies from taking your controll points, being shot at by some sniper 
 that is killing all your infantry and that is hiding in some kind of bush on a hill and you will 
 find this very hard.
  
  But the infantry AI is nothing compered to the most stupid AI in the world: the tank AI.
  We 
 say you have three tanks. You are standing there in the frontline when suddenly you tanks are attacked 
 by Panthers and Tiger tanks from the rear.
  The rear as you soon discover in Company Of Heroes is the weakest point on a tank. You issue your 
 tanks to turn around and face the enemy as the front is the strongest point on a tank. But suddenly 
 you tanks start spinning around and start doing the most stupid manovers like getting stuck in 
 each other This is when you start getting irritated and tries to give the tanks other locations 
 to turn around. But as always they start to spin around. You then give them each a location to 
 turn around a couple of yards from another and IT WORKS!!! You can now take a big breath and start 
 doing the hard part: killing the tanks. It&acute; s not the part when you kill the tanks that is 
 hard it is the part when you issue the attack. When you issue a attack there is 50% chance that 
 your tanks start to doing some kind of RAMBO STYLE attack when they storm the tanks. This means 
 that the fights looks weird: There are five tanks standing just a couple of inches from each other 
 and firing at each other. This dosen&acute; t look like a battle more like a traffic accident.
 
  
  This game would be as much better game if it would have a brighter AI.
  Hopefully the game will release patch that fixes these problems, but remember: Hope is the first 
 step to disappointment. //DOW, another good THQ game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris41687
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a great WWII RTS. The graphics engine is amazing. The explosions are terrific 
 and the terrains and battlefields are beautifully crafted. Gameplay is terrific and there are many 
 more levels than other war RTS games. Once you begin playing the game, the style of play catches 
 on very quickly. The units are all very animated and full of the detail that is sometimes lost 
 with other RTS games. The AI is great on all skill levels; even the easiest levels still pose some 
 challenge. Mission objectives are challenging and some missions are extremely battle-testing. All 
 in all, Company of Heroes is a beautifully crafted WWII game, the best of the decade so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksporesg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes (CoH) is one of those games that comes along, sweeps you off your feet and literally 
 blows your mind away. CoH is a fantastic WWII RTS, simulating the struggle between the Allies and 
 Axis after the Americans joined in the fun (err... war) . It has since received accolades all round 
 by all the reviews that I have come across, both for its solid gameplay and astounding graphics. 
 In fact the graphics are so good, I had the initial fear that my graphics card (old ATI X300SE) 
 will be unable to support it. Fact is, running on 1024x768 (the second lowest resolution supported) , 
 the on-screen details are not as sharp and could be better, and the action can sometimes be slightly 
 laggy especially when you need to zoom in on unit location.
  
  After a quick run through the tutorial, which consisted of four major parts with introduction to 
 basic unit selection and movement, attacking, resource collection, armor units, base-building and 
 such, I was ready to rumble and roll. Not trusting myself with the Skirmish mode, I headed into 
 the single-player Campaign, which started with the Saving Private Ryan scene on Normandy Beach. 
 In this mission, you have to guide your marines to safety on the beach head, and attack the bunkers 
 at the top. First, you need to get at least 25 soldiers to the front where they hide among the 
 barb wires. Then comes the part where you need to get the Engineers in, so that they can blast 
 a hole in the defense. With the wall breached, you have to attack the defenses using whatever you 
 have, such as grenades and satchel charges. Blowing up groups of Axis soldiers and bunkers is fun, 
 partly due to the explosions and partly due to the cries of dismay by the Krauts. The fun doesn't 
 end when you have conquered the bunkers, you have to take out the Anti-Aircraft guns and secure 
 the area so that more Airborne units can land.
  
  What I like about the campaign is that in between missions, there are cutscenes, almost in the 
 style of Band of Brothers . And most times, you should try to have as few casualties as possible, 
 because you might need to continue the next mission with what you had left in the previous mission. 
 For each mission, there are primary and secondary objectives. Completing the primary objectives 
 will end the mission, while I have not figured out if there are any benefits to the subsequent 
 mission if you complete the secondary ones. There are also medal objectives, completion of which 
 will earn you specific medals.
  
  All in all, thumbs up to Relic for this most excellent effort! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghosts
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty damn good, good graphics good gameplay, and stratagy is needed. Finding good cover spots, placing 
 your units in the right spots to stop enemy attacks, and being able to manuever your tanks to take 
 out buildings, platoons of troops, or to go around a tank and blow it up at its weak spot. Its real 
 yet game enough to be fun. You have to be on top of your troops always wether your on offense or 
 defense. This makes it exciting. Taking advantage of your surroundings is also brings new options. 
 Troops no longer stand there and shoot at units. Cover is now needed to win. Remeber how in red 
 alert 1+2 a tank could be destoryed by a few infantry units? Not any more! Tanks are actully effective 
 and deal damage. They cant be killed by rifle men or machine gun anymore! And the fact that tanks 
 have weak armor spots means that a good flank good kill tanks even when overpowerd. All in all, A 
 terrafic game. If you dont like this, dont play RTS try something else :P Oh and a little treat, Troops 
 in squads talk to each other or when commanding more than one squad, talk between each other, it 
 puts you right in there.
  
   Once in a while when watching units fight in areas where 
 theres a lot of cower and its on and off or artillery or tanks, try zooming in all the way, the view 
 will turn to a call of duty view, making it look like a movie, try some time, its amazing to watch! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tOrchie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Just to make things easy, if you're a fan of RTS games, you'll absolutely adore Company of Heroes. 
 Don't even bother reading any reviews. Just go buy it. Now for the review.
  
  Company of Heroes is the first RTS game in a long time to come up with some really exciting innovations 
 in the genre. Sure, games like Warcraft III added things like heroes, which are a lot of fun, but 
 they didn't really change the character of the game. It still generally boiled down to tank rushing 
 the opponent.
  
  The basic premise of CoH is the events of World War II starting with the D-Day invasion at Normandy 
 and continuing until the end of the war. You control the allies in the campaign. The missions are 
 varied and interesting. You'll be doing some major battling, but also a bit of sneaking around 
 and sabotage.
  
  There are so many cool new mechanics in the game that it's hard to know where to begin. One of 
 the best features of CoH is that your control your infantry in squads, rather than individually. 
 This keeps things relatively neat, since a couple dozen troops in the field is only a handful of 
 units. Also, your troops can have different levels of cover, from totally exposed to well covered, 
 that affects how much damage they take from enemies. This means hiding behind things actually makes 
 a difference.
  
  Another effect of the cover idea, and something that is also worked into combat separately with 
 vehicles, is the idea of flanking. This means you can deal out tons more damage if you come at 
 an enemy from the side, where they have no cover, or if you attack a tank's side or rear armor. 
 The whole thing adds another layer of depth and excitement to combat, as you'll constantly be fighting 
 for position on the battlefield. You'll want the high ground, and you'll want to be inside buildings, 
 or behind some kind of protection.
  
  Which brings us to the next fantastic feature. Everything is completely destructible: buildings, 
 brick walls, vehicles, everything. So just because you're inside a building, that doesn't mean 
 you're entirely safe. If the enemy chucks a grenade into a window, you're probably going to have 
 a few casualties. And if they toss in a bigger bomb, like a sticky bomb, forget it. The entire 
 building is coming down. But that brings out another excellent feature. Absolutely anything can 
 be cover for your troops. They blew up your Sherman tank? Well, at least your troops can hide behind 
 it now. That building was smashed to bits? Hide in the rubble and keep fighting, soldier!
  
  One more really cool feature is that your little squad of six infantry units can upgrade their 
 weapons, but they can also pick up weapons off the battlefield, which is a lot of fun. You can 
 end up with a squad of six troops with three guys holding rifles, two with machine guns, and one 
 with a bazooka. It adds a lot of versatility to your units, and you'll actually enjoy infantry 
 combat again, instead of just wanting to get to the tanks. And infantry units can really hold their 
 own against big vehicles by using the aforementioned sticky bombs and big guns.
  
  The game looks amazing, as well. Troops will run carefully about, with one squad having guys looking 
 in as many directions as possible as they scuttle across the landscape. Tanks are massive and scary 
 looking, and they actually move like real vehicles. No more ridiculous hairpin turns. If you want 
 your tank to make a 90&ordm; turn, it's going to have to make a wide turn. Also, vehicles will 
 go backwards if it's easier than trying to make a big 180&ordm; turn around, which is quite realistic, 
 and adds a lot more excitement and chaos to an already fun game. Tanks and trucks flying this way 
 and that is pretty fun to watch. However, you can also manually steer vehicles if you absolutely 
 need them to face forward and drive a certain direction.
  
  The sound is also top-notch. There is an intense and exciting soundtrack that won't distract you 
 from the game, and all the sounds are completely authentic, from the different sounds of all the 
 weapons, to the curses and screams of the soldiers. And don't even get me started about the huge 
 variety of explosions. They are just phenomenal.
  
  All of the new features really add a lot of value to this game, as it seems unlikely you'd get 
 tired of it as fast as if it were, say, just another basic RTS game. With all the new tactics available, 
 it seems as though players will be working through strategies for a long time with this game. And 
 adapting to other players' techniques will just make it that much more fun and challenging. I see 
 this game being popular for quite a while.
  
  Overall, Company of Heroes has so much to recommend it, and so few (if any) negatives, that i's 
 hard to heap enough praise upon it. Again, if you've ever enjoyed any RTS game ever, go buy it, 
 because it surpasses them all. And if you've never thought you'd enjoy an RTS, but are curious, 
 this would be the time to dive into the genre. This game is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaccourion
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  It's a hot game, it's very close to be a perfect game, only if it had more factions, and , the 
 multiplayer mode should have more options like in a 2v2 mode per example, why can't we play 1 allied 
 with 1 axis vs 2 allied
  i would really like to see what it would look like combining allied and axis forces, in multiplayer 
 too, i think that the maps are not enought, there is no big diversity in choosing maps. For The 
 Campain, i haven't finished playing it yet, but i'll give it 9.5/10, can you play with the axis? 
 I WISH THAT THE GAME WILL HAVE A FACTION CALLED RUSSIA ( there is very scenarios to this faction, 
 like stalingrad per example it would be thrilling playing it, ps: there might be such a mission 
 i dunno cause i haven't finished the campain yet!)
  Personal vision: i think this game would be like the generals zero hours, lot of reborns or mods 
 will make it nicer, like the rise to power in generals zero hour it's amazing, althought zero hour 
 alone isn't that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerbball2
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  company of heroes has great graphics, ill give it that. Beyond that, it sux. Gamespot usually gives 
 good reviews but this game belongs in the 7's, nowhere near the 9 that it got. Why? U do the same 
 thing over and over. Capture points, hold them woot woot, then kill some tank. yawn, so when is 
 the game going to end. im on the last level and i dont think im even going to try it. this game 
 wastes my time and i dont even have fun playing it. the only reason i play it is i say to myself 
 that i bought the game for 20 bucks, so i need to justify that purchase by at least beating the 
 game. Gamespot says the gameplay is innovative, but if u want a good strategy game, Warcraft III 
 Reign of Chaos and The Frozen Throne are like 4 year old games that are still 10 times better than 
 this waste of money. Graphics are good, every thing else=boring waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJazzy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion Company of Heroes is one of the best strategy games ever (and it's nice because it 
 dosen't have all the kinky robots and laser guns, it's pure war) , and I say that because the game 
 has a very goo gameplay which helps you feel the main action of the game. There are some bugs that 
 I found but none of them made me uninstall the game (like I did with FIFA 2007) .
  The Graphics are good, but can be improved. The sound is very realistic.
  So, you should all 
 play the game, it's a very nice experience. I'm waiting for some improvements from Relic to make 
 the game even more addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TStilwell
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game is a breath of fresh air. World War II has been covered in more games than any other 
 point in history. Teenagers around the world have killed more Nazis than the entire Allied Armed 
 Forces, combined, did over the course of a five year war.
  Because it has been so overly done, gamers are a little wary of games covering this genre. While 
 there are good games out there, such as Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, the Call of Duty series, 
 and Return to Castle Wolfenstien, a great majority of them just suck. However, Company of Heroes 
 is one of those rare exceptions. Its RTS gameplay strongly resembles Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of 
 War, which isn't a surprise since both games are made by the same Relic/THQ team. The gameplay 
 reproduces the grit and confusion of WWII well. Mortars create craters, trees and walls are knocked 
 down when tanks roll over them. The detail on the soldiers is very good and the look and sound 
 of the weapons are dead on. The major innovation is the resource system. Like Dawn of War, you 
 get resources by capturing strategic points on the map. The resources are divided into manpower, 
 oil, and munitions and each region of the map produces one of these resources. You get the resources 
 by capturing these points. However, your territories must be connected to your central command 
 in order to gain the benefit of the resources. This game is a must for WWII enthusiasts and RTS 
 fans. Some magzines have called it the game of the year. It is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rometotalwar999
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  There are many RTS games out in the market so far and almost all feature the same game mechanics. 
 Workers build your bases, mass up your soldiers and then select all and ram into enemy territory, 
 repeat till you win. And from what I've played so far, Company of Heroes isn't really much different 
 except with Workers , renamed to Engineers and having special powers (a feature that is present 
 in most current-gen RTS games in a WWII setting
  
  Relic promised a fast and intense battlefield from its previews to give it a real war atmosphere 
 but it isn't the case. The game encourages you to explore the entire map as resources points are 
 spread out instead of letting you gather resources. It works well on paper as you can expect heavy 
 fire between infantry and armor, but in the game, a relatively pitiful amount of enemy troops sent 
 to protect the points and you just need one armored car to drive in to wipe out 3 enemy infantry 
 squads. Once the points are captured by you, the enemy will do very little to get it back. Once 
 you get enough resource points, you can just sit back and wait for the resource to pile up. And 
 you can start your army mass strategy once again.
  
  Units aren't flexible too. That means if you send a squad of infantry with anti-tanks upgrades 
 against a Panzer, chances are you will not succeed as the tank's armor can magically resist five 
 or more hits even in the face of a Panzerschreck. Infantry with the right weapon, can defeat a 
 lone tank as long it finds cover. However in CoH, 3 infantry equipped with anti-tank weapons will 
 still find itself pinned down against a lone tank although the tank's main gun wouldn't kill them 
 even in a direct hit. That brings another strange thing, what's the use of a tank if its main gun 
 can't kill a single soldier in an infantry squad. Tanks are every soldiers worst nightmare and 
 it can't kill a soldier directly with its main gun, but to rely solely of its machine gun is really 
 strange.
  
  Units must defeat each other in a rock-scissors-paper style. Tanks and armored vehicles defeat 
 infantry. Infantry defeats Anti-tank guns and Anti-tank guns defeat tanks. This makes flanking 
 quite useless as you can just mass up all three and charge into the enemy front forcefully and 
 you get the same result as the long, tactical way of flanking. Infantry can sometimes bust tanks 
 with Anti-tank bombs, but once your squad gets suppressed or pinned, you can't throw a single thing 
 at the enemy except your life. The retreat option seems unrealistic too, a push of the button and 
 you squad gets canceled of all disadvantages of being pinned and gains defensive bonus while being 
 able to outrun a jeep back to HQ. You can literally do hit-and-run attacks against enemy troops 
 with little losses.
  
  The physics of the game is good but the overall surrounding is bland with little detail, it resembles 
 a desert instead of a plain.
  
  If you are looking for an intense fighting with tight movements with you soldiers ducking behind 
 objects for cover (they only stand or prone when they are being suppressed) and a war-like atmosphere 
 with flexible tactics for troops, don't expect to find it in Company of Heroes.
  
  P. S: Making a small factory within enemy territory to build troops isn't very realistic. The soldiers 
 who fought WWII were brought all the way from their homes to fight our freedom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkussman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game without any expectations and was blown away by the enemy AI, the stunning graphics, 
 exciting sound and unique building and unit management structure. I was immediately sucked in, 
 although I was intimidated by the complicated game play: this is not your average point and click 
 strategy game. Suddenly I had to consider flanking, tank weak points, unit proficiencies and weaknesses, 
 as well as advantageous terrain, varying protective cover and technological costs. This game is 
 nothing like Starcraft or Command &amp; Conquer in that you're no longer afforded the freedom to 
 build large numbers to overwhelm your opponent. Instead, you've got a small unit cap in every mission 
 which only affords you a few of every unit type. Although this allows for micromanagement with 
 finer detail, it also means the battle can be quickly overturned if, for example, your five infantry 
 squads run into a single machine gun emplacement.
  
  In short, I'd highly recommend buying this game. You won't regret the purchase. Company of Heroes 
 is going to set the standard for other RTS developers to follow. Even though there are problems 
 to be fixed, Company of Heroes sets a new benchmark for others to improve upon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I was dissapointed how this ran on my computer. But at least I could minimize all the graphics 
 down to the bottom so it would run decently.
  This game is amazing if you could run it how it should be ran, but if your not positive don't take 
 your chances. It has cool levels, and it takes some getting used to before you can get good at 
 the game. I liked fighting, and I thought it took too much time to build up recources and troops. 
 I still have to get better and I still think it will grow on me even more so I'm not yet dissapointed 
 as it sounds I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is another World War II strategy game in a long history of such games. Most of 
 these games have been disappointments, with the exceptions being the Call of Duty series of games. 
 But this tactical level game where you command small squads of soldiers is one of the best that 
 Ive played in a long time. It's the first four out of four stars game I've played among any games 
 in a long time as well. It combines a good story about Able Company as it fights in France in 1944 
 and it highlights how the actions of a brave soldier, a well-placed machine gun nest, or a skilled 
 anti-tank crew can make all the difference between victory and defeat. If you pay attention to 
 the details as the commander, you can keep your soldiers alive and fighting. It has great graphics, 
 audio, and game play.
  
  The game is a well-executed example of the real-time strategy genre, which means that the clock 
 is always ticking while you issue orders to your troops and the enemy maneuvers at the same time. 
 The action is fast and furious as a result, and it means you have to pay attention to every part 
 of the battle. Fortunately, the game comes with a pause feature. If you hit the pause/break key, 
 you can stop the action at any time. This allows you to think about your commands more and keep 
 up with everything happening. The game is demanding, but I managed to play the entire thing on 
 a new Alienware m700 laptop computer with an AMD ML44 Turion microprocessor running at 2.4 gigahertz. 
 It had a 256-megabyte dual SLI Nvidia GeForce Go 7900 graphics solution and a gigabyte of main 
 memory. The laptop's 17-inch screen was wide enough to view a lot of the action all at once. There 
 were a few parts where the frame rate slowed down, but it pretty much handled everything the game 
 could throw at it with all the graphics features turned on. The game slowed down during a a few 
 moments of the game when there was a lot of action.
  
  The game follows a familiar arc from the landings in Normandy through the pitched battles in towns 
 such as Carentan, where the control of key buildings and bridges makes for very focused missions. 
 The graphics are stellar and the artificial intelligence of the soldiers is good. You stand back 
 and tell engineers to plant a satchel charge in an enemy building. They will seek a path to the 
 building and figure out how to carry out the order. The animations of the soldiers movements and 
 the building explosions makes you feel like youre really watching a heated battle. You cant just 
 leave soldiers exposed in the open or they will become pinned by enemy fire. And you have to employ 
 tactics such as hiding them alongside stone walls or flanking the enemies. There is so much for 
 you to manage in each battle it isnt easy to remember to order them to toss grenades when the 
 soldiers are really close to the enemies. If your soldiers are pinned by gunfire, they will refuse 
 your orders to throw the grenades. I havent had as much fun with a World War II strategy game 
 since Combat Mission and the Close Combat games debuted years ago. Those games -- particularly 
 Close Combat 2 and 3 and the original Combat Mission -- are in fact among my favorite games of 
 all time. I've been waiting for someone to modernize the ideas in those games for quite a while, 
 and Relic Entertainment has done it in partnership with publisher THQ. Relic is an experienced 
 developer of games such as Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War, Impossible Creatures and Homeworld. 
 The companys graphics and game engine can deliver destructible environments, large maps, realistic 
 battlegrounds and fluid soldier animations. When your machine gun nets gets destroyed with a direct 
 hit from a tank shell, it will turn into a blackened crater where your soldiers can hide. The only 
 thing that still feels weird about the game is that most of the combat occurs at close range for 
 the sake of keeping everything in your field of view. There isnt much the game can deliver in 
 terms of long-range tank duels or sniper shots.
  
  The cut scenes between missions are well orchestrated and thankfully dont use the game engine 
 itself. It starts with the landing at Omaha Beach on D-Day, and proceeds to the parachute droppings 
 of the 101st airborne division. The D-Day landing itself isnt that exciting, since this isnt 
 a first-person shooter game. Rather, its played from an overhead view of the battle. In each mission, 
 you fight for strategic points on a map and try to build up resources for manpower, munitions and 
 fuel. To keep these resources coming, you have to fight hard to hang on to the key ground. On the 
 defense, you can plan out how to deal with the superior tanks of the Germans by laying mines, stacking 
 sand bags, digging nests and upgrading your engineers to flamethrowers. Your soldiers can used 
 captured enemy machine guns and other gear they find on the battlefield. The Germans are unbeatable 
 when they have machine gun nests and tanks in the same place. But the Americans can usually call 
 in decisive air, artillery, or anti-tank support.
  
  Since there are a dozen capture points on every map, you always have to make command trade-offs. 
 If you assign soldiers and tanks to capturing one point, you leave yourself vulnerable in defending 
 another. The good thing about this is that you just can sit still and dig in and expect to win 
 the battle. The capture system forces you to be aggressive.
  
  As commander, you can order off-map artillery strikes and keep feeding replacements and reinforcements 
 into the battle. The missions have a lot of variety, from a covert mission to capture a V2 rocket 
 site to a grueling series of hedgerow battles to capture Hill 192. There were multiple battles 
 where I had to play over and over again in order to win the mission. If you pick this game up, 
 you'll be addicted and happy that it lifts the malaise of boredom around the well-worn World War 
 II genre. Highly Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyb808
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 13, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  I recently purchased this game and with all the graphics turned up it is graphically quite good. 
 As for the gameplay very similar to other games in the same genre. An overall ok game, but much 
 more needed to set new heights. Not enough thought in advancing this type of game. Hard to control 
 alot of troops together as with all these games. I hope some games developer in the future will 
 come up with something quite unique but it seems for now its the same old same old. Much the same 
 as Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War and virtullay the same way of completing missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgyuri
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphic, Game-play, effects, physics, sound are impressive, but the game is get boring after several 
 hours from the beginning. You can't buy a lot of men - this is good until you have 10-15 group 
 of men, and they attack 10-15 group of better men -...
  The soldiers AI is perfect, but the vehicles is Poor...
  The enemy have infinitive founds!
 
  
  Try the game, this is good... but some points are missed, and we want to be not missed :) ... so 
 Try and Play
  
  But before you try the game: The BEST PC Until NOW is: Intel Quad Core, 8800 GTX-nVidia, 4GB ram... 
 on this computer have near the best game-play for this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake9123
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  this game is incredible, unless u have a stoneage computer with a 126mg card, i have a geforce 
 7600 gs so it runes great and has the most detail that i ever seen in an rts, the sound is amazing 
 too like when your away from an mg42 it has the cracle of it fireing in the distance or when u 
 order a squad to throw a grenage in a window it blows out with window and the guy goes flying out 
 with the rag doll phisics. get this game its like brothers in arms, command con conquer, warhammer 
 40k, the outfit, and red faction combined into one so this game i would have bought even if it 
 was a 100$ or waight.. 200$!!!! there we go its worth the 50$ guys so get it now!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games4breakfast
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is yet another game set in the Second World War, but in stark contrast to the 
 horde of WWII titles in recent years, its not a first-person shooter, its a strategy game. While 
 the RTS genre is by no means a new one, Relic Entertainment brings a lot of fresh perspective to 
 the game. Relying on squad-based control rather than complete micro-management of individual troops, 
 CoH puts the player in the role of a battlefield commander, taking the terrain very much into account 
 for maneuvers such as flanking enemy squads. The AI is top-notch, not just in the case of the enemies 
 (who are smart enough to be a challenge) but also the squads, who run behind cover and take up 
 defensive positions without being told to.
  The graphics are beautiful, and the game runs on the Havoc physics engine, making the environments 
 destructible. This makes subsequent attempts at a given level play out different, deepening the 
 gameplay. Definitely a game to revitalize the RTS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdh25
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a World War 2 real time strategy game with an American only campaign and American 
 and German multiplayer.
  
  The graphics for this game are really impressive. I ran this game with a 6600GT on medium graphics 
 with a smooth framerate and the game still looked solid. It is the best looking RTS IMO as of 2006.
 
  
  The sound this game has is really impressive. The units have good dialogue (sniper is my favorite) , 
 and you get authentic sounds of WW2. As soon as that howitzer shell hits the ground you get instant 
 gratification with the sound of impact. Only flaw here is that the German forces speak English 
 (but thats getting really picky) .
  
  With many RTS out there, the gameplay makes the RTS enjoyable or not. COH has excellent gameplay. 
 With most RTS no battle seems to be the same and COH is no exception. The fully destructible environments 
 are a good compliment to the gameplay engine. you may have put a hole in the ground with that howitzer, 
 but now infantry can take cover inside the crater. Units are usually smart, but the vehicles sometimes 
 overestimate their power. Some vehicles will just charge when you order them to attack and they 
 just get wasted. The RPG element presented in this game is there are 3 tech trees for each faction. 
 Depending what kind of style you play, there should be one that you will favor. The more kills 
 and buildings you make, the more xp you get which gets you further down the tech tree. THE resources 
 presented in this game keep the games realism intact. Manpower, fuel, and munitions are excellent 
 resources. How you gather them for more is realistic too such as capturing fuel storagers and vantage 
 points.
  BALANCE is another important part of RTS. COH keeps the game well balanced. The german tanks in 
 real life could probably shoot the Allied tanks from the other side of the game maps but then that 
 would be no fun for the ALLIES! For every unit there is a counterunit and each unit upgrade makes 
 sense.
  
  COH is an excellent RTS with a good campaign and excellent multiplayer. The graphics are great 
 and the sound doesnt lag behind. NO battle is ever the same and the game is accessible to anyone. 
 I cant wait for COH 2 with the full lineup of Allies and Axis powers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanem_2k1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  The visuals are amazing, so much detail on the smallest parts of the character and tank models. 
 Some find it worthless, i find it a true testament to the necessary aspect of paying attention 
 to every part of the game on Relic's part. Quality RTS games is not a new world for this developer, 
 and this continues that line of quality.
  
  The sound in conjunction with the visuals helps further engage you in an awesome world of bullets 
 and explosions.... KAAABOOOOM!!!
  
  Gameplay is frustratingly hard.... learning curve kinda steep. Seems like sometimes i can never 
 freaking win, other times i bask in the almighty glory of wiping the bullet riddled ground with 
 Axis arse!!
  
  Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Fade
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is truely one of the better WWII Games ive played for some time as the campaign story 
 is really great you get real excited as you play. As you start up at the first campaign mission 
 it's a realy mind blowing game, the graphics is stunning it allmost the same quality as some of 
 the new FPS Shooters, the realism is great buildings, tanks and so on... it all stays on the map 
 when you blow it up and use it as cover for your troops. You can also do something thats not very 
 usual on the regular Strategy games yet as f. ex A German squad has sieged a bulding you send in 
 some squads to take care of the job but instead of storming the bulding with full force. You get 
 one of the squads to give covering fire for the other squad as they sneak up to the bulding and 
 throw a grenade into the window.
  
  The multiplayer part is also real great as you realy have to use tactics if you want to win on 
 the playing map as the defence of your control points is important to sucess lets just say it wouldn't 
 hurt to have som allies on the map.
  
  now lets continue with the graphic part of the game. The first time i saw the ingame graphic I 
 thought was watching a movie, As the game graphic is stunning the explosions and everything im 
 just lovin it.
  
  the sound is also very good you realy get that WWII feeling.
  
  as mentioned in numerous other reviews the loading time is real slow and sometimes you have to 
 wait 5 minutes before the maps starts.
  other then that there are realy not much of any other downsides with
  the game.
  
  with that 
 I end my review. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyrephlie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  i have to admit, i'm not a big fan of the rts genre. don't get me wrong, though, i loved me some 
 warcraft and starcraft, and who can ever forget the entire c &amp; c series? however, for me, the 
 point and click, resource hunting, unit producing, base building clicking all over the place thing 
 as never really appealed to me. but company of heroes, it's something a little different. at least 
 for me. it's wildly intuitive, you can do everything you want very easily without a lot of extra 
 thinking. it's extremely in depth, and you can choose how deep you want to go. there's ambiance 
 everywhere, the little sounds and animations that help to add to the depth of the experience, and 
 it's so graphically appealing. now, i'll be honest, i haven't tried out the multiplayer, really. 
 i'm sorry, i wish i had, but i've had so much fun witht he single player, that i haven't really 
 been able to bring myself to get slaughtered by all the 1337 peeps on teh interwebs. i can tell, 
 more or less, that my experience with the multiplayer portion would be that of most other rts's.... 
 exhausting with little payoff. yes, i'm saying that i suck at multiplayer rts. bite me. ;)
  
  the game does have some drawbacks, most notably, the extremely long load times. even on a bleeding 
 edge system with all the bells and whistles, you will find yourself waiting between levels. another 
 issue i had some trouble with was the sound, which for some reason, on medium and high settings, 
 would hitch occasionly. the last drawback is that this game is set during world war ii. hear me 
 out, please. i'm sick and tired of the ww2 genre of games. it was fun for a while, about 6 or 7 
 years ago, when almost every game was ww2 based, but now, it's just getting sad. i know it was 
 a big part of our planet's history, but isn't it time we move on? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game as a christmas present and boy is it good. I have played some strategy games 
 like starcraft and warcraft 3 and c&amp; c generals so I have a little experience to go on. company 
 of heroes is well made. the controls are easy to use. that map works well. it is very demanding 
 so you will need a good pc to run it. from the beginning in traing you will notice this game is 
 different from the rest. you can zoon in on the action and view the battle from like the ground 
 level! instead of the same old overhead view directing tiny soldiers, you can actually see the 
 fighting close up! i think relic did a really good job on this game. it is very stable, no crashes 
 so far. and it is polished, very nice looking. there are some cut scenes that are so great, it's 
 hard to describe. your paratroopers play a key role early in the game. you can bring them in at 
 any time. at the beginning of the game you must invade omaha beach just like in ww2. your objectives 
 are to meet up with your engineers to take out the fencing. then destroy the 3 bunkers, then destroy 
 the big guns. then on the second mission, which is where i am at now. you must secure certain control 
 points on the map. and kill any german troops you find along the way. then you must ambush the 
 german convoy. you do this by planting mines and taking up a good position to attack them. this 
 is a great game, i love it. and you should get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Holy ****, was I impressed by my first game of Company of Heroes (CoH) . I have never experienced 
 such visceral, intense combat in any game on any system ever. There is constant gunfire, tactics 
 to be employed, and strategering to formulate. Granted, my first game was a skirmish versus three 
 easies, but it paved the way to a potpourri of amazing gameplay.
  
  From then out, I played games in the LAN setting with two others who have the equivalent strategic 
 background of myself, and we plotted around the map for half an hour before even playing the game, 
 then went forth with our separate tasks and tore apart the computer. CoH allows players to use 
 any kind of land to their advantage, and the combination of free defensive mechanisms such as tank 
 traps, barbed wire, and sand bags, allow you to construct fortifications complete with AT guns 
 and and MG nests.
  
  As you have already read other reviews lauding CoH for graphics and sound ans so on, I will be 
 content in stating CoH is by far one of the finest games ever developed, and easily in the top 
 five PC titles in the history of PC titles. Remember, don't break the law or kill people, but at 
 any costs, get to the store and obtain a copy of Company of Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatmanJJ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything and more when it comes to the Real Time Strategy genre. Amazing graphics, 
 wonderful effects, slick AI, great sounds. The fact that you can zoom all the way in to the battlefield 
 level with a full 360 degree motion camera range is a really nice touch. Game has tons of detail 
 with almost a completely destructible environment. The game completely immerses you and makes u 
 really feel like you are in the action. Whether it's the shell blasts going off in the distance, 
 the rumble of tank motors or the yells and gasps of soldiers who are under attack it's hard to 
 not get sucked into the game for 3 hour periods of time. A must for any player who's a fan of RTS 
 games. This one should hold me over until C&amp; C III arrives early next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  There are some truely innovative elements in this game, that actaully add to gameplay. The graphics 
 of course are some of the best in an RTS to date, and really set a standard for future RTS releases, 
 as well as any World War II title.
  
  The supply line control system is great, and really adds to the gameplay. There are in my eyes 
 a few downfalls to the game. You are offered three tiers to choose from, each one will customize 
 your army differently by offering up different upgrades as you level up your force, than the other. 
 Air, Armor, and Infantry based attacks. However, I think the game really fails to really get this 
 system going. It seemed so many times in play that it was pointless to play anything but the Armor 
 section. Another problem I saw was the lack of a difficulty selection. Easy was easy, but medium 
 seemed hard, and hard seemed godly. Also didn't much like the way they made the game itself more 
 difficult as you set it harder in the settings. Unless you had amazing defenses setup a single 
 squad could really do some damage considering how long it took for them to die. That asside, the 
 game is truely delightful to play. Skirmishes are very entertaining, and the singleplayer campaign 
 is one of the best I've seen in an RTS to date. I really recommend this title to RTS fans as well 
 as well as teh WW2 hooches out there. The detail is great, and it never gets dull watching buildings 
 crumble under your mortar fire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erlova
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Forget about the loading times. This game inmerse you in the battlefield of WWII whit amazing graphics, 
 realistic sound and the best gameplay since to date. Need to upgrade my machine to have the best 
 performance and graphics, and I'm glad to spend every dolar in my machine to play this Perfect 
 Game.
  
  I have a Intel Dual 2 Core 3.2, 1024 DDR, Nvidia Gforce 7300 512MB, and I play it at High Resolution... 
 It looks amazing (I hope my PC will support games for a long time)
  
  You don't need nothing but time to play it (and a powerfull PC) , So... wake up soldier, I need 
 you in the forntline, lady 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvs1270
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the most intense RTS I have ever played. THe Generals series is good, but this is definitely 
 the next level. I have never felt so overwhelmed playing a game. There is hardly breathing room 
 &amp; micromanaging must be one of your strongpoints. The graphics are great, along with the ability 
 to change angles &amp; zoom. The soundtrack is also very good. exposions make you jump &amp; flinch. 
 The AI is challenging &amp; can at times be very brutal. I have been getting my a** handed to me 
 frequently since I bought it. I believe it to be an honest representation of field combat. This 
 is going to keep me busy for awhile. This is my first pc pickup at full price in years &amp; I 
 have no regrets. This is a must have game for all of you RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm8000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  The games physics is awesome and the graphics are great the best game i've played in ever!!! That 
 mite be hard for anyone to agree with me on that but if you've played alot of games in your time 
 you can say that 100%.
  
  The first time I got the game it didn't run well at all the caracters were invisible and there 
 was no texture, just imagine Sahara with some trees and some buildings lol...
  
  I was running at the time a Celeron 2.8Ghz CPU, 1GB DD2 Ram, 80GB WD 7200rpm HDD, 550W Power Supply 
 and an old ATI Radeon 9250 256MB with 4pixel pipeline video card haha.. I kow that's **** i'm upgrading 
 next year to SLI.
  
  So all I did was changed my card to an ATI Radeon 9600PRO DX9.0 Compatible 256MB card for the time 
 being and it runs fine on High settings.
  
  This game has fantastic graphics that needs a good video card, but overall its just a great game 
 once you start playing it you will be hooked on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidyx2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  The game capture a few styles from dawn of war, like the capturing of waypoints hiding into small 
 holes. but the difference between the game to others is it totally show how war world 2 is like, 
 hiding behind walls, flanking enemy while they are being suppress by your team mates, and TANKS 
 dont always win in battles. in most RTS games, once you get hold of the most expensive unit, you're 
 typically indestructable. For company of heroes, each unit had their advantage and disadvantages. 
 ETC, sniper, sniper have a very far range and is good for both scouting and taking enemy off. but 
 with the jeeps near his perimeter, the sniper is sure dead.
  
  i would recommend this game to people who love both RTS and war world 2, as this game show a clear 
 picture of how WW2 occured and how it happen in the fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennis8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a awesome game with amazing graphics based in a WWII setting but does alot 
 to veer off the cliche' that's been plagueing this line of WWII games so far. For those of you 
 who don't know, CoH is a RTS or real time strategy game that requires you to manage your troops 
 as well as your base and resources and your captured territories (more on that later) . The moment 
 I started playing, I went straight to the tutorial, which by far is one of the most simple to learn 
 ever. It teaches you all the basics without the headache and I got playing in no time. And note 
 that I havent played the singleplayer mode yet because all the replay usually comes from multiplayer. 
 But, from my friend's feedback, the singleplayer is lengthy and takes a while to complete even 
 a single mission. I'll try to cover down what you can expect from a skirmish or multiplayer game 
 in as much detail possible for those who are wondering, and from what I played, its pretty sweet 
 gameplay. First off, when you create a game you must choose the map, game mode (two types: capture 
 control points or annihilation) , starting resources, and your side. CoH has only 2 factions to 
 play as Axis or Allies (basically America and Germany) . Each faction differs in play style like 
 how they advace to create better buildings and such. For this reveiw, I'll use Allies. So you started 
 the game, as soon as the loading screen is finished, you have your HQ and a squad of engineers. 
 Engineers are your basic squad which can create base buildings and field defenses. Field defenses 
 are cool stuff that help bolster defenses of ur base or territories. There are barb wires, tank 
 traps, land mines, machine gun emplacements, and lots more. Another thing to note is the green 
 circle button next to your minimap. Once pressed, it opens up a menu much like Command and Conquer 
 Generals, wherein you must choose a company that you wish to focus on. The Axis and Allies each 
 have 3 different choices. Allies can either choose from Air, Armor, or Infantry companies, while 
 Axis have Defense, Terror, and Blitzkreig doctrines. Each differ with each other and help alot 
 depending on what unit type you choose to focus on, which opens up a variety of playing styles. 
 As soon as you choose your company/doctrine and at least made your barracks, it's time to deploy 
 your infantry and start capturing territories in order to gain more resources. Another feature 
 of CoH is the territories. In CoH you don't mine from gold mines, harvest lumber from trees, or 
 drive supply trucks to collect supplies, you capture territories. On the minimap, you will see 
 small circles and divisions which symbolizes a territory and what resource it supplies. The 3 main 
 resources are manpower (for infantry) , munitions (to use special abilities ex. grenades, air strikes) , 
 fuel ( for vehicles) . By capturing territories, you increase your steady flow of resources, and 
 resources won't run out as long as you have control of the territoy and it is connected with other 
 territories to your base (supplied territories) . And to make sure enemies will have a hard time 
 taking your territory, you can bolster your defenses with the field defenses said earlier. And 
 you can secure a territory by making a observation post on it which in turn, will allow more resources 
 to flow and makes it harder for the enemy to capture. Back at the base, the engineers should make 
 all the buildings (there are only a few by the way, but there are alot of varied unit types) . Each 
 unit production building offers what you need to win the battle. The barracks allows you to make 
 the standard infatry which can be upgraded with grenades for clusters of infantry, sticky bombs 
 for tanks, and better rifles for suppression fire ability, and can also make the jeep which is 
 good to hunt down snipers. The special weapons center offers mortar teams for long range strikes, 
 machine gun teams for slicing through infantry and light vehicles, and of course the sniper, which 
 can cloak itself and one shot kill enemies. The heavy armor building allows you to make tanks, 
 namely the M4 tank destroyer which has a strong attack but a weak defense, M4 crocodile sherman 
 which has a flamethrower and a upgrade which plows through obstacles, and M4 sherman which is a 
 all around tank. They can be upgraded with machine guns for anti-infantry, mine flails which uproot 
 mines (and slices enemy units to pieces, very gory) and smoke cansiters to deter the accuracy of 
 enemies. During battle, your infantry can be suppressed, meaning they are under fire (yellow) , 
 or they can be pinned down under heavy fire (red) and will crouch to avoid taking fire. To avoid 
 this, you can take cover behind obstacles, but if worse comes to worst, you can retreat, which 
 gives your units increased speed and dodge rate and will send them running back to the base. At 
 the base you can fill in empty ranks within the squad with a nifty button that reinforces the squad 
 back to full strenght for redeployment. Aside from all these features, any infantry unit can go 
 into a building to take cover, but any buidling can be destroyed too. But also, you can make any 
 building a forward barracks which allows you to deploy infantry units giving you an advantage if 
 your base is too far from the fighting. Add these features with your chosen company and you can 
 be sending in reinforcements from air, call in a strafing/bombing run, radio for a airstrike, sending 
 in the multi-rocket equipped calliope sherman, or the mighty pershing tank, or allow your engineers 
 to create the mighty Howitzer artillery, a long range artillery which could barrage with other 
 Howitzers to almost a range of half the map. With all the unit types in hand, and all the strategies 
 present, I play over and over searching for newer and more efficient strategies. And to think that 
 was just the Allied side :) the Axis are an equally powerful force with their Volskgrenadiers, 
 rocket barrages, liutenants who can blend in with an infantry squad and call in a mortar barrage, 
 and not to mention the mighty flak cannon, even one flak can hold its ground against an entire 
 army, with tanks. With all that said, CoH offers an experience that can't be missed, and so much 
 more fun when played with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arathogorn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I can't define the love I felt for this game while I was addicted playing it.
  Oh, wait. I can, It's a superb game.
  
  While I was playing it, I can say that the game is 
 excellent, actually, this is the best RTS WWII Game.
  
  It's not like any other game, its not just another strategy game, you can use tactical operations 
 on each unit to make they superior to their combatant, like , you can use your riflemen to throw 
 sticky bombs on the tanks instead of shooting on it like a retarded, you can call more rangers 
 while you're near your base.
  
  The Graphics are so amazing that when you zoom your screen into a soldier you can compare it to 
 Call of Duty 3.
  
  Physics, excellent, you can hide between broken tanks, they're not useless like on most of the 
 other games.
  
  Gameplay, well, it's excellent... it's easy to learn playing this game, and not hard to control 
 the army and the screen camera.
  
  This is a game that I fully recommend to everyone.
  
  Hope you all enjoy playing it. I did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk9780
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The sound within COH is so realistic that the screams of Allied troops, under fire and hopelessly 
 cut off; at times make the hairs on back of my neck stand up.
  The graphic within the game add to the touch realism, so much so that at times its difficult to 
 send the troops into action, knowing that some will not be returning.
  What makes the game special above other similar RTS WW2 game is the care taken by the developers 
 to add the small touches; my favourite is the German medical teams recovering the wounded.
  The AI needs to be tweaked; Infantry based units like heavy-machine gun and mortar teams react 
 to enemy troop movements round their positions, unlike tank and other armoured unit which all seemed 
 to be manned by soldiers suffering from Tunnel Vision.
  The main let down to COH is the manual; the basic training missions help to a point, but still 
 leave a frustrating long learning curve before a player is able to get full enjoyment from COH.
 
  COH needs an in depth operations and training manual, to co-inside with new training missions.
 
  Still; COH is worth every dollar / penny, but be patient during the learning curve with yourself 
 and loved ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I am not a fan of RTS. I find them boring, repettive, repetitive, and lacking in visual eye candy.
 
  
  This game is a must play for not only RTS fans but also FPS fans like myself. Wow a great story 
 line, great graphics that run well on standard machines, and amazingly easy to learn gameplay.
 
  
  The game itself is at a diffuculty level I find perfect. Not pulling my hair out but also not destroying 
 everything at light speed. I can't say enough about this game. The fact that you can play on a 
 laptop with no other attached periphials is amazing. I could sit anywhere and play this game.
 
  
  One of the best ever.
  
  Inspiron 9300
  6800 Go 256
  1.8ghz Centrino Chip Set
  2 Gigs of Ram DDR2
  
  1280 x 1200 Running Smooth at High! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  + Extremtly solid graphics with alot of different models and stunning facial details, about everything 
 is looking more like an FPS while zoomed in with higher settings, excellent deeph into the visuals. 
 Tactical Gameplay is one of the best around the RTS genre at the moment, pretty simply but hard 
 to master and promises no battle will be the other alike. - Campaign is sometimes feeling a bit 
 unfocused and stretched out but still plays out to be one of the better around. Only two factions 
 to play as (though they can pick one of three doctrines, or specialisations, each making it virtually 
 six factions) and multiplayer is limited to Axis VS Allies in teamplay, no Deathmatch or anything.
 
  
  --
  
  Company of Heroes is one of those games which might take some time to get into if you're not familiar 
 with the Dawn of War series but after a few runs on the really nice tutorial there wouldn't be 
 any problem to take on the CPU player for practice. First thing you'll notice is not only the simply 
 lovely graphics but also the really enjoyable voice-acting for the units, they're not only there 
 when you click on them as a response but they're also saying things like moving out just to the 
 other guys within the squad without having you doing anything to them. And as another thing to 
 the voices is as in Act of War: Direct Action the units will also respond once they see and is 
 taking fire or engaging fire on an enemy target. But this time around they will respons more accurantly 
 what the threat is, if it's an enemy Scout Car or light armor they will yell at you in the radio 
 once they've started taking fire.
  
  As this game is about taking strategic points and different resource-points around the map, just 
 as in Dawn of War, you won't have to worry as much about building an incredible base either. There's 
 a few buildings avaible for you to build but they're not always required since you can also call 
 in special reinforcements depending on your sides specialisation and number of Experience you've 
 gained that specific round (just as in Command &amp; Conquer: Generals) . On the Axis side they 
 won't be able to build the P2 Tiger for an example but will instead have to call it in when the 
 side has gained enough experience and manpower-resources which is the most basic resource in the 
 game but it will also decrease in income as you command more troops on the battlefield. The campaign 
 plays out to be fairly good, some documentary-like-cutscenes which can from time to time be quite 
 interesting but in the same time feel a bit stretched out. And the campaign itself is quite slowly 
 moving forward and just feels like an preperation for the multiplayer, which is this games' strong 
 point.
  
  In the Multiplayer no round is the other alike since there's too much strategies to use for capturing 
 and defending vital targets. Even when you face the same opponent round after round there's small 
 chance that person will use the same tactics more than once since there's alot of different ways 
 to counter. Nations are quite balanced, though the tanks could feel a bit over-powered from time 
 to time as it's really hard to counter when rushing with 3+ tanks, but that's also why they're 
 so expensive. Allies are better prepared to fight in the start of the game, their infantry will, 
 to most point, be better when you start the game up. But after a while the Axis will gain ability 
 to improve and build more sophisticated soldiers and ofcourse call in heavy P2 Tiger Tank (s) to 
 face about any threat. But this doesn't tell that the game will turn uneven at any point, not even 
 when the Axis would have gained their upper hand later on in the game since with some clewer counter 
 there's always multiple ways to bring the Axis team backwards. Excellent handeling of troops and 
 ussage of cover will forever stand on the positive side of this game as it's all quite unique. 
 Pathfinding is never really a problem, as in any RTS of these days, but having guys getting stuck 
 anywhere is very rare. Interesting resource gathering and usage as well, you'll have to know what 
 you'd like to do in the start of the round if you want to win, eventually. This game is certainly 
 worth checking out if you're into Multiplayer RTS: es. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emuleman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I love playing RTS games, ever since Red Alert was introduced many years ago. This game shows you 
 how far RTS games have come! Be warned, you need a pretty good computer to run this game, but if 
 your system is up to it you will not be disappointed!! The single player campaign is excellent, 
 and gives you the feel of World War II, from the first mission you feel as if you are in the movie 
 Saving Private Ryan. The multiplayer is also very enjoyable but the game is very faced paced and 
 requires quite a bit of management. If you like RTS games and you have a decent system you should 
 definitely get this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzer_TigerIV
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  Dude, ever since I played this game in my cousin's house it's like heaven, it smells like heaven, 
 taste like heaven and also look like heaven! Anyway, the point is, this game has the best graphics 
 you ever seen, (wel, in my opinion.....) , plus if you players played games using right-clicks and 
 left-clicks, I'll say this would be easy for you (for some..... you'll get it) .
  
  Graphics: Should I say more? (Damn Good and Awesome!)
  
  Sound: well, it depends what kind 
 ear you got, lol ( It's cool! )
  
  Value: Depends whether you like World War 2 games in strategy mode (Sweet)
  
  Well, the reason 
 I put the Value a little-bit low cause maybe some of you guys who does not like strategy games 
 or WW2 games that much or else I would put 10. Hey, does anyone knows where to get da CD? cause 
 I hate the imitation ones in China, yes..... I know, I live in China..... 'sniff', But still, GERMANS 
 RULZ!!!! ha ha ha ha...... enjoy that game anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brianj2001
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start by admitting that I've never even touched the single player missions. My entire 
 review is based off the multiplayer alone. So this review will only give half the story. First, 
 the bad. This game is missing most of the fundamental parts of an RTS. When you are attacked, it 
 would be nice if the game told you. Occasionally, it will have a voice that says a unit is lost. 
 But it never tells you where. So, as a battle is going on, you're trying to make troops and issue 
 orders, but the game never tells you when a unit is produced. So you've got to keep a tight leash 
 on your facilities. Now, you would hope the AI was smart enough to go from point A to point B. 
 But, good luck with that. The result is a game that requires so much micro management to build 
 units, fight a battle, and move units around, that it's just not worth doing. Another issue is 
 the lag. It's not bad as long as you're not playing 4 vs 4. If you do max out the number of players, 
 expect to play for at least an hour. That's about 15 minutes of actual game time. Or that's how 
 long the game told me we played. Ok, now let's move onto the good parts. Although there aren't 
 a lot of maps, there is some variety in the layout. Which means there's usually more than one way 
 into your base. This doesn't sound good, but it makes for interesting battles and fast paced games. 
 The resources are determined by control points. Which is a big plus in the game. There aren't a 
 lot of units, but the way the game plays, it's about right. The graphics and sound are good. You 
 can zoom right in and get into into a 3rd person shooter kind of view. My final verdict is to buy 
 another game. The majority of my friends still play it, but I can't stand the game. If I wanted 
 to play a game that I had to micro manage everything and ends up being a complete waste of my time, 
 I'll stick with sim city or any other sim game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEFOS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Good: Sound, explosions, animation and physics are top notch. Multiplayer is superb.
  
  Bad: The few times your units miss-behave and take odd paths can be annoying but rare.
  Ai is 
 not the greatest at times.
  
  Its fair to say the game is challenging in normal mode and an enjoyable change compared to most 
 of the easy mindless games around today.
  The flow of the missions take you through the games units in turn at even pace and each mission 
 seems to complement the story well.
  
  The only letdown is the lack of FMV video instead you are left with in game rendered cut scenes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samwise-Gamjee
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  I was in a big confusion as to which RTS to buy Medieval 2 Total War or Company Of Heroes, finally 
 after listening to many views settled on CoH and my word it didnt dissapoint. I mean CoH has taken 
 realism to new highs and has raised the bar on how graphically amazing RTS games can be.
  Gameplay is top notch, RTS veterans woudnt take more than 15-30 mins getting used to though those 
 who dont play many RTS might find this a bit tough in the beginning because the AI is how it should 
 be :) realistic and challenging.
  Special mention about the sound quality which is a astounding and who feel you are in a bloody 
 battlefield. The only downside of this game is just 2 factions, hopefully the expansion pack will 
 offer a few more.
  
  Sherman Taking Damage ..... I gotta go :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turn1232003
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  OK, this game does a lot of things really well, while there are a few points that it needs improvement 
 on. Before I decided to write this review I made sure to check out all of the reviews that were 
 less than stellar on this game in order to find out what people were complaining about. One complaint 
 that I saw was the fact that you could not pause a RTS game and issue orders. Newsflash it is a 
 real time strategy game, in the normal course of war I think that it would be nearly impossible 
 to say Hey timeout stop shooting at us while I change tactics and issue commands. If you want 
 slow pace and things of that nature try turn based it will suit you better. Next; people complaining 
 about the high system requirements, it is called updating your system people try it sometime. I 
 think that it is silly that people grumble about how when their system has minimum requirements 
 to run the game they say it sucks because they have to run on medium or low settings. Third comparing 
 it to other games; I have played through most of the Close Combat series, yes it is very historically 
 accurate, but the AI in general sucked. Dawn of War; never played it could care less. I think that 
 too many people spend time comparing it to what they know and saying well that has been done before. 
 Heres another newsflash most everything has been done. However with improving technologies things 
 can get better; AI more refined, graphics and sound better so on and so forth. Lets face it people 
 no matter what genre you look at pretty much the same story lines permeate through them. RPGs 
 save the world, RTS take over the world (or at least a small chunk of it) , FPS kill everything 
 single or almost single handed so get over it there are no knew ideas, just better packaging. Finally 
 those that said they were misled by the title, thinking that these were heroes and you could 
 do things like commandeer jeeps and turn the tide of battles. Heres a little dose of reality this 
 was about an actual company of men that fought and died during WWII, I got that from the commercials 
 and trailers online. So if you were misled well then your perception of the obvious is not too 
 keen.
  
  Now onto the actual review; I will start with the good as most reviews tend to do so. Graphically 
 this is one of the most impressive RTS games I have ever seen. The fact that there is little change 
 in quality from the cinematic mission sequences to actual game play is a nice dynamic. I thought 
 perhaps that when the camera zoomed out on the battle map for the beginning of a mission that the 
 characters changed, after zooming in I found that they do not. That was the first thing to catch 
 my eye. Second the sound effects when you have the sound of bullets whizzing by you men, as well 
 as proper sound effects for weapons is also a nice touch. What really got me was the unit AI, this 
 is for all you pause button people. I had heard about this new engine that they were trying out 
 so I decided to test it. I ran a squad up a narrow street. At the end of this street I knew there 
 was a series of MG42s and mortars. When the mortars cut loose I deselected the unit and allowed 
 them to fend for themselves. I was amazed to see my units intelligently try to find the best cover 
 possible. Granted they did not garrison a building, but they did find cover behind a car. Which 
 is such a relief to know that you do not have to baby sit every unit on the map. Another nice touch 
 is the fact that if you shoot and hit an infantry man with an exploding projectile, they actually 
 blow into pieces. Not a big selling point just a cool touch all together. Another nice touch that 
 probably goes unnoticed is the armor combat. When tanks are hit by other tanks or anti tank projectiles 
 not all of them do damage. Some will literally bounce off into the air, which adds to the realism 
 that is why tanks have sloped armor in the front to promote that. Another good touch is that when 
 armor is hit from the rear you get a damage bonus, which holds true to the technology of the day, 
 but also has its inaccuracies which I will discuss shortly. Now the bad, while the AI is very good 
 in a lot of ways when commanding multiple units things can get a little tricky. This is most prevalent 
 with the armored units, that whole rear armor damage bonus can get annoying when your units do 
 not face forward unless you tell them to. The biggest complaint that I have with this game is the 
 historically inaccurate balance of the armored units. If you know anything about WWII you know 
 that the Tiger was the premier tank of the day. Toe to toe in open field a Sherman could not handle 
 one PERIOD. There was a reason that Shermans were nicknamed purple heart boxes, when they tangled 
 with elite German armor (Panthers or Tigers) they got destroyed. So I found myself swearing more 
 than once when I had three Panthers get taken down by two Shermans, because in the normal course 
 of things that would not happen. Moving along, although I touted the AI earlier for being good 
 at problem solving on the fly, there is one major annoyance that comes into play during skirmish 
 mode. For whatever reason they love to turn out AT guns in mass, while good for the first time 
 you catch me off guard, all you have to do is retreat and flank them and the battle is pretty much 
 over. The campaign mode I was initially annoyed with how linear it was until I beat the game and 
 you get the story and end credits. After that I enjoyed the fact that they stayed true to the men 
 of this unit and filled you in on what happened to the unit after the final battle of the game. 
 So as a gamer I was disappointed but as the son of a veteran I was pleased to see that.
  
  So finally I will end all of this by saying a few final words. Do I think that this is the best 
 game ever no I do not. But the steps that have been taken graphically and in the AI department 
 definitely open the door for future RTS games. So whether you like the game, or want to be the 
 non-conformist saying that it is rehashed garbage that is up to you. But look back to other series 
 and see how far this game has brought the genre back to life so to speak, with the plethora of 
 WWII RTS games, not to mention all of the others that are out there all in all this game does a 
 pretty good job on all fronts. So if you read this trifle of a review and get something out of 
 it thank you, if you just want to send me messages saying that I bashed your game or thoughts well 
 go ahead with that too I really dont care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nokiakevj
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i've ever played. Yet, it lags my computer when put on medium/low 
 settings. i run on a Geforce 6800 and i have to put it on low setting to have a smooth game play 
 on on the D-DAY mission. i recommend this game to all the people who likes long games with powerful 
 video cards with a sense of patience ( very important!*) . the tutorial was easy to understand and 
 the gameplay is very good. i think some things that could've been improved was the time. anyone 
 mission can take up to 2+ hours to complete with full bonuses. like i said before, i recommend 
 this game to people who have powerful videocards and a sense of patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logggo267905
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  this is one game you will want to get if you've got a good RAM and video card.
  
  if you can bear the abysmal load times and occasional stubborness of online players like me, you 
 will absolutely adore the game. however, if you have a crappy RAM and bad video card, you shouldn't 
 buy this game. i will just list it briefly: the graphics are simply INCREDIBLE. in fact, place 
 this game on low graphics settings it will look better than some first person shooters on high 
 settings. thats how great they are (btw i was exaggerating) the gameplay is also mind-blowing. 
 the first mission will have you storming Omaha beach, starting it off with a Saving private ryan 
 style cutscene, and when the wave of americans get killed, you will get your first look at the 
 amazing in-game graphics of this game. you will get to command Tanks, Infantry, antitank guns, 
 call in airstrikes, airborne infantry, supply drops, and terrifying V1 rockets, just to list a 
 few. in one word, the gameplay is: wicked. Sound is just AMAZING. weapons sound just like their 
 real-life counterparts. maybe not the M1918 BAR, which sounds like a light switch being flipped 
 very quickly, and the sound of the american AntiTank howitzer, which sounds like a bottle rocket 
 going off, and a few more, but otherwise, the sound is frenetic. zoom in on the action, and you'll 
 feel like one of those poor american GI's terrified by the screaming noise of the German Nebelwerfer, 
 hear the telltale sound of Sherman tanks approaching, and hope to god you don't get caught in the 
 sights of one of the german Karabiner 98k's that is ripping the rest of your squads apart. probably 
 the most annoying thing about this game, and many, MANY other games out there, is the nail-bitingly 
 long load times. i can probably launch UT 2004, start a game, and beat it in the amount of time 
 it takes for this game to load (note: EXAGGERATION AGAIN [for all those idiots out there ] ) . with 
 a good RAM, it can take up to 2 minutes to load. with a RAM like mine (512 mb, which is really 
 NOT that good) 2 minutes is pretty lucky. if load times are your mortal enemy, i wouldn't suggest 
 getting this game. so there you have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJSpangler
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  The game is incredibly realistic with amazing graphics. The units interact perfectly with the map. 
 The entire map is destructable, when you bomb, mortar, shoot or detonate just about anything it 
 blows up and the map is permanently changed. Also, the commander like abilities are cool and semi 
 different from US and Axis side. For example you can specialize your skills toward your style of 
 play. US has infantry, air or tank based support skills. This makes it fun because if you choose 
 air you can drop in paratroops, artilery and bomb the enemy. The infantry tree is my favorite for 
 maps with bridges and lots of defensive points as you can call in Rangers and give your normal 
 rifleman the ability to make defenses, so they can set up sandbags and mines just about anywhere. 
 This really lets you set up your own defenses or traps for the enemy, definately goods stuff. Finally 
 the tank route is pretty explanator. The possibilies on the maps are endless. It is nice seeing 
 a RTS finally require some stradgey and thought these days. A WII instant classic. Only downside 
 is there arent a lot of maps. Check it out, you wont be dissapointed. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrenton2004
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  In the tradition of War-hammer 40k, Company of Heroes maintains a similar playing style: to obtain 
 resource points at strategic locations located though-out the map. These 3 types of resources consist 
 of Manpower, Munitions &amp; Fuel, and are used for purchasing units and performing upgrades. Resource 
 points can be upgraded to increase their through-put. Unit types are limited to ground assault 
 only, but you can call in air strikes and the like if certain Commander types are chosen &amp; 
 allocating command points to them. These points are earned naturally during game-play. There are 
 3 different commander types for both Allies &amp; Axis to choose from.
  
  The campaign is played as the Allies (Axis can be played in skirmishes &amp; network play) , and 
 each mission is varied enough to maintain interest through out. The in-game cut scenes are a nice 
 touch and look very decent considering its using the game engine.
  
  Graphics are close to the best seen on an RTS (if the video hardware is decent enough) . The level 
 of detail is quite impressive with all the graphical details switched on.
  
  The sound is also top-notch. They seem to have got the metallic effect when vehicles explode just 
 right and the sounds of incoming artillery gives the player a sense of dread.
  
  Computer AI is quite intelligent and when played in skirmish &amp; multi player is very challenging. 
 It quickly grabs half the map and then pushes hard to overcome the player. Also the CPU brings 
 in its tanks as early as it can, so bunkers need to be supported with anti-tank guns. It also has 
 the versatility to adjust its attack strategy in game, where it was pushing hard at a certain point, 
 it can change and adjust its direction of attack at another location. The one major shortcoming 
 of the AI is its in-ability to rebuild destroyed bridges (bridges can be rebuilt with the players 
 engineers/pioneers) . There are a few maps where bottle necks exist along bridges, and blowing these 
 out results in the computer player channeling its forces through the remaining pathway. If your 
 teaming up with buddies via network play &amp; want a challenging computer opponent (s) , the recommendation 
 is to select maps that have no bridges (or bottlenecks) . Eight is the maximum number of players 
 supported for network play.
  
  Game-play is a lot of fun. Selecting individual units allows the player to place them strategically 
 based on the terrain feedback tips, red/yellow/green showing which areas have better cover. There 
 is also the retreat option that gives the units a defense bonus and this triggers their return 
 to the player HQ. Re-enforcements can be called in, however this seemed to only be possible back 
 at HQ (or possibly at certain bunker types) . Units can be positioned to face certain directions 
 &amp; it is recommended this ability is used extensively since it can take a while for units to 
 turn (sometimes they just dont turn at all) . Unit path-finding in general was quite good, but 
 was frustrating in times. Resource management is a constant juggle, with manpower always (at least 
 initially) seeming to be the one in short supply. The unit cap could have been a little higher 
 (although this does increase a little as more resource points are captured)
  
  Overall I found this game to be very enjoyable, more so when teaming up with buddies against the 
 AI. Games can go for 2 hours each and you get a real kick out it when youve finally gained the 
 upper hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rachadi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  THIS WAS REALLY WHAT I'M LOOKING FOR!
  
  A REAL MASTERPIECE OF PURE STRATEGY COMBINING ALLMOST ALL THE ELEMENTS AND THE FACTORS OF A SUCCESSFUL 
 GAME...
  COMPANY OF HEROES IS INVOLVING PLAYERS TO TEST A NEW EXPERIENCE OF GAMI'N. A REAL ONE, MAYBE DIFFIRENT 
 FROM ANY OTHER SIMILAR GAMES.
  
  COMPANY OF HEROES OFFERS A NEW GENERATION OF STRATEGY GRAPHICS AND CONCEPT. THE GAME IS BASED ON 
 REAL TIME STRATEGY WITH A VERY DETAILED FIELDS AND TERRAINS FULL WITH SURROUNDING EFFECTS AND A 
 GREAT STORYLINE BASED UPON REAL HISTORICAL EVENTS.
  
  CONCERNING GAMEPLAY, IT'S REALLY A SOLID AMD A NEW ONE: CAMERA, TACTICS, OPTIONS. ACTIONS ARE TOTALY 
 REVOLUTIONARY!
  
  I DUNNO WHAT TO SAY MORE: YOU MUST TASTE IT BY YOURSELF ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  O. k, I bought this game, and I was thinking Another WW2 game, I wonder why people say it is so 
 good ... Well, I found that out in 1 hour.
  The gameplay here is just awesome, really, You actually feel like you are in the squad sometimes, 
 But sometimes you do the same thing Over and over again: Build an army, get resources, defeat the 
 enemy (and if need, repeat the process) . The sound is really good, and it fits all the time, as 
 it changes from a quiet, peaceful sound track, to a bomb full, man screaming, gun shooting action 
 full sound track.
  The Graphics here are AMAZING. I have nothing else to add, because it just describes it completely. 
 Overall, This game is just superb and you NEED to buy it. NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marko218
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game I also thought it was the most awesome RTS, but it is missing alot that 
 players have been loving with the earlier RTSs
  
  The Units are all superiorly done when it comes to grafics. The grafic simply is wonderfull, and 
 no other RTS has that good grafic as Company of Heroes. (atleast not yet)
  
  This grafic surely applies great gameplay, the units all fire their weapons and reload them like 
 it was in a real movie. There is nice blood and gore and sometimes even body parts fall of. Every 
 building can be entered or blow up or fall appart. This create some real intens action. The only 
 thing I actually dont like about all this is that the battles are at a very small scale. The units 
 are all expansive both in resources and in population. This might not seem as a big problem, but 
 for me it looks like a private gangsta conflict, not WAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sourjo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  A great game!! However to really enjoy it, you have to have a decent system. I am playing with 
 all graphics turned up as well as sound. Though this is a strategy game, at times when I zoom into 
 the middle of the battle, it feels as if I'm playing 3rd person action shooter! The explosions, 
 rifle fire, voices, etc are spot on too. The campaign missions are well thought out. You actually 
 have to use different strategies to win every mission. Massed mortars might serve you well in one, 
 tanks in another, ranger squads may prove key in yet another. The cut scenes are very well done 
 as well, another example of the awesome game engine graphics! While watching the cutscenes and 
 while playing the game, I kept recalling episodes from the Band of Brothers miniseries :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow, you know how annyoing it is that I am reviewing yet another WWII game. But actually, Company 
 of Heroes is an amazing game. Just look at it! You can tell its been worked on with a dedicated 
 team, and let me tell you, they're probably lovin th money they've gotten from this HOT new game.
 
  
  First off, the gameplay is simply some of the best in PC gaming around. Your troops, who are very 
 itelligent, do many things. One is, they take cover from enemies. In many other WWII strategy games, 
 trrops just stnad or go prone, but in this, they run for cover. They often have tactics too, like 
 running sideways and firings and ducking from fire while running. Its a great twist to the gameplay, 
 big time.
  
  The battlefields have come to life like never before. All the environments are destructible, and 
 look amazing. Even on a low mechine, it looks great, but on a nice one, HOLY ****! Its so awsome 
 looking and immerses you totally. THe battlefileds are very war torn like too. Buildings look crmbled, 
 streets look realistic for WWII times, whatever. No battlefield looks as tight.
  
  Now, soldiers in Company of Heroes look great as well. They look very acurate historically, and 
 they just look like a CG animation practically. Tanks and planes look just as great, with tons 
 of detail and great looking effects to attacking. (meaning they look cool when firing and fighting)
 
  
  The sound is so amazing too. The refreshment of OH MY GOSH SOMETHIGN JSUT BLEW UP THE LIVING ROOM 
 is here. Its that loud and chaotic. The greatness of the sound brings the battlefield to life just 
 as the environments do, and let me tell you, Company of Heroes nails it all.
  
  The multiplayer is also fantastic. You can play Online or via Lan, with friends or other people. 
 Its a lot of fun for multiplayer fans, but if you havn't really done multiplayer, you'll feel bad 
 that you didn't before.
  
  If you don't like strategy games, Company of Heroes won't make you like them, but for fans, its 
 a must have. You'll love the feel and realism in the game, and after you finish, you'll think you've 
 spent the best 50 bucks all year, unless you buy Geras of War or Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion.
  
  To sum it all up, Company of HEroes is an amazing game, but overall, its a technical masterpeice. 
 Company of Heroes is the true RTS game of the genre, and if you havn't played it, your really missing 
 out.
  
  a 9.4 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwlyons123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the best games I have played in a long time. It was well worth the wait. If you 
 liked Atari's Axis and Allies you will love this game. It actually combines Axis and Allies with 
 Blitzkrieg 2. Yet with better graphics. A few things I would have liked to see in the game was 
 the infantry able to dig trenchs or enginiers able to re-enforce buildings. Hopefully this will 
 be added in the expansion pack. Plus they more than likely will add more maps and vehicles. Even 
 with these short comings the game is a solid one and a must buy for any WWII buff. The other great 
 aspect of the game is the online part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Any production that receives as much pre-release press as Company of Heroes did typically has a 
 difficult time living up to all the hype. While there are certainly fans that consider it to be 
 the greatest RTS of all time, I feel that may be a bit of an overstatement. My restraint is not 
 due to any shortcomings in the game itself, but rather stems from my opinion that certain unique 
 aspects of CoH essentially creates an entirely new sub-genre: the fast-paced tactical RTS. Comparisons 
 to Age of Empires, Total War, or Command and Conquer are rather difficult (maybe even pointless) , 
 since Company of Heroes plays so differently from those venerable franchises. What CoH DOES do 
 with a huge degree of success is to revolutionize (or maybe evolutionize is a better word) a 
 couple of key elements that will forever change our expectations of what strategy games CAN be.
 
  
  Initially, the most noticeable evolution lies in the visual presentation. Im not a graphics snob, 
 but I do believe that enhanced visuals can make for a more engaging experience. The more realistic 
 the world looks and acts, the more absorbed I become in whats happening. With a fully destructible 
 environment, units to scale, and rag doll physics, zooming in on an artillery barrage yields an 
 almost tangible effect, while the kidney-rattling blasts intermixed with the desperate cries of 
 dying men produces a real sense of urgency. This contributes to a feeling that the units on the 
 screen are more than just chess pieces or pixels, and it makes the battles incredibly immersing.
 
  
  The second evolution lies in what I refer to as the games velocity. Traditionally, strategy games 
 have followed the same basic formulacapture territory and/or resources, research new technologies, 
 build new structures and/or military units, capture MORE territory, rinse and repeat. Now, while 
 all these elements are present (and important) in Company of Heroes, it is the difference in PACE 
 that sets it apart. Throughout most of the game, the action is fast and furious, and fans of the 
 more methodical base-building approach may find this speed a little frustrating at first. Aggression 
 is encouraged, and in the case of CoH, the best defense is definitely a good offense. Taking the 
 time to build too many defensive structures can spell disaster, as a player can find his flanks 
 being over-run by an enemy advance. This is particularly true in the games multi-player mode, 
 but more on that later.
  
  Even though the single player Campaign is an awesome experience, ironically, it also proves to 
 be the weakest aspect of Company of Heroes. In games like the Total War series, the Grand Campaign 
 provides a plethora of options, while the Historical Battles (or skirmishes) involve pre-determined 
 factions, units, tech-trees (if any) , etc. In CoH, the reverse is true. In the Skirmish mode, although 
 there are only 2 factions available (Allies and Axis) , both of them have three mutually exclusive 
 Command, or Doctrine, options to chose from, each providing distinctly different capabilities. 
 In addition, the full tech tree is available, maps are wide open, and the player is free to choose 
 their own course of action. The Campaign, on the other hand, is pretty tightly scripted, especially 
 for an RTS. The only faction available is (obviously) the Allies, the Command option is pre-determined 
 in all but a couple of missions, and a good deal of the tech tree capabilities are disabled through 
 a majority of the campaign. All this means the player is actually somewhat limited in their options, 
 and given these limitations, successfully completing the Campaign once leaves little desire to 
 play thru again.
  
  Most players will probably find more replay value in the games Skirmish mode, which provides 15 
 maps with options for 1v1 up to 4v4 scenarios, with the computer controlling the additional factions. 
 In comparison to the Campaign missions, the Skirmish mode is fairly difficult. The AI is relentless, 
 and first timers will find a challenge even on Easy difficulty. Because all options are open in 
 the Skirmish maps, the player is free to experiment with different strategies, tactics, Command 
 or Doctrine options, units, etc. This makes multiple play-throughs of the maps much more interesting 
 than it would be for the Campaign missions. Having said that although Skirmish offers many hours 
 of gaming goodness, eventually even this can get old, as there are some inherent weaknesses in 
 even the Expert AI.
  
  If there is a particular jewel in the Company of Heroes package, it can be found in the on-line 
 element. Relics servers and ranking system, although somewhat buggy at this time, have already 
 attracted a large number of loyal fans who meet on the skirmish maps for intense head to head combat, 
 and the matches between ranked players are almost as much fun to watch as they are to play. To 
 the uninitiated, viewing such a match may lead to the conclusion that the players are simply utilizing 
 the spam-and-rush tactics that are often criticized in other on-line RTS games. However, such 
 an assessment would be a serious understatement of the subtle strategies being applied; its like 
 describing a professional boxing match as two guys trying to hit each other. CoH was purposely 
 designed to favor an aggressive offense, while discouraging an overly defensive style of play. 
 Just as there is a sweet science in boxing, so, too in Company of Heroes MP. The key lies in 
 striking the proper balance between securing critical resources and denying them to the opposing 
 player, and contestants continuously jab, parry, advance and retreat in probing for weaknesses. 
 The frenetic action forces combatants to constantly re-evaluate their position, and the most successful 
 are able to quickly make decisions that allow them to exploit any mistakes made by their opponents. 
 Although matches occasionally last an hour or more, usually they are decided in around thirty minutes, 
 and it is this velocity that makes CoH: MP the most exciting on-line RTS available at the present 
 time.
  
  The Bottom Line: although the pace may not be to everyones liking, at the very least, strategy 
 fans will find Company of Heroes an entertaining experience simply because it breaks away from 
 the traditional RTS format. Even if youre not interested in the MP aspect, the single player Campaign 
 and Skirmish modes are easily worth the price of admission. And if your taste DOES run towards 
 frenetic, challenging, no-quarter-given MP combat, then buck up, soldierthe war is waitin on 
 YOU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davez82
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  After playing through the demo, i wasn't that all impressed, i saw the game on sale cheap and decided 
 to get it. I couldn't stop playing, literally this game is great. If you loved war hammer 40k you'll 
 love this game. Magnificent explosions, gibs and flying corpses, what else could you ask for
  
  The only downside is this game is sort of a resource hog, similar to the age of empires engine, 
 if you turn bloom on prepare for a huge performance hit.
  
  If you love explosions and flying corpses this game will do, if your system is old then i recommend 
 warhammer 40k. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbreber
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  It is for me best game in this year, and that&acute; s it.
  This was my first RTS game I ever played and as soon I saw preview I sad I&acute; m not gona miss 
 this one .
  Game is simply perfect in every aspect you look. COH has the gameplay sistem that is so easy to 
 use even for someone who never played RTS before. After only 2-3 missions you can with no problem 
 keep up with fighting on several fronts in the same time (Germans couldn&acute; t) . You don&acute; t 
 hve to worry aboute single soldier cause thay fight as team and if they are fired on, they will 
 find cover and hit back.
  Enviorment is stoy of it&acute; s one. You can blast every thing to peaces, use buildings as cover 
 and it look&acute; s great.
  Best thing aboute game is engine. Although game can be pretty demanding had no beef with it cause 
 it realy look&acute; s great. Level of details is realy something if you zoom in max. Explosions 
 and other visual details like cut sceens are great to. My best part of the game is gameplay that&acute; s 
 realy so easy and although I in general don&acute; t like RTS games, COH made a breakthrough in 
 my gaming habbits.
  Something fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Relic has had a huge success with their strategy game Dawn of War, including its expansion pack. 
 So when they announced that they where making a strategy game playing out in the World War 2, we 
 were all very excited. But Relic managed to break out of the crowd and make a fantastic appearance 
 as one of the best strategy games ever!
  
  Company of Heroes is breathtaking in its sheer beauty. The game is the best looking strategy game 
 to date. The huge attention to detail is very impressive, and the destructible environments are 
 awesome. Everything can be blown to peaces and this makes the action a lot more exciting. I mean, 
 you can see every soldier blink! That's incredible!
  
  Relic has also worked a lot with the sounds. The music is good, but ends up being mostly the same 
 as other WW2 games. The sound effects on the other hand are quite extraordinary. Your soldiers 
 cry out for help, and if they're far away you'll hear them on the radio, which is awesome! Hearing 
 the tank cannon blow of someones roof is very satisfying. So don't be shy, just pump up the volume.
 
  
  CoH plays out as most other strategy games. The game has many likenesses with Dawn of War. You 
 have to capture strategic points to earn resources, and there are also three different strategic 
 points: ammo, fuel and requisition. This works just as well as it does in Dawn of War, and it feels 
 much more right for a strategy war game. They don't chop wood or collect money in the war, they 
 capture ground, and defend positions. This works perfectly, it keeps you on your toes and it forces 
 you to push forward. You can also call for back up with a simular system as in C&amp; C Generals 
 and Battle for Middle Earth. The game features a fantastic campaign with 15 intense and varied 
 missions. They are all a lot of fun and not anything like playing skirmish. The objectives you 
 get are realistic and very exciting. The story is told through videos between the missions, which 
 uses the great in-game graphics. The game also features videos where a story teller is giving facts 
 of what really happened during the war. This is awesome, and you actually learn a couple of things 
 while playing through the game. Company of Heroes is a fantastic strategy game, and I recommend 
 it to every fan of the strategy game genre or world war 2 games. +
  Insane graphics accompanied by some breathtaking sound effects. The music is also good and creates 
 a great mood together with the many campaign videos. Capturing strategic points works great. -
 
  Only two different factions. Few skirmish maps (likely to be released many more) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smallone85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  It seems like there are gaps in years for video games. In the mid to late 90's there was a plethora 
 of great video games. Strategy games were in their prime Warcraft and Starcraft were both being 
 played online and in lans everywhere. The Command and Conquer series was producing great titles, 
 Homeworld came out and released another level to strategy games by effectively adding a third axis 
 of gameplay. Myth was still in the front of everyones collection and times were good, but like 
 everything those times ended during the MMO era. Blizzard left most of behind when they stopped 
 making Starcraft, C&amp; C had a First person shooter and so did Bungie, who also sold the rights 
 off to another company who made a sad attempt at Myth 3.
  
  Fortunately there has begun to be some light in these dark strategy times. Relic has been leading 
 the crest of the wave of new strategy games. With both their Dawn of war and now Company of Heroes. 
 Company of Heroes feels a lot like its older brother, but has a few very inviting features. Squads 
 can now gain experience which focuses players on not throwing men away. Also vehicles have weak 
 and hard points and position and elevation are now a lot more important than ever. The destructible 
 buildings feature is a needed item and is also a great way to clear a building of entrenched enemies. 
 Also its nice to see two sides that play completely different. The single player in the game allows 
 you to only play as the Allies but in multiplayer you can also play as the Axis. The Axis are extremely 
 different from the Allies and the tactics that once guaranteed you victory with the Allies will 
 not work with the Axis.
  
  The audio in the game is good and the immersion is on level with most good games out there now. 
 The graphics are superb and it really feels like you are destroying the French countryside and 
 urban areas. This is just another great title from Relic, a little easy but still a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefferson1964
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  i dont know if its worth $60 but if your into ww2 and like rts its worth the price. visually its 
 amazing best ive seen. however, as a rts it lacks because you can only be americans and its a preset 
 ending and not a true open ended rts game that allows playing of different sides and possibly different 
 outcomes. Also, the system requirements are high and to really enjoy the top notch graphics you 
 really need a top notch graphics card. Ive not played online so cannot say much about that but 
 from what ive read it seems good since at least you can play both sides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daraceth
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Truely The Best Game I Think I have Ever PLayed it blew my mind by the way taht the gave the soldiers 
 some artifical intelligence. Not Only is it brilliant to play but to watch is like your're sitting 
 in a war movie. The Amount of effort that seems to have gone into this game seems like they spent 
 every wakeing minute the had to work. It is a marvoulous game and if you like world war games but 
 u just that it was rater stupid how people could damage tanks then i think you would probabley 
 like this one....... Just try the demo and you'll be addicted :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themanofsteel99
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a Real Time Strategy game that is set during the invasion of Normandy, putting 
 you in the shoes of Americans, and ultimately that is the biggest hindurance of this game. This 
 is much acclaimed game that I thought deserved a pickup, considering I haven't played a good RTS 
 since Warcraft 3, I felt after reading the reviews that this game was well worth a chance. Overall 
 I was left with mixed emotions of this game, and the thought of what could have been.
  
  The game is stunning visually. I just bought a brand new PC, and I got a chance to play this game 
 maxed out and felt it was just amazing to look at.
  You can actually feel as if you're on the battlefield, the explosion, the destruction of buildings, 
 just about every single thing, from a visual aspect is amazing to look at. To top it off, the physics 
 engine, leaves nothing to be desired. Superb I must say, making the gameplay infectious, and something 
 that just keeps pulling you in. Explosions have effects that they would have in real life, the 
 shooting, just about everything with the gameplay is bang on.
  
  However, as a warning this game is not for those whom are not too fond of micro management, special 
 massive micro management, where talking stuff like Age of Empires 2 here. So much so that there 
 is no time to spare, you have to keep a close eye on everything, from your production units to 
 most importantly your combat units. But at the same time, that level of attention gives this game 
 soo much depth that, it is well worth giving it a try.
  
  From the sound aspect, you'll feel that it makes the experience enjoyable, and gives it a rounder 
 image. The sound is bang on, as well as humorous, the swearing will do the trick and most of the 
 time, the soldiers will give you hints as to what's going on, whether they are being attacked and 
 pinned, or if they are being shelled. Relic did a bang on job, and to be honest the presentation 
 is just marvelous and should be a benchmark for how good the presentation of an RTS game can be.
 
  
  However, with that being said the biggest fault of this game is it's depth outside of the presentation. 
 The Campaign although being extremely fun, and with suck you up, was for the most part, one sided 
 and failed to give the player the German perspective. That is a major flaw, seeing as after the 
 campaign is done, players are left up to themselves to try and learn the Axis.
  
  Another problem is why call it the Allies? I mean you're only playing as the American, and to be 
 honest, there are just two factions in this game. That lack of depth kills the game, and makes 
 this a short experience that will turn players off. Yes that is all fine and dandy, but there's 
 no variation. The game could have flourished to levels unprecedented if it contained other factions 
 like the British/Canadians, and other parts of the German war machine at the time. That lack of 
 depth makes this game a short, flat experience that will eventually wain on most players, and will 
 bore them.
  
  That lack of content effectively kills the multiplayer. Not to mention, for a genre that is notorious 
 for it's ability to mod, this game just strikes out in that category. Although not experiencing 
 any myself, I have heard of horrendous multiplayer problems, that just add to problems of depth. 
 Like I mentioned before, players will be turned off at the experienced, and after a while, just 
 give up altogether.
  
  This game is an example of what could have been. Consider if this game had the variation of Warcraft 
 3, I would be sitting here talking about the Game of Year candidate, however the lack of depth 
 just kills it. Superb presentation, best I've seen since Warcraft 3. Whether or not this game is 
 given the expansion pack treatment, it remains to be seen. It certaintly has the ability, and could 
 give a variation that could make it stand out. Due to all these reasons, expect this game to be 
 a serious contender for the Best Game No One Bought . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Challenger52
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Company of Heros is the breakthrough RTS game we have all been waiting for. If the extremely high 
 reviews (PC Gamer 96%, IGN 9.4 Gamespot 90 and so on) do not impress you than take my word for 
 it. This is the best game to come out in years, let alone RTS. Why is this game so good? Let me 
 explain.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on this game are astounding. The characters are greatly detailed, the terrain 
 is vivid and alive, and the explosions make me duck for coverok maybe I dont duck for cover but 
 you know what I mean. The games graphics set it aside from any other RTS game to date, and its 
 definitely this games high point. Not to mention the game has a TON of cut scenes through the campaign, 
 and they are a joy to watch and add to the emotional experience.
  
  One of the most impressive things about this game is the terrain and what happens to it. When a 
 game is fresh, trees stand tall and buildings tower over the ground. At the end of the game trees 
 are toppled and buildings are desolated. Everything in the environment can be destroyed, thanks 
 to your clicking finger.
  
  Sound: Brilliant sounding fire fights, explosions make my house shake. Its extremely well polished 
 and crisp. The squads will cry, scream, yell, curse, encourage, and cheer. The sound is perfect 
 in this game.
  
  Computer AI: Computer AI has always been a low point in RTS games. The AI in Company of Heros 
 is so good, that I spent most of my games in skirmishes and not online. The computer feels very 
 smart but not to the point where its cheating. The AI flanks you, dodges grenades, and just overall 
 fun as hell to play against.
  
  It's nearly too hard to achieve all the Medals in the campain. But makes me feel little proud.
 
  
  Well there you go, thats just a sample of the great things to expect in Company of Heros. There 
 are so many more things I could sit here and write about, but frankly I want to get back to the 
 game!
  
  Cheers - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Ok, without too much words the game is really great. It is a bridge between the Sudden Strike Series 
 and usual RTS games (meaning resource gathering, unit production etc) . And it does the work perfectly. 
 On the top levels of difficulty it is great for multiplayer as everyone rushes to get things done 
 first and sometimes fails. More maps are needed though, hopefylly in the future there would be 
 an add-on with more factions of that era. The special units and different doctrines work really 
 nice. I haven't encountered any problems at all when I played the game in the newest version.
 
  I would recommend this game in an instant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  The moment you start playing this game, you are instantly hooked. Company of Heroes brings a unique 
 trench warfare style that seperates it from any other Real-time strategy. The graphics are incredibly 
 detailed, from pints of blood being spilled, to debris being torn of vehicles and buildings, such 
 a sight is quite impressive to behold. The sound is nearly as incredible as the graphics; it almost 
 makes you feel like you are in the battle. The only downside to this RTS Marvel is the hardware 
 it requires to sustain good gameplay; you are going to need a very capable computer to run it well. 
 Despite this, Company of Heroes has very few blemishes on a trully mezmirizing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izzi_whizzi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  Ok, will keep this simple and to the point!
  
  Nice looking game - good use of in game engine to set the time and place.
  The campaign well 
 not really that difficult - but fun none the less, if somewhat limit?
  
  Only two sides to choose from  Americans and Germans (Germans also seem to have some very dodgy 
 accents) Skirmish mode and multi player, well thats different in skirmish mode against the PC 
 - I would say quite difficult (even on normal setting) - not so much for the strategy but more 
 about pathway issues concerning the deployment of men this is something you will also notice in 
 the campaign. Men often run into the line of enemy fire when deploying to a location  so you have 
 to be careful about that, and dont always seem to choose the most direct path when deploying to 
 an allocated location either. Engineers also seem to have problems concerning barbed wire often 
 you will find them trapped by their laid wire - frustrating I can tell you.
  
  Have to say as well cant really see the point of the high resource command units as most of the 
 time you wont even have the time or the resources to make any use of them, especially in the command 
 mode where its set at 500 points.
  
  Game play does not favor defensive style of play  focus is very much on front line combat and 
 being in the thick of it most of the time.
  
  I think also there is a slight unbalanced feel concerning multi play as its too easy for the Germans 
 to begin manufacturing heavy armor  even though I guess if you go with airborne infantry then 
 you stand a better chance. Dont bother so much with trying to make tanks on the allies side  
 it takes too long! All in all the game is quite fun  but frustrating as well. I would say give 
 it a try if a) You have a hefty machine that can deal with this fairly system hungry game b) And 
 if you like world war 2 games  its certainly entertaining J 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gotenssj500
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is just so overly awesome, that I will try to write up a review about how much this game 
 rocks.
  
  Okay , so I'll break it down into 5 parts as usual.
  
  Presentation: 9
  This game pulled me into the game like none other has. After the first or second mission I thought 
 I was in a movie, being the director. Every battle seems to be the last. From bullets twirling 
 through the air to frogs jumping in the lakes, this game has got it all, man. Graphics: 8
  While the graphics and the huge variety of effects make this game look as good as ever, the frame 
 rate seems to be average at best for some users. The same goes for me. I mean, I can run Oblivion 
 almost without any slowdown at all, but CoH just seems to work a lot less smoothly for some video 
 cards. Oh well.
  
  Sound: 10
  Holy hell! As I said, there are bullets, explosions, crumbling buildings, burning oil and even 
 tanks make a special noise when driving over muddy areas. This game is music to the ears. Well, 
 at least for the ears of war fanatics, who will get everything they need to hear from this game.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  THQ yet again presents us with a clever barrage of gameplay mechanics. You can send some troops 
 into buldings to hide out and the snipers have their own league even. The campaign mode usually 
 lets you go through amazing battles which only seem like you're not playing, but there is a lot 
 more strategy to it. In skirmish mode, the main objective is to capture the main flags of a map. 
 There are also lots of other points and flags to capture that give your army the bonuses they need. 
 While leveling up during battle you can also choose between 3 classes of which commander you want 
 to be. Axis and Allies have each 3 different classes.
  
  Overall: 9
  This game just brings so much to the table. It may have some slowdowns for only some graphics cards, 
 but that won't stop you from playing this wonderful game. The computer is really tough to beat. 
 The campaign mode is long enough to keep you going and thinking through each level.
  
  I recommend you to buy this game. If you're not sure if your graphics card is ideal for this, then 
 first rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clauzer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Go get this game!!!!!!! Great graphics, nice dificulty, sound... AMAZING!!!!
  This game worth every single penny you invest in it.
  
  Even if you don't have a supreme gaming 
 PC*I tested it in a friend's PC and everything but the cinemas run smooth* so don't hesitate!!! 
 go get it!!!!!
  
  If you are into RTS and I mean true RTS Company of Heroes is THE game you looking for =D. I hope 
 they release one more title because this one is a Masterpiece.
  
  So GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO 
 GO GG GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO
  BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smeach
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  All right.... first off. People always want something? What was it again? Oh yeah! REALISM! If you 
 get hit with a mortar shell in World War II, you're probably going to explode into tiny bits. Thats 
 exactly what you do in this game. My favorite part of the game is the PHYSICS. Fully destructible 
 environments (no joke) . And to see rag doll germans fly through the air! Man thats classic! You 
 have the basic campaign starting you off as Able Company, a platoon who has to fight there way 
 through Normandy, Caretean (didnt spell it right did I?) , and other battle strictin' areas throughout 
 Europe. Now to me personally the strong point is the SKIRMISHES. I love setting up matches and 
 saving them, to play another time. To replay the heroic battle you played only an hour ago (*laughs*) . 
 Seriously, if you have a good computer, and the dough to spend for everything else, simple, you 
 should have this. Or not even reading this cause your playing it. Oh yeah! A 10 / 10. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCOOTERDUDE
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  For not always being a fan, I really enjoyed this THQ game. For once the AI was not completely 
 dumb. I like the graphics of the game. They are quite impressing. I like the sound that the game 
 has. It brings a sense of realism to the game. The multiplayer part is pretty fun when it works. 
 Sometimes it gets pretty annoying when you cannot connect to players for no reason at all. As for 
 most game out there, the language is not that great. But over all it is a fun game and a good WWII 
 RTS. I would rate it a 8.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benbob320
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  FACTS
  Great sound
  Great graphics
  Good AI
  Single Player campaign 14 missions at 30 minutes a piece= 7 hours
  Single player campaign is 
 fun but short lived
  Multiplayer and Skirmish is like playing the same mission over and over
  Unbalanced gameplay 
 in Multiplayer and Skirmish
  Only buy if you want to spend 50 dollars for 7 hours of fun
  
  The game is great but if you plan on playing this online or thinking the skirmish will work 
 properly change your mind. There really isnt anything new to the game its just a standard RTS ( 
 resource gathering, and building) which really gets old after awhile, particulary if you play skirmish 
 mode in which the germans dominate (Tanks is all you need) . Graphics are really good in the game 
 its just to bad that you wont zoom in on your soldiers fighting becuase its unpratical during a 
 firefight in order to manage the fighting. Basically the game is all flash but no substance so 
 dont belive the hype and certainly dont trust the 9.0 grade its been given 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbazabba1977
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  This used to be one of my favorite games to play. Up until recently I enjoyed this game tremendously. 
 Now it has become a multiplayer nightmare. The two forces on this game are so unblanced it makes 
 the game unenjoyable. I hope they patch this soon because I have spoke with many players who feel 
 the same way. If they can fix this I will be playing the game again. It has got to the point where 
 it's just too frustrating to play this game anymore. It's a shame because the games has a certain 
 greatness to it. Now it shall just collect dust, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robo_arm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Beautiful, it's been so long sense I found a great strategic game with an amazing story positive 
 feedback associated encourage.......... . . . ... strategics are great improved graphics, gameplay 
 enhancements, and more real-time strategy series just a great  
 you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on THE COMPANY 
 INTRODUCTION QUALITY &amp; QUALITY POLICY FACILITIES.
  
  Beautiful, it's been so long sense I found a great strategic game with an amazing story positive 
 feedback associated encourage.......... . . . ... strategics are great improved graphics, gameplay 
 enhancements, and more real-time strategy series just a great  
 you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on THE COMPANY 
 INTRODUCTION QUALITY &amp; QUALITY POLICY FACILITIES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacius
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely AMAZING! When I first started to read about it, I was a little skeptical 
 at first, seeing how some RTSs have worked toward what they promised, but never delivered. But 
 then I played it and was blown away at everything about the game. This is the perfect RTS for anyone. 
 I highly recommend it and say that you should definitely get the game! Best RTS of the year! The 
 AI is amazing, and the way that the buildings are blown apart is sheer genius! Right up there with 
 Starcraft and Warcraft III! Play this game
  -peacius 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveinosaka
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I'll begin by validating my position: I've been playing computer games since the 1970's. That's 
 quite a while, and that's quite a lot of games played. Most of what I've played in these thirty 
 or so years are RTS and/or FPS games. Very few games have caught my complete attention before, 
 and I've never wriiten a review about one. But after seeing the negative comments about this game 
 (even from some who dabbled in only a mission or skirmish) I felt compelled to add my opinion.
 
  
  COH is awesome. It's challenging. It's difficult -- even in easy mode. And it's taking up quite a 
 bit of my very limited and valuable time. (It's past one a. m. now, and I must work tomorrow {I'm 
 a cop] .) And a husband. A dad.
  
  Some reviewers wrote it takes too long to load. Some wanted to commit suicide while waiting. Others 
 wrote it's too easy. All they did was send reinforcements at the enemy. My computer is a nothing-special, 
 over two years old Dell, and everyting runs fine. PC games take a while to load. I've very frequently 
 played others that take longer to load. (PC games of quality often have much to load. We know this, 
 don't we?) And as I wrote above: this game is not particularly easy.
  
  So, buy it. Play it. Love it. Sleep, eat, kiss your wife, kids or mother. Don't kill yourself. 
 It's usually a messy cleanup and trust me: it sucks informing family and friends of a suicide. 
 Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pak59
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I am just not the agile young pup I was long ago when it comes to RTS games because the AI 
 kicks the poo out of me in this game on normal mode. I really do love this game, one of the best 
 to come along in a long while. I can play skirmish mode all day and I never get bored, despite 
 getting WTFPWNED by the AI all the time. I guess I just need more practice. However overall this 
 game rocks, it is a good buy even if I am a total noob who can not even handle the AI on normal 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RB-Hannibal
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  Company of heroes is a real time strategy game in a World War II setting. In the campaign mode 
 you play the amerikans and you have to fight your way through Normandy in 20 scenario's. The first 
 thing that you will notice is that the graphics and sounds of the game are amazing. The game really 
 gives you the feeling that you are actually fighting a World War II battle. Next to that the missions 
 objectives are quit different, the vary from storming the Omaha beaches, defend the city of Carentan, 
 take out flak guns with a few airborne squads or blowing up a V2 launching platform.
  The most impressive mission for me was the one where you had to defend a hill for 30 minutes. The 
 artillery fire, the pinned down position, the overwhelming Germans troops, the intense fighting 
 really sucks you into the game. Besides the campagne of the amerikans you can plays skirmish games 
 against computer or in multi-play against human opponents. In skirmish games you can choose between 
 the two sides. Each side depending on the size of the map excist out of 1 to 4 players. In my oppinion 
 the skirmish mode is harder than the campagne especially because from the start you have to capture 
 resource points all over the map. This will give you no time to sit back and build up a force because 
 than the opponent will smack you down.
  
  Although it is a great game there are some negative points. First point is that you can only play 
 two sides. The Amerikans or the Germans. But I am sure that Relic will come with expansion with 
 more sides, for example the English, Russians or Japanese troops.
  The second minor point is the relative low unit capacity. Of course this is limited due to the 
 high graphics but still i would like to see some more man out on the field.
  
  Concluding I would say that this is a real great game. If you like RTS and the World War II setting 
 this game is really worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Przem0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a Real Time Strategy that covers American campaign in Europe during the world 
 war 2. Basically we can start our game from tutorial, campaign, skirmish or in multiplayer mode. 
 Campaign mode is well designed, not too long or too short with adjustable difficulty levels. It 
 is designed in such a way, that to the very end new options and units are introduced to our attention. 
 A significant number of units and options make it hard to leave the game even for a second. Most 
 of the units can be upgraded and so we get to control engineers able to lay mines and build defensive 
 structures, plus they can be upgraded with flamethrower which makes clearing out buildings easy 
 and fun. It is worth of noticing that buildings can and will be destroyed during fights, the same 
 will happen to the field. Heavy tank fire will populate terrain with craters that make great protection 
 for our infantry. Oh yeas, they have brains of their own to some extent. No longer will our boys 
 stand in front of a tank trying to force its armor with pistols while being under heavy fire. They 
 will get on the ground and try to take cover behind a wall or in a crater. And other thing. In 
 this game if you think that infantry light machine guns will penetrate tanks armor, prepare to 
 be surprised. We really get great control over battlefield and all our units, plus while killing 
 enemy we earn points that we can spend to call in support off the map like heavy tanks or Shermans 
 with rocket launchers. Gameplay is well balanced and gives a lot of field for experiments and using 
 different tactics.
  Mission vary from simple base building, through hunting missions where you have to destroy panzer 
 ace to some individual actions at night where you have to destroy something with the squad of highly 
 trained paratroopers. Missions have primary and secondary objectives plus some additional ones 
 for which you get medals.
  
  Moving on to the graphics. Well, its at least amazing. People are detailed better than in some 
 FPS games, you can see loads of small details of their uniforms, you know which one of them has 
 panzershreck, visual effects are truly amazing. Smokes, explosions, gorgeous vehicles, looking 
 at them at maximum magnification took at least few first hours of the game. Sound effects are on 
 the same level graphics is. All explosions, heavy machine guns, mortars, anti tank guns, motors 
 of vehicles are superb. When the hell breaks loose you are overwhelmed by gunshots, firing rockets, 
 infantry shouting that it has been pinned and my all time favorite Sherman taking hits!. If you 
 add this graphics and sound together rest assured that you will lock everyone else outside your 
 room and waste at least few nights fighting Germans. Fight is very intense even for a RTS and very 
 addictive.
  
  Unfortunately, we will be able to play Germans only in Multiplayer mode or skirmish. It is a shame, 
 because they play way different and even more interesting. Units are more expensive, but better. 
 They dont get as many upgrades as their adversaries, they have greater variety of units. Playing 
 the game only with allied forces is like playing the game half way through. It is good to play 
 German side in multiplayer or at least skirmish just because of the look on friends face when 
 a Panzer Kampf Wagen VI Tiger and few PzKpfW V Panther enter his base. Priceless.
  Multiplayer is plain fun and if you dont have friends on the internet with CoH or LAN, you better 
 get one of those.
  
  Game is great and everything about it is great. Relic took everything that was great about their 
 Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War and made it even better in world war II style. In my opinion a must 
 for RTS lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangel_19
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Company Heroes is a great game to all the gamers who enjoys RTS games. The gameplay is highly addictive 
 and very easy to learn. The game is pretty detailed when it came to the vehicles and weapons for 
 each unit. I just wish there were other ones besides the Germans and the Americans.... like Russian, 
 Italian, or even the English. This is how the next gen RTS games should feel or play like.... the 
 game is a must play, especially if you like playing RTS games!
  
  I hope next time they do an RTS game based in WWII.... they do one in the Pacific Area.. like the 
 battles for Iwo Jima, the Philippines, Saipan, Okinawa.. etc! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esikhafan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  First of all we go to graphic part, No strategic game until now had a graphic such as this! all 
 of the the troops, environment, etc has been individually made.
  in sound it's very good I cant say anything else about it!!
  game play has some problems but 
 it's still great .
  the part which you really want to kill yourself in it is loading parts, I realy want to hang my 
 self before it ends!! It takes ages to load a map!
  in game you can zoom az much as you want some times it just looks like a WWII FPS game .
  like 
 none other strategic game you can't just make troops and send them to the war to win the game, 
 you nust have a strategy to win it eg. if you dont have any tanks it's impossible to go through 
 enemies firing line such as tanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornyfool
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks! Now you're able to fully utilize your environment, such as ensuring your men are 
 under cover or are well shielded - the main factor that will decide whether they live or die. Charge 
 your men towards tanks with sticky bombs, and then use the carcass of the tank as a barricade. 
 The environment is ever changing, buildings blowing and walls being crushed by tanks .This will 
 keep you on your toes, as you will have to change your initial plans in a blink of an eye.
  
  Drop supplies to your men, ensure that you upkeep your supply line, hide snipers in isolated 
 buildings, plant tanks behind trees and ambush convoys.
  
  Enjoy this game, I know you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cymbol
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  Not a history buff, and cannot comment on the historical accuracy of this game. I have found, however, 
 that the single player campaign to be too rigid, there are set objectives and no possibilities 
 to branch to alternate timelines based on your choices. Nor can you play Axis.
  
  I had quit around map 7 of the campaign, as I got bored with the resource management, the base 
 defense, the population control. These are fine, but we have already experienced them many times 
 over in past games. The graphics are nice, the sounds are great, but I was really looking for a 
 different game, not an old game with new graphics/sounds.
  
  I hardly felt that I had an impact in the world, as I played from map to map, each one seeming 
 disjoint from the previous. The discontinuity in traditional RTS games is getting old, no? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is just an absolutely great RTS. When you start up the game you just dive right 
 into the story and the interface is, in my opinion, very easy to use. The multi-player had some 
 flaws but the recent patch fixed it, although low on content, the graphics make up for that. Since 
 there are only 2 sides, some people may think it would get boring after a few months of playing, 
 but it's not the graphics just make you want to play over and over again. With the recent patch 
 adding the map editor, I'm sure that will lengthen the life-time of this game. I really love Company 
 of Heroes because I'm a fan of WWII RTS games that have a uniqueness to it. Although CoH may be 
 graphically demanding it really is worth getting a new card to experience the explosions without 
 a drop in FPS. A few more game modes wouldn't harm anyone, other than that CoH is a wonderful game 
 in every way a RTS can be.
  
  For all you people that read the reviews below 7, they're just new to RTS games and think we're 
 all WW2 fan boys. Get this game, no matter what even if they tell you not to! Remember, every game 
 has a flaw and all those haters are bashing the flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjddoogg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  dont let the complete fools who gave this game an 8 or lower distract u from the truth- this is 
 the best game ever, period. one of the most amazing parts of this game is its graphics, which are 
 absolutely unbelievable. when u zoom in on buildings and especialy soldiers, it looks like something 
 out of a far cry game. the gameplay is also extreemly fun, and im finding it hard to stop playing 
 this game... it is quite challenging, though, even on normal difficulty. another amazing thing 
 about the game is how the units use cover. cover is the biggest part of any firefight... whoevers 
 got better cover will probably win. this makes the game even more strategic and extreemly realistic. 
 i loved the warcraft rts games but they werent realistic in that every shot or arrow found its 
 mark. in this game bullets are flying everywhere, and its more like a real person would shoot
 
  the only downfall is in its only 2 factions, but im sure relic will issue and expansion pack soon 
 to cover up this defect
  basically BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes set in the time of World War 2, which I like the battle in other First Person 
 Shooter series, but now is out on Real Time Strategy genre, which I don't really like, but after 
 playing this game, it changed my mind. This game will change most of the people who don't like 
 Real Time Strategy game, because it just blow you away.
  
  GAMEPLAY: What can I say...? I don't care about the long loading time, because it is so addictive, 
 you build your squad, complete through mission by mission. Enemy AI was so smart that they even 
 change strategy to defend or attack you. You need your squad to take cover to attack your enemy, 
 your squad take too much damage can pinned down your squad, you need to retreat or wait for reinforcement.
 
  
  GRAPHICS &amp; SOUNDS: Use the same engine as Dawn Of War, the graphics and sounds still very nice. 
 The cinematics of the game was so cool!!! The in game graphics also very nice, you can see blood 
 when you shot down a soldier.
  
  FINAL VERDICT: Company of Heroes' gameplay, graphics, sounds and cinematics show this game will 
 be best RTS game and probably best PC games of 2006.
  
  Pros: Everything
  
  Cons: nothing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The game plays excellent in CoH. There are some very intuitive additions from normal RTSs. I was 
 able to enjoy the game with most of the visual effect and setting at the max. Graphics:
  
  The graphics for a RTS are outstanding. There isnt anything bad to say about them. I was really 
 impressed when I got the game and started playing it. They seem to be the best graphics I have 
 seems in a RTS to date.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in COH is pretty good, not that I spend much time listening to the music while Im being 
 shot at.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  The replay value on the single player mode is, not bad. With the ability to play online takes the 
 replay value over the top. I dont see this game being pulled off my play list for a while.
  
  Recommend ? :
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone, even those who are not into RTS 
 type games. This game may even be able to bring new people into the RTS scene. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I, personally, didn't follow the preview of this game at all, as it was about another game with 
 WWII theme once again. I didn't even read the review, I didn't anticipate this game at all, but 
 after I saw my fellow friend playing this game, I thought I would give it a try. At first sight, 
 this game caught me. I mean this one was visually stunning. I'v never seen any RTS game so visually 
 detailed as this one. So, I bought it. Too bad I only spent 5 minutes watching him play though.
 
  
  After my very first game of Company of Heroes, I was like.. wow, this is awesome, this is the best 
 RTS ever!! But after few more rounds of COH, I'v already seen enough. Huge crater from the explosion, 
 falling trees and flying people don't seem to be interesting as much as it did anymore. Gameplay 
 felt too repetitive and nothing felt new or interesting enough. After few days, I lost interest 
 of this game, and I started playing something else. Although I did open up this game again occasionally, 
 I didn't spend more than 2 hours of my time every time I played this game.
  
  I am not saying this is a horrible game and you must avoid this game. I am sure almost everyone 
 will agree that this one has a great look. Few people might agree that it sounds pretty good too. 
 But games are not about just how it looks and sounds, are they? Although its unique and somewhat 
 weird gameplay might call you back for time to time, this one is definitely not the one that could 
 make you stay up night after night.
  
  If your computer is sitting there with unused nvIdia GeForce 7950GTX, and you don't know what to 
 do with $60 in your pocket, go for it. It's not a horrible game, so I am sure you will enjoy it 
 for at least a few days. If above is not your case, try to avoid this game, because you will soon 
 be saying, Damn, I should've bought something else... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay;
  
  Single player is great but it's very scripted and it's all worked out for you seeing as it's WW2 
 and can only go one way as it recreates everything.
  
  Multiplayer and skermish modes are fun and much better than Single player IMO. Only problems though 
 are the balancing issues and the lag and bugs. The online service is very poor atm and patches 
 seem to break more than they fix.
  
  Overall the Gameplay is fun and it reminds me alot of CC RA2 more than anything, though it has 
 less depth than RA2.
  
  Graphics;
  
  Amazing, a real big system hog though and has a giant memory leak. You won't get better graphics 
 in a RTS and the WW2 theme is great. I hate all that fantasy crap.
  
  Sound:
  
  Best sound outta any RTS I've ever played, perfect to the T.
  
  Value;
  
  Great value cost 
 me &pound;30 and one of the best game purchases of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amit_talkin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  Well... actually i m not fan of RTS games. i have tried games like age of empires 2 and 3 but not 
 got so impressed. i am only playing shooter games like Max Payne, Hitman, Punisher etc..... but 
 when i saw screenshots of this game when it cameout.. i decided to test it out... and wow... i havent 
 any bad words to say for this game.. its right that game loading time is so bad even if u have 
 1 GB or more RAM.. but i m sure it will be fixed with next patches. i m really enjoying this game.... no 
 minus point. it is just rocking. i havent even seen such a best graphics on any RTS game. storyline 
 game play holds ppl to play this game continueosly. developers should put some more camera option 
 to play this game as 1st or 3rd person shooter. it will be gr8. anyways... waiting for Company of 
 Heroes 2! hehe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killswitch910
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  -Company of heroes is something odd. At certain times you can find it fun and the next second you 
 can feel like killing yourself from boredom. The 2 faction are fun and all but it becomes annoying 
 after about the third level. They should have divided them into say, Canadians, Australian etc, 
 instead of just putting Allies. -Now let's talk multiplayer, the online side is immersive, fun 
 and exciting. It can be frustrating at times. The multiplayer is easy enough to pick up and be 
 good at but, it takes a little practice.
  
  -The physics, graphics and sound in this game are amazing. The destructible environment makes the 
 gameplay quite fun and in turn, makes this game what it is.
  
  -In Company of Heroes, there isn't many glitches in which I saw but, the second you but up barb 
 wire it seems utterly impassible to the computer player, which shouldn't be the case because you 
 can research wire cutters. But all in all the game is fun and has amazing graphical value and, 
 I incite people to buy and enjoy this good RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odog202
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  wow simply a piece of art! i justt hought that it was gonna be another rts.. same old same old.. 
 but it wasnt at all . this game blew away all that i thought that it would be.. its fun addictive 
 and just plain fun!
  wow simply a piece of art! i justt hought that it was gonna be another rts.. same old same old.. 
 but it wasnt at all . this game blew away all that i thought that it would be.. its fun addictive 
 and just plain fun!
  wow simply a piece of art! i justt hought that it was gonna be another rts.. same old same old.. 
 but it wasnt at all . this game blew away all that i thought that it would be.. its fun addictive 
 and just plain fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodMode
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Company Of Heroes is a real time strategy game based onthe epic WWII. This game basically takes 
 the player into the battlefield, and believe me, war is hell, and this game shows it.
  
  Often people judge games like this because of the strong language use. But, I mean really how would 
 you expect men in their shoes to talk in real life? They wouldn't say Get that gosh darn building 
 up, they would use words like Get that **** building up or I'll shove my boot so far up your ass 
 you won't be able to sit for a week. I'm sorry if any of this kind of language makes anybody mad 
 but, thats how the language in the game is.
  
  This game depicts WWII with gritty, realistic, full blown war zones. From Carentan to Pointe Du 
 Hoc this game basically covers the European Front. The environments in this game are fully 100% 
 destructable which means, when you fire a bazooka into the side of a building, that building is 
 going to get torn up really fast. Also, such details as men being hit by full blown artillery is 
 often gory and blood drenched. This game really steps it up in the particles department was well. 
 When your tank fires it's main gun into the side of a church, dust, debris, and chunks of the church 
 will fly, and thanks to the physics engine everything pretty much does everything according to 
 close-to real physics.
  
  The graphics in this game are top notch, basically hit you in the face graphics. Relic has to date 
 shown the most attention to detail graphically wise in an RTS ever seen before. Nothing like this 
 has ever been done graphically in any RTS. Usually in a RTS you step down the graphics but, in 
 CoH they have been notched up.
  
  The sounds in this game are outstanding, not many games can drop you in and basically make you 
 sweat because you feel like bullets are coming at you. The sound in this game is really sweet, 
 everything sounds just marvelous. Good voice acting, great FX sounds.
  
  Now the only downside in this game is that there are only two factions. Now, when I say it's a 
 downside, for this game, it really isn't that bad. The two factions are fully developed and are 
 equal, which helps so it does not play unbalanced.
  
  Overall this game is an immersive, beautiful, profound masterpiece that has set a new milestone 
 for the RTS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgy1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm revisiting this game since I built my new computer, and can actually play it maxed now. 
  
  Company of Heroes, an RTS by Relic entertainment. Relic has always been known for making great 
 games, and this is no exception. This is a WWII RTS, but you probably already know this. I really 
 like the WWII genre (and it seems as if I'm the last person in the world like this) . 
  
  Graphics: 10/10: for an RTS, the graphics were unprecedented when the game was released, and even 
 today it looks great. I did like the addition of DX10 effects and the enhanced AA it brought, but 
 it lowered my frame rate by over 100 FPS (!) and I didn't see any noticeable improvements. Anyway, 
 this game looks great
  
  Sound: 10/10: The sound design of this game is fantastic, I don't care who you are, when you hear 
 the sound of your men being caught in an artillery strike with the sound super loud, you flinch. 
 At least I did. I've got some pretty sweet speakers which benefit here, too. I would strongly recommend 
 an X-Fi for this game. Just my opinion, but that's what a REVIEW is. 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10: The gameplay is fast paced, and well varied, and aside from a few annoyances 
 (usually my fault, anyway) , I was very satisfied with this game. I have an incredibly short attention 
 span with games, but this one can hold my attention for at least an entire mission or skirmish 
 match (!!) . That's pretty good for me.
  
  Value: 9.5/10: The game has a long campaign, and the skirmish mode adds longevity. The Multiplayer 
 is where this game really shines, though. My friends and I organize servers all the time and play 
 each other. I always win. Ha. The game has wonderful value, but it's not perfect , so 9.5.
  
  So, yeah, my final verdict really is a 9.75, but stupid gamespot won't let me say that, so 
 I'm going with 9.5 instead. Buy this game. Simple as that. And pokemon yellow (or gold) . Or a pony. 
 I like ponies, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazytom49
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game will blow you away. Simply put, it combines everything a great real time strategy game 
 should have, and finishes it off with great graphics and layout.
  
  Gameplay
  Good storyline, varied and interesting level design and clever focus on cover and tactics combine 
 to make a game youll come back to again and again. Online multiplayer is great fun, although allied 
 v axis set-up can get a little repetitive. A few more skirmish and multiplayer game modes thrown 
 in would have gone amiss, such as one team defending a point whilst the other attacks for example.
 
  
  Graphics
  Very well done. The character and vehicle design and animation is lifelike and really makes you 
 feel like your there when you zoom in on them, at the risk of sounding clich&eacute; d. Compared 
 to something like C&amp; C Generals, this game is in a whole other league. Fully destructible environments 
 are a treat also.
  
  Sound
  Sound is just sound to me, and I think that the sound in this game adds to the whole experience 
 greatly. If the sound is good, you shouldnt be noticing it because youre too immersed in the 
 game to recognise if it stands out.
  
  Value
  For me, COH was definitely worth it, as I picked it up a week or two after release at my local 
 GAME store for just &pound;20! I havent stopped playing it since, and Ive played through the 
 campaign mode twice now  it really is that great. Long lifespan.
  
  Tilt
  Many current RTS games I can pick holes in easily, but I struggled to find anything wrong with 
 this one, as you can probably tells from my review. If you have even the slightest interest in 
 RTS games I would advise you to get this immediately. Be warned though, it is very PC intensive, 
 and a relatively new PC is essential for the full experience. Otherwise, a great all round game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightcross
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  The best World War II RTS game.... EVER!!!! Incredible graphics and gameplay. Realistic at its 
 best!! The skirmish mode is intense, even if you play it on easy difficult, the campaign is challenging 
 and adictive, this will translate in long late nights spent in front of your monitor.
  
  I agree with the gamespot review about the lows in this superb game: long loading times and only 
 two factions to play with. Anyway, I think that the designers will take this in consideration for 
 future and improved versions of the game.
  
  I can't stop thinking about new sequels or expansions for Company of Heroes. Can you imagine: Company 
 of Heroes II: The Eastern Front or Company of Heroes: The Pacific Theater ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Blade7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Reading the last review that gave this game a 5.0 or a 4.7 rating, now that's his opinion. The 
 game might have not been to his liking, but we are all different then that guy or girl. With that 
 said here is my review.
  
  I will say that when I first got this game, it was a bit challenging. I did the tutorial that the 
 game has to offer and I still died from the Axis forces. But this was when I was in Skirmish mode. 
 In Campaign mode, it gives out (well it gave out to me) an awesome WW2 feeling of the Omaha Beach. 
 But lets get back to the subject of learning how to play.
  
  At first, you have no idea what to really do. You don't know how to use them, don't know where 
 to go, but the only thing you know and want to do is to kill the PC Axis or Allies. Playing by 
 yourself will not get you trained (well it didn't train me, it only made me want to take the game 
 back) , but if you play the game with an ally, a PC ally that is put to hard and the enemies to 
 easy, you will then learn how to cover, take other points, defend, use different tactics, and also 
 how to stay alive. I learned really fast by doing this and now I can play a normal PC enemy all 
 by my self now. I know how to move my units well and the game got quick fun after I learned how 
 to do certain things. Now my tactics can go beyond the game, though there are a few glitches in 
 the game, but every game has glitches that are minor. NO game is perfect!
  
  On for the Graphics; now I LOVE the graphics how they look pretty good and almost real as well. 
 I love when I throw a grenade or when one of my men shoots a bazooka and you see body parts flying 
 from the enemy. That is great, a complete awesome real feeling for a WW2 Game. As for when your 
 forces enter a building, they take up positions in the windows which did happen in WW2. The whole 
 experience of Company of Heroes is great but if you have a low graphics card that can handle only 
 low graphics of this game, then you are not experiencing the whole feeling of the game. I know 
 some, maybe most of the gamers here that review this game have really high end computers where 
 everything is juiced up and makes you look like your on crack (which your not) , but with the graphics 
 all the way up, you will then experience the game in a whole new way.
  
  The sounds for the game are awesome. I love hearing the guys running and ducking for cover, hearing 
 their screams when a tank, AA gun, or even artillery strike and then you hear your men screaming 
 for their lives. Also it is pretty awesome when you are right at the action, hearing the guns and 
 tanks shooting their weapons, and then you move away from the battle scene, you can still hear 
 their battle from a distance, which is awesome as in WW2, you didn't have to be close to a battle 
 fight in order to hear it. You could be a long distances from the battle and still hear the fight 
 (which for allies and axis was the direction that they went, to help out their colleages) . The 
 only part that I didn't like is when your constructing a tank, you can hear the grinding of the 
 tank from a distance which really bothers me and it is also annoying (that is why I don't build 
 tanks anymore haha) . On to the Value; The game itself shouldn't be at the price it is at right 
 now, it should be at least 30-40$ as there are only 2 sides and only a few things to make. Yet 
 I know that in WW2, they didn't have much of anything but units, steel, and planes. The graphics 
 are what makes this game cost 50$, that is why I bought my game at Bookmens for only 30$. I got 
 a deal as it was used. No scratchs or anything, everything was there ^^. But the only reason I 
 say the game should be lower is because of the people who do not have a high end computer. They 
 will not be able to enjoy the full function of Company of Heroes with low graphics sooooo I'm recommending 
 this game for medium - high end computers only as just the minimun recommendations that the game 
 gives you isn't that great for low end computers or graphic cards. It does take a lot of power, 
 especially when you want to play against 4 enemies (Axis or Allies) at a time. Now, this game is 
 an awesome game, if you are an RTS person, go ahead and buy this game. If you don't like the game, 
 then go ahead and return it, but don't bring your bad opinions toward other people as we are all 
 different and we all have different likes (and I'm meaning what the other guy did on his review 
 by telling all the other people that they are not being REAL enough just because they understand 
 the game and enjoy it. That is what life is about, being you own self and liking what you want 
 to like, which means you don't have to listen to my review either) . Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lgolos
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I have played numerous RTS games in the past. This one blows them all out 
 of the water. It's very immersive, however you can learn the basics in under an hour. It's a very 
 innovative game, most notably the resource system and implementation of cover. The game is fast 
 paced, yet a match can last hours. Both sides play extremely differently, each having different 
 units and command tree. Many of the battles are historically accurate or are based on real battles. 
 The game is addicting enough on singleplayer, and the multiplayer is even better.
  
  This quite probably the best RTS you will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  An excelent Real-Time strategy game... Pretty good though, and most of strategies are far away 
 in history, like rome, ancient greece and so on... This is world war II and it is awwsome... I 
 am stunned by graphics! You can actually zoom in and see the faces of your soldiers!!! Ain't that 
 something? I think it is perfect... It is a masterpiece... I love it... There is one thing in the 
 game that I find very interesting, and that is cover. Your troops find cover in the place that 
 you have ordered them to go. There are few types of cover too... Also, you can have parachuters. 
 They can land on any part of the battlefield... A great game if you ask me... A MUST HAVE for everyone!!! 
 It is Revolutionary!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRIZZZZIT
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 12, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  COH is the best RTS game ever. I played the DEMO and fell in love, Now, I am getting the full version. 
 I am so excited to finally be able to get back on line a deal some carnage to those that oppose 
 me. Nothing has been thsi good since AOE 2 first came out. The sound, the graphics, the gameplay 
 make it the best RTS I have ever played. I have SLI and had a line running through my game I disabled 
 SLi and everything cleared up. If that had not happened this game would have gotten a perfect rating 
 from me. I am so glad I downloaded the demo. COH saved me from getting Warhammer MOC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DustinB
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good: - Fun campaign. - Lots of new strategies with directional units and base defenses, directional 
 armor, etc. - Great graphics. The Bad: - The controls don't really support the game play. Trying 
 to get a tank to drive in reverse so it doesn't get its back armor shot is a real pain. - It sometimes 
 really sucks when units won't turn to face an obvious new threat. Machine-gunners that will just 
 stand there and die without your constant micro-management can be very frustrating. - Balance on 
 tanks seems questionable. Multiplayer always seems to revolve around the success or failure of 
 a tank duel. - End missions in the campaign have a population limit that does not support the epic 
 quality of the missions. You are often asked to defend whole cities with just a handful of guys. 
 You have plenty of resources, just not enough population. The Ugly: - Crashed 4 times as I played 
 through the campaign, lost most of my progress on a mission when it did. - Lots of random numbers 
 in the game mean that sometimes your units do NO DAMAGE when they attack. Sometimes this might 
 happen several times in a row. Can't really recommend the game for serious competitive play as 
 a result. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niko44
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a fast paced RTS with a great personality. This game achieves the status of 
 great RTS instantly. It has all the great elements in it. The graphics are mind blowing. It actually 
 gives you the feature to zoom in to see the game in so much detail. The explosions are greatly detailed 
 to make it look the most real. Most people know graphics aren't everything but they add value to 
 a game and it sure does to this one! Of course the most important thing is gameplay... And this game 
 isn't missing any. I had never seen an RTS with so many unique features. Some people just take company 
 of heroes for another WW2 game... But it's not. It is truly different. It has a very good tutorial 
 and a lengthy and enjoyable campaign. Playing this game makes you feel like your a really in the 
 war. There's a lot of different units in the two factions. Buildings too. You can do so many things 
 in this game you can be sure everyone plays different because there's so many different possible 
 strategies. The sound is a beatiful thing. It sounds authentic and its one of the factor that makes 
 you feel like your in war. You can hear the soldiers talking as soon as you give them orders which 
 sounds like what a real soldier would say. The gunshots and explosions sound real enough to fool 
 anyone there's actually an explosion in your room :) . The replay value for this game is amazing... IT 
 can last ages because there's so many different things to do. Now that I was able to play Company 
 Of Heroes I can confirm that the game is legendary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arfats
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  A game that realy put you in the field of WWii. For the first time in RTS mode we play such a beautifull 
 game and have a great fun to play it for a long time it is not an easy game to play in hour it 
 take so much time because you have to utilize all of your abilities. One thing in this game which 
 really disappoint us is that there is no other allies country which also play important role in 
 this game. if we talk about its graphics i think there is no match for it .Beautifully design its 
 enviroment and preety good sound quality 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sars99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  In the past an RTS was a simple game of build, harvest, create and then attack. Over the past couple 
 of years relic have been revolutionising the RTS gaming experience. Firstly with the smah title 
 Dawn of War and its various expansions, and now with this second world war RTS: Company of Heroes.
 
  
  This game boasts extremely flashy graphics and visual delights. Watching artillery fall on a small 
 building with troops surrounding it is truly amazing. If you can afford to put the graphics on 
 high do, it makes the game so much more interesting. Also sound plays a large part, with certain 
 weapons giving off distinct noises, the best example being that of the MG42 and 'Screaming six'.
 
  
  In game the controls can seem a little weird at first, especially the tanks when trying to get 
 them to face the right way. Once accustomed to the controls, the game allows you to command your 
 resources like no other RTS, determining the position, cover and direction of your troops is an 
 invaluable skill in defending strategic points. Which brings me on to resource gathering. Unlike 
 tradtional RTS's which saw you building a harvester unit and going out to collect a substance to 
 return it to a factory, the battlefield is cut up into terroritalrial sectors. Each sector has 
 a point which controls it, capture the point and the resource automatically flows in, as wel las 
 increasing your pop cap. The nifty thing here is the supply lines which make for very interesting 
 play. All your terroritories must be linked to go back to your HQ (the supply lines allow to to 
 build in the sector as well as get its resource) . This provides a good tactical overview, if your 
 enemy has pushed you back, flank round and cut them off. Much like a real commander. As a commander 
 you can set your amry to go down a certain tech tree. as allies either: Infantry, Airborne or Armour. 
 As Axis: defense, blitzkreig or terror. Each doctine allows the commander to get certain special 
 abilites and units. These play a big factor in the skirmis hand online play. Not so much in the 
 campaign though as most things are set out for you already.
  
  There are a few things that can bring this game down, most though are down to personal preference. 
 One major setback is the limitations of armies and theatres. CoH only takes place in europe between 
 the allies (i. e. Americans) vs the axis (i. e. Germans) . And anything including and above a 4 players 
 online or in skirmish makes for a 2v2 game, with no way to set up a free-for-all. Also the campaign 
 is somewhat linear. What i think CoH would ahve benefitted from is a battle for middle earth style 
 campaign, but obviously based on the european theatre, another down side of the campaign is it 
 is only playable from the allies point of view, and no real sense of deafeat as you can just replay 
 the level, not like a real war, but hey its only a game. After all i feel that the real fun is 
 in the multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer aspect is what i play CoH for. The online action and style of game makes for a 
 gripping and intense conflict. Where if you don't judge you resources or forces right in defending 
 and attacking territories then you will get screwed other by your oppenent. It does take alot more 
 tactics then most RTS's as building up a big force does not nessecarily mean victory. If playing 
 in a team a certain amount of teamwork on how doctrines are used helps. As an allied armoured commander 
 backed up with a dedicated infatry/airborne commander can provide each other with support. So with 
 the right tactics and teamwork can amke light work of an opponent and also make for highly re-playable 
 gameplay, which is easy to enjoy. My only hate for multiplayer is the server hosts, which isn't 
 gamespy as i would have hoped for. This causes certain users (me as one of them) to suffer from 
 horrible connection issues with relic online, which makes even getting into a game impossible.
 
  
  As a whole i find that CoH is probably the best RTS out there to date and is definatly worth getting. 
 You will be playing it for ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paxnominus
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  My friend just told me about this game, that I should just try it out because he knows I'll love 
 it. But at first I doubted him and told him that this may just be boring because of all the strategy 
 games out there, the WW2 setting is not commonly used. My friend insisted, and so I gave it a try 
 and to my surprise, listening to my bestfriend's advice again in video games hasn't failed me... 
 I'm currently using an FX 5600 and so even if I don't have the graphics all maxed, it still looks 
 superb. You could see the buildings don't just blow up or burn, as in the other RTS, but instead, 
 throwing a grenade, or using a tank to fire at a building produces holes, and you would see what 
 kind of unit is inside. Also, a unit that gets shot doesn't die and disappear instantly, but instead, 
 they move around and squiggle on the ground. The cinematics is catchy and zooming in on the action 
 is one of the best things to do during a fight... The sounds also makes up for the very good visuals... 
 The guns and explosions make you feel like your playing an FPS. The voice acting is very good as 
 well.
  
  Using the units is also quite realistic and watching them build things on the field is quite fun 
 because it just seems so real.
  
  Although you could only use the Americans in the campaign, I wonder if there would be an expansion 
 where you could use the English, French, Russian, Japanese and/or Germans in the campaigns. And 
 I thought THQ never made an RTS before... shame on me for thinking that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  Okay, I expect you all to click that my review was Unhelpful but anyway:
  I followed the previews for CoH for months and got the impression that (as the title implies...) 
 you would get a company of heroes to command, which could capture buildings and vehicles and each 
 use certain weapons to complete missions. I was therefore extremely disappointed with this resource 
 capturing nonsense and army building. I am looking forward to that sort of thing in Dawn of War 
 (not played that yet but glad it was a 'bonus' with CoH as I greatly enjoyed Warcraft III, which 
 is supposed to be very similar) but with CoH I was expecting a souped-up version of Soldiers: Heroes 
 of WWII (best RTS action ever!) .
  It also took me a while to get into CoH but when I eventually got there I became bored very quickly 
 and have left it unfinished. In frustration I bought Faces of War - a ruined follow up to Soldiers 
 but hopefully the patch will help that - and am now on Panzers 2 in total desperation. Okay, compared 
 to CoH the graphics are pants but it's simply more fun to play and with a story and characters 
 that keep you interested. Blitzkrieg Anthology also waits on my shelf before CoH gets more attention.
 
  Above them all, I will just play Soldiers over again as that is just a riot - and more realistic 
 as you forage for resources from bodies and supply crates. In Soldiers you also run out of bullets 
 and grenades if you are not careful whereas in CoH your gun is always full. Finally to finish of 
 my moan, and since when did a Stug ever storm a town square? It's not a tank; it's mobile artillery! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodeeman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Well, Relic, after there Awesome series based on Warhammer, they needed something new, something 
 alot more people can relate to..... then after years of creation... cames out... Company of heroes! 
 i couldn't be happier with the game, Awesome Squad control, Unreal Graphics and a very good Single 
 Player Campaign. With Many options to fight the way you WANT to fight, you can do what ever you 
 want with this game: be a tough Defencive Infantry Commander, or roll over the enemy with giant 
 Tigers and Shermans, or choose to fall out of the sky, dropping bombs, paratroopers or supplies 
 RIGHT where you need them. This game also fields VERY good Multiplayer gaming. Versing Many people 
 like and dislike you. In the long run Relic did good. And the Campaign gives you LOTS of replay 
 value. Who Wouldn't like to capture Carentan over and over, or defend a hilltop against hordes 
 of germans wanting to push you back to the sea? I really douet a game of this quality will come 
 out again in the next couple of years.. i say well done Relic, you desevere a pat on the back! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellwwf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  If you thought this is a game just like Generals or Act of war!
  Compared to this they are garbage, they should be ashamed of their games so, as i said the realism 
 degree is very high and although you can't build an army of 1000+ units like red alert! this game 
 is a huge alternative!
  as you control SQUADS!
  every squad contains numorus units ! 3 -6 -... You can perform cover! throw grenades and much more!
 
  Even, you can close up till you think you are in battlefield 1942! or ETC
  Buy this game it has amazing detailed graphics and high realistic sounds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarrj-Master
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 9, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is definitely one of the best RTS's i've ever played, and is undoubtedly the 
 best looking of them all. There are many pros and only a couple cons.
  
  Pros:
  -Visually Stunning. No joke, this game is one of the prettiest RTS's in existance.
  -Great Sound 
 Effects. CoH sounds as good as it looks. Everything from the explosions of artillery hitting the 
 ground to the patter of submachineguns is believable and clear.
  -Realistic. People hiding behind a building will get 100% more cover from fire than those behind 
 a fence. Tanks actually maul things over; that little picket fence will no longer block your armor. 
 Rifles do no damage against tanks, preventing stupid scenes where dozens of little units will whittle 
 away at the big one.
  -Environmental Strategy. This new form of stategy works well and is fun.
  -Great Campaign. The 
 campaign is unbelievably good. There are very few problems with it.
  -Good Resource Model. No longer will you mine gold or chop down trees; you have to get out there 
 and capture resource points. Even though this prevents you from setting up very many defenses, 
 it does let you see a LOT of fighting.
  -And Many More. There are too many good things to list.
  
  Cons:
  -Skirmish AI Is Impossible 
 At First. Gaah!
  -You Need A Macho Computer To Crank CoH Up. This is what turns most people down.
  -A Lot Of Swearing. 
 For me, this is a pro, but some people don't like a lot of swearing for spiritual/religious/personal 
 reasons.
  -Really. Bad. Online. Service. Nine times out of ten will you run into problems when playing an 
 online game. This will most likely be fixed in the upcoming 1.3 patch, but right now, RelicOnline 
 sucks.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10 - Company of Heroes is a great game, but it still has a few balancing issues here 
 and there.
  
  Graphics - 10/10 - Incredible.
  
  Sound - 10/10 - Amazing.
  
  Value - 8/10 - The game does not come with very many maps. For $49.99, I was expecting more.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 10/10 - I don't know wtf this is, but oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaco123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Above all the new strategy games out there no one has come close in making a revolutionary physics 
 engine and a perfect first person shooter graphics.
  
  Gameplay is amazing you realy need to use strategy in order to win. You just cant build inormous 
 waves of units and lead them to their doom. Easy controls quick to understand and good setup on 
 the shorcut commands. Basicly if you've played Dawn of War you'll get this game quickly.
  
  Graphics is amazing! simply amazing. Troops flying around being shot by cannons and artillery. 
 Dust explotion. realistic flamethrower's from tanks, bullets bouncing off strong armored tanks 
 and map scarring in the battlefeild this is one for the guinise book of records.
  
  Set your speakers to loud cause this game will rock your room it now supports up to 8.1 surround 
 sound BO Yah!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newformz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  After playing this for some time now i can see why people have given it such high ratings. When 
 i first came to give it a score i thought it was terrible due to it taking far too long to get 
 a good army/base up. But that's what happens when you dont take the time to go thru the tutorials. 
 Now i am on about the 5th mission and i have learnt that you cant rush into this game like other 
 RTS games. Each mission takes a long time, if you play Dark Crusade that is a much faster game 
 but then it is also a fantasy/sci fi game.
  
  I love the AI in this game, every unit is very smart - the way you attack move is a great idea, 
 saves alot of head ache. All the other additions like para trooper, where you can drop them in 
 practically anywhere for re-inforcement is fantastic! Overall i would definately recommend this 
 game, you get so involved and into the missions it's almost like your there giving the commands.
 
  
  This is a great game with after a bit of time you will learn to love! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kobalto
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally addictive, the battles are very reallistic and the action never stops. This 
 game has awesome graphics but you don't need a top of line VGA to run it, but you may need to disable 
 some graphic features as shadows and anti-aliasing, but the game is so nice that you will for sure 
 forgot that you're not running at the maximum quality. This game is not all about creating units 
 fo fight, there's a whole strategy behind it, and as more as you play it you will discover the 
 weak points of the Axis's forces. The resources gathering is very dynamic and easy, which makes 
 the battle the main part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewjackman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a huge fan of RTS games. I normally prefer slower, more tactical games yet Company of Heroes 
 combines awesome gameplay and innovations in the genre that set it apart from something like Age 
 of Empires III which I avoided after the demo.
  
  The first thing that hit me when starting the campaign was the overall presentation. The introduction 
 was slick, provocative and near seamlessly introduced the first mission. Then the graphics became 
 apparent and I felt torn between drooling over the smallest details and frantically trying to get 
 the little troopers off Omaha beach. It may seem odd partnering of details right down to reloading 
 weapons with a game you will play ninety percent of the time at the widest zoom possible - yet 
 it works. For once in a strategy game the units aren't simply cannon fodder but groups you want 
 to keep alive and its not simply the graphics which create this feeling. Its the level of attention 
 placed on the sound and movement of the troops as well.
  
  The other major step Company of Heroes makes beyond that of the majority of RTS games is the gameplay. 
 The points scattered over the map create a front line to fight along but one that is fluid and 
 gives the chances for multiple flanking manoeuvres. Rather than being a game based solely on rushing 
 from your base to the enemies the focus is on controlling the map, probing the lines and cutting 
 off their supplies. Perhaps the biggest flaw to the gameplay is just how frenetic it can get and 
 at best many games will find you never more than a step ahead of the fight and often a few behind 
 it. This is less of an issue in the single player campaign and skirmish modes due to the pause 
 button but multiplayer can be a rude awakening.
  
  Overall Company of Heroes is a great game and may just spoil other games of the genre that are 
 coming out soon. Now if only I can stop hitting that darn pause button.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  When I first saw th preview to CoH I couldn't believe how far the graphics and gameplay have come 
 to. CoH own one of the most impressive graphic engine in the RTS ganer and this is just one of 
 its many features.
  
  CoH lets u play with the Americans in ww2 in various missions across france.
  From D-Day to paris 
 occupation. In the game u have lots of differnet type of units that look amazing! The graphics 
 in game are also super realistic and every tank that will blow on flames will make u stant.
  
  The sound is also a very good aspect in the game, but with no doubt the multiplayer of the 
 game is really amazing part. U can play either as allies or germans and experience many diffrent 
 types of units and special powers each side have.
  
  If u like RTS and ww2 game, so u HAVE to bu this game, that defintly gonna win the game of the 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necronmaniac
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  I will hold my hands up and admit that I never really followed Company of Heroes through its development. 
 In fact I only really showed an interest in it when the open beta test came out, but I only had 
 to play the first tutorial mission to know that in this game relic had made something very special.
 
  
  Come the full release and I was proven right. Not only does this game LOOK absolutely stunning 
 but it is one of the most visceral, innovative and addictive RTS games I have ever played. The 
 game basically takes everything that made relics previous game, Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War so 
 great and makes it better. The cover system is better implemented, units can garrison inside buildings, 
 vehicles have varied armour ratings depending on where you hit them (side and rear armour is weaker 
 than front basically) and you can damage locations on vehicles, like blowing off the main gun on 
 a tank or smashing its engine.
  
  These may sound like small details but its all these small details (I aint mentioned destructible 
 terrain and the physics yet!) that make this game so great. Tanks dont go round walls anymore, 
 they simply smash through them and through the corners of buildings sometimes. Cant take out that 
 entrenched machine gun nest? Blow a hole through the concrete wall and go round the back and flank 
 them.
  
  This is possible because certain units such as your Anti Tank (AT) guns and machine gun teams, 
 whilst powerful, only have limited fire arcs. So, if you can flank them or get them from behind 
 you can take them out without them ever returning fire (teams will redeploy to face the threat 
 but they will likely be dead before they can get a shot off) . This all makes where and HOW you 
 position your weapons teams to be very important and adds to the strategic layer of the game.
 
  
  The resource system is very similar to the one used in Dawn Of War, with a few tweaks. Now you 
 have your front lines , basically this means that you will only benefit from the resource point 
 you just captured if it is linked back to your HQ. This means that the central points are generally 
 the most contested until a decisive victory is won, then you can literally see your opponents lines 
 being pushed right back. it also means you can disrupt your enemies economy by launching raids 
 behind enemy lines to capture resource points and cut those further forward off from his HQ, lowering 
 his income.
  
  I could go on and on about what makes this such a great game but really the simple answer is go 
 out and buy it and see for yourself. I really wanted to give this game ten out of ten, but i refuse 
 to give games perfect scores. This game is as close as I have seen though, there probably is something 
 or somethings about this game that could have been better but i just cant think what they are, 
 which tells me that they cant be that bad really.
  
  Basically, forget Starcraft, forget Warcraft 3, forget any other strategy game. THIS is as good 
 as RTS gaming gets right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  On September 13, 2006, Relic released an RTS game that has many pros and practically no cons. That 
 game is called Company of Heroes.
  
  Gameplay : One of the strongest aspects of Company of Heroes, is the Gameplay. It involves alot 
 of strategy, like : placing your infantry units behind more or less solid cover, flanking the enemy, 
 positioning your machinegunners and anti-tank weapons in a most effective position, paradroping 
 troops and supplies at locations that would give you an advantage, and eventually turn the tables 
 in a battle, planning an offensive (how many and what kind of troops from which sides) ... etc etc... 
 I could keep adding things to the list, but I don't want to take up too much of the space.
  
  One very important aspect of the game : destructible environnements. Blow up walls, houses, 
 bridges, practically whatever you encounter. This factor enhances the already amazing strategic 
 gameplay. For example, if you do not want to go trough a certain area because it is maybe covered 
 with enemy MG-42s (heavy machinegunners) , just find a wall or a building, blow it up, and there 
 you go. You have just created a second route. Other than that, seeing the environnement getting 
 destroyed is quite cool and satisfying in some ways.
  
  The only con I have found, is that I find that the tanks are somewhat tough to maneuver in certain 
 situations at first.
  
  Graphics : Absolutely amazing graphics, probably one of the best an RTS has ever had. Realistic 
 reactions from the environnement according to the player's actions (that is throwing a satchel 
 charge on a bridge and watch it get blown up to pieces) .
  
  Sound : The gunfire, voices, explosions and all that stuff sounds very realistic and immersive.
 
  
  Replay value : Multiplayer games keep bringing more fun and endless fun.
  
  With all criteria untied, this game creates one of the most immersive and realistic experiences 
 available of WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith2424
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best RTS ive played in a long time. There are only two problems I have came across; 
 there is an annoying high pitched squeal that occurs when people are talking on the radio and bullets 
 and tank shells need to be shot a couple times before actually they hit and do damage. If it was 
 static rather than a high pitched squeal and projectiles hit more often the game would be perfect.
 
  
  I can't wait to get my 5.1 speakers because the sound in this is also incredible.
  
  Everyone who likes RTS definately needs to give this one a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  This game is just incredible and really tried to set itself apart. Now obviously the Stratigic 
 point thing has been done before, as well as squad combat and well pretty much everything in this 
 game has been done before, but what really sets this game apart from the rest is the level of detail. 
 Everything in the game has emmense detail as well as great graphics and realistic physics. All 
 the voice overs are well done and sounds great and realistic. Just everything is prefect pretty 
 much. The one thing that isnt truely perfect... the system requirments, in order to see all these 
 perfect things you really do have to have a great computer.
  
  All and All, buy it if you can run it. If you cant run it, upgrade your computer, then buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hosamov
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  Company or Heroes presents some of the most entertaining gameplay. If you enjoy war games and you 
 have the specs on your computer to run this title, this game is for you. The only real unfortunate 
 thing that I have noticed about this game is that there are only two factions for the game: American 
 and German. Now, this is not a really big deal since both of these countries probably had the biggest 
 part in the war, but it would be nice to see some other factions like the USSR, British, etc... 
 The other problem with the factions in this game are when you go into multiplayer, one team MUST 
 be the U. S. and the other must be Germany. This could present a problem for someone who has little 
 of no experience playing the Germans.
  
  The graphics in this game are excellent. You will be allowed to zoom in and see your soldiers or 
 t he battle close-up with no problem and they will be as or more realistic than those displayed 
 in CoD2. Everything fits really well into this title and I am proud to own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aziansniper
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  tiz game iz a masterpiece!
  i looked at da gameplay n trailers n it looked reely cool
  i mean da game lookz like itz like a real war!
  i bought it n i waz just... AMAZED at tiz game!
 
  1st thing i noticed waz da graphics
  da graphic iz just amazingg
  u can literally zoom into a personz face n da detailz r reely cool
  da soldiers act n talk like 
 itz a reel war and everything such as tankz r 2 scale meaning a Panzer IV would b stronger than 
 a tiger and etc.
  da tank can run over ppl n itz better to face da enemy with da front armor just lke in real war 
 since da front armor is strong
  da single player iz amazingg
  it iznt just seek and destroy
  itz just like a real war like cuttin enemy supply, attack certain 
 key points, etc
  im so glad therez no more resource gatherin which iz reely cool
  u just hafta control certain zone
  da multiplayer iz also extremely cool
  buy tiz game... U 
 WILL NOTTT regret
  u will fall in luv with tiz game n wont b able 2 stopp once u start
  tiz game will definitely b da best rts game 4 a longggg time!
  if ur thinkin on buying a game, 
 buy tiz!!! i promise u, tiz game will give u da best gamin experience u ever hadd!!! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garygh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  With this said it is a strategy game, you are required to have the dexterity of a cat, the speed 
 of a gazelle and the multitasking ability of your Mum in order to excel at it. While you may not 
 have time to think about how much fun you are having mid game, rest assured, you are having fun. 
 When you finish a mission or skirmish and you wipe the sweat from your brow youll look back and 
 realise that youve never played anything like that before. Youve never been so engrossed, so 
 committed to your objectives and so concerned for your boys. If you buy this game you wont regret 
 it for a second, seriously, you wont have time to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of Relics 'Dawn of War' series. This game is an evolutionary step up from that 
 game. First off, the graphics are amazing! There are times when I looked at a scene and thought 
 it looked straight out of an old photo or film I saw on the History Channel! The explosions are 
 the most realistic I have ever seen in a game (i am a tank commander in real life so I have seen 
 explosions) . The buildings, the unit models, and animations dont get any better (at least not right 
 now!) .
  The gameplay is likewise outstanding. Real tactics such as flanking, and maneuver have an impact 
 on the outcome of any given battle. Battles are hectic and need to be expertly managed to win. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grosmontreuil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  the graphic are so nice and real and all the object you cant interac whit to.
  
  i think is the first time i cant see a tree been destroy 3 or 5 time in defrent part game play: 
 nice pretty real the interation of the soldier and the tanks are great i like the fact a tank vs 
 infantry ouffff or a machine gun vs infantry they have balance evry unit to another so you beter 
 use the good one to take advantage they map: so niiiiiiice that let me think about close combat 
 a play those game for more then , i cant remeber but looks like they copy the style very good woork 
 sound : ha now we talk about the thing that makes this game so real the sound efek wow ween you 
 drop heavy artilery or plane granade boom look like im on it for real my whife go crazy all the 
 time that meen the soon ist good value: that for shure its a good present for the holidays you 
 got kids they will love you for a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is not your typical RTS game. Resource gathering is changed to capturing of strategic 
 points that not only increase the rate that your company receives ammunition or fuel, but also 
 increases the number of soldiers you can support.
  
  The Warhammer 40K environment is apparent in most of the gameplay elements but it plays very differently. 
 And is especially great if you are not a fantasy buff, but more into WWII gaming.
  
  The single player game is very challenging, and can be somewhat overwhelming and difficult at times. 
 Missions can take on the order of an hour or even much more, so dont' expect snappy and quick missions. 
 This is both good and bad as you have to dedicate at least a couple hours per sitting if you plan 
 on taking on the challenging single player campaign.
  
  I have not tried multiplayer much, but it also seems quite promising. Give CoH a try if you're 
 looking for a solid real time strategy game and something different than what's been thrown our 
 way over the last several years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happy2012
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best RTS games ever. The company of this will surely win game of the year 
 on this one. I mean the graphics are very well done and the game play with the different ways to 
 play (the tank, air born, or infantry) . I love the way that builds are taken down by tanks or artillery. 
 Also how the computer reacts to your attacks on hard and the online play is nicely done so I can 
 beat my friends online over and over again. Over all this is a great game to buy and play over 
 and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirageabc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Hi, I just want to say, before I start that i don't really like rts games except for this one of 
 cours, warcraft 2 and starcraft.
  So lets start, Company of Heroes is one of the best rts games so far it really is a masterpiece. 
 The game is really well done, the graphics are the best I have seen so far for in an rts, it looks 
 like an fps! The game is incredible with full havok physics, you can destroy every thing in the 
 maps. The game is really addictive and fun. The multiplayer is really fun, but the game has some 
 problems connecting to others on the internet at the moment, patches are comming soon though. But 
 enough of that, lets talk about the story. Well the game is a WW2 game that starts at D-Day and 
 all the battles related to the event. Able company (the company that you control in the game) is 
 a fictinal paratrouper company that THQ inventied. As most of you could see, if you ever saw the 
 screen shots of the game, the game is really hard on computers. I have a readeon X700 card and 
 1 GB of ram and even with that I can only put the game to medium quality. I don't now why though 
 but with my card the caracters in the game are all streched out (vertexes that go every where) 
 I guess it is just a bug and will have to wait for a patch. As you can see the game has alot of 
 bugs but, as I said before a patch is on its way so lets hope for the best. Well other than that 
 the game is really great and addictive recomend this game to every one, even to those who don't 
 like rts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orangewouter
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  What an excellent game! the graphics are breath taking, the mission mode is surprisingly really 
 good, and the gameplay is excellent. You cant get much better than this.
  
  COH also provides players with different modes, Theres the classic blast the enemy of the map mode 
 but theres also the victory point mode, where its more like, if youve played it, Battlefield 2, 
 where control points are key to victory and theres a counter to see who wins. As ive already said 
 the campaign is really good, i usually dont liek playing them but for COH it was different, it 
 really kept me going. The only thing the game lacks is different factions and maps. Maps you wont 
 worry to much about because the once that they do have will keep you coming back to them for ages. 
 We can only play allied or axis, which is understandable because its Normandy, so we cant have 
 any russians running around ,but it wouldve been better if tehy ahd British and american. Eventhough 
 tahts only 1 more faction it woudlve been nicer. BUT, the good news is we can be assured a expansion 
 pack :) . Overall definitely the top 5 strategy games ive ever played, and ive played alot. What 
 the game lacks it makes up for in superb style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I read a print review (in PC Gamer I think) that listed Too much to mention! as one of the PROS 
 of Company. That's pretty much my feeling as well; there's just so much that they've done right 
 with this game that it's almost too hard to try and sum it up.
  
  In my opinion, Company of Heroes is about as balanced, polished, and easy-to-learn as an RTS can 
 get. The single player campaign is amazing and truly sucks you in. None of the units, from the 
 humble rifleman to the awesome M26 Pershing tank, ever feels useless. Even against an armored car, 
 riflemen can win by using sticky bombs. They'll suffer casualties, yes, but you can reinforce the 
 squad and keep that more experienced unit in the fight (and for future missions) . A sniper can 
 hold off a whole enemy squad if placed in the right building. Hit-and-run attacks with a Crocodile 
 flame tank against garrisoned buildings can clear the way for your footsoldiers. Tank battles require 
 more than I have more units than you, so I win swarm tactics; if you maneuver to hit enemy tanks 
 from the side or rear, your two Shermans can easily win against superior numbers. Mortars and artillery 
 soften up enemy locations for your attacks. It just goes on and on and on....
  
  I haven't been this geeked on *any* RTS game since the glorious heyday of Starcraft... and I like 
 Company even more. It rewards strategic thinking and tactics far more than any of the previous 
 generation of clickfests in the genre, and I just know I am going to spend a whole pile of hours 
 online playing against human opponents. EVen if I lose, I know I'm going to have tons 'o fun charging 
 into batle with a hearty cry of Johnson!! Tie your god****ed shoelaces!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  OMG!!!!! I can't belive to this but its ture!!!!! Fianly a awesome World War-2 RTS with awesome 
 graphics and gameplay. this game just rocks!!! Im a big World War-2 fan I have about all WW-2 games 
 that out now and when I got my heands on this gmae i was shocked how GOOOD this game is!!! I coudn't 
 get of my PC I was playing and playing this super game. I higthly recommend this awesome RTS game 
 to anyone!!
  you won't regret it!!! And I haven't seen anywhere before this awesome graphics in RTS like in 
 this game before. so averall this is a very good game, with good game play and super graphics
 
  I hope you all too will enjoy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Pluses: It's a game where tactics matter, great graphics even if i can't turn it at max, very engaging 
 campagin, very difrent factions
  Minuses: only 2 factions : ( (, the AI does not build sandbags or stuff like that, annoying troop positioning 
 sometimes and you can't play axis v allies v axis
  
  The game itself is amazing and those defending missions are so engaging they keep me tied on my 
 chair but it's a drawbacks that it has only 2 factions i was hoping for 3 at least Americans, Germans 
 and Russia and somekind of sub factions for the germans that have some advantages and drawbacks 
 but i think that they will put them in the expansions that will follow i believe and man i can't 
 wait for the mod tools especially for the map editor i will make some super maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawsond
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I've owned the game for a couple of weeks now and find it incredibly fun and addictive. I actually 
 haven't gotten through the whole single player campaign but I do find it rather enjoyable.
  The game before this that ruled my life was Age of Empires 3. I must say that I am a huge fan of 
 the AOE series and thought it was time to branch out and try a new game. When I started playing 
 this game I didn't like it at all... I just wasn't used to how it was set up. I wasn't used to having 
 to fight for my resources but as it turns out, I love it more than I thought I would. As you gain 
 control points you get resources which is a lot better than AOE where you just pump out 75+ villagers 
 and tell them to get resources then just sit back and create your huge armies and go smash the 
 other towncenter. The way the game actually uses the environment is quite fun and it's very fun 
 to learn new maps and different strategies on different maps. For once it's a game where you actually 
 have to THINK.... yes, that's a good thing. You can't just make your fav. unit and take an army 
 of 150 of them and destroy a town. You need variety....
  Anyway, the game is fun. Simply put, just fun. I like playing it and don't plan on quitting any 
 time soon. Sorry Age of Empires 3, you have been crushed by a RTS that actually requires some strategy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykh
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Comany of heros was an amazing game, that has filled a gap, left by the close combat series many 
 years ago. The game plays smoothly and is captavating. The story is good especially for a strategy 
 game. I dont need to say much, reading most of the reviews, most has been said already. I would 
 definately recommend this game, if you dont already have it. The only downside I found to this 
 game was that it was over farely quickly, more so for a strategy game. This being said, I have 
 not played the multiplayer. Get this game and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenTorn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  If you really like games such as Age of ampires but in modern days, Company of heroes is just right 
 for you. You can make tanks, have different kind of squads and upgrade you troops and tanks. The 
 environmentis destructibleso you can use is as cover or run over things on tanks. I dont know how 
 good the multiplayer is but the demo is really good. You should download the demo first before 
 buying the game so you can have a good look of what the game is like. It gives you turtorial and 
 2 full missions. You can download the demo right here from Gamespot or search it on google. The 
 graphics are really good, even when zooming on character. You can zoom in on charcters and even 
 see them reload. When you zoom, the sound turns louder and it sounds great even on headphones. 
 There are different kind of tanks you can use, each having its own ability. When you have an airborn 
 squad you can drop anywhere on the battlefield but you dont have any acess to tanks what so ever. 
 I think i am done my review here. for more information, go ahead and check some more accurate reviews. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing World War Two RTS game. It dose and suppasses what other RTS games try to do. 
 Anyways i'm going to make this review short becauseI want to get back to gaming.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing in ths game, they are very realistic, tranks will go though 
 walls and it crummbles apart and when they shoot a building it takes chunks of it apart. Body's 
 fly when infantry are hit by a bomb or artilery shell and men can accually get treated foe injuries. 
 Gameplay: The gameplay is so amazing, not many games have done this but there are strategic points 
 that you have to capture in order to get resorces so you are not always bunkered down in your nice 
 little base were no one can get in. You accually have to get out there and defend your territory 
 and make plans to assualt the enemy. The infantry is set in a six man comanies and such but the 
 only thing is that there is a population limt which can make things a little hard when you are 
 trying to defend your boards and resorces when you need to go out and assualt the enemy.
  
  Sound: The sound is amazing from the gun shots to the artilery fire. They sound very real. When 
 the men talk to each other it would sound like they are reporing in to you and would whisper to 
 you if there are in the dark or about to ambush someone or just talk to you in a recular tone yelling 
 voice when they are going head on in to combat. Value: there is great replay value to this game, 
 you can play this game on three diffrent dificulty setters (easy, Medium and hard) and once you 
 are down with that you can play the multiplayer part of the game which is really fun and challaning 
 because you don't know what the other person might do.
  
  All in all this is a revolutionary RTS game and other RTS games will probrlably try to match or 
 improve on Company of Heroes on the same topic or diffrent topics of RTS to come. I give his game 
 a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firzenzo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is yet another great release from relic except this time they've really done it. Company 
 of heroes is a benchmark for rts and its really raises the standard of and shows how far real times 
 have come. Just sucks cos too many good one are coming out and im not rich.
  there are only a few problems that i have with it and i think it could've been more realistic.
 
  1. when ur troops are at point blank shooting range with the enemy u still can't instantly kill 
 them or u still miss. Same with tanks. A rifleman was pinned and my tank was like a foot away and 
 the rifleman survived the blast. also, can u run over pinned soldiers? cos that'd be awesome
  2. u can't send infantry into buildings to kill the garrisoned units like act of war .
  apart 
 from those problems, i cant think of anymore right now, this game rocks.
  oh and , i no its hard to make them but, if they put in more enhanced graphic scenes (the first 
 one was amazing) it would be cool.
  
  anyway, great graphics, intense realistic sound and fun on and offline with an epic campaign. lots 
 of new rts mechanics ,and relic's squad selection, with a good interface.
  
  GET IT-it'll last u a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmist888
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Arguably the best RTS graphics to date, including a full 3d camera, advanced physics 
 (ragdoll included) , and sprites to die for. The in game CGI changes to in game footage with almost 
 no visual differences, putting you right into the game without wishing you were playing what was 
 shown on the video. The maps are loaded with high quality textures, buildings, trees, water, and 
 various other small objects that add great detail to the game. These objects however only stick 
 around for a few minutes, which leads me to gameplay. Nothing negative about them in my opinion, 
 its great to see an RTS game with such great looks. 10/10 Gameplay: There are two factions in Company 
 of Heroes, Allies and Axis. In the campaign mode of the game you fight as able company, an Allied 
 airborne division. You lead your fearless men through fifteen highly addictive missions to defeat 
 the axis. The campaign is very well done, for once in a long while I enjoyed the campaign, it did 
 not feel like a skirmish map with a backstory. You are instantly put into battle with no need to 
 spend countless minutes building an army. The physics included in the game are not only good to 
 look at, but actually affect the gameplay. There are three types of covers in the game, light cover, 
 heavy cover, and negative cover. Each one increased or decreases your units defenses making them 
 harder or easier to kill. Finding cover can easily be the difference between a dead squad and a 
 living. The multiplayer in COH is also great fun. Its the axis vs allies, in either a 1v1, 2v2, 
 3v3, or 4v4 with maps accordingly. The main goal of the match is to hold key Victory Points until 
 the other teams tickets reach zero. You do this buy sending squads to capture and hold the points. 
 There are also several other types of points, such as strategic points which give you manpower 
 (basic resource in which to build with) , munitions (used for upgrades and advanced units) , and 
 fuel (used for armor building) . Each faction has three tech trees each with 2 mini trees, that 
 you can buy with XP that you get from doing almost anything, from killing, to building, and capturing. 
 Each of these trees are very different, and play a huge role in the battle. AI is also included, 
 which is fairly well balanced between its various difficulties, but overall can easily be manipulated 
 by a human player. 10/10
  
  Sound: Sound is very extensive. There are always sounds to be heard, from units several personal 
 and sometime humorous speeches, to the muffled sound of distance gunfire, and the horrific sounds 
 of artillery, there is never a silent moment. However it still seems there is a lack of unit noises, 
 such as tanks are always the same sound when being shot and when shooting, some variation would 
 be nice. 9/10
  
  UI: The ui is one of the most important things in a RTS for me. Its no fun to play a game when 
 you are constantly fighting with the UI to get something done, when your attention is needed elsewhere. 
 COH has many small features that put it ahead of the rest in the UI. Besides the usually minimap, 
 there is a combat map that you can pull up that shows you a full view of the battlefield, with 
 all your units and all the points on the map. From here you can instruct squads to go places, or 
 even capture points. This is a very nice feature early in the game when a half a second can decide 
 who gets the critical VP. I would however asked for a little more of the normal UI to carry over 
 into the tactical map. To be able to play just as effectively in the tactical map as the normal 
 game would be great to help you fight several battles at once. Another great feature is that above 
 the command pad on the UI are buttons for each of your factions buildings that you can select at 
 any time and give actions to that building without changing your view. Each building also has a 
 function key assigned to it for easy access. 9/10
  
  Re-playability: With the great campaign mode, and a great MP the replayability of COH is very high. 
 There are a total of fifteen multiplayer maps, which tends to be too few considering they are divided 
 up between 4 different player amounts. A map editor that is soon to be released should help remedy 
 this problem, but these maps will not be ranked match approved. COH is also highly moddable, and 
 several members of the community have posted their intentions, and even some work. 9/10
  
  Overall COH is a great RTS game, that should stick around and flourish for years to come. Overall 
 I give COH a 9.5/10. Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenal_xat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  A lengthy, authentic, interesting campaign. Some missions are great, involving various objectives, 
 some are straightforward and linear. The campaign is more about presentation than RTS gameplay. 
 Except that some medal objectives has limited time, most missions can be completed easily, if the 
 player is patient enough to build a huge team.
  
  The multi-player game is fun. The deep strategy choice is based on solid combat chain. It'll be 
 much better if more multi-player maps are in the game.
  The game is balanced very well, though there's some trivial issues.
  
  Anyway, it's a really 
 great game, and a great game hasn't come in years. WWII background restricts the aircrafts, but 
 it may also be the designers' intention to simplify the balance part. The game requires much micro-managing, 
 but it's worth practising for this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brad_the_one
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  i recently completed this game and i thought it was absolutely brilliant, it has amazing interactive 
 environments (your men can actually use craters from the bombs as shelter) , good AI ( tanks and 
 infantry retreat when they are losing a battle) and it has good cut scenes and brilliant missions 
 which made me want to play til the end. The only negative point is that you need a pretty powerful 
 system to play this with the best performance, because i have a pretty good pc and i had to put 
 the settings quite low for some of the options. Overall, it is simple one of the best WWII strategy 
 games out there.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BounceDK
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  I've been craving for a new WWII RTS game for quite a while and finally it's here. Graphics looks 
 absolutely amazing, sound effects are top notch and the whole feel of the game is quite good.
 
  
  There are some issues however which makes me unable to give it a 9 overall. I'll list some of them 
 for ya now.
  - No Axis campaign
  - Only 2 sides playable in multiplayer &amp; skirmish
  - Engineers can be pretty dumb at times, especially when building defenses
  - Tanks can't be 
 set to reverse unless you constantly click the ground (this makes them turn around facing the rear 
 of the armor at the enemy... Not good)
  - You can shoot through hills.. This makes the whole use cover on the battlefield as you wage war 
 and create huge craters fall to the ground
  - Physics are great, but sometimes you'll see the weirdest stuff (like a tank driving into a rock 
 and the rock flies up in the sky and out of the map)
  - AI are just like any other game (they know where you are so they start rushing your base) . Troops 
 can take cover (if it works)
  
  But overall it's a great game. The singleplayer campaign is not high on replayability so you'll 
 most likely only play it 1&frac12; times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayergav666
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  its good who can argue i mean the lack of farming is really good, buts there isnt enough quick 
 action for me, well it is quick buts its always oh an impassable object, well we need a special 
 tank for this and then we have to bring it up *yawn* also once ive destroyed the object my men 
 always get stuck on it. grrr then the cant shoot more grrrr. i prefer Dawn Of War and will probaly 
 play the dark crusade i have on order way more and stick this on ebay. however there are fun moments 
 like mine flayer, they are never used for mines (my men are used for that) dropping para's onto 
 mines can be fun also, the mine flayer is a big combine harvester with chains, and really makes 
 a nice display of human innards.
  lastly, no one can deny the graphics are bad, they are realy top notch
  
  gav 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertaco
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game is totally awesome. I have only gotten a few missions in but the few that I have done 
 are probably some of the best for a campaign for a RTS I have ever seen. The squad based tactics 
 remind me of Fallout Tactics but on a bigger scale. The cityscapes are beautiful and totally destroyable. 
 Adding the sounds on top of the amazing graphics makes you feel like you are actually in war. From 
 getting sniped to getting bombed this game totally immerses you in the battle. Sometimes it can 
 get really frantic to where you have to watch 3 fronts at once but that just makes it even more 
 exciting if you can handle it.
  
  I love RTS games and haven't seen a ground breaker in a while. This one does it hands down. If 
 you love WW2 and RTS this is a no brainer. Get it now and start whupping some Kraut ass! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymadman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Starting out in the campaign mode you are treated to another one of Relic's breath-taking CG movies. 
 In this case however the rendered action slowy transforms into the game engine, where you see the 
 beauty of Company of Heroes. No RTS to date has acumulated such visual feast. Though even if you 
 dont have a top of the line system, at low settings this game still looks great. The explosions 
 and effects are even better and add to the intensity as the fully destructible environtemt gets 
 perminatly scared as you pound it away with explosives. It sounds as good or even better than it 
 looks, booms and cracks of gunfire and artillery are all perfect. The squads are really brought 
 to life through a diverse dialog upon each oreder or select. In the gameplay department this game 
 does not dissapoint. Infantry seek cover if being fired upon and the menacing tanks will smash 
 and destroy buildings obliterating infantry. The point control territory system insure that intense 
 action will always follow as you rush to secure valuable resorces. The later game is potentioaly 
 the games only weak point as things evolve into a tank vs. tank spam. The game has yet to have 
 a gameplay tweek patch and things could be different in the furture. There are only 2 sides to 
 play as America and Germany, always being on oposite sides, i. e. americans will never fight americans. 
 Which serves to make things historicaly acurate even in multiplayer. The two sides show diveristy 
 as each has 3 different Command &amp; Conquer like ability trees to choose from. In conclusion 
 a must have game for any RTS gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EternalThought
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 26, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  Well, it's been about a month now since I started playing CoH (wasn't a beta player) and after 
 finishing the campaign, playing some skirmishes with the computer, and a fair share of online experience 
 I will lay my thoughts about the game (if it's of any interest to anyone) instead of just another 
 big thank you Relic thread.
  
  First of all, from the beginning of the installation, I was already impressed. Installing the game 
 with a great music in the background, while interesting facts about the war (and apparently, the 
 missions you will be playing soon) roll over, with great in-game screenshots in the background. 
 I was actually interested and sat next to the comp through all of the installation (never done 
 something like that before) .
  
  Now, next logical step will be the campaign. While I was slightly disappointed there was no axis 
 campaign or at least few key missions which ended in axis victory, the allied campaign was excellent. 
 I didn't feel much emotional connection to the few main characters, but the missions all felt like 
 a real war is happening in my computer. Most of the missions were also extremely intense for me 
 (especially the early missions when you don't have too much tanks and the like) and I was literally 
 at the edge of my sit, with my hand on the mouse starting to hurt from the constant moving around 
 and constant attacks. The campaign also had a great share of interludes, both in Relic's excellent 
 still pictures style I remember from Homeworld (though now with color!) and using in-game graphics 
 cut-scenes, which after some disappointment with dawn of war, I was greatly impressed. As far as 
 I am concerned, I wouldn't mind this kind of quality of cut-scenes and with greater quantity than 
 only one great looking intro like in dow. Not to mention each of the campaign missions had several 
 secondary objectives for you to focus and one bonus objective which rewarded you a medal for a 
 fine accomplishment, which adds some more flavor to the campaign and increase its replay value.
 
  
  One of the main reasons the campaign was so fabulous (and the cut-scenes) is the perfect graphics. 
 Everything looks extremely detailed, and as a result much more real and credible. Add to that the 
 fact you can zoom in up to a first person view and you'll simply enjoy roaming about the battlefield, 
 looking up close at all the details and seeing the battle from more personal point of views.
  And not just the graphics, but the physical engine of the game adds even more reliability to the 
 whole game.
  It's also important to note the other graphical eye candies in the game, which I am really pleased 
 Relic took the time to do.
  I was thrilled to see after zooming in that the soldiers actually blink, squad members tell there 
 friends to move forward by waving their hands, soldiers run and drop to the ground while opening 
 fire, roll over on the field to get a better firing and cover spot while still lying on the ground, 
 it's absolutely beautiful.
  The only thing which kinda blows away the whole WOW feel if you'll get to see it is the clipping. 
 Seeing such a beautiful detailed and realistic world and then watching 6-man squad all stand in 
 the same place, one inside the other, or tanks colliding and seem to be merge into one tank with 
 two cannons, can really make you remember that after all it's just a game and nothing is perfect, 
 but you quickly forget about these as the battles go on and you focus on the other great looking 
 things.
  
  Another technical aspect which was almost just as good as the graphics, was the sound. Most of 
 all, the sound effects was great. I shocked in awe after hearing the first artillery barrages in 
 the defence of Carentan, the heavy MG fire made me feel like i'm being shot at, and almost every 
 explosions sounded (and looked) as real as it gets. Then, there are the voice works of the soldiers, 
 which are also top-notch. The soldiers shout, and talk as if they are in a real war and basically 
 everything I expected to hear from fighting man, including a large amount of profanity (at least 
 on ally side) , which while I've seen lots of people have problem with, I found really authentic 
 and didn't bother me at all.
  Again, Relic should be highly credited for inserting those small eye-candies of sound, such as 
 soldiers shouting among themselves when they are fired at which you hear only if you zoom in, mumbling 
 between themselves to keep on spacing ( spacing damn it, spacing! ) , and from what I've read in 
 the forums, there are lots of other great voice clips which I still didn't have the luck to hear 
 (such as the one when they take cover in graveyards) .
  The whole concept of changing the voice clips of units depending in the situation the unit is (such 
 as a low health tank) , the location of the unit and what the unit is doing is genius, and contributes 
 greatly to the dynamic war feel of the game.
  The only surprising let down in the sound aspect was the music. From the famous composer Jeremy 
 Soule (who composed the Total Annihilation soundtrack which was perfect) I expected much better 
 music. Except one of the menu musics (not the ones with the silent drums) which is great but too 
 short, the music in the game feels practically non-existent, maybe it's because I get sucked so 
 much into the game, but I find myself not really listening to the music except when watching replays, 
 and then it's just disappointing.
  
  So far the more technical aspects, but what about the game itself?
  Well, Relic took another 
 step forward in the game mechanics which is heavily based on the relatively innovative dawn of 
 war concept of taking territory points.
  This time though, more levels of complexity are added as there are 3 types of territory locations, 
 each giving you different resource type, and all the territories have to be linked back to the 
 HQ, which adds even more strategical options such as cutting your opponent from supplies. The game 
 also took the cover concept from dawn of war into a higher level. With three types of cover (low, 
 medium and high) , and practically any object on the map able to give you some sort of cover. The 
 destructible environment adds yet another layer of complexity, as you are able to blast your opponent's 
 cover points, run them over with heavy vehicles or simply walk around them and flank them, not 
 to mention the destructible environment allows you to create new paths of advancements in the maps 
 and surprise your opponent.
  Another good execution of Relic in my opinion is to combine realism or authenticity and still maintain 
 a streaming and fun gameplay, though that's just my opinion. For example, while your main infantry 
 squads consist of soldiers which can die, you can reinforce them, only contrary to dawn of war 
 where you could reinforce anywhere you want, this time you can only do so if you are next to a 
 barracks-kind of building or a halftrack, yet another feature which will require you to make a 
 whole different strategic thinking.
  Tanks really feel like the monstrous hulks of iron they are with soldiers doing no damage at all 
 with their small arms fire, but when you'll hit in the rear side of the armor with rocket launchers 
 the damage will be increased, exploded tanks give your soldiers cover from fire, dead heavy weapon's 
 team leave their equipment on the ground allowing you to take and hold it, and other things which 
 contribute to the feel you are fighting a war.
  The controls of the game also include IMO innovative features, such as the tactical map option, 
 which is basically a minimap kind of thing only is viewable on the entire screen, which gives you 
 a better understanding as to what the hell is going on in the battle and what the current situation 
 is territory and unit wise. There is also a small shield icon in the right hand of the screen, 
 showing all of your current game units, and which one are assigned to what teams. that way you 
 can easily find the unit you were looking for and see how much units at all you have and how healthy 
 they are, it is a great addition.
  Not to mention, when you pick a group of units this time, you can easily select individual squads 
 or units from within the group, without de-selecting the entire group, and then easily re-selecting 
 the entire group. While it took me some time to get used to this feature, I find it really comfortable 
 and simply adds more simple control options for the players.
  The most frustrating flaw in this part I think is the tanks AI or pathfinding, which can be really 
 frustrating when tanks expose their rear armor instead of driving in reverse, or groups of tanks 
 colliding with each other when are told to move to a certain spot.
  
  So after you finish the amazing campaign and you simply demand more of that great fun, unfortunately 
 your single player options are rather limited. Firstly you can just do the campaign again in harder 
 levels (if you didn't finish it at the hardest already) , and then there are the skirmish and replays 
 options.
  The skirmish is a good practice and allows you to finally play with the axis side which was unplayable 
 in the campaign. However, the quantity of the maps feels somewhat small, with only 4 1v1 maps for 
 example, and not enough usage of the great destructible environment, which is present in the map 
 of lyon (where there is a certain munitions point you can only access if you destroy a brick wall 
 with a rocket luncher or roll over it with a tank) . Notably, contrary to dawn of war skirmish which 
 was so full of victory condition options, this time you have only two: victory point or annihilate 
 the enemy, with the victory point system being the standard for the game (which is good because 
 most of the game mechanics is based around the point concept) .
  Also, you can only plays in sides of allies vs axis, without the option of making mirror matches 
 or combined teams of allies and axis, which is surprising because the historical authenticity should 
 be kept mainly for the campaign, but after that it's just a game, and anyway all of the skirmish 
 battles didn't really happen, so why not also allow mirror matches and the such?
  The replay section lacks even more. You have no options at all whatsoever when viewing the replay, 
 no fast forward, no watching without fog of war from a players point of view or other such things, 
 which is too bad because the best games to watch are usually those which take more than 30 minutes 
 to finish. However, at least in the replay you can take your time to look around and be amazed 
 from the sheer amount of details and look at battles from more interesting point of views.
  Although it should be noted Relic has promised to enhance the replay feature greatly with a coming-soon 
 patch.
  After that, there isn't much left to do. No map editor, no special stand-alone missions, and somewhat 
 lack of maps for skirmish.
  
  Ah, but there is one option left, the online play! This time Relic put the effort to create their 
 own online service instead of depending on other companies such as gamespy which had some bad reputation 
 from dawn of war as far as I understand. Of course, the online service isn't perfect, as it being 
 the first attempt of Relic, and there are some notable bugs (all promised to be fixed in patches) , 
 but if this online service will be kept on and developed, it'll be much much better for the future 
 games of Relic.
  The only thing left to complain about is the game balancing, but it's to be expected the game won't 
 be completely balanced at first but with the constant support of Relic, I am sure it'll be solved 
 eventually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emaus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Ah, World War2, can we make more games about it. Apparently so, and this time it is an RTS by our 
 beloved developers from Relic. The story, well it's WW2 and we have to do some WW2 stuff. Take 
 this town, hold this town, yada yada yada. It may sound like I'm dissing it, but hey it's WW2 and 
 it's all the same in that regard. The gameplay however is great. Feels just like any other RTS 
 as controls go. It's even easier to crank your army out and you go out and get critical locations 
 and such just like Warhammer. So as far as getting up an playing it, if you play any of the Warhammer 
 games you will be deep into the game in no time.
  
  There are only two sides, the germans and the allies. The single player will be the allies. In 
 that regards it's limited, but it's fun. Also if you played other RTS's this will give you nothing 
 much new. But it's tight, it looks awesome and it's fun to play, can you ask for more. Probably, 
 but for me it's fast action and flawless gameplay. If you are any good at multiplayer, which I 
 am not it will be even better. Your units will take cover, are upgradable, and work well. Your 
 tanks are powerful, but if you leave them hanging they will get grenaded, panzershreked, and the 
 like, so there is balance there. Snipers work well and can be tough if there are no cover. Units 
 can find stuff on the ground to make them more powerful. Units can also be split if you find anti 
 tank weapons or machine gun implacements.
  
  Graphics: top notch, you run stuff over in your tanks, short out electricity by running over poles, 
 and lots of neat small details.
  Sound: great
  Value: ok, only two sides.
  
  Awesome moments:
  Wow look at that blow up, no look at that blow up. I got you know nazi punks.
 
  Sucky Moments:
  Generally not a fan of the defend this area for x amount of time stuff, but it's bearable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyder90
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  An amazing game! The graphics are great and the game has a great campaign. I didn't have this much 
 fun playing a campaign since playing red alert 2. But the games doesn't exactly have much choice 
 with the choice of armies, but im sure they will improve this with an expansion like they did with 
 dawn of war. Its so much fun to play expecially when you throw a gernade and watch those Nazi bastards 
 fly away. I promise you that buying this game is something that you won't regret. In the game your 
 soldiers get premoted and you can upgrade them with special weapons, the tanks are the most fun 
 to play with expecially when you shoot down people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSite
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  What people have been waiting for an RTS WWll game! the single player has the best cinematics ive 
 ever seen that are live gameplay graphics. The video shoots you right into the action like you 
 were really commanding soliders and their every move throughout the European countryside. Realistic 
 wepons, realistic vehicles, battlefields, scenarios, etc. The game is like playing in a movie with 
 the suspense, action right up in your face as you sweat when you are trying to make sure that everything 
 on the battlefield is where it needs to be and kicking butt. Great game that brings meaning and 
 understanding of what our soldiers had to endure to keep our country free. Well worth the money, 
 and a game that everyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiosissylala
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I swear there has not been a better RTS ever. Company of heroes makes you feel like your comanding 
 real men. The Graphics are great, the gameplay is amazing, and to top it off it's realistic as 
 hell. A tank explodes your men automatically take cover behind it. If artillery hits the ground 
 your men take cover in the craters. Your men talk and communicate with eachother. They throw grenades 
 and sticky bombs. This game is just, well everything I thought it would be and more. I tracked 
 this game for almost 3 years and I was the first one in line at my game store to get it. Trust 
 me you want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necbone
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 24, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this has to be the best RTS made at this point in gaming history. Yes, I understand the whole 
 WWII genre is old and tired, but hell, they make WW2 sexy. Theres so much stuff you can do in this 
 game. I love the cover option when your men are hiding behind something. I love being about to 
 have artillery blast thing in a certain direction. I love killing nazis and I especially love liberating 
 Europe.
  
  Multiplayer is fun too^^
  
  Only issues I had were that it got alittle repetitious towards the end of the game (I was probably 
 playing too much) . Still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soklik
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Man when I installed it it was just a shocker what you could do in a game. Moving the camera to 
 be right with the guys at the battlefield or just see it from the air. Graphics. Aw brilliant, 
 makes you be in the game even more then ever! Also this is a game that will be hard to step away 
 from its like a freaking magnet. I highly recommend this game to anybody that has a computer cause 
 it will suck you in the moment you lay the first mission or training. The strategy you have to 
 use is very intsence and have to make fast decisions and create a great army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth81
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  I feel like real-time strategy games have been in something of a rut for a while now. Sure plenty 
 of big names have came out and gotten great scores like Empire at War and Battle for Middle Earth 
 Two, but they just haven't been able to capture that old Black Magic. Well, very surprisingly to 
 me, Relic's Company of Heroes takes the genre out of it's rut and really shows that there is plenty 
 of life in real-time strategy games. Not only that but this is an excellent game in just about 
 every category and a really nice WWII game as well. Now on to the meat of the review. Unless you're 
 blind you can take one quick look at the screenshots and realize that Company of Heroes is a beautiful 
 game. The units and environments in this game look drop dead gorgeous. It's probably the first 
 time I've ever been able to say this without adding the qualifier of for an RTS . If a FPS title 
 came out that looked as good as this tomorrow I wouldn't have anything bad to say about the graphics. 
 A neat note about the graphics, this is the first RTS I can remember that gets the unit scale correct. 
 Infantry to tanks, tanks to planes, mortars to machine guns everything is in the right proportion 
 which really pleases a real WW2 nerd like myself. Furthermore the little details that really give 
 the game life. Like for instance if you pump out a bunch of Shermans from a Factory they all look 
 the same but once one obtains varying levels of veterancy they begin to look different. Just like 
 in Real life they put sandbags on the front of the Shermans once they'd been in the field a while. 
 As good as the units look the environments are even more gorgeous. They're fully destructible and 
 man do they get destroyed. I remember on one mission at the beginning of the mission I was in a 
 complete French hamlet with about 15 buildings and after we'd done our dirty work there were less 
 than four buildings left standing. The ground had been scorched, there were pock marks everywhere, 
 it really looked like a photograph of post-war Europe. I actually felt glad that Relic hadn't seen 
 fit to include civilians in these towns we were fighting in, as surely they'd have been killed. 
 Also this game doesn't require a super beast of a PC to run it. I've got a 6800 on an AGP slot 
 with an AMD Xp 2500+ hardly the machine in the whole world but on my machine it ran smooth as butter 
 at a high resolution. The audio matches the video for quality. It starts off with a tremendous 
 WWII type score. The kind of bombastic symphony music that you would expect to hear in this kind 
 of game. While the music is certainly good the sound effects and voicing is really the star of 
 the show. When battle is going on you really know battle is going on and what kind of weapons are 
 in the field as you can hear the crack of rifle fire, the roar of Machine guns the whoop-bang of 
 mortars and the huge explosions of the big guns of tanks and field guns. Furthermore squads scream 
 all kinds of relevant information which makes it easier for the player to know what's going on. 
 For instance one call you'll hear quite frequently in the campaign if your tanks are being attacked 
 is something to the effect of Sherman taking hits, Sherman taking hits . Since you won't have a 
 enormous number of units at your disposal this allows you to locate things pretty quickly based 
 just on the sound. Company of Heroes is no mere show pony, it does a lot more than look good and 
 sound good. It's one of the most fun RTS games in years thanks mainly to how well they got the 
 combat system and how focused battles are on the combat. Yes you'll have a base and yes you'll 
 have to recruit units like in other RTS's but that really won't occupy that much of your time. 
 The vast majority of the time you'll be spending managing battles. Fortunately this is the best 
 part of Company of Heroes, the balance they achieved between armor and infantry. Normally in RTS 
 games I've played Armor really dominate or they develop an inane rock-paper-scissors system that 
 completely defies any tactical reasoning. This game managed to make tanks very powerful; a squad 
 without anti-tank weapons will have real trouble dealing with one and even with a Panzerschreck 
 the odds are highly in the tanks favor. But there are lots of things that infantry can do that 
 tanks can't do like capture strategic points, take out field anti-tank guns and capture them that 
 sort of thing. It creates a real need for application of combined arms where infantry, light armor 
 and tanks all have their own roles to play and are all a big part of an effective battle. Furthermore 
 you have an additional level of stuff from your company commander that you gain throughout the 
 course of the battle for extra powers like off map artillery, and paratroopers that can really 
 turn the tide of battle in your favor. Personally I was a huge fan of the paratrooper tree but 
 all the trees had their strengths and weaknesses. This game doesn't have a whole lot of story. 
 It pretty much extends all the way through the fighting in Northern France and Ends in late august 
 right before what is known as the Normandy breakout. The upside of that is that you won't have 
 to see the Battle of the Bulge which in WW2 strategy has of course been terribly overdone. You'll 
 see fighting for Carentan, Cherbourg and St. Lo along with smaller hamlets and hilltops in the 
 north of France instead. The game offers a bunch of replayability in that it has 4 difficulty modes 
 and each mission has several optional objectives that provide that extra something to go after. 
 The campaign itself is fairly long featuring between 15-20 missions give or take a few; and should 
 take you a good while to complete. If i had to attach a number I'd guess around 20 hours but I'm 
 not really sure. The AI in this game can be pretty difficult, I played through the game on Easy 
 the first time as I'm not the best at these games but even then it was still a challenge. The bit 
 I've played of the game on normal difficulty was very challenging. I'd imagine even if you were 
 a ninja you'd find the top levels of this game a challenge to your amazing skills. Furthermore 
 the game also has an excellent multiplayer mode which is definitely different than most RTS games' 
 multiplayer. Instead of trying to trash your opponent's base your objective is to go after victory 
 points and capture those which can lead to more fighting away from the respective bases and more 
 towards the middle of the map. The game ships with several good multiplayer maps. I didn't play 
 much online because I'm not so exceptional at these kind of games and don't need my feelings hurt 
 that badly. I kind of came to this game with low expectations, I had tried the demo which really 
 did a disservice to the game. This turned out to be an excellent game that anyone who likes RTS 
 games or WW2 games in general should give a try. It's got some really great moments and some of 
 the best combat I've seen in an RTS. Throw in it's excellent technical production values and you've 
 got a game that really is a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pemobian
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  I have some internal debate going on right now over whether Company of Heroes is the best real-time 
 strategy experience ever. Perhaps I will be more objective after the new wears off in a month or 
 two. Right now, I can't think of anything better. I can, however, say with absolute certainty that 
 the game engine is hands-down the best ever seen in an RTS release.
  
  We live in an era that warrants eye-rolling whenever a software publisher announces yet another 
 World War II-based game. We have seen more than our fair share of such projects, some of which 
 have been good (e. g. EA's Battlefield 1942, which many consider the catalyst) and some of which 
 have been exceedingly horrible (e. g. Codemasters' Soldiers: Heroes of World War II -- a game that 
 never should have been released, IMHO) .
  
  After several years and with a great deal of experience in the form of its Warhammer 40,000 series, 
 Relic has made an addition to the WWII establishment that rivals and perhaps outright surpasses 
 everything that came before it. Also, beyond just historical war games, the RTS genre in general 
 can learn a thing or two from Company of Heroes.
  
  What makes the game, even before you have time to familiarize yourself with the mechanics and strategy, 
 is the quality of the production. The sound alone is absolutely amazing. When a German AT gun unloads 
 on your Sherman, you feel it, and likewise when a mortar explodes near an infantry squad. Men will 
 scream in panic when a firefight turns against them, and they will proudly announce when they demolish 
 the other guys. The dialogue for units is a mixture of serious and humorous, with none of the ridiculous 
 camp that was notorious in Command &amp; Conquer: Generals.
  
  The graphics in Company of Heroes are gorgeous, and the environments appear to be completely destructible 
 -- no invincible buildings! The burned shells of destroyed vehicles will remain on screen and can 
 be used as cover for infantry. Dust that looks real will spray into the air when a shell lands 
 or stir behind a tank as it rumbles down the road. Units move with extreme levels of realism, whether 
 they're running, crawling or rolling.
  
  The detail of the textures is unbeatable. Most RTS games look okay from a distance, but things 
 become blocky and blurry as you zoom in. With Company of Heroes, you can zoom all the way to ground 
 level, and everything remains clear and sharp. This is demonstrated well in cut-scenes, which are 
 integrated seamlessly into the missions.
  
  Gameplay is implemented very well and is easy to figure out. What is not easy is actually playing. 
 The AI ruined me the first couple of times I played a full mission. There's so much going on at 
 once, and you have to cover so much ground (you conquer territory by gaining control of sectors 
 on the map) , that it can be a challenging experience to simply defend your base and hold a fuel 
 point or two. Fortunately, it becomes easier after you've done it a few times. When you finally 
 get past the point of being overwhelmed, the hectic campaign is quite enjoyable to play through.
 
  
  Of course, nothing is perfect. The only real problem with the game itself is an occasional pathfinding 
 issue or two. Sometimes men will become bunched around a capture point and run in place, usually 
 when you have several groups together or if they are compacted around a vehicle. This is, thankfully, 
 not a big deal and can be ignored or remedied by moving them. Tanks are a little strange, too, 
 as they will at times roll into battle backward, despite Relic's realistic emphasis on armor placement 
 (i. e. you don't want your tank shot in the rear, which becomes a problem when it rolls into the 
 fight rear-first) .
  
  From a performance perspective, you will need a decent system. I run an AMD Athlon X2 4200+ with 
 2 GB of RAM and a 512 MB GeForce 6600 PCI-e, and my performance is acceptable on medium settings. 
 If the screen gets really busy, I do experience some brief lag from time to time, so having a 7000-series 
 GeForce or comparable Radeon will not be in vain.
  
  Bottom line? If you are a gamer, buy Company of Heroes. I firmly believe it will go down as one 
 of the all-time classic PC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serbica
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  the fact that every mision is so engaging and makes u stick to the the computer for hours &amp; hours, 
 is just what the gaming industry needed.
  visualy is just mind blowing ...
  gameplay ----excelent, but some problems with the pathfinding, but minor ones so nothing we can 
 fix
  resourses, well here the lack of ram in your pc-s will bring down performance,... but hey great 
 graphics need great sacrificies right (just kidding)
  
  overal ...... i quess the firs next gen game (visual &amp; gameplay as well ) played by me this 
 year (ofcouse oblivion is there too)
  
  so have fun with this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VDrakula
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  COH is crown of evolution in world of rts. Relic Entertaiment is studio which move borders of gaming 
 with every single game. They start with Homeworld and continiue with 40k Dawn of War. Single player 
 camping cover 2 month after camping at the end at Faliside pocket. Some will say that to little. 
 15 mission can only be played with allies does not sound much like other RTS but there is place 
 for expansion packs like in 40k. AI is great so as graphic. Engine is Essentials and use havok 
 3.0 physic model. Bad news is requirement. If you want to see how it look like ypu must have state 
 os art pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorMazzi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  Despite what you might see floating around the internet, the reports and reviews that say the game 
 has spyware built into it are false in their content, or are generally misrepresenting the game. 
 The fact of the matter is that Battlefield 2142 is a worthy part of the Battlefield series, despite 
 some bugs in the ranking system.
  
  First, the bad parts:
  --&gt; The rank system is currently badly bugged. You'll find that in some cases, your soldier 
 will not advance in rank. Since all unlocks are made available through points earned in rank advancements, 
 it can make the game rough to play, since you wont be able to access special weapons or tools.
 
  --&gt; If you're running Windows Vista, you might run into some driver-related problems. Make 
 sure your drivers are up-to-date, and you should have any problems.
  
  Second, the Spyware issue:
  --&gt; You'll see it floating around the forums at EA, here at Gamespot, 
 and in other various places that BF2142 has spyware in it. Despite what you may have read, these 
 reports are false. Since Spyware is generally software that is used to collect personal information 
 off your computer without your knowledge, the program that comes with BF2142 isn't that at all. 
 It's been clearly stated on the card that comes with EVERY copy of the game that software doesn't 
 take any information that is personally identifiable , nor does the company involved (IGA, if your 
 curious) ask EA for such information.
  --&gt; And for those wondering if EA plans to remove this program, don't look forward to it. According 
 to EA in a news release, the program is integrated into the game itself. It's doubtful at best 
 that they ever plan to remove it.
  
  Third, the good parts:
  --&gt; The sound, is by far, the best part. The music is not notable is being great, since many 
 tracks seem to have come from BF2. The sounds of gunfire, artillery, and other ingame effects are 
 incredible, and remind me of Call of Duty 2.
  --&gt; The graphics are good eye-candy. New textures for new features are awesome to behold at 
 first. The lack of a new engine means it's almost the exact same thing you've seen in BF2, just 
 with cleaner and better looking textures.
  --&gt; Titan mode is lots of fun. In many ways, it will remind you of Conquest mode, as the element 
 of controlling points remains. However, you wont run out of tickets until your titan is destroyed. 
 Defending your titan or attacking another players titan are equally interesting things to do.
 
  --&gt; The character kits (Recon, Assault, Engineer, and Support) are all pretty much the same 
 as BF2, but upgraded for the near future. The vehicles are strangely reminicent of Planetside, 
 with VTOL jetcraft and bipedal armored vehicles.
  
  Overall, the game is a lot of fun to play, once you get around the ranking system bugs and false 
 reports of spyware. Once the ranking system is fixed, the game will become many times better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yacbos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  when i first started playing company of heroes i was just amazed by the insane level of details 
 and the abnormal level of reality like tanks destroying walls while moving and buildings being 
 demolished by bombs explosives and tank shots and even the most amazing thing when soldiers occupy 
 a building they open the windows and you can clearly see their rifles out of the windows but not 
 also that, i found myself very addicted to the game after playin few campaign missions the story 
 line is awesome the sounds are perfectly distributed on the surround speakers and the quality is 
 perfect too the gameplay is just an addiction you cant spend less then 2 hours playing that game
 
  the reality in this game is very very well balanced i mean when soldiers hit each other and taking 
 cover from the enemy and hiding beside buildings all that in one game is something new we alwasy 
 saw one or two of those features in one game but all that combined with a very good storyline and 
 a gameplay i had never saw before make this game the best strategy game i have ever played for 
 this year i can't compare it off course to cnc generals because its a different strategy set in 
 our age not in ww2 epoc which makes that game probably the best ever strategy game in its category 
 and epoc.
  but still there is 1 problem for that game with me
  absolutely loooooong loading times i can go make a cup of tea and came back and it didnt finish 
 loading some of you might say your pc config is low NOO
  i have a dual core 945 running at 3.4 2x512 ddr2 ram a maxtor diamond 10 300gig 7200 rpm with 16 
 mb buffer and an x1900xt vga card i exeed the recomended settings by far but still the game hangs 
 for a few seconds when i first start playing then it goes back to normal after few minutes of playin
 
  exept this issue the game is more then perfect and i would rated it 11 out of 10 if didnt have 
 that hang issue and dont tell me turn the details off cuz i paid for this to see not to lower the 
 gfx down.
  well hope you find the review helpful and if you didnt buy the game yet you are missing a looot 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slyg
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I have not historically played alot of War game type games on the PC. The review on this one and 
 the graphics kind of sucked me in to try it. Needless to say I was extremely pleased. I was able 
 to turn all the graphics up to their full capabilities and this game looks just amazing. It is 
 very smooth and the AI seems to be well thought out. It took only a few minutes to figure out the 
 controls and get up and running.
  I was suprised by some of the cursing, but it did add a unique flavor and actually had me busting 
 out laughing. After an engineer is done building a sandbag wall they will say things like If I 
 ever see another god d*** sandbag.... which you can imagine a gruntin WW2 actually saying.
  This is a very fun and highly entertaining game that I would highly recommend. The medals that 
 you can earn on each mission is also a nice touch.
  Cant wait for the expansion, which you have to figure must already be in the works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josenbaugh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  I have been an avid gamer for over 15 years and I have to say that while the genre of WWII games 
 has shown promise, rarely do the games have the depth and weight to keep me intrested for more 
 than a weekend. Not since Call of Duty has a WWII game gotten me so excited. Not only does the 
 game offer superb graphics and gameplay but the gameplay is also right on time! Allow me to elaborate!
 
  
  While their concept on resource collection is not completely new, the idea that holding certain 
 strategic points in order to gain resources works well with in this game. The idea of supply lines 
 never leaves my head regardless of whether I am playing the campaign or am in a multiplayer battle. 
 The technology tree is based not only off of the buildings you build with those limited resources, 
 but also off the experience you gain. Experience is gained in a few ways. The most obvious and 
 quickest way to achieve a lot of experience is to just eliminate a lot of your enemys units. However, 
 creating buildings, defensive structures (like mines, tank traps, MG Nests) , demolishing bridges, 
 and capturing victory points also give you experience and those can add up rather quickly. While 
 many games have great sound today, great sound in an RTS hardly seems important to me in the long 
 run. Especially when you are playing against several opponents and you are more intrested at trying 
 to keep up with everything on the field. Usually explosions would just further confuse an already 
 hectic situation. In Company of Heroes, not only is the ambient sound great, it serves a purpose! 
 Imagine you are trying to give orders to your engineers to capture a victory location and you send 
 an MG to barricade a building to defend a road or resource point. Your back in your base trying 
 to decide what to research next now that you have a bit of fuel, manpower and ammunition at your 
 disposal when you hear .... SNIPER! suddenly your plans are scratched and your finding a way out 
 of the snipers LOS and building a motorcycle or jeep to try to locate this pest.
  I sometimes neglect to see the text on the screen as things creep up, Often times the text comes 
 up after I have already taken care of the issue but the word Sniper! coming across my speakers 
 instills fear in my heart. The one man unit can completley wipe out a very expensive infantry or 
 weapons unit if left ignored for even a few moments. So you grab a jeep and head to that side of 
 the map and pray that there is not an MG guarding him to make it even more difficult.
  
  The graphics ARE great and I enjoy scrolling in to see my units up close from time to time. I feel 
 it is a requirement, and an expectation for any game to come out now to look good. It is not as 
 important to me as to some but I do occasionalyl enjoy seeing the limbs go flying when mortar or 
 artillary strikes a near direct hit on a unit. I will say that the destructible enviornment is 
 part of the great graphics and does offer some strategic advantages (or disadvantages depending 
 on how you use it) The abilty to blow bridges, create large craters for your men to use for cover, 
 and many other options is just great. Strategy is an extremely important part of this game. Gone 
 are the quick and huge tank rushes that have made RTS both the most beloved and most hated game 
 types. You find that not only is there a defense against every offense but that if you are going 
 to go far against anyone in the game you are going to have to learn to use units together. Finding 
 weaknesses and learning important manuevers like Suppresion fire while another units rushes up 
 for the elimination. Or letting a unit attack and then flanking them to catch their unguarded side 
 to eliminate them quickly. Retreat in most games is considered cowardice. However I order my units 
 to retreat so often some times its almost funny. I know that back at the base I can replintish 
 the squad and give them time to heal and rest up to send them back out again. It is much cheaper 
 to replentish a squad than to build a new one and everyone knows a hero usually goes home in a 
 bag. The object is to make the enemies heroes for their country, right ? :)
  
  If you doubt the many astounding reviews I highly suggest you download the demo. I looked at it 
 with a bit of skepticism as I know how many WW2 games look so promising and then just fail to cut 
 the mustard. Give it a shot and then head down to your local game store or online store and look 
 for me online. I would be happy to kill or be killed online anytime :)
  
  The good: Amazing graphics and sound for this genre. Immersive and unique single player gameplay 
 that has hours and hours of enjoyment. Great multiplayer game (once you get one going) The bad: 
 Multiplayer lobby is buggy. Relic needs to get on the ball and fix the multiplayer servers. I have 
 heard of some hardware incompatabilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romangladiator
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  THQ/Relic NEVER disappoints me they come out with yet another masterpiece of gaming this is the 
 best RTS i have played in a while, with so much to do champaign/skirmish wise this is a vary fun 
 vary addictive game especially to all you RTS fans out there (i am one) this isn't just a boring 
 WW2 rts or anything it has really great graphics and the sounds are also AMAZING, its just an overall 
 very good game its really worth the price you get it all in one game, but there are a few bugs 
 but what game doesn't have them are patches that can fix allot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocturnalwolf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Game-play: It's good and new (atleast for the people who haven't played DoW) . 3 resources in this 
 Game which you earn by taking control of strategic points on the map that you are playing on. there 
 are 2 factions (ofcourse) German and U. S but that does not limit on any aspect of this game because 
 strategy isn't about how many factions are there and how many units are there, its all about using 
 what you have to own the other player. AI seems to correspond well to player's strategy. Realistic 
 aspect of this game is incredible, since your units don't get owned right away by a squad of enemy 
 units, since they ought to take cover when they encounter enemy units, and this gives alot on stratgical 
 aspect since you can maneuver and kill the enemy squad or reinforce etc... This game is a game 
 where you need to constantly think and correspond to other player's action (what kind of units are 
 they building and what kind of defensive primeter they set up) . This game has passed, in realistic 
 aspect and strategic aspect, every RTS games that came out before it (starcraft, warcraft, AOE, 
 RoN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  When I picked this game up I was skepitcal, although I knew it was really good from reviews and 
 what not, I still wasn't sure about it. I was wrong. This game is truely the next generation of 
 stradegy games, real time or not. At first the graphics just seem like they are there to impress, 
 but really the graphics are so good so you get the sense of realism, and believe me, there is realism. 
 At one point, I had to defend a city, and it looked fairly nice, not so much as a war was going 
 on. If I had walked into the city for the first time, I would never know there was a war going 
 on there. By the end of the battle, you could tell, and not just a slight change. I am talking 
 everything is leveled, all the buildings are just rubble from the explosions and what not. A war 
 had gone through here I could tell you that much, and a violent and brutal one at that. At one 
 point there were some germans pinned in a multi story building (which is pretty impressive in itself 
 that units can go inside almsot every single building and hold up there) . Well these guys had machine 
 guns and snipers, and were earing my troops apart. What do I do? I got a mortar team, and guess 
 when that shell hit... The entire building collapsed, crushing the men inside. You don't even see 
 this amount of detail and immersive content in first person shooters unless it's scripted, not 
 even counting the graphics. Gameplay- Gameplay is none shorter than excellent. The units don't 
 seem like they move too slow, and your squad does most of the work for you when getting cover and 
 stuff. The only bad thing about gameplay is that when the battles start to spread across the map, 
 it can get very hard to micromanage everything, because waiting a few seconds too late to tend 
 to one certain issue could mean failure. Graphics- This game which is a real time stradegy game, 
 can easily match almost any PS2 or maybe even xbox game. well it would probably only score a 6-7 
 on the xbox for graphics as a FPS, but it could easily score a solid 8 if it were a fps on the 
 PS2, which is saying something: this is a real time stradegy game, and it graphics are just as 
 good as a first person shooter (which graphics are usually better than RTS) the only thing is that 
 system requirements can be a drag.
  
  sound- sound is so good. sound is one of the main things that get you immersed into the battle, 
 such as all the gunfire and the men yelling. it is insane
  
  value- you have a solid campaign to work with, with multiple difficulties, which should keep most 
 people busy. then there is multiplayer which is absolutely insane, which should also last a long 
 time.
  
  overall this is the best RTS i have ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmarrow
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I click my company of heroes icon and the game pops up. I click play campaign (having all betas 
 and demos i think i know how to play so no need for toturials) . the screen turns into the relic 
 landmine which then turns upwards to reveal other landmines. it then carries on to reveal many-a 
 LCVP landing craft bobbing on the water. the camera carries on climbing upwards to show hundreds 
 of landing craft heading towards an almost peaceful omaha beach. switching down to waters edge, 
 the bullets whizz past me and explosion erm explode all around me. a landing craft explodes close 
 to the screen central landing craft and the bodies are flung high into the air and peices of shrapnel 
 are blown in all directions. the craft stops, the soldiers pour out, the first two gunned down 
 by the mg42's in the huge concrete bunker at the top of the hill above the beach. the soldiers 
 jump into the knee deep sea water. a man is hit and falls into his friends arms. a fellow soldier 
 shouts LEAVE HIM!! but the soldier tries to get his fallen pal into cover. he is then gunned down 
 with a blood curdling scream. the rest of able company charge onto the beach. the mg's easily pick 
 them off and as the bodies hit the wet sand the pace of the battle slows to one man. alone. sorruonded 
 by bodies. he falls to his knees, presumably hit. then just as he leans forwards to lay in his 
 final resting place the mg's fire at him. the bullets rip through the already dead body sending 
 it falling backwards. the mist grows thick over the beach as the camera pans backwards to reveal 
 the few men hiding behind the historically incorrect X tank traps (the germans used dragons teeth 
 not X traps) . then the rest of the landing craft arrive on the beach. the game switches almost 
 undestictibly from the prerendered cut-scene to the essence engine.  
 the game is obviously about ww2 and is the only next gen rts out there. the game is too good for 
 words (except them ^^) . what makes it next-gen. the fact its the only rts ive seen that uses a 
 proper physics engine and its general attitude to war makes u feel sorry for the enemy. it has 
 the graphics of an fps and unlike most ww2 rts's it isnt the most annoying game EVER. it has ur 
 basic base building but with one exception. the resources are magicaly created by buildings no 
 they are magically created by th random piles of crates dotted around the map called territories. 
 the game is well balanced but not to the point of rock-paper-skissors gameplay. the 2 'races' are 
 very different in startagy and units. the doctrines and commands give the game an even more strategic 
 advantages as if u have one infantry command and one armour the two could pound the enemy with 
 artillery and then clean up with a tank rush. overall BEST GAME EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!111ONE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleAxe
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  First of all as a strategy fan I always wished for a game that will actually give the individual 
 units AI that will make them respond to situations and their environment... well... Company of 
 Heroes does just that plus alot more. Not only is the infantry combat amazing but the tank combat 
 is very detailed and realistic, and your constantly challenged by trying to keep your week armor 
 points away from enemy tanks and AT guns. There is NO airplanes in this game, except for special 
 abilities like bombing and strafing with machine guns... but thats not a bad thing, since it lets 
 you focus on the meat of combat. Also there are no ships in the game, but these days no strategy 
 games include boats anyway. This game is FUN and it is CHALLENGING and there is so much depth in 
 the strategy side of things that you will notice and learn new things everyday! was it worth the 
 $49.99... YES, hell I'd buy this game if it were $99.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  To start with a negative point: you need quite a machine to play this game on full graphic detail, 
 but once past this problem it'll open up one of the most realistic WW2 RTS games I've ever seen. 
 It is not the old type of  strategic points need 
 to be captered and recourced must be gained. Those of you who are familiar with Warhammer DOW, 
 yes it has a lot of similar points. CoH stands for many hours gameplay, fantastic graphics and 
 surprisingly good AI.
  Unfortunately I am getting a bit fed up with WW2 games and furthermore the game needs a good patch 
 to fix some instability and bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holydeathman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  The game is quite nice once you get past the graphic problem.. The game is graphically intense 
 so dont expect your computer to run in it full quality.. The good news is that there is a video 
 test before you can play the game so I give two thumbs up for that.. The AI is damn awesome, sometimes 
 they annoy you with barrages of tank shots or air bombardment.. So its better to make the move 
 first and attack the enemy before they can do so at you.. The environment is a plus to the game.. 
 Practically everything is destructable.. So show your might to your enemies by thumping their defences 
 or temporary ones with you awesome army so that they will cry back to their mommies.. The unlockables 
 are a lacking because they are quite few and sometime use up too much resource in skirmish or in 
 campaign.. So I only use them when I'm at the upper hand to give the enemy a taste of their medicine.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alastair55
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  Granted the engine running the game is pretty advanced, which is great and does indeed as a few 
 very nice features. However, this game is just the same old RTS thing repeated once again in an 
 all too familiar format. People moan about DoW being repetitive, but the expansions were supposed 
 to be a continuation of the prevous game. People would have whinged about it being 'too differenent' 
 if they had changed the expanions dramatically from the original/previous game and not sticking 
 to the original award winning formular. Where as CoH simply plays on an already existing formular 
 and just inserts it into a moderately different setting. Which is why the game is so boring. Granted 
 if you have not yet played the DoW series then i am sure you will love this game and play it endlessly 
 but if you have, and you were looking for a change on the already somewhat cluttered RTS front 
 then i suggest you avoid this game or at least wait a couple of months and get it cheaper so your 
 dissapoinment won't be quite as vast as it otherwise would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluntstunt
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  Gamers that like games that are driven by simply adding a new angle to what has come before , while 
 making it more intriguing to rise to the mental micro-management that the game presents might be 
 hooked here. Beating the Nazis to a pulp with great difficulty is involving and extremely satisfying 
 this time around and has not been so on a game of this type for awhile. The probable reason for 
 it's success is that it truly recognizes what other WW2 games have been missing. The unpredictability 
 of battles with tanks, mortars, rifleman, parachutes, howitzers, snipers and everything in-between 
 stands unique to other games only in their realistic properties they have with each-other and their 
 environment. Tanks can break down brick walls un-passable by troops, troops can take cover behind 
 anything, take refuge in buildings and duck under enemy fire and a whole lot more. The game just 
 doesn't play out or look like other strategy games, and the effects it gives are not going to be 
 passed up by people that know a game that's got things figured out as far as WW2 games go. Beg 
 to differ you try to think of a game that has a more balanced sense of true fun that comes from 
 perfectly challenged intricate game-play, and sheer realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanchinj
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Relic/THQ really proved their capability by releasing a few games about the same time (Titan Quest, 
 Company of Heroes, Warhammer - Dawn of War Dark Crusade) . Innovative and realistic features like 
 auto taking cover, pinned down, permanent damage to buildings, roads, etc., setting up defensive 
 structure like sandbags and wire. Many of these features are found in some FPS (like Call of Duty, 
 Brothers in Arm) but definitely a first in RTS.
  
  There are many different ways of playing each scenario. Sometimes, you don't have to follow the 
 cues (commands) immediately as you might trigger events that might happen before you are prepared.
 
  
  This is one of the most realistic WW2 RTS game ever! Will definitely be keen to play the add-on 
 (probably w axis campaign) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sogviamask
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  WWII is the era of real life Heroes, and what a great tribute to the sacrifice those heroes put 
 forth. Now you can be quite litterally sucked into the battle on a visceral and downright frightening 
 level. The explosions, the shouting, the sound of brass hitting the floor. It's crazy. Body parts 
 flying this way and that. It's not for the faint of heart. The significance of taking and holding 
 ground. Emplacements to deny access or to deter. Combined arms tactics. Logistics of supply chain. 
 All represented in this game. If the enemy takes a key sector that links further sectors you are 
 cut off from supply. All of these things must be taken into careful consideration. Economy of force. 
 Doing the job with the minimal amount necessary to achieve the objective. Momentum is key here, 
 just as in any other RTS. Knock the enemy off their feet and keep it on rollin'. If you like armor, 
 you can focus on Armor. Airborne, or straight leg infantry. Each has a unique upgrade and focus 
 tree. Airborne drops in from the sky a squad at a time. Drop some supply and use half of it to 
 man a machine gun. Reinforce the squad, then take the mortar. Reinforce again, and it becomes a 
 quasi heavy weapons platoon all from one squad and one drop. Powerful indeed. Do you want to keep 
 that building for yourself, or blast it to kingdom come? The choice is yours. I like to skirmish 
 in any RTS, and with the 3 different tech tree factions, each map can be played in very different 
 styles. Therefore, in my opinion, the replayability is good. I used to wonder if some day the camera 
 view would be able to pan from isometric to on the ground 3rd person view. This title will do that 
 for you, which is vital to terrain analysis. I say this is a must to any collection. Warmonger 
 or peacenick. It is truly a work of art. Now to build a faster computer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damzor
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  I must admit, when i first heard about the game, i was not expecting something this good to be 
 released. It totally exceeded my expectations in every way possible, not to mention the capacity 
 of my rig in some areas. The graphics and physics engine in the game is unparalleled for its genre, 
 extreme levels of detail, even when you scroll the viewing map to go to the soldier level. You'll 
 need a top of the line rig to run the game at the highest levels of detail, even in lower detail 
 levels it looks great. Explosions and gunfire look realistic, you can block machine gun fire with 
 tank armour or hide behind a stone wall. You can dodge grenades in a similar fashion, although 
 you're more likely to cop it anyway. The sound in this game is awesome, excellent music (especially 
 if you run it with surround sound) and the sound effects are insane, to the point of realism. The 
 language, although rough and crude (lots of swearing) add to the cultural realism of the game. 
 Turn your subwoofer and volume up to really get into the feel for the game. It's an experience 
 i've rarely been able to enjoy, but this is one of those times. The resource collection system 
 is extremely similar to that of Dawn of War, DoW veterans won't take long to get used to it, although 
 sometimes it can take a long time to collect enough resources to get to the better units, like 
 tanks and airstrikes, especially on a resource-poor map. Tactically, you have to fairly inventive, 
 you can't necessarily rush the opponents base with lots in infantry, since machine guns and grenades 
 will chew men up faster than a meat-grinder. On the other hand, going purely with tanks can result 
 in similar carnage if the opponent uses heaps of anti-tank and sticky bombs. In other words, poor 
 tactics are treated brutally in this game, you have to be thoughtful of your actions before you 
 lose your units. You also have to be mindful of the tactical and strategic importance of resource 
 points and chokepoints, they can mean the difference between a magnamous victory and a humbling 
 defeat. The campaign is a very involving one, there are times where it's very difficult to finish 
 some levels, forcing you to reconsider your tactics to solve the problem. The storyline is very 
 similar to that of the real thing during the Allied invasion of Normandy back in '44, many quotes 
 from real veterans are included in the game to give that feel of authenticity to it, unlike many 
 others which jump straight into the action without giving it some cultural importance or realism. 
 For those who haven't experienced the game yet, you're missing out on something special here. I 
 can't recommend it enough for any RTS player, i'm sure there are others who will say the same thing. 
 Download the demo or buy the game and you'll see why it's one of the best game releases this year 
 IMO. I hope an expansion pack is brought out for it eventually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffalo1972
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:57 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes does take RTS playing to a higher level! The graphics are simply amazing, combined 
 with terrific gameplay, I would put this game right at the top of my list for Game of the Year.
 
  At first, I thought that this would be just another WO II game. I think we have seen enough of 
 them. But not all were of a quality similar to this Game.
  I truely am amazed at the graphic details on this game. You can zoom in so you can see facial expressions! 
 Even the maps are completely interactive. Almost everything can be destroyed on the maps. And some 
 new weapons make the whole game just a must have.
  You can't go wrong with this one, guys! Off to the shops! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mAIOR_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  Well, this game is a really good RTS but, not quite as good as I expected.
  I'm an hardcore strategy gamer and a major WWII nerd so this game should have all that was good 
 to me.
  
  1st impression: When I first played the game, I couldn't stop myself from shivering in awe as I 
 managed to battle my way through Omaha.
  The way my little soldiers move, the way the Machine gun fire pinned them, the way the placed themselves 
 under cover, the way they used the terrain to gain advantage and, most especially, the way I could 
 implement REAL military tactics on this game to gain some advantage against the Germans (I used 
 todays tactics to aproach an enemy position to attack the Germans 88 on the first mission and it 
 worked just as intended and I made an ambush on mission 2 or 3 -the one we have to destroy the 
 German convoy- that went out perfectly as it would in real life I might add...) .
  Now, after this first impression wore off, I started to notice the games imperfections. 1st I think 
 the RTS style is completely wrong for this game. From the moment you enter the simple RTS style 
 the game (you know gather resources build a base and send your little troops to the battlefield) .
 
  2nd it's still possible to win by simply overwhelming the enemy with numbers (like sending 6 riflemen 
 companies to a house defended by two heavy machine guns teams in open ground... I was disapointed 
 as I sent them really in the hope to get them killed so I'd free more pop and build more tanks) .
 
  
  All in all, this is a nice RTS with very good AI and interesting gameplay but lacks a German campaign 
 and a strategic map like Rome total war (with this kind of gameplay I think it'd fit in much better) .
 
  The best compliment I can give to this game is that it's a WWII game where things work out as 
 they should. Strategy wise, it can be very challenging but sometimes it ls you down.
  I say it's the Rome total war of WWII games (strategy wise) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  this game is a must for ANYONE who like RTS. this is the first game where flanking actually does 
 anything.
  you face a heavy machine gun at the end of the road. you have 2 teams of infantry. you could just 
 blow it up. but you can have one team sit there and take fire and the other to go around the buildings 
 and flank it, you kill all the men but the machinegun is still there. it becomes a pickup, you 
 click, 3 men seperate off you squad and take the MG. vola!
  same with tank battles. different units actually are different. a sherman agianst a panzer is fair 
 game. agianst a panther or tiger its useless. an M10 wil kill a panther. just. but to kill a tiger 
 you have to flank, distract and surprise.
  the skermish mode is unbelieveably hard, even on easy, hint, be ready for a jeep rush almost instantly 
 as that what they do.
  and the explosions. one word. CREAMAGE!!!!!
  you just so much satisfaction from dropping a strike onto 3 squads of infantry. BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  you will NOT regret it.
  until supreme commander comes out.....
  *oh, about the rating on the learning curve, its 30 to 60 minutes to learn EVERYTHING even flanking, 
 capturing and the lot, if you want to learn the basics, the about 10 minutes to play the tutorials 
 and you'll get the jist of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rstaindl
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  It was good but not that good.
  
  There are better RTS games out there. Mabey it is just me but I perfer much more the sword and 
 bow type RTS games to this one or for that matter any other gun RTS games.
  I thought the let down was in the actual gameplay, it was a good idea just not well crafted. Getting 
 resources is boring and takes time and not a good way of gettin them. Pop cap is small. The soldiers 
 and units are good and a variable and can be upgraded and there are many and realistic but this 
 game just does not amuse me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  From the makers of Warhammer 40K comes the next best RTS World War II game. Unlike other WW2 games, 
 which jump around to different parts of the war, this game focuses solely on the campaign events 
 of the Normandy invasion, with such battles like St. Lo, Cherbourg, and Carentan and driving the 
 Axis back. In the single player campaign you only get to play as the Allied side (surprise... surprise) , 
 but in multiplayer and skirmish you are able to play as the Germans. As far as the game goes it's 
 pretty different from your general RTS game of mining natural resources. In this game in order 
 to get resources you have to take control of fuel and munitions sectors and as you can gain more 
 territory your unit cap increases as well as your manpower, which you use to get more troops. Fuel 
 is essential for vehicles such as tanks, and munitions are needed to upgrade weapons and call in 
 heavy artillery and warplanes. The Axis and Allied sides are very different from each in terms 
 technologies and weapons. The Axis are very strong and so have the best armor and weapons in the 
 game, but are pretty expensive and take some time to actually produce. Whereas the Allies units 
 are cheap and reliable, but not as powerful as the Axis. One notable difference is that a few types 
 of German infantry get access to panzerschrek (bazookas) and so can handle Allied armor pretty 
 efficiently whereas the Allied rifleman infantry only have sticky bombs, which are geared towards 
 destroying the engines and tracks of tanks so they can be flanked by other anti-tank weapons. However 
 infantry are able to pick up weapons that some other types of infantry drop such as heavy machines 
 guns, mortars, and bazookas, so you can have a potentially versatile unit in this game given the 
 chance that can do all right against both infantry and armor. However though only special Allied 
 units such as Rangers start off with a bazooka and the Airborne can get an anti-tank rifle upgrade. 
 The Axis and Allied side have their own technology tree and as the game goes on you can choose 
 what type you would like to focus on. For the Allied side you can be an infantry commander, which 
 specializes in defense, allowing infantry to setup sandbags and tank traps, getting access to Rangers, 
 and the ability to call artillery strikes. There is also the air commander, which calls in the 
 airborne behind enemies supply lines and fighter/bomber planes. Lastly there is the Tank commander 
 where you get the best-Allied tank in the game as well as special vehicle benefits. The Germans 
 have a different set of technologies, but more or less have a defensive, offensive, and raiding 
 tree. As far as the graphics go, they are as next generation for any RTS I have ever seen. The 
 models and terrain are very detailed and the physics is a real treat to see, of course you need 
 a powerful computer and graphics card to be able run it at max settings. The first time you see 
 an artillery strike will just awe you in disbelief it just looks so realistic. Unlike other games 
 where the physics are there for looks, in this game the destructive physics are used for strategic 
 game play. Craters caused by artillery rounds can be used as cover by infantry, even destroyed 
 vehicles can be used as cover. Walls can be blown open or ran over by tanks creating some new flanking 
 maneuver and well the possibilities are endless really. Every map can be played in a different 
 way, which makes the replay value incredibly high.
  
  The sound is one part of the game that will make you want to go out and get the best speakers and 
 sound card available. I'm not kidding, the sound is unbelievably well done and the music is incredible 
 as well (Reminds you of Band of Brothers and Saving Private Ryan) . Nothing makes a mission more 
 adrenaline rushing than to have your subwoofer shake your entire house as you experience heavy 
 MG and artillery fire. In the end, I have to say Relic has done it again with creating another 
 fantastic innovative game. This is no doubt one of the best RTS games I've had the honor of playing 
 and anyone who enjoys strategy and WW2 games would be doing a great disservice to themselves by 
 not playing this game. I know I cannot wait until the next installment to the Company of Heroes 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IVIurd0k
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 15, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. I'm more of a FPS gamer but I've played a lot of RTS games from Starcraft 
 to LOTR: BFME and I have to say this one is by far the best of them all. It's like the fun in CoD2 
 but in RTS mode. I know this sounds greedy but I can't wait for an expansion. There has never been 
 another RTS game that's kept me in my seat playing as long as Company of Heroes has. I've never 
 gotten into the nitty gritty of any other RTS as far as strategy and where my mistakes were in 
 a battle untill I played this game. I find myself watching other people's replays to see what they 
 did so I can possibly correct my errors. This game is a sure buy for anyone who is a RTS fanatic 
 and anyone who is looking to possibly get into this genre of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddcromax
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 15, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  One of the most common themes of the RTS is either World War II or Science Fiction and Fantasy. 
 Relic Entertainment has been doing RTS games for a long time. Games that they have done in the 
 past include Homeworld, Homeworld 2, Warhammer 40000 Dawn of War are some of the games that Relic 
 has done in the past. Company of Heroes is the latest RTS game from the master of the RTS genre, 
 Relic.
  
  I enjoyed the game to no end as the AI surprised me time and time again by pinning my troops or 
 attacking from an undefended area of my base. The graphics in the game are fantastic, especially 
 when compared to other games in the same genre. Destructable buildings, terrain, units in a RTS 
 game arent new, as Command and Conquer Tiberian Sun had them. The Havok physics engine brings 
 a whole new level of physics to the genre, as the explosions and smoke make the game look believable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega0718
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  The good: Almost everything about it is good, I do not know why other people hate this game. Anyway, 
 company of heroes is one of those games where you are almost always at the edge of your seat. Why? 
 because the AI is made to be very agressive, meaning you can always expect a good fight everytime 
 even in easy AI. With that said, this game will require skill the most important factor for me 
 is for a game to require skill, because if the game does not take skill to play and let alone master 
 then everyone can master it, but if it requires skill then you will be assured that not everyone 
 will be able to accomplish what you accomplished, simply put 'anyone can shoot a gun to kill, but 
 not everyone can kill someone with his bare hands'. Additionaly, the good thing about this game 
 is its fruitfull rewards, after beating the over agressive AI using hard earned skill it is very 
 filling to see your Tiger tanks (if you play as axis) crushing the last buildings of your enemy.
 
  
  The bad:
  Well just as I said before that requiring skill is a good sign of a game, it may also be bad for 
 the game. Why? Well if a game requires skill not everyone will be able to enjoy it as well as someone 
 who is skillful. I am sure there are a lot of those impatient players who want to learn and play 
 the game quickly, and they may or will shy away from this game which may hurt the community of 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  the story of the game really fits in well with single player and those little scenes in between 
 the missions are really fun to watch and the way its presents itself it just amazing
  
  the gameplay is really smooth and great. always thinking on your feet what to do or how to use 
 your time. also the AI is really neat aswell and there is always something new with the battlefield 
 like demolishing buildings and the ground to make cover also for the first time surpress and flank 
 the enemy.
  
  the sound is just bloody amazing when your shooting the enemy putting artty down or blowing up 
 buildings with tanks and what not. also other things aswell which kinda gets you into the game 
 even more.
  
  graphics are wonderful aswell. on terrain the troops vehicles shadows... its really beautiful and 
 also the enviroment ofcourse.
  
  this game is worth the money and for a World War Two RTS game... this is an instant classic and 
 a sure fan favorite of any RTS lover... i wasint such one myself always playing FPS WW games... 
 until i saw this just days ago and went CRAZY!!! i reccomend this to be the BEST RTS game so far!!!
 
  
  as far as difficulty.... its just right! but you can be the judge on that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmb0163
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Its graphics kick butt. Its realisitic men, jeeps, and missions are awesome. The multiplayer is 
 SWEET!
  Also, some of the weapons are cool. very realisitic. a fun game. love making howitzers and newblefers 
 Screaming Mimi and blasting out my enemy. haha. it is the best game ever ever ever!!!!!!!!!!! hope 
 they make an expansion. favortie map is D-Day when all heck is loose. very bloody, and language, 
 but who cares. its awesome.
  
  woot woot woot Relics best game ever woot woot woot woot woot
  
  its a real easy game to understand 
 basic controls, attacking, long range, simple, the demo helps wit that. so download it now at any 
 site (i say www. gamespot. com) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nofriendo1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 14, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Although I'm not a big fan of RTS games this is a game that I have really enjoyed. There are plenty 
 of maps to keep players interested for a long time in single player campain and then there is a 
 online mode to take on your friends. The buildings are fully destructable and the AI is extremely 
 high. The units will search for cover, and shout orders to one another, it's all very realistic 
 and quite well done. The only downside that I can find is the load times but that could be my computer 
 and even that is only a short time. All in all even if your not a RTS fan like myself give this 
 a try I'm sure you'll be pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphics, with fully destructible enviroments. Battlefields look so realistic 
 and are unreal. Creating tactics is quite fun and complex, gameplay gives you a lot to do, awsome 
 well designed missions which don't get repetitive. The battles add a lot of depth to the enviroments. 
 Their are alot of different types of maps which are created to suit the specific situation. The 
 online mode adds a lot of extra gameplay after you passed the campaign.
  
  The Bad: Loading times are quite long, some maps can take up to 30 seconds to load. High system 
 requirements and the game can become very difficult at times
  
  Theris a lot here for everybody to enjoy and i recommend everybody to get this game evan if your 
 not a fan of the rts genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekmojo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 13, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna make this short because there are probably so many other great reviews. Immediately after 
 installing this game, I jumped into the tutorial. Some nice features I could already see. Mainly 
 all of the damage you could cause to the environment. I liked the fact that your troops were worth 
 more than just a few resource numbers. They felt alive on the screen, ducking for cover, flanking 
 to better guard, yelling out commands, etc. All of the units are very detailed and balanced IMO. 
 So that should be one main reason to get this game.
  
  Tanks are gods in this game, well almost. Smart players can find out their weaknesses though and 
 wipe through them relatively effectively. Demolishing the tanks and other structures are cool too, 
 real-time damage is present in all areas. Anyways that's my few words on the impressive game, great 
 for LAN or online, missions are great too. I just haven't been through all of them yet.
  
  Bottom-line: Fun gameplay, great tactics, cool sounds, and a nice feel to the overall war game 
 by THQ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr1mscythe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 13, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is truly the gem that has long since been missing in the genre of WWII-themed 
 games. Whether they are RTS or FPS, WWII games have been lacking in quality. Though there are most 
 certainly several hard-hitting contenders (ie: COD, COD2, Brothers in Arms etc.) very few of them 
 pull off anything unique, or something that hasn't been done before. This is where Company of Heroes 
 truly shines.
  
  First and foremost, the gameplay. It give one a sense of accomplishment to wipe out a Nazi V1 (or 
 was it V2) Rocket production plant, with several squadrons of Airborne Infantry, supported by a 
 tank or two. Meanwhile, this is no easy feat to achieve. Excellent planning, and razor-sharp execution 
 are the only things that will guarantee victory, as you won't find any lackluster AI here. Most 
 of all, every single unit has its purpose. From the basic infantry unit, to the overwhelming Main-Batlle 
 Tanks (Shermans and Tigers) each will serve its role in the war. While a tank is impervious to basic 
 infantry squads, arm them with a recoiless rifle and maybe a panzerschreck or two and you've got 
 a handful of tank-killers ready and able. At the same time, a machine-gun squad pinned down by 
 a Tiger tank will stand no chance, and will almost certainly be wiped out.
  
  Secondly, the graphics. There is little more to say other than astounding. The game is visually 
 intoxicating, to the point that you may actually feel sorry for the Nazi soldiers rolling on the 
 ground (that is, until you've got a stug on your tail) after your machine-gun squad riddled them 
 with lead. The buildings are detailed wonderfully and the realistic physics only serve to enhance 
 the intense graphics. Watching an M4 Sherman drive through a brick wall surprising the mortar squad 
 behind it is nothing short of amazing. Objects demolish realistically, and no two buildings will 
 collapse the same way.
  
  Last but not least, the use of cover. One of the few RTS games that manages to do it right, is 
 at last here. Your soldiers are smart, and as such, they will always seek out cover, whether it's 
 behind a corner of a building or even dropping down into a prone position on the ground. They will 
 try to defend themselves however possible, and at times, you just might forget that it's a game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THF2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Real-time strategy games have come to a point where it has become more and more difficult to advance 
 the genre. I personally think Blizzard has already set the curve extremely high with both Starcraft 
 and Warcraft 3. Those two games were the pinnacle of RTS games and still are. Then along comes 
 Relic with a gameplay style that deviated from the normal gather resources, create army gameplay 
 and gave it a shot of adrenaline. Company of Heroes has perfected this idea, and the result is 
 fun, intense and challenging. I'm surprised Relic's RTS model hasn't been copied since it is much 
 more intense than the model Blizzard/Westwood introduced with gathering resources. The interface 
 and the micromanagement of units would inspire even Blizzard with their control schemes. The tank 
 micromanagement is especially intuitive. I could go on and on about the how incredible the graphics, 
 sound and presentation are, but you could just read it in the GS review. The bottom line is the 
 game is FUN. The game might seem intimidating, and I won't lie that the learning curve can be steep. 
 But if you give it a chance, you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdmd8871
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  well company of heros offers a new strategy taste for gamers it is the best since generals you 
 can play this game for hours and hours and never get bored excellent game play excellent music 
 that gets u directley in the mood of the game and wonderful in game videos (it may have some problems 
 in the graphics like german soldiers surrendering and moving they went through a metal bus in the 
 end of a mission they are moving through it thats a small bug but it is ok) otherwise the game 
 is perfect and THQ and RELIC has done a great job 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaTerSpud
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Is it worth gettin and playin .. and its the online game play good .. should i go out and spend 50 
 bucks on it and will i get bored of it real quick im a big RTS fan and i want somthing i can play 
 months and even years from now ..... if anyone has any comments about the game and can let me know 
 how gamplay is and how good the game really is .... let me know thanks  
   
    
 .k; zjdfnbzdkfnbzdf needed a 100 words  
 ajkdfngvk; djafnb; a vbkjndfg ljifdbgadkfng ladfnbkad fgbknadfbklna dfbknad flkgb adfkbn dafbnd fbnd 
 fgndl fkgnld fbnlkad gfbnad fgnka dflknga dlkfng ladfkn aflkg kldaf gldkaf ngbaldkfn glkadfn gblakdf 
 gbkadnf knadf ghknda fgknsa dklf gfklnb sdlafk gbldkf gsdf kghndf ghkdnf ghl; ksndflkgbnsadkflbg 
 n'aokib m'oerimgb areboalbg gb akflmgb adfkbj adfkm dfkbm dflkm 'lfdm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed_009
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  With It's wonderful Gameplay.... Great single player campgain.....&amp; Great graphics I may Consider 
 it the game of my Dreams. But the thig that make sad its Short Campaign... But allright that Doesn't 
 Matter. But the most thing i like in this game is the graphic engine and controling in your GI's 
 and tanks is very nice and Much Better than in other games. And Inspite of its short campaign but 
 it is the Best Campaign i ever seen in my life. Nice mission and youwill face a great (AI) from 
 your oppostion that make you thinking really in tactics to beat him. and this game is wonderful 
 in online gaming and its skrimish is wonderful too....***in conclusion*** SUPERB STRATEGY GAME*** 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figo1985
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Pq q esse jogo nao vai vir pro Brasil, mo sacanagem tava afimd e compra-lo! SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
 
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
 
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
 
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
 
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
 
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
 
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM
  SACANAGEM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smogman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  There isn't enough good things to say about this game. It is difficult to find a place to start. 
 You are trained like a recruit and then tossed into battle much like the men who landed on Omaha 
 Beach. You feel the intesity of war as you charge up the beachhead moving from cover to cover. 
 You feel the urgent importance of each mission as your company is tossed into battle on important 
 missions. The nice feature is that this isn't about some lone dog who gets all the glory, its about 
 real men who fought and died for freedom. Not many younger gamers may notice this, but the eulogy 
 at the end of the Omaha Beach mission was read by a famous WWII vetran whose name I can't remember. 
 I really thought that was a nice touch that gave honor to the men who died on that beach that day. 
 Not too many games do that. Most WWII games you just go from mission to mission without any regard 
 for what you are there doing. You never get the full importance this way nor does it honor the 
 men who actually fought in this war. This game does both. I was impressed with the gameplay and 
 the variety in gameplay. The game is difficult to learn, but you soon get the hang of it as you 
 learn to multitask. There is much to do and you'll probably want to replay missions just to see 
 if something else would work better. The replay value on this game is high, since there are many 
 ways to win the mission. Graphics were superb. If you have a high end computer, I highly recommend 
 turning up the graphics to get high quality rich images. The sound was excellent. It makes you 
 duck and seek cover when the artillery fires and scramble for cover when you hear the tank tracks 
 on the road. The language is a bit foul, but you have to remember that your in the Army now son 
 and we don't speak like your mother. If you can find this game for anything under $50 then you 
 have found a real value, but it you buy it at cost, then you still are getting your money's worth. 
 I felt this game was a notch above any other WWII game in that it brings honor to the men and women 
 who fought in the European theater and it potrayed them as human beings rather than war mongering 
 gods. The final word: Buy it, you'll not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junahia
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is the first Real-Time Strategy that I've played based around World War Two. 
 I'll admit that at first I was worried it wouldn't work out, but I was happily proved wrong. The 
 first thing that you'll notice in this game is the graphics, which I gave a ten. The graphics are 
 amazing, and unfortunately I didn't get to experience them for long because I have a bad computer 
 and had to tone it down so it could run smoothly, but what i saw was fantastic.
  
  The sound compliments the graphichs, and they work perfectly. The booming sound of enemy artillery 
 is enough to actually make you nervous about losing your men, and some of the soldiers' little 
 conversations can make you laugh. That earned this game a 10 for sound.
  
  The game was $50 for me. Although I normally would not spend that much money on a PC game, it was 
 well worth it. People commented that $50 was much for the game when I told them how much it was, 
 but I let them know that I would gladly pay $75 for this game. However, for a PC game $50 is still 
 a fair amount, so I gave it a 9 for value.
  
  Gameplay is great. Unlike most RTS games, this one is quite easy to use, much like Age of Empires 
 or Warhammer for players who are familiar with these two games. Although the game varies slightly 
 from these, it is still easy enough to tell your soldiers what you want done. However, gameplay 
 can get difficult as your squads branch off into different groups, and you need to keep jumping 
 around the screen to command your soldiers to garrison inside a house. Unfortunately, this dragged 
 gameplay down to an 8 for me.
  
  Still, 9.3 is a great score, and I was more than pleased with the way this game turned out. The 
 next game these boys come out with, I'll buy it without hesitation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkinay
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  They would be the words i would be saying to games that... well as stated but this game is hardly 
 rubbish so if you came to read a review which would be shaming the game move you mouse to the top 
 right corner of the screen and press the button with the X. i am not sure how many bad reviews 
 this game has got but i presume not many, this game unfortunately brings in everything that a good 
 rts game should have great ai which can tell the difference between a orange and a banana. graphics 
 which would even please my teacher. The game has truck fulls of game play as when you are done 
 with campaign you can hit the skirmish game play where if you want to play as the Germans get back 
 at the allies, make them pay (if you want to) . In skirmish play you can take the allies in a vast 
 map where you have a bigger pop cap to build your soldiers as well as team mates to help you kick 
 ass and same with German team and you will always find new ways of attack and defending you bases 
 and no matter how hard you try the enemy will always get the point you will least expect. you know 
 what i can go on for ages on the good things so i will cut to the point but before we need the 
 downers cons: yes like any game there are cons and these are the fact that there are only to fractions 
 and you will eventually find you have used all vehicles and there is no place where you can replay 
 missions well not to my knowledge oh well i am sure it will be addressed now the point of the review: 
 GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET 
 THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE 
 GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME 
 GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET 
 THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE 
 GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME 
 GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET 
 THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE 
 GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME 
 GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET 
 THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE 
 GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME 
 GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET 
 THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE 
 GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME GET THE GAME if you didn't get that then 
 try the opticians first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grail279
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  This Game is Amazing the Game play from Solo Campaign to Multiplayer is Unbelieveable. The Game 
 is Fluid and Accurate and should be THE new Standard for all Future RTS Games of any Genre to Emulate. 
 The Ai is Brilliant and very very Well concieved this will be a joy for a long time.... I sincerely 
 hope that the developers at THQ are already planning the expansions Would love to see more Axis 
 and Allies Teams available from Russia to Japan to Britain. Because just to see and having played 
 the Americans and Germans was stunning. And as A Parting Thought don't fix what isn't broke! The 
 visuals and everything are the Best... Great Job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treytakahashi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I know to some it might not be any where close to Red Alert or Warcraft II. but hey this game is 
 what we have been looking for. the grafix on this game are amazing! i was simply in aw of of the 
 sound detile and grafix. The game play is just facinating. i realy cant find bad things to say 
 about it. the maps are amazing and the things that you are enabled to do. the envirement is 100% 
 geomod! the game also takes realism to the next lvl (exept for the minor problem of 4 guys surrounding 
 another like 20 secs do kill) your can equip your troops with a better aronal of wepons that can 
 wreak havok ok the enemy!
  once agne the game is simply amazing!! It was worth the Wait and the money. i cant wait for more 
 maps! i also loved the smothnes for the game on the origonal V1.0 it ran like a charm a great. 
 (a thing i was worried about from EAT *empire at war) this is a must buy for any one even if your 
 not a fan of RTS this is a MUST!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddenBowler10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best strategy game ever, plain and simple. the graphics in this game are very 
 good and the ability to zoom in and out and pretty much view the battle in any angle possible is 
 pure genius. the thing i like about this game is that it takes the idea of putting a WWII game 
 into not a FPS, but a strategy game and they make it feel like your really apart of the action. 
 They do a great job with the amination and making pretty much anything in the game explodable and 
 movable. i like how they do a great job at making this an accessable game to just about anyone 
 including people who haven't played strategy games before. The game is really straightforward and 
 sending out squads and making new snipers and mortar teams is real easy and simple and quick. The 
 online is great fun. i played a 4 vs. 4 match and it was real fun. I do think there is a lil too 
 much lagg than id like in an online match yet it's still a lot of fun to play. you can pick up 
 weapons on the ground that enemies drop when they die or leave behind. The tanks and jeeps are 
 fun to use.
  
  overall- best strategy game ever, great fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cidheart
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  You must buy this game! The singleplayer is very fun but the multiplayer is better...! The graphics 
 are amazing, I never saw something like that for a RTS, when you zoom it's like a FPS! The gameplay 
 is immersive with a lot of action! You need to get the attention of the enemy and after that you 
 need to flank them, like in the real WW2! The storyline is really good and the cutscenes are really 
 good too! You just want to continue to play to know the rest of the story! The singleplayer is 
 not very long but the multiplayer make the job! It's really fun to play 4v4, make some strategy 
 and kill some kraut!
  
  You must buy this game! It's not a waste of money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vano083
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  This game plays just beautifully. Everything feels right and it is just a joy to behold.
  
  I played the tutorial in the demo, then after buying it, jumped into a skirmish. Ouch did those 
 Germans play hard. I thought I was doing great then they attacked and wiped me off the map.
  
  Thought that I'd better start with the campaign instead to hone my skills. I am still playing 
 through the campaign, but am thrilled with this game. I'd recommend it to anyone. It is one of 
 those games where you will want to do some upgrades to ensure it runs smoothly.
  
  Enjoy it and play it over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  Well rounded is the thought in my head when I think of this game. To start off with I know it 
 is a great game and people are going nuts about it but it isnt perfect. I get the impression when 
 I play this game that the developers put a lot of time and effort into deciding what the games 
 needs and what isnt exactly required. There are some things which you may think would be nice 
 additions but in the context of the game they just dont fit.
  
  A few points to note, so people can say if they are happy or sad about it, in COH you cant make 
 your troops lie down, you cant select individual units (unless sniper or vehicle) and the game 
 does run at a face pace. You wont build 100 tanks and millions of men because the number of units 
 in your army depends on territory controlled and on a fixed max number of units for the current 
 map. So what can you do!?! Well one nice feature is that you have control over how and when solders 
 use grenades or explosives / sticky bombs. Each can be used in different ways to achieve different 
 things. For example, you can use the satchel charges to blow up bunkers but if you position it 
 under a tank and the driver doesnt move away in time itll do a good job on the tank too. In fact 
 this small addition lets you control your men in battle to give them a better chance at winning 
 a fight rather than the usual whoever has the most health wins approach of other RTS titles.
  
  Apart from this you can also use and create cover to great effect. Using cover allows you to 
 win fights against squads of equal ability due to your increased defense. Creating cover comes 
 in the form of sandbags or craters left in the ground by mortar fire. Even dead tanks and planes 
 remain on the battlefield after they have been destroyed and add not only cosmetic value to the 
 scene but also provide first class cover to troops nearby. The main idea of the game is basically 
 taking territories which is perfect for a world war 2 RTS. In WW2 supply roots were of utmost importance 
 and taking land was usually the main objective. Cutting supply lines would mean no resources or 
 support for the men stuck on the wrong side of the battle. This is done in of course a game style 
 in the form of capture the flag but it works (just remember it IS a game it ISNT real life!) and 
 adds a new dynamic to the game-play. Apart from that some maps in the single player (and as an 
 option in the multiplayer) have important strategic zones that must be held in order to win (to 
 win you must drop your opponents tickets to zero by holding the points) . Again it is just a game, 
 but it gives the feeling of trying to hold territory against the enemy while waiting for something 
 (resources, support, backup etc) . As I said earlier it feels like a lot of thought went into how 
 the game plays and what you have control over. The units are relatively intelligent and can use 
 cover and prone by themselves when need be, in most cases Im glad they can do this so I dont 
 have to totally micromanage each unit when the pace of battle picks up. However it does give me 
 enough control so that should I focus on my units during a fight they would have a better chance 
 of winning the tiff even against unfair odds.
  
  The graphics are amazing when you can turn them up high enough, with even the smallest details 
 included. Ive never seen an RTS where each unit actually has eyes and teeth and if you go inside 
 the medic tent you will actually find supplies and a table. It is just nice to see them putting 
 in effort and details where it wasnt totally required. Overall this game deserves all the attention 
 it has been getting. It does break new ground in interactive dynamic environment and AI which can 
 adapt to its changing surroundings. The skirmish AI is a force to be reckoned with and the maps 
 are well designed to give them all points of intense conflict and ways in which to get the most 
 out of your surroundings. Remember this isnt easy when you think of the fact that you can destroy 
 just about anything on the map at any time. If you think youd like this game however Id still 
 advise playing the demo because if millions of tanks and troops are what you are used to you wont 
 find it here. In COH quantity has been replaced by quality and an increased level of tactics. From 
 what Ive seen so far, Im seriously looking forward to the expansion packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ten2001
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Great evironments and game play. The sound of incoming artillary makes me pannic to get my troops 
 out of the way. The visuals are very detailed. Zoom in on the effect of an upgraded an M4 with 
 spinning chains meets an infantry squad looks like. I have given too many hours to this game already. 
 It is amazing how this game will immerse you into the action. I look forward to exploring skirmish 
 and multi-player missions. They say you don't know love unless you know hate. I've played plenty 
 of crappy RTSs to know I love this one. It is PC games like this that keep me from my consoles. 
 Good job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_completor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This review contains absolutely no spoilers on the campaign story, even though the official review 
 does...
  
  
  
  Mini Review ( For those just browsing)
  (+) Epic campaign Physics in a RTS Everything is destructable (e. g. buildings, walls, roads) Intelligent 
 AI gives a real challenge once your experianced FPS feel added to an RTS game Level of detail
 
  
  (-) Low population limits Somewhat boring skirmish mode Unrefined save game system Merciless Germans 
 give no chances to begginers (in skirmish) Lags on older Pcs unlike other RTS games
  
  
  
  
  
  Overview:
  CoH is outstanding, it manages to bring RTS gaming and WWII authenticity 
 together without much flaws. The only thing I can say I'm dissapointed in is the unrefined save 
 game system. But because of my nature, I always play the advanced tutorial, followed by the skirmish 
 lastly campaign. I was dissapointed to learn that the skirmish has enemies who would decapitate 
 an opposing baby if it shook its rattle. Thats right, their cruel, but on the plus side, they can 
 offer a challenge better than anything I've seen onced your experianced enough, of coarse.
  
  Gameplay:
  Make no mistake, this is the real thing. The first RTS to feature real physics. 
 For example, a tank fires on the west window of a house. That particular window explodes together 
 with the infantryman who's standing by that window. no other part of the structure is damaged. 
 Incredible. Infantry automaticaly look for cover during artillary strikes or raids. They even shout 
 commands to each other. Wow. They can lay down sandbags for cover and tanktraps to prevent tanks 
 from crossing important roads. Even artillary strikes give movie like effects, blasting dirt 100 
 metres in the air. Extrodinary. Another cool feature in gameplay is that every weapon type is taken 
 into account and what you hit determines what happens. Which is usually only included in FPS games. 
 Tanks take absolutely no damage from rifle fire but the gunner firing the heavy machine gun on 
 top of the tank can be shot dead. And tanks shot in the rear take damage to their engines, making 
 them immobile. Victory between a Sherman Tank (Aliied Light Tank) and the superior Panzer IV (Axis 
 main battle tank) can be determined by the use of tactics. The lighter, quicker Sherman can flank 
 the Panzer in a suprise attack and hit its rear, making the destruction of the Panzer, a walk in 
 the park. I thought you could only do this in a FPS!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics here are fantastic. In some cases better than call of Duty 2. Now imagine THAT in 
 the scale of a typical RTS game. Relic Studious has paid so much attention to detail. you can see 
 the look on your troops faces, the scratches on your sherman, every detail you normaly see in games 
 like Call Of Duty, you can see here. Explsions are extra satisfactory. Of coarse, graphic detail 
 can be tuned down to suite low- end Pcs, but this game is worth that extra hardware upgrade.
  
  System Requirements:
  I played CoH on a mid-spec laptop and a low-spec Pc. 1) on the laptop, 
 I had to lower EVERYTHING from shaders to model detail to the lowest to give a smooth performance 
 the laptop specs are: Pentium IV 1.73 GHz Intel Onboard mobile graphics 512 RAM basically anything 
 better than a Dell (tm) D610 should be playeble. 2) on the low-spec Pc, I could set the model detail 
 to max and the effects detail to max with everything else on low and still get a decent performance. 
 The specs are : Pentium IV 2.66 GHz ATi Radeon 9600 128mb 512 RAM all current ATi drivers for 9600 
 series
  Other important notes:
  Skirmish missions are alright but you might need a lot of training as the AI is fantastic even 
 on easy mode. The only difference is they kill you faster in harder settings. And there is only 
 a limited amount of maps and only two sides to choose from Allied (US) and Axis (Germans) . But you 
 can choose your speciallity (example: armoured attacks, paratroopers, riflemen) once you start the 
 game.
  
  Summary:
  THQ and Relic have done their best work yet by minimizing economicle management and increasing 
 tactical management like in DAWN OF WAR. Its best to try out other WWII shooters first to get the 
 WWII spirit going ( I recommend Brothers In Arms or Call Of Duty 2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallace42
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 9, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  Following the action of a specific company from D-Day on, Company of Heroes is on of the best RTS 
 games ever made. The gameplay is excellent, with a good mix of soldier types, vehicles, and off-map 
 air and artillery support, to keep your strategy tooth quite satisfied. Missions are interesting, 
 with varied objectives that change as the mission progresses, often with timed requirements also 
 that keep you from merely sitting around until you have enough forces to overwhelm the enemy. This 
 game truly requires strategic thinking and an ability to think on your feet, as they say, no plan 
 survives first contact with the enemy intact. Overall and extremely well done game that is a must 
 play for any fan of strategy games or WW2 buffs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schoolitguy
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome but I won't be buying it because there is no way to turn off the bad langage. 
 I don't want my kids hearing all that and there is no way I am going to blow out my ear drums using 
 head phones. Besides the sound is so good I want to use my surround sound not head phones. Even 
 as an adult hearing the the f word a dozen times in just a few minutes gets tiring. Every thing 
 else in this game is amazing! Give the option to turn off the lang, I will buy it today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwillyy
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics, works great on my system with no slowdowns, but.... was expecting a more challenging 
 game by the pre-sale reviews. Completed the game in two days and was disappointed when it was all 
 over. Did not like the idea of having to work with units vice individual solders. No medics to 
 take care of wounded unless you built a medical unit and the injured never seemed to be reused. 
 Winning medals etc did not give any benefits to game play except for a pretty layout at the end 
 of the game. A lot of hype on the game but if it was not for the graphics it is just another run 
 of the mill strategy war game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 8, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I fired this game up at 12:00, and played a few missions.. only realizing the sun has gone down! 
 The game is addicting, and for all the right reasons. The action is non-stop, and very stressful 
 for an RTS game. Trying to fight back the German forces can be a real hassel if your not paying 
 attention.
  
  The graphics are intense, and your system better be intesnse too, or your not really going to admire 
 this game. Being said, make sure you got well above the min-specs. The gameplay is fanastic, and 
 well laid out. The options that they give you to help you play faster and issue orders is well 
 done. I hope future games will have these features for sure!
  
  While the campagin is single sided, I'm sure map makers are going to be making their own senarios 
 pretty quick.
  
  AI seems to be failry inteligent as well. Your troops will often flee for cover, and do what's 
 nessacary to keep themsevles alive, even if it means falling back without you telling them too. 
 I'm still in awe at this game... for once a game I buy with great graphcis dosn't let me down on 
 the gameplay side... I can't wait to get back into the fray! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesel_dejavu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Although the graphics and sounds were top notch, it was incomplete in my opinion. Where are the 
 other members of each alliance? Would be best RTS ever if it would have shipped with Italy, Russia, 
 France, Britain, etc. as choices for play. You can only play as US vs. germany in the campaign 
 mode. Im also not sure I will play it through again once I have completed the campaign, since it 
 would be playing the same team again. The campaign storyline is quite linear. Although I realize 
 this is deliberate for sake of historical accuracy, it still would be cool to have branches off 
 the main story and possibly re-write history. Great transition from video intro right into the 
 gameplay! Great destroyable environment! Just not complete... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a very focused and engaging game that plays off of squad dynamics and control 
 point mechanics on a larger scale than seen before. It captures the WWII setting most admirably, 
 with many historical weapons and vehicles, not to mention settings. Lets get to it then. Gameplay- 
 The gameplay of company of heroes is fast paced and action oriented. The only way you are going 
 to be able to sit back in your base and get rich on resources is if you have already taken most 
 of the map. You win though fast decision making and decisive action, and mistakes are costly. Units 
 cost quite a bit, and resource flow is rather slow, so make wise choices. The cover and physics 
 system works very well to make the game feel real, and come alive as you play it. The enviornment 
 changes with your progress. Dynamic cratering provides a new element of gameplay as well.
  
  The A. I. is really incredible for this game, both for the enemy and for your men. Anything higher 
 than easy in the difficulty setting is decently challenging, and it just ramps up and up. your 
 men know when to take cover, reorient, to return fire, and take tactical initiative in fire fights. 
 The enemy flanks, counterattacks, uses smoke screens, airstrikes, and even fients. Overall, the 
 squad system works well with single vehicle and upgradable unit and veterancy sytem. This , complimented 
 by doctrine trees, creates quite alot of gameplay variety. The few complaints I have in this game 
 are about gameplay, however. As great as it is, it is very focused. There is no ww2 rts that could 
 benefit from seeing more content like company of heroes. There are only 2 factions (very deep ones, 
 abelit) US, and Germany, and the campaign is entirely from the US point of view in Normandy. If 
 this game had different theatres, years, and maybe a russian or japanese faction. I could see it 
 being proelled to monumental hieghts. I understand it does not focus on naval or air combat, so 
 the pacific theatre is not such a good idea, although it could work, with the doctrine abilities 
 (airstrikes, navla bombardment, landing craft reinforemnts etc.) . However, the Eastern front and 
 a russian faction is a must do for an expansion, along with a battle of the bulge/ market garden/ 
 berlin campaign. A British faction would serve well here. But I digress. What the game does do, 
 it does well
  
  Graphics-The graphics are brilliant. modern effects mixed with the detail of an fps from a few 
 years ago in an RTS? it is insane. The units are the best I've ever seen in an rts. normal and 
 specular mapping are put to goo use here, and the physics engine is beautiful. However, the game 
 does need more blood, and more damage modeling for tanks. When a tank takes a round (when it doesnt 
 bounce off) it should at least dent it. Sound- Very nice, though limited score of music. It really 
 adds to the atmosphere. The sounds themselves are immersive and amazing. This game withe bass on 
 my sub all the way up is incredible. very good attention to detail in the sound area.
  
  Value- 15 very tough missions, AI skirmishes, and multiplayer ship with this game, along with 2 
 factions, and a great variety in units, upgrades, abilities, and tactics. The scope could have 
 been more, especially in the area of missions and factons, but it isn't that big of a deal. CoH 
 is a very focused game.
  
  I would reccomend this game to any RTS fan, but be warned, dont start here if you are new to the 
 gnere, this game is TOUGH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyisgreat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  While intimidating, this visceral real-time strategy reenactment of World War II's Western Front 
 showcases just how far RTS game design and presentation quality have come. Company of Heroes is 
 a visually stunning real-time strategy game that depicts all the violent chaos of World War II 
 with uncommon intensity. Set during the invasion of Normandy toward the end of the war, Company 
 of Heroes takes its cues from Saving Private Ryan, by portraying both the sheer brutality of the 
 war as well as the humanity of its combatants. Many other recent WWII games have also drawn influence 
 from Steven Spielberg's landmark film, but Company of Heroes is even more graphic. This and the 
 game's highly authentic-looking presentation are its distinguishing features, and it boasts some 
 frantic, well-designed strategic and tactical combat to match. Company of Heroes trades a wide 
 breadth of content for an extremely detailed look at WWII-era ground combat, and its action is 
 so fast paced that it's best suited for the reflexes of an experienced RTS player. So if you're 
 unfazed by any of that, you'll find that this latest real-time strategy game from the developers 
 of Homeworld and Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War is one of the best, most dramatic and exciting examples 
 in years.
  
  The game focuses on the Allies' invasion of German-occupied Normandy in 1944, specifically on close-quarters 
 skirmishes between infantry and armor. Company of Heroes presents a number of novel twists to real-time 
 strategy conventions, but at heart this game works like other RTS games do, by putting you in charge 
 of base construction, resource gathering, and tactical command of various military forces in an 
 effort to defeat the opposition. The game includes a good-sized single-player campaign spanning 
 more than a dozen missions, in which Able Company lands on Omaha Beach on D-Day, liberates a number 
 of key towns and strategic points, disrupts German supply lines and secret weapons, and finally 
 helps crush the remnants of the Nazi war machine in France. It's an exciting campaign, tied together 
 with cutscenes and mission briefings coming from a variety of voices, which creates a few threads 
 that help tie the missions together. In addition to the campaign, you can play skirmish matches 
 with up to seven computer-controlled players on a series of different maps, and you can also jump 
 online into the proprietary Relic Online service to challenge other players in ranked and unranked 
 matches. The Relic Online service is a cut above most similar offerings, and lets you easily find 
 a ranked match against players of similar skill or host a match with your own custom settings.
 
  
  The audio in Company of Heroes is fantastic, and just about the only less-than-perfect thing about 
 it is how units will cut themselves off repeatedly while trying to acknowledge your orders as you 
 rapidly click around, micromanaging their movement in battle. However, the game makes excellent 
 and subtle use of speech for the most part, such as how your units will acknowledge you in a hushed 
 whisper during nighttime operations, how you can hear the panic in the voices of your tank commanders 
 when their vehicles are badly damaged, or how speech coming from offscreen units sounds like it's 
 coming in over a radio. The sound effects for gunfire, cannons, and other weapons on the battlefield 
 are loud and clear, and the hornet's buzzing of machine gun fire or the thunderous crack of a tank's 
 main gun never cease to be particularly intense. Company of Heroes also features an excellent symphonic 
 score that's filled with foreboding strings and brass, just like you'd expect from a WWII game -- or 
 a WWII movie. The way it seamlessly blends with how the action unfolds makes the latter comparison 
 more fitting.
  
  Company of Heroes is technically remarkable and features some novel twists that make it unique 
 among real-time strategy games. Yet while it's easy to get into, it's not just difficult to master 
 but also rather difficult to manage, partly because the game does such a good job of evoking the 
 sheer chaos of frontline WWII battles. The relatively small number of units spread across the two 
 playable factions also means that this game doesn't have the sheer variety you might expect from 
 an RTS, though the units themselves seem much more realistic and interesting than in most such 
 games. In spite of these issues, remarkably, Company of Heroes still stands out from the glut of 
 WWII-themed games released over the years, as well as the glut of real-time strategy games. By 
 : kamesh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majere613
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 7, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Company Of Heroes is, in most respects, an excellent game. The single-player campaign is immersive, 
 and the graphics and sound make for a particulary enjoyable experience. Where I find it falls down- 
 and the reason why I refer to it as 'inferior' to it's spiritual predecessor Dawn Of War, is the 
 way in which micromanagement of units has become disguised as 'tactics'. This becomes most apparent 
 if you play the skirmish mode against the CPU. Weapons like machine-guns and anti-tank cannons 
 have a very limited arc-of-fire, typically no more than 90 degrees, so the game encourages you 
 to flank them. In a small-scale engagement, this works fine, but as soon as you get into a battle 
 which covers multiple small skirmishes at once, you'll be left floundering as enemy tanks circle 
 around your guns as their crews sit there and watch. In the same vein, tanks will happily allow 
 the enemy to pound away at their rear amour unless commanded to turn, and every individual infantry 
 unit must be manually told to throw grenades, and to run away from them. The overall effect is 
 that wherever you happen to be looking, you can win, but everywhere else things go wrong almost 
 immediately. Whilst Dawn Of War's tanks and weapon emplacements were less 'realistic' with their 
 all-round armour and fire-arcs, they did at least allow you to leave those units to fight for more 
 than a couple of seconds without becoming totally ineffective, which just isn't possible here. 
 Combine this with the very odd feel of 'building' WWII units at the front line- which can lead 
 to American forces in the final assaults of the war facing endless amounts of enemy armour- and 
 you have a game which, whilst superb, somewhat fails to deliver the experience it promised. Something 
 more along the lines of Ground Control might have been closer to the mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuscan42
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Excellent graphics and sound, a great storyline (particularly if you're a WWII buff) and enough 
 gameplay tweaks to make it a different experience from the plethora of other RTS games out there. 
 One of the particularly nice touches are that Relic have replaced the ubiquitous gathering rife 
 in other RTS games with strategic points which must be taken and held. A second is the balance 
 of gameplay, which makes the standard 'outnumber and rush' strategy a losing one in most of the 
 scenarios.
  
  Well worth the money for any RTS or WWII fan, and a very different experience from the norm in 
 several kety respects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentKittens
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly, I wasnt too excited when I first saw this game because everything about it seems done 
 before. The real-time strategy genre seems done to death, and theres no short supply of WWII themed 
 titles either. Much to my pleasant surprise though, I found Company of Heroes to be both interesting 
 and innovative in this well worn territory.
  
  First of all, the game looks really impressive. The graphics engine displays the world beautifully 
 and is capable of doing the birds-eye RTS map and up-close first person views. The cut-scenes 
 that move the story along lead flawlessly into game play. The war fighting is displayed in amazing 
 detail. Explosions look and feel as powerful as they should. The first time you witness an artillery 
 barrage landing on some unsuspecting infantry will drop your jaw. Fireballs erupt from the ground 
 and dirt and debris go flying, scattering enemy bodies across the battlefield.
  
  The world map is greatly detailed and somewhat interactive. Practically any building can be garrisoned 
 with units and used for tactical advantage. Most of elements in the world can also be destroyed 
 or affected by explosions. Burning buildings and crumbing concrete make for a very believable war 
 zone environment.
  
  Audio and sound effects in this game are just as good as the graphics. Explosions sound like real 
 explosions and gun fire sounds like real weapons. One thing I particularly liked about the sound 
 is that the developer deviated from the norm of having a narrator for every event. Instead of the 
 narrator announcing every time that units are under attack or that building is complete, often 
 you get more subtle clues like the sound of gun fire in the distance. When engineers are upgraded 
 with flame thrower weapons, sometimes you will hear them say Be careful Johnson, youre on the 
 flamethrower. Its not much, but its nice little touch that makes the game feel less like a game, 
 and more like a real situation.
  
  As for the strategy in the game, this is probably the most strategic RTS Ive ever played. One 
 of the first things I noticed is that there is a relatively low population cap for the number of 
 units you can have on the battlefield at any time. At first, I thought this was an unfair hindrance, 
 but then soon realized that it encouraged me to plan out my army more strategically. This makes 
 the game much more challenging and, in the end, more fun to play. There are three resources in 
 the game, control, ammo, and fuel. Each is provided by respective strategic points on the map. 
 Controlling the strategic point is just a matter of capturing it with a unit. Once captured, the 
 resource will begin trickling in to your account, as opposed to other RTS where resource collection 
 must be done by resource collection units. This is a welcome departure, as it eliminates some of 
 the more mundane tasks of the RTS genre, and allows for more focus on the combat elements.
  
  Another interesting departure from classic RTS is the relative lack of global upgradeability 
 of units. There are a few global upgrades in the game, but for the most part it seems, upgrades 
 are done on an individual unit basis. For example, certain vehicles can be up armored or others 
 can be outfit with specialized weapons which are better for use against certain obstacles. While 
 interesting, I found this to be somewhat tedious to manage. Construction is often only the first 
 step of getting a unit ready for battle. Once constructed each unit must be upgraded and outfit 
 with any special weapons, which can only be done in an area under your control. This makes rapid 
 deployment nearly impossible for advanced units.
  
  Practically all units in the game have some amount of individual upgradeability and some sort of 
 specialized attacks that can be performed at a cost of ammunition resources. For instance, the 
 common rifleman infantry unit can throw grenades, anti-tank explosives, or use special suppression 
 fire. While this makes for a greater range of fighting tactics, it can also be hopeless confusing 
 to manage in a large scale battle. Remembering which units have which special ability and how they 
 can be effectively used is nearly impossible when trying to manage a diverse group of units. Perhaps 
 my biggest complaint about this game is that more often than not, I find that special abilities 
 are under used in the height of battle because theyre just too difficult to use effectively.
 
  
  In battles where the enemy is attacking on multiple fronts, it can be an incredibly daunting task 
 to form an effective counter strategy. With so many defense mechanisms and options, its difficult 
 to discover what will work well. The game is almost too flexible for its own good, leaving you, 
 the player, feeling hopelessly overwhelmed and over run.
  
  My one other gripe about this game is that the AI of my own soldiers leaves something to be desired. 
 Occasionally, instructing a tank to attack an enemy will result in the tank driving right on top 
 of the enemy where it shot by friendly fire. Also, if an anti-tank or machine gun team gets flanked 
 by the enemy, they will, in most cases, continue to face the wrong direction and get destroyed 
 by the enemy. The only way to correct this is to manually readjust the direction these units are 
 facing. One think, if you were being fired upon you would be smart enough to turn around on your 
 own.
  
  Most importantly though, is that this game is a lot of fun to play. Despite being of such a well 
 worn genre and theme, it delivers innovation and a unique game play experience. I would definitely 
 recommend playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alecms7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  This is the BEST RTS i have every played! Amazing graphics especially for an RTS! Gameplay is great, 
 I can't stop playing. D-Day is amazing along with all other battles. Everything blows up which 
 is fun. If i put this game in one word, it would be: WOW! If you like RTS's, then this is the game 
 to play.
  
  You can zoom the screen in so far that your looking only at the ground. A little more out and you 
 feel like your in the game. Shooting people. Fun! Everything about this game is amazing.
  
  Had for 2 days (when this was written on 10/7/06) and i have played for a really long, in other 
 words, all my spare time.
  
  My favorite unit is the Sherman Crocodile. Has a big gun on it and a flame thrower to burn people 
 or buildings or whatever you want.
  
  Something really fun to do is to call an artillery strike. Sit for a few seconds, then BOOM!!! 
 A bunch of huge explosions blow everything up! WOOHOO!
  
  10 ALL THE WAY!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorlin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  This game simply has it all. From amazing physics, superb attention to detail on buildings, fires, 
 explosions, and surrounding environments, the game builds the landscapes to look as realistic as 
 possible. But it doesn't stop there. The squads do a good job of handling themselves and the banter 
 between fights is pretty hilarious, albeit full of cussing, which might turn some people off but 
 I doubt that, considering one has to know they're buying into a WW2-era RTS.
  
  Defensive positioning is pretty good and at times, you have to hand-hold the squads from being 
 simply crushed by the enemy's charges. Either way, it's the only RTS that I'm currently playing 
 and I haven't gotten bored with it at all as both the single player and the multiplayer entertain 
 for quite a while.
  
  I put the learning curve to 30-60 minutes because that's about how long I took the really get the 
 game's mechanics but it might take some longer and others shorter. All in all, I say it's best 
 in its series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catsi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 7, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  Because I CANNOT stop playing!
  
  I don't have the best computer out there, it's a laptop, so it can't take the brunt of huge graphic 
 requirements. But CoH looks absolutely beautiful! When shells start falling around your soldier, 
 you'll know it because the ground itself pops up to say hello. Soldiers will be sent flying as 
 a shell explodes near them, and tanks careen out of control. A quagmire of chaos and destruction 
 at the tip of your mouse pointer.
  To get all of the lovely goodies, you will need a powerful machine, but for those like me, with 
 our little laptop graphic cards, you will still get a graphic sensation.
  
  The sound sets the scene perfectly. In fact, heavy weapon squads sound scaringly similar to the 
 drill sergeant from Stanley Kubricks Full Metal Jacket. Soldiers converse amongst themselves and 
 give you feedback on your orders. The soundtrack sets the tone and immerses you so completely in 
 the game that your heart races and you really care when your men start dying. The gunfire, the 
 shouting, the explosions, the sounds of the buildings, and the terrain as it is slowly destroyed, 
 afterwards you just want to go and have a shower to wash the dirt and the blood off your body.
 
  
  CoH is extremely realistic, and is probably one of the few strategy games I have actually had to 
 use real tactics for. It's fast paced and keeps you on your toes. For all you base skulkers out 
 there (you know who you are) , sitting around surrounded by 100 turrets, this game will break your 
 heart. You cannot hide in your base, on normal setting you will need to dedicate your entire budget, 
 and force to defending your base and they'll still wear you down. Get out, get out fast and hit 
 the enemy hard. Work on your momentum and take the next point, consolodate, then on to the next 
 point. Soldiers will automatically start running for any cover, or you can choose to set them behind 
 certain cover yourself. The only issue is sometimes they will move from behind the cover, but this 
 relates back to the realism, who's going to sit around while the shells are falling down around 
 their ears?
  The enemy AI is a challenge and parts of this game will get extremely difficult as the computer 
 can be in all places at once, while you are limited to where you can be. I'm currently playing 
 on Normal and have had a real challenge. I can't wait to be chewed up and spit out in Hard mode.
 
  Some of the most intensive parts of this game is when you have defend your position. This is where 
 the game really shines as you have to be in 4 places at once. Shouts from soldiers in another part 
 of the map will attract your attention while an attack begins elsewhere. Some soldiers get into 
 trouble and need to be rescued, so do you save them or sacrifice them to focus on something else? 
 The artillery shells are falling everywhere, there's a sniper in every tree and the enemy tanks 
 are at your doorstep with grinning Nazi's running between them. The art work of the cinematics 
 and the cutscenes in CoH give you an amazing insight into the events during and after D-Day. It 
 builds repour with the soldiers you're commanding and lets you feel what life was like for the 
 men of Able Company. The narrators fit perfectly and tell a moving story of victory and loss as 
 you follow Able Company from the beach at Normandy and deep into Germany.
  
  All in all, the replay value of CoH is huge, as each time you play a mission, you know there is 
 a different way you can do it. Choose to build up heavy on tanks and roll and blast your way through 
 everything. Or maybe a mix of tanks, trucks and infantry. Or maybe light vehicles and infantry 
 is the way to go. Tanks are behemoths in this game, but they are at the mercy to fast moving infantry. 
 Get enough infantry with Panzershrecks and Sticky bombs behind the tanks, and watch the sparks 
 fly.
  
  If you're into real time strategy games in anyway shape or form, then you will love CoH. If you're 
 a base skulker, and you're prepared to put away your turrents and placing a toe outside your base 
 for a change, you just might be surprised at how much fun it is outside with the big boys. If nothing 
 else, you will receive a history lession on what happened during World War II.
  Draw backs? It would have been nice to see some other countries other than Germany and the US in 
 this game. The British for instance. Get far enough in the game and you'll get to play next to 
 the Poles and the Canadians (whose units strangely all have American accents on the battlefield) .
 
  CoH is a gem, and simply a must have. Now, if you'd excuse me, there's a particularly annoying 
 Nazi convoy I need to obliterate.
  Move out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8summit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 6, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about a new WWII game coming out I didn't think to much about. So many WWII games 
 come out in a year so I was going to take to much notice. But I was wrong. Company of Heroes (COH) 
 turns out to be not only a very good WWII game, but a rather excellent and innovative strategy 
 game in general.
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is very well done. What really struck me about the game was the effort 
 put into making all the sound and especially the voices sound realistic. There is always some sound 
 coming from a location on the map. If it isn't the sound of a tank crashing through the wall or 
 the sound of squad shouting that their pinned down. The first thing that you'll notice is the voice 
 acting. In the movies the voices are all very well done. All of them match the movement of the 
 mouth and they sound natural and un-corny. Even the Germans speaking in the movement have the proper 
 accents and speak in German. After that when you start listening to the details youll start to 
 notice the little things. Its things tiny details all strung together that really make the game 
 sound all that better. For instance every single gun has a different sound; the snipers sound very 
 distinct from the German grenadier. Even the different squads within a faction sound different. 
 The Engineers sound more professional than the snipers who sound cocky when you give them an order. 
 Every single thing in the game has its own different sound, when you become really good at the 
 game youll be able to tell whos firing by the sound of the shots.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game truly are awe inspiring. There is absolutely no comparison 
 to any other strategy game out there. Every thing is beautifully rendered. All the tanks have different 
 emblems on the side. You can see scratches, you can see absolutely everything in this game.
  The different characters truly look amazing. The faces actually have detail on them, same with 
 the uniform. The guns also look very distinct. You can see the different colors of the gun and 
 the cameo. If you look hard enough youll even spot the different badges that indicate rank and 
 squad.
  The scenery and the building are all rendered in very high detail. Since practically everything 
 in the scenery is destructible, its always changing. You can see every stage of decay and destruction 
 when you try to tear down a building. You can see the sand spilt from the sandbags that you try 
 to destroy. When you look at the whole level from a distance, it can even be hard to tell apart 
 from a picture.
  The vehicles are something else that should be taken note of. Every vehicle looks different. You 
 can clearly tell apart an Allied Sherman from an Axis Stug. Even the upgrades to any vehicle can 
 be seen. You can actually see the difference between a tank with the standard turret and one with 
 the longer one. There is only one drawback of the graphics, and that is the fact that your going 
 to need one heck of good graphics card to play this game.
  
  Gameplay: To appreciate the complexity of the gameplay you have to play the game for quite a while. 
 It isnt until you start getting the different classes and vehicles that the game become truly 
 strategic.
  The AI on your side can always take care of themselves. Unlike other games you dont need to follow 
 the squads so that you can guide them through cover everywhere they go. In COH the computer does 
 that for you. All you have to do is tell them where to go and theyll smartly make use of the available 
 cover on the way there. When on defence if a squad is being fired at they will spread out by themselves, 
 crouch down, and will shoot from behind cover. Another thing that you wont have to worry about 
 is the direction their facing. The AI can spot an enemy and will shoot at them immediately no matter 
 what direction their coming from. With the AI being so smart you can leave them in a spot and can 
 go and deal with other problems.
  The enemy AI should not be taken for granted. Unlike most game you cant surprise the AI. The AI 
 will always make use of everything available to them, an they will use it smartly. If you manage 
 to defeat and enemy squad the AI might decide to move mortar to a near by build so that they can 
 kill you a different way. The AI always makes use of building and cover to make they squad as effective 
 as possible. If your on defence, the enemy might suppress you with one a squad while moving another 
 couple squads around either side to flank you. Its not easy to get rid of them either. If you 
 manage to pull of a major the enemy AI will regroup for a counter attack.
  The thing that will keep you coming back for more is the sheer depth to the game. You really have 
 to think about what your next move will be. Is better to create a new squad, or to get your veteran 
 squad back to HQ so you can heal them and then send them out again? Should I use artillery to take 
 out the enemy positions or call in an air strike instead? With all the different options that are 
 always open to you there is never any level that is boring. Managing your resources is difficult 
 but very rewarding. Almost everything can be upgraded and there are plenty of different units for 
 you to try out.
  
  Value: The value is very high. The main campaign is quite lengthy and with online multiplayer there 
 is always something that brings you back for more.
  
  Overall COH is a very well made game. If you buy it I assure you that it will not disappoint. This 
 game would appeal to absolutely everyone, even people that are not a fan of the series. This game 
 is definitely worth every buck that it costs and should be enjoyed by everyone. (Just make sure 
 your computer can handle it first) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianlhc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  I love this game. When I first looked over it I thought it looked like Faces of War or Soldiers 
 Heros of WWII . But it's better. Squad combat! You work as a team not little one man armys. I recommend 
 this to any one whos like RTS games.
  
  To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To 
 make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make 
 this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 
 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 
 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To 
 make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make 
 this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 
 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 
 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To 
 make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. To make this 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 6, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  The mix of strategy and instant action really boosts the overall rating on this game. The past 
 world war games are mostly either first person shooter or strategy. CoH relies on strategy but 
 packs lot of actions, you won't feel like you are playing a strategy game where you just but a 
 base and pump millions of unit and sent them to their death. The gameplay is excellent, I especially 
 like the cover dots, moving your troops and advancing under covers will make your unit last much 
 longer.
  Lot of units to make and each unit is stronger and weak to another unit. Graphics is also excellent 
 but you will need a power machine for max effect and sound is also very amazing.
  
  Overall this game is worth every dollars and don't forget about the online feature, the fun can 
 not be describe with words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexmon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great tactics-style gameplay, great tech/unit balance, extremely advanced AI, Best graphics 
 seen on a RTS to date
  
  The Bad: Only two factions, stutters on high-end PC's (not even playable on low-end PC's)
  
 
  Company of Heroes is a new game from the award-winning Relic. It is a WW2 RTS, that focuses on 
 squad strategy (using cover, and taking advantage of your surroundings) , and capturing territory.
 
  
  Gameplay: Like my classification, I say the gameplay is solid, and balanced. There are 2 factions 
 (Axis and Allies) , and each has it's oen units, upgrades, buildings, etc. During the campaign portion 
 of the game, the missions are based on one Ranger Companies battles from D-Day, to the end of the 
 war. These missions are all different from each other, and along with cinematics, keep you playing 
 and coming back for more. The campaign will keep you on your toes for sure. There are also single-player 
 and multi-player skirmish game modes. The first mode is Victory Point, which challenges players 
 to compete, and hold Victory Points on the map (there are 4) to reach a set amount of points and 
 win. The second mode is your basic defeat the opposing army. This is not a fast-paced game, as 
 resources and units come slow (units cost a lot too!) . The game also doesn't ship with a lot of 
 maps and only two factions! Even though you have a low pop limit, and units train slower and are 
 more costly than most RTS's, it means that you have to pay close attention to every unit, and make 
 sure there all well looked after. It also make you want to give your units to move to cover, and 
 use strategy to win the day. Each faction also has special abilities, like airstrikes, paratroopers, 
 and such. The A. I. is amazing. Units find their own cover, and take advantage of there surroudings. 
 Overall, the gameplay is fun and addictive. The factions are balanced; for example, Axis units 
 can upgrade vetrency of the fly, but cost resources, while Allied units gain vetrancy by fighting. 
 Just don't expect a lot of maps, factions, etc.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Oh my, these graphics made me cry! They're amazing! The units up close look really great. The textures 
 are in high-resolution, and effects and physics are phenomanal. The environment is completely destructible, 
 like when a tank drives through a brick wall, it actually breaks. Or when someone throws a grenade 
 at a house, the building actually breaks apart. The units act lifelike, like giving hand singnals, 
 and using the envirnment to their advantage. The effects like, fire and smoke are done ver well, 
 with realistic damage, and nice-looking battlefield destruction puts you in the heat of the moment.
 
  
  Overall, I am really impressed by these revolutionary, new-age RTS graphics.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is a strong element i WW2 games. Gettin authentic weapon, etc sounds, and 
 mixing it in with the right music is a hard thing to do nowadays. This game pulls the sound of 
 great. With authentic weapon, artilley, etc. sounds are great. The music is just as good. Units 
 also shout out commands, like Tank to the southwest! or, Take cover! Panzerfaust! 
  
  Overall:
  
  This game utilizes gameplay, sound, and graphics, into one very good-looking, good 
 sounding, and revolutionary good A. I., into one, little, very fun package, that delivers on everything 
 it sayed would accomplish. I'm very impressed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 5, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Of course, they game is amazing
  
  Fantastic level of detail even up to the tightest zoomed possible in. Multiplayer is certainly 
 great fun, i really couldnt wish for it to get any better
  
  Im not gonna write a long review since many people have written more detailed than me
  
  But 
 im getting straight to my point,
  If you have played Soliders Of Heroes WW2, i know you woulda loved that game especially on multiplayer
 
  
  I still do, that game has an amazing game for tanks
  
  Tanks DONT have hitpoints, instead, shells either bounce off, or if a hit is critical, the tank 
 wherever hit will be damaged
  
  Eg.. Turret can be blown off, or disable Catapillar tracks come lose/ or off Middle body knocked 
 out
  
  Which makes that game even more fun is that sometimes if things are not beyond repair.. i repair 
 guy can fix that repair that needs doing
  
  COH is just hitpoints... and repairs hitpoints
  
  yes i know there is things like main gun 
 destroyed but that is only inflicted by the amount of damaged caused.
  
  BUT... other than that... great game... must buy !
  
  My rating ? * * * * * stars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlb81
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 5, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Well, this game simply rocks. The graphics, the gameplay, and watching your grunts duck for cover 
 when under fire is sheer joy to watch. Blowing up buildings is also fun. The only thing I can't 
 stand is that your HMG and AT guys will not automatically change directions when someone flanks 
 them. They just stand there and take the death toll. Not cool.
  
  Another suggestion would be to allow units to take over vehicles. Instead of having to blow the 
 whole thing up, how sweet would it be to watch your units nade the pilot and others then jump in 
 the tank and use it. Well, maybe in COH2 this will be an option.
  
  The skirmishes get boring after awhile when you discover that there's not point in using half the 
 units. snipers/engineers/and a few tanks. it get's a little repetitive.
  
  Other than that this game rocks. I'm still running an AGP card and it runs sweet. AMD 64 2.2 ghz 
 256 7800 GeForce AGP (the one that best buy sells)
  2 GB RAM (cheap stuff) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rusty_Bullet101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 5, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest RTS ever made. Apart from the thing where Tanks path finding is a bit stupid. 
 It will take quite awhile for anything to top this. The key to a great game is realism, exactly 
 what this has. Buildings that blow up exactly the way they would in real life and no tanks being 
 blocked by 1 foot high fences.
  
  Personally, I feel sorry for Rush for Berlin. Their game was looking to be quite a hit, then this 
 is brought out. If you want to complain about this just remember, since when has anything else 
 been any better?
  
  Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aloucard
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  So lets start with the subject Dawn of War. Ok i can admit that the game has some elements from 
 the game of the year. But what the hell, which company doesnt do that, i mean that she hasnt allready 
 use some elements from some previous games ? Tell me people if im wrong.
  
  Anyway this game absolutely rocks, the physics are awesome the sound is very good and the difficulty 
 is challenging to the bone. The game starts from challeging difficulty and stops to a pain in the 
 arse in some cases.
  About the sound i cant describe him, i was very satisfied. The graphics were AWESOME, even if you 
 set them to HIGH, and i mean all the graphic details,
  you can see even the faces of your army, even if your laying mines with your engineers if you zoom 
 in you can watch them setting up the candys for the jerries.
  
  The biggest problem of this game is that damn loading time, if you want to load a save jesus you 
 gonna wait a few minutes. Somethink else that i didnt like it is that if you want also to save 
 your progress you must make a new save and not overright a previous one. Stupid i think because 
 you fill you HD with save slots with some mbytes each save. i hope the loading time will be fixed 
 in an other patch.
  
  No more words from me people, you must BUY this game, it worths it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahmoud11
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 5, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  hey you men it is great but i just have some reservations on it how can you cast a gerenade and 
 soldiers next to it dont run?!! this is some how a nerd action beside that how can the tank attack 
 the soldiers with the canon and the soldiers dont die from the first or the second hit you still 
 have to wait until they die!! and it hould have some soldiers fragmentize as a result of a canon 
 attack it doesn't exist on the game some graphics abuses vehicles don't realisticly hit the soldiers 
 this all of the defects i could caught on the game but it really have much more than that at all 
 it is one of the greatest games ever sorry for any typo and enjoy the game hey i found another 
 abuse that really made me angry how can it be
  when you destroy a vehicle or something you can pierce it wih your soldiers and tanks:@ and your 
 weopons dont kill your own soldiers is that as far as you can see is this is the desired realistic 
 game!! i know there should be sometimes for the developers to make a better game (days haven't expired) :) 
 but really this isnt a perfect game and i respect the score that game spot assigned to it and i 
 hope that every one write a review i wish he could revise it before he type it every one types 
 perfect perfect but i really dont think this is the desired one and every one know that pls play 
 the game before you type anything and dont take (thefirst impression from the first site) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cman120
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes nails the spot on this one. I've downloaded the patch (not sure which one) , and 
 have played it for quite a while now. I have got to hand it to Relic for texture and destroyable 
 enviroments. Facial textures are excellent compared to any other RTS. Squad-based gameplay is also 
 a refreshing change from other RTSes. I haven't tried multiplayer yet, as I have a cruddy internet 
 connection, so please refer to other reviews for multiplayer.
  The campaign, while only Allied forces, provides a nice, immersive story you can really get behind. 
 Nazis are all over, and, until later in the campaign, you will only receive a limited number of 
 men. This game will jog your brain about tactics. Tanks are only vulnerable from the rear, so flank 
 them. Use the cover about to shield your men, which was best demonstrated in D-Day.
  If you've played TES IV: Oblivion you may know Jeremy Soule. He is also the main conductor behind 
 this game's sound division too, and does an excellent job at recreating 40s-era music.
  Value is pretty usual. If you buy all the the big-time developer games, like ones from Bethesda 
 and EA, this is pretty much how much you spend.
  Plus, look at the top edge of the front. That's right people, this game is one of the first GAMES 
 FOR WINDOWS! This is Microsoft's way of put themselves permanently into gaming biz by creating 
 this. Windows Vista will be compatible with CoH and so will all other PC games from now on.
  People have given some great reviews about this game, so I would say this definitely deserves something 
 out of a nine. Be sure to check at the top right of the front of the box whether you got DVD or 
 CD. Hope you enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lavahawk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best strategy game I've every played. Period. I don't mean just in WW2 stratagy 
 games, I mean out of all strategy games. For stuff like the cover element and grenades and visual 
 effects, the whole game is freaking awsome. The graphics are great, and when you think of a strategy 
 game you think pathetic looking carbon copy faces. Wrong. In CH the faces are awsome for a strategy 
 game, think like a rpg from 1999 or 2000. The controls are easy enough to pick up, especially with 
 the optional tutorial. I'd recomend this game for any strategy game fans, not just WW2 strategy 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeyStroke
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  I haven't played an RTS like this since StarCraft. At first glance, I figured this would be just 
 another RTS in a long line of WWII style games. But not only was I wrong, I was blown away. Its 
 not completely revolutionary, but the ammount of time and perfection in to making this game is 
 immediately apparent. The game was released with maybe 2 or 3 minor bugs, and those were more like 
 exploits than bugs. What makes it revolutionary is that it virtually eiliminates micro management, 
 while giving you micro management results. It does this by way of an overhead map of the entire 
 battlefield. In this mode, you can simply click a unit, send it to where it is needed, and stop 
 breakthroughs before they become a serious threat. You no longer need to scroll all over the map, 
 looking for the unit in trouble, and try to get it to react the way it should. The AI, for the 
 most part, is very independent. You can leave a machine gun squad in a building, and it will change 
 it's position to different sides of the building to react to a threat corresponding to the side 
 beging attacked. The realism, though accurate for the most part, is a bit fake. When you get a 
 couple squads of rifle men shooting at each other, they never aim to kill. Your squads have health 
 bars that gradually whittle away. The only way to kill a squad member in one hit, is to either 
 shoot him with a sniper, or blow him up with some sort of explosive, such as grenades or tank shells. 
 Tanks are a bit the same way. The amount you whittle away their hitpoints, however, is determined 
 by what side you attack the tank from. If you attack it from the front, little to no hit points 
 are whittled. Try attacking it from the sides and rear, and it tank takes more damage. Of course, 
 in real life, a well placed shot to the side or front, depending on the calibre of the gun, would 
 destroy it in one hit. Aside from that, the game's realism is astounding. Infantry dodge for cover 
 and crawl around under fire, tanks explode into little pieces, and artillery shells leave huge 
 craters that your men can take cover in. Depending on what type of system you have will determine 
 how nice the game looks too. Company of Heroes attacks your computer on 3 fronts; CPU speed, GPU 
 speed, and HD space. If you have a high end or decent computer, you'll get to experience this game 
 in all it's glory. If you're running a slightly slower system, be prepared to settle with mediocre 
 graphics. But still, even on some of the game's lowest settings, the game play outweighs the visuals. 
 I look forward to playing this game for quite a while. There will no doubt be an expansion, since 
 Relic has a very good track record with expansions. Examples are Homeworld, Homeworld 2, and the 
 Dawn of War series. All of which were and still are, popular and beautiful games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cathodeflux
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I had my doubts at first as to how Company of Heroes would turn out. Relic, however, once again 
 takes RTS to a whole new level. I must admit, my first hours with Company of Heroes had not been 
 present. I had purchased the PC-CD version, hoping to avoid the problems my DVD-ROM encounters 
 with many DVD games, only to pull my hair out in frustration as the game would not install due 
 to a faulty disk. Once I had exchanged the game at EB, I was excited to finally get under way. 
 I jumped right away into skirmish mode, thinking it would be pretty easy to pick up. The game play 
 is ala Warhammer but has intuitive unit control and subtle changes which sets it apart from Relics 
 other RTS series. The computer opponent was fairly challenging at first. A defensive strategy is 
 not the easiest approach. Sitting back hoping to gather resources and slowly build up your forces 
 is a sure path to defeat. The computer will come at you fast. Acquiring territories quickly to 
 gain valuable resources is a must. If you are not confident try playing with a computer ally to 
 get a better understanding of the strategy involved. One of my favorite aspects of the game is 
 the resources. The lack of starting resources and the sheer desperation to hold onto them really 
 make you feel like you are fighting for every inch of soil. I find myself letting out a breath 
 of relief when you gather just enough resources to call in reinforcements or bring in your first 
 tank. That being said, the pause key is a definite must... the action can get out of hand quickly 
 and units can be hard to control when the screen is filled with gun fire and plumes of debris, 
 bodies, buildings, etc. The sound is fantastic. The screaming of the soldiers and the roar of artillery 
 fire really brings you into the action. Graphics are stellar, even at medium settings they can 
 still impress. The unit detail is amazing even while zoomed in close. The load times are disliked 
 by many, but I did not notice them too much. An additional faction or two would be a welcome feature. 
 I would not be surprised if Relic adds an expansion pack or two. We can only hope!
  
  There is a lot more that can be said... Gamespots review is pretty close to the mark. I think anyone 
 looking for a great RTS will enjoy this game as much as I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridace
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this RTS game should be made a reference to war RTS. I mean, Company of Heroes is 
 so realistic! Imagine a strategy game wherein each unit looks really realistic when you zoom in. 
 You can even see the detail on their hands! Another thing Company of Heroes amazed me in was the 
 in-game physics. When a mortar shell hits, the explosion causes nearby debris to fly away. Also, 
 when a tank shell hits a house for instance, a part of the house flies away exposing soldiers that 
 are inside. Now how realistic is that? Another cool thing about this game is how the soldiers die. 
 Normally, in other RTS war games, when a unit dies, it just falls down and disappears after some 
 time. In Company of Hereos, the person dying really looks like he's dying. Some men hold their 
 torsos and grovel in pain. Oh yeah, i almost forgot, when a soldier dies, its like it has ragdoll 
 physics man! SWEET! For the sounds, i believe its the closest thing that you can get to the sounds 
 in WW2. You got people screaming in German, Americans yelling for covering fire, the sound of mortal 
 shells exploding, mines going off, tanks shooting at buildings, Heavy Machine Gun emplacements 
 wasting enemy infantry... and ALL AT THE SAME TIME!! The Campaign mode is also pretty good. The 
 story, which isn't half bad for a RTS game, mostly focuses on one company, but you get to control 
 other companies as well and the cut scenes are pretty nice too. The skirmish is also nice because 
 it'll take some time before you get tired of it because of all the possibilities that can happen. 
 However, the only real thing that Company of Heroes fails to deliver in is the variety of Factions. 
 Thus, leaving players with only two playable factions making its lifespan a hell lot shorter. All 
 in all, i believe that Company of Heroes truly deserves a 9.0 from GameSpot, even higher. It is 
 truly one of the most realistic Real Time Strategy games on the market to date. Even though you 
 aren't a WWII fan, gamers should definitley get this game because it delivers in Graphics, Sounds 
 and Gameplay. It gets a 9.6 from me... truly a great game and worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLWK
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  COH takes the RTS genre to a new level. It is no longer just about overwhelming the other side 
 with numbers. Taking positions, protecting and cutting supply lines, planning an assault well -- 
 all mean the difference between victory and defeat. The presentation of the game is also at the 
 cutting edge. The graphics are detailed. (You will need a decent graphics card.) And the sounds 
 are probably amongst the most impressive I've heard in a game. (A subwoofer is recommended.)
  
  The campaign is great. The different missions are varied enough so that each mission plays 
 differently, requiring different tactics. The saving-private-ryan inspired stuff is a bit overdone, 
 though.
  
  My biggest complaint is that the skirmish mode seems fairly limited. It would have been great to 
 have other kinds of battles such as a so-called deathmatch where both sides start with an army 
 or a base and no further resources are available. As things are now, playing annilation in skirmish 
 mode is essentially about grabbing as much terroritory with resources as possible in the shortest 
 period of time when the match starts. It would have been nice to have a fixed sized army and to 
 have to assault the other side or defend. That would have added another dimension to the game.
 
  
  COH is certainly worth the experience, if not for the interesting gameplay and the atmospheric 
 sounds, then at least for the opportunity to command those earth shattering howitzer strikes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E-Tiger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Excellent graphics... details... explosions... A very well thought out game. Much like Age of Empire 
 III and Empire at War in the overall engine and overall structure. However... it has gone so far 
 beyond these games I hesitated to make the comparison.
  
  My favorite is the artillery strike and all the resulting chaos... stuff... including enemy soldiers 
 get thrown all over the game area.
  
  I can only make the small reminder that if you have an older system... be ready to dial down the 
 settings. With a newer CPU and Video card the game will scale well but to run everything all the 
 way to max... will be a chore for most systems.
  
  I am running the game on three systems as a test... and will post more information as I find more...
 
  
  Great game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bribud
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  The game is quite impressive. The storyline is what you would expect, not it's stong point, but 
 the gameplay is terrific. I have not seen any bugs or any instances where you just get totally 
 screwed like some strategy games I have played. Not overly difficult and the average gamer shouldn't 
 have much problem progressing through the game. I tend to like strategy games like Homeworld where 
 you start with the units on the next level, that survived the previous level. I think developers 
 need to take this into consideration much more often. I think it would be more rewarding and challenging 
 if they were to do this, but alas in this game it doesn't matter how well you did on the previous 
 misson because there is no carry-over. The sound is great, graphics are great, and gameplay is 
 easy to master. The WWII setting does get kind of old after a while, but I would love to see some 
 mods that could be made from this game that take things into an entirely different direction. Overall, 
 solid game, but always room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rush2547
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of RTS' this game is a must buy. It's one of the greatest RTS games that I've played. 
 The fact that there's completely destructible environments makes the same mission different each 
 time. The replay value is also a reason why this game tops the list. I could play the same mission 
 3 or 4 times in a row and it would be different each time. The voices, and the unit's script adds 
 an element in RTS' that you wouldn't really get from the average game. If your a fan of ww2 games, 
 RTS', or just really really fun games this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kkrokotillianis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is freakin' brilliant.
  
  You'll hear that alot, and, well, it's because it's a simple truth. Stop me if you've heard this 
 one:
  The game is set (where else?) in war-torn France. The situation looksm grim. The minor foothold 
 gained by the Allies on the shores of D-Day will soon be pushed off by the advancing Nazi Horde. 
 But there is hope, and that hope lies with Able company. They are your boys. You'll fight with 
 them, and learn to love 'em. Their a scrapping bunch of doughty yanks with a go-gettem attitude 
 and a strong hatred for the Krauts (one engineer remarks, when you click on him: I hear the Krauts 
 are all eight feet tall! ) .
  
  So, what makes this any different from the 1,000-plus WWII games already on the market? One thing: 
 Relic.
  Relic has bested this genre. What you see now is the pinnacle of RTS creation, in all its glory. 
 BEHOLD.
  
  Gone are the days of tedium and recource-gathering, lumber-jacks and strategy-less games of rush 
 tactics and swarms of a single unit. That's all changed. Thank you, Relic. Thank you so, so much. 
 The difference between this and any other game any made is that you actually have to FIGHT the 
 battles you make. There's no more  Now, to win CoH's battles, 
 you must pay careful attention to every detail of the battle field. You can't just let loose the 
 horde and count on numbers to win, anymore. Because no matter how large your swarm of Volkgrenadiers 
 are, they stand no chance against two well-placed MGs. A mighty horde of tanks CAN be bested by 
 one lone sherman. It all depends on whose driving it. To win, you must lay down suppressing fire. 
 Command your troops to sprint. Throw grenades. Hell, throw satchels. Lay traps. Put up the defenses. 
 Flank, flank, flank. Especially with tanks. In no other game have the fights been so interractive, 
 so lucid and demanding of real life tactics. It's, as you can imagine, freakin' sweet.
  
  The graphics are also beautiful for an RTS game. This is DOOM-engine quality stuff, here. Oh, and 
 the sound kicks ass (especially the unit comments) .
  
  It's all wrapped up so perfectly. You can't NOT want this game. Play it, or just die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyril_ryser
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Since I first saw a video for this game from E3 about three months ago, I put it onto to the top 
 of my 'high-priority wish list'... Now it's been released and we're all happy to finally get to 
 play this jewel:
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Just like I imagined: Visceral and realistic firefights with all the gears that WW2 had to offer. 
 What really elevates the gameplay up to a class of its own are the real-time-physics and the fully 
 destructable environments that can be used for strategical approaches. For example: Is there a 
 fence in your tank's way? Simply mow it down by driving over it or blasting it to peaces.
  Furthermore, the controlling is done by 'squad command', a really simplyfying tool to the RTS-battle: 
 Just select whole squads (of 1-6 soldiers) and order them around. Taking cover behind obstacles 
 also is vital in this game: Your squads and vehicles will be much harder to hit when behind cover 
 or if they are barricaded in a building... but attention again: Buildings fall apart when under 
 heavy fire just like in real war... impressive!
  
  GRAPHICS &amp; SOUND
  I'm not the kind of guy who always complains 'bout hardware requirements: Want high-end graphics? 
 Get a HIGH-END SYSTEM which can support it! 
  But CoH really IS a hardware hog. It offers ULTRA settings for terrain textures, effects and physics... 
 when you got the ressources to run this eye-candy it blows everything you've ever seen in the RTS-genre 
 back to stoneage! Model quality, full with bump- and specular mapping, even tops Call of Duty 2! 
 The animations are at First person shooter standard as well and the physics are the best and most 
 consequent implemented I've ever seen in a game. Just have a look at it...
  The sound is 'state of the art' as well: All weapons sound authentic and explosions will leave 
 you with ringing ears (don't panic only simulated ;)
  
  OVERALL
  If you wan't to see how far RTS-gaming has come by returning to the roots of action-driven gameplay 
 you need to get CoH... And even the presentation has become better since C&amp; C 1 :D !
  
  SOME SMALL MINUS-POINTS
  - path-finding of vehicles sometimes isn't optimal
  - hardware hog 
 like hell (loading times and RAM-swallower)
  - only one campaign
  - highly addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerTruffle
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  Most of the concepts in Company of Heroes have been seen before. Unit balance - virtually any RTS. 
 Capturing control points for resource income - Warhammer: Dawn of War. Tactical use of battlefield 
 - even as far back as the Myth series.
  
  What Company of Heroes does do is take all these elements and combine them better than any other 
 similar game I've seen. Possibly the most notable feature this game introduces to the RTS genre 
 is truly *useful* destructible terrain. But to fully address this, we need to look at the graphics 
 engine as well.
  
  The level of detail in this game is very high - you can zoom in extremely close to units and have 
 a significant amount of detail. You can still tell you are zoomed closer than you should be, and 
 make out angles in the geometry and such, but being able to distinguish actual faces on each of 
 your units is fairly solid.
  
  Along with this detail tho is realistically destructible terrain - even without necessitating a 
 PhysX card. When a heavy shell hits a building, the building falls apart right where the shell 
 hits. This is similar to the effect seen in Age of Empires III. However, it is not just eye candy 
 in Company of Heroes. Infantry can make use of any building for cover. A machine gun crew holed 
 up in a building can be fairly hard to eliminate just using your own infantry. However, if you 
 take a couple heavy rounds to the front with a tank or something, parts of the wall are blown away, 
 leaving the crew inside more exposed, and thereby easier targets for your infantry outside.
  
  Virtually anything can be destroyed in this game - and most everything can be used for some 
 amount of cover. Burned out vehicles, building rubble, and even small craters left behind by mortar 
 or artillery fire can be used to provide some level of cover for your own men. And proper use of 
 cover is a major part of the tactics in the game. Other elements important to the tactics include 
 position and flanking - tank armor is weaker on the sides and rear, and if infantry is flanked, 
 they're forced to split their fire, making the squad less effective. Unit types also play important 
 roles, as some are obviously more effective against certain types of units. Reinforcement is another 
 key issue. On some missions, reinforcements are available by paratroops, and may be called from 
 anywhere on the map that isn't protected by enemy anti-aircraft. On other missions, reinforcements 
 are only available near barracks structures. Luckily, any empty building can be occupied and converted 
 into a Field Barracks - as long as it is in one of your supplied territories.
  
  Speaking of supplied territories, even selecting which control points to hold or target comes into 
 play strategically. All control points must be connected to your headquarters to remain in supply. 
 Points that are out of supply do not provide resource income, and cannot be improved with defensive 
 buildings. This means that a direct assault is not always advisable - if you can flank and eliminate 
 an enemy control point deeper in their territory, you eliminate all supply they were receiving 
 from connected territories. This significantly weakens the enemy's ability to respond and push 
 back, since much more of their resources are cut off. The flip side is that you will likely find 
 yourself needing more to defend yourself on all sides rather than focusing defense on one side.
 
  
  Tactically, strategically, and visually, this game is well done, and it's just plain fun. Cutscenes 
 are well done and superbly narrated. The story of Able company - the men behind enemy lines - is 
 well told. The feel of commanding real squads is applied fairly well, although some of the lines 
 can start to feel repetitive after a while. That, however, is my only complaint about this game.
 
  
  I would definitely recommend this to any RTS or WWII game fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Ive been reading some of the negative reviews of this game, and let me start by saying, anybody 
 who see's this game as same ol same ol didnt play it. I ran the first mission 3 times just to try 
 it different ways. A good sign that a game has be written well is that you can skin that cat in 
 a lot of different ways. Thank god for resupply! Great action, cut scenes are cheese but if you 
 like that kinda thing, just bring some crackers. Action is intense and will keep you coming back 
 for more. First time you lay down a base of fire so your engineers can throw satchel charge on 
 a bunker you'll be thanking me. If you buy one RTS this year, this is the one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameDesigner21
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This game without a doubt, is the best RTS I have played in a long time. A completely new look 
 and feel. Even if you hate RTS, this game will for sure change your mind. The lighting, graphics, sounds 
 all add to the experience playing this game. there is virtually no down time in the game your on 
 the move till the mission is over. Also playing the game you are not able to sit down and build 
 barracks, tank factory's, sand bag walls, you must build up your units and base before the Axis come 
 storming in. This game should be on the shelf of every war fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srgdrasco
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I could not find anything bad about this game. With all the graphical options turned all the way 
 up, my computer lagged. Turning off one or two (or at least tuning them down a bit) and my computer 
 skipped and danced all to the tune of CoH. The campaign, skirmish and online play is extremely 
 fun and addictive. I will never get over this game. This is a must buy even if you have a mid-range 
 system. If you have a low-range system, upgrade so you can play this game! This game was obviously 
 going to be good because it was made by Relic, but it still blew me away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eastiling
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This Game is exeptional in many and most ways. The graphics a good, the Music is good, the Gameplay 
 is good, but the actual playing , Been there Done that. Company of Heroes is a downright Must to 
 Buy dont get me Wrong! But if youve played Dawn of War and its Expansion youd be better of with 
 Dark Crusade . The Gameplay is almost identical (not surprising sayin its the THQ) , and at points 
 repetative.
  
  Id expected more of this game when i whatched the trailer but now i am slightly anoyed i bought 
 it, i could have just waited for Dark Crusade and got a better experiance, bad move THQ.
  
  Now (No more Mopin) the game is fast and desicive and can at times realy heat up!! I would reccomend 
 this game as a shelf filler and for Die hard WW2 RTS fans (You know who you are!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I was quite impressed by the release of this game. Commandos, Command&amp; Conquer, and Medal Of 
 Honor all wrapped up in one platform.
  
  Aside from the graphics gliches, bodiless soldiers, and flickering buildings, the overall gameplay 
 is very insync to the user's actions. I particularly enjoy how the engine remembers where the user 
 places their units before and after a cinamatic sequence. Very impressive. Most games just randomly 
 follow their own plot line no matter what the user does or dictates. This game actually keeps up 
 with the user, and the user feels as if they were in control of the entire gaming scenario.
  
  Good job. Remedy the graphics issues, and you have a decent game on your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blubalou
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I spent the first 20 hours or so playing Skirmishes and didn't get what all the hype was about. 
 Ya, some cool graphics and gameplay, and I'm a sucker for WWII (can't get enough of it on the History 
 Channel) but I was starting to wish I hadn't spent the $50. I played C&amp; C Red Alert years ago 
 and some Warcraft, and now I'm just done on the RTS games. It's just the same deal over and over; 
 collect resources, build a base and an army and defeat your opponents army by outsmarting him in 
 the rock/paper/scissors game. Don't get me wrong, hundreds of hours of my life went into these 
 GREAT games. I'm just personally totally burnt out on them, and the CoH Skirmish / online multi-player 
 mode is yet just another of these with a few new ideas and a lot of bright and shiny stuff.
  
  HOWEVER, then I tried the Campaign. I have a 32 LCD TV as my game monitor and I was treated 
 to a video game movie similar to the opening scenes of Saving Private Ryan. Heart racing, adrenaline 
 pounding, freakin' awesome! Then after setting the stage, the camera pans back and control is given 
 to me to get my guys to move their a**es off the beach and into cover. Once I did that, more of 
 the movie plays out, then control comes back to me to take out some machine gun nests and a bunker, 
 then back to the movie.... and that's how it goes!
  
  The second mission is actually from the night before as the paratroopers drop in behind the Normandy 
 beaches, so now your moving in and out of the Band of Brothers series. So like I said, if you love 
 RTS video games and WWII history, then you'll love this! I'm more than pleased with the experience 
 I'm getting for my $50!
  
  The bad about the game has already been stated in other reviews. It is a video game not a simulator. 
 The speed a person can run or distance he can throw is probably not realistic. Damage models are 
 probably not accurate. AI is somewhat lame. Reinforcements get born in a house. Sometimes two opposing 
 squads get right on top of each other and fire rifles, or some long distance AT gun fires point 
 blank at its target. But all this said, the game is fun. You need to approach your objectives with 
 some tactical thinking. And as already stated, the cinematic experience is so friggin good that 
 by the time you get to plan those tactics you're already on the edge of your seat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stev69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Another fantastic offering from Relic. A game of great depth and realism, can be very difficult 
 even at the easiest settings but well worth the effort. I was a little disapointed with the short 
 campaign and the feeling that at least another two or three expansions are already planned which 
 seems to be a little callous but its a business after all, and the game is very good. Easily the 
 best game in the RTS genre out at the moment, it has to be seen to be believed wether you are a 
 hard core RTS fan or just a casual gamer you wont regret buying this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necare2300
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Starting with Gameplay - the designers created a new format based on frontline battles. This means 
 that you no longer have the luxury of sitting at your home base gathering resources and building 
 a huge army for invasions. You have to send troups out to capture strategic points and hold them 
 in order to gain resources on manpower, fuel, and munitions. This gameplay lends to an actionpacked 
 strategy oriented gaming experience.
  
  You control groups of soldiers rather than one at a time which creates a larger battle scene than 
 individuals being sent into a battle. These groups can obtain special abilities like throwing plastic 
 explosives, etc.
  
  One of the most exciting aspects of the game is the interactive map. Not only can you use various 
 map elements for cover and camophlage but you may also pick up deserted weaponry and commandeer 
 vehicles for use against the enemy, which becomes a crucial part of the victory strategy.
  
  Beyond all of this comes the state of the art best graphics and sound I've seen in a long time. 
 The sounds are amazing and multi layered to create a real sounding battle scene, with multiple 
 soldiers swearing and screaming and yelling orders at the same time as bullets and explosions are 
 being heard at close up range and then similar movie quality sounds if you are far from the action, 
 hearing for example a mortar exploding in the distance against the backdrop of the crackle of rifle 
 gunfire.
  
  The graphics are simply top notch, allowing you a full 360 degree tilt with zoom, to see the whole 
 battle, or get in at the soldier level to see the action from their point of view. A fully functioning 
 map with super text detailing really allows you to witness the brutality of say blowing up a building 
 and having the ruins fall on your enemy, or seeing tiny limbs being blown into the sky from a previously 
 healthy soldier corp running over mines.
  
  If you like RTS and are looking for something new, then look no further!!!
  
  Company of Heroes 
 gets my vote as the best.
  
  Also I've never been inspired to write a review before now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobstos
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is a Real Time Strategy Game from the creators of Homeworld and Dawn of War: 
 40k. It follows a company of soldiers who were sent in to Normandy through the beaches, and through 
 the hedgrows as they try to Drive the Nazi war machine from Western Europe.
  
  Now, Company of Heroes is by far one of the best RTS's I have ever had the privilage of playing. 
 I'm talking Starcraft good. Age of Empires 2 good. Total Anihalation good. Everything about it 
 just feels perfect. the gameplay, the graphics, the sound, everything. The Atmopshere created in 
 this game can be so brutally realistic and enveloping, you would get the gut-wrenching feeling 
 in your stomach as you watched wounded soldiers curling in pain on the ground as they screamed 
 for their mothers, or watching a german soldier step on a land mine, and then witnessing his numerous 
 body parts flying in the air, while his comrades desperatley seek cover. From a gameplay point 
 of view, this game is challenging by all means. Even the most veteran strategy gamer will find 
 a steep learning curve as the AI uses cover, abilites, stratigical artillery strikes, and every 
 tool of war they have to their advantage. the pacing of the game may also throw some people off, 
 as it is brutally fast. Defensive players will not take kindly to this game, as it encourages rapid 
 expansion and resource collecting. The entire game is based off of capturing several points located 
 around the map. Controlling these points give you a supply income, but the sector must be in someway 
 connected to your HQ, or the supplies will get cut off. This adds yet another layer of srategy 
 as you can beat your opponet by cutting them off of their valuable resources withouth having to 
 control every one of the points on the map.
  
  Graphic-wise, this game is a masterpiece. Textures, effects, lighting, shading, all of it is amazing 
 to behold. The only drawback is the computing power that is required to view this game in all it's 
 glory. If you have even a remotly obsolete computer, and you have to squeeze by on lower settings 
 with today's games, then dont even think about getting good performance with this one. The sheer 
 scale of physics and AI are enough to run even the most powerful single-core processors a run for 
 their money. (during larger-scale battles)
  
  All in all, I dont think anyone should miss out on this title, as it is sure to please for a long 
 time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiVeX
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is an awesome game. The computer A. I. is super smart. Sometimes sloppy, but solid, 
 a trait not commonly found in RTS games. Multi-player was really good too. Love the ability to 
 upgrade buildings and units. Also, really love the concept of victory points, both holding and 
 maintaining them. It is very similar to Battlefield . The only thing I have trouble with, is trying 
 to keep up with the population cap which sometimes is a chore. Munitions and fuel are relatively 
 easy to control. The hardware performance recommendations are a little steep, but definitely worth 
 the money to upgrade. Graphics are beautiful. Hopefully they will release an expansion pack soon 
 with additional units, maps, and teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyschoracer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  This game is yet another WW2 game... but its the first ive seen where its an RTS game. You command 
 and army in the midst of WW2. Missions include attcaking, defending, and eliminating the enemy. 
 If you played Warhammer 40K Dawn of War youll know most of the controls.. although you may still 
 want to glance at the manual. There are almost no drawbacks to buying this game. You can command 
 Airborne troops, Snipers, Riflemen, tanks, engineers, and many others which ill keep a surprise. 
 As most know.... THQ and Relic made Warhammer 40K Dawn of War, which is a game set in the future 
 based on the tabletop game Warhammer. If you love RTS games or just any WW2 fan. You must get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amlabella
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Your boat arrives at the sandy shore, but what awaits for many is death. Every enemy is ready, 
 guns at their side. The crashing of waves is drowned out by immense fire, bullets flying everywhere. 
 What was once your best friend is now a blood ridden corpse. But you and your comrades push forward 
 with determination. Your infantry uses all the tricks up their sleeves - flanking from various 
 directions, calling in artillery fire. What seems like days of fighting finally ends, and you are 
 victorious.
  
  Welcome to Company of Heroes. Never before has a strategy game captured the true horrors of war, 
 while at the same time providing loads of fun. Youll see two soldiers engaging in comical conversation, 
 and before you know it one of them will have been shot. Then all of a sudden youre thrown into 
 the heat of the struggle, with only your wits at your disposal. You have no time to hang your head 
 in sorrow, its time for battle.
  
  Company of Heros most appealing factor is its gameplay. When playing a strategy game, a wide array 
 of troops and detailed commands are essential. Luckily, these are the games strongest assets. 
 Youll become familiar with quite a few soldiers, ranging from basic riflemen to trusty mortars. 
 Oh yeah, and there are tanks. Thats right, those giant vehicles capable of mass destruction make 
 a lot of appearances. Get ready to drive over foes and blow things up all day. But if there arent 
 thorough actions to issue to your troops, whats the point?
  
  Accompanying Company of Heroes is a variety of complex commands sure to please the George S. Patton 
 in all of us. Whether it be flanking from various directions or building barracks, the game proves 
 to encompass all the responsibilities of war. The list of options is superior to that of other 
 strategy games; this is in large part due to each infantrys capabilities. You could have riflemen 
 throwing sticky bombs or engineers crafting devastating minefields. On the contrary though, this 
 can tend to become complicated. With so much going on, one could forget something here and there. 
 But this should prove to be only a minor problem, because it wont result in death... that all rests 
 on your hands. But the question is, does all this translate into a feast for the eyes? 
  
  One of the biggest obstacles the game overcomes is that pesky visual barrier. Not too often, if 
 at all, do strategy games blow us away with incredible graphics. Company of Heroes ignores this 
 completely, resulting in the most authentic look imaginable. There are a medley of explosions, 
 so get ready to see countless piles of debris. Also, whats war without dead bodies? Throughout 
 your conquest, youll encounter many battlefields with soldiers corpses strewn about. Everything 
 meshes together so well, delivering a harrowing reincarnation of war. Of course sights and sounds 
 compliment each other in such heinous events, so luckily the audio lives up to this.
  
  There are all kinds of soldiers today who have a loss of hearing. This can only mean war is loud, 
 and Company of Heroes seizes that opportunity. The game is full of blistering rifle fire and thundering 
 tank fire. Also, the dialogue does a nice job of delivering believable characters. You can sense 
 fear and joy in their voices, and theyll even whisper at night, which adds to the realism of the 
 game. Top this off with a symphonic score full of brasses and ominous strings, and youve got a 
 game covers every side of warfare.
  
  Length is something Company of Heroes does not fall short on. The campaign provides quite a few 
 hours of micro-management, and a second time around on a higher difficulty proves to be fun. Another 
 welcome feature is the skirmish mode, which many will find to be more than satisfying. Then again, 
 theres the multiplayer. The game comes equipped with online play for up to eight players, so get 
 your troops ready for battle with the enemy. In the end, Company of Heroes grasps a hold of you, 
 and keeps its grip tight for a long while.
  
  Everything in the game adds up to deliver a gaming experience never before seen. Company of Heroes 
 manages to show the truly harrowing account of war, while offering a fun and engaging experience 
 for us all. The game has a deep and complex system that will please the war genius in all of us. 
 And the developers at Relic made sure we had plenty of troops to play with. Just add in a dash 
 of groundbreaking visuals and ambient sound, and youve got yourself one of the best strategy games 
 to grace the PC. Give yourself a little pep talk, because its time to fight... for a long while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceelofo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Yes i gave the gameplay 5/10 while saying it's great ;yeah i liked it when fighting, taking cover, setting 
 traps and etc ,but i always hated the idea of raising soldiers from a barracks or building tanks 
 from a depot like raising animals that's old bad idea .
  I like the realistic games; It would have been better to give you some soldiers and some expected 
 reinforcements and enough.
  
  Also the sound in the game is absolutely perfect ;not the music; i mean the effects.
  
  The 
 thing makes the game a good one is that if you think well the game will be easy at a satisfying 
 way.
  
  whatever; I recommend this game for RTS games fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pun5858
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  While the WWII game has been done nearly to death in FPS, a high quality RTS has been lacking in 
 this period. Well have no fear, Company oh Heroes is here. The game combines stellar graphics from 
 up close and far away with gameplay that is smooth and responsive. Single player offers enough 
 of a challenge to keep you hooked on single missions for hours on end, replaying to create the 
 perfect attack to pound the Axis army into submission. In addition single player mode offers the 
 challenge of completing bonus mission objectives for various award medals. Multiplayer allows for 
 hours of you and your comrades taking on foes in all types of environments. One of the best aspects 
 of this game is that it is smooth, from controls to graphics the game plays like a dream. A must 
 play for any gamer from casual to hardcore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FearSniper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I sat down to my friend's computer and fell in love. The immersive graphics, the intense sounds, 
 the insane game-play; all of these destroyed any other RTS that I have played. After beating the 
 single player, I had to have more. Skirmish mode was kind of disappointing due to the fact that 
 I had to upgrade everything myself (single player kind of spoils you) , but after I made my tank 
 batallion and infantry support group my friends did not have a chance. Overall realism is also 
 amazing in the game. The fact that I can identify the gun that my rifleman is holding by zooming 
 all the way in and inspecting it up close made the graphics astounding. The deafening howitzer 
 shots and tiger explosions also made the game well worth playing. I am impressed with this RTS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicolassal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the nicest looking rts games I have ever seen. Some of the features are truly amazing, 
 such as being able to use destroyed vehicles and impact craters as cover. I particularly enjoy 
 the destructability of the environment.
  
  I do, however have a few complaints. The playability of the game is very frustrating at times. 
 I don't think that programmers will ever get the AI right. Same old story of guys not moving, or 
 moving on the most retarded route you could possibly think of. Cannons don't even turn to face 
 the enemy, while being pummelled by the enemy. Too much micromanagement.
  
  Also, this game has two settings. Easy and impossible. I mean it goes from being playable to being 
 impossible to beat the computer. Too frustrating.
  
  Overall, I would have to say the game is good, but its drawbacks are what will probably result 
 in this game collecting dust on my shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnk518
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Overall a great game, however I believe that the manual is a bit lacking in a lot of areas. While 
 giving the basics, it could go much more in depth then it has. Example: there is very little in 
 regards to Victory Points, general tactics per units, and maps. It would have been nice to give 
 a bit of History behind each of the Skimmish maps. Manuals and documentation are perfect, not for 
 playing, but for when your away from the game (like in the can) . Other RTS games usually come with 
 a Book (hell even a game like Pirates has a spiral bound manual) , COH comes with a pamphlet. Obviously 
 not enough to hinder the games rating. Only the overall purchase, and value for money. Still a 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I really struggled today to write this review - simply because I could not tear 
 myself away from the game, even though I am sick to death of WWII shooters.
  
  I tend to be highly critical of games (you may have seen my previous reviews) but I don't have 
 a single bad thing to say about this title.
  
  It starts with a cutscene which is almost identical in content to the opening of Saving Private 
 Ryan, but then the game moves on to have nearly every popular aspect of modern gaming - building, 
 stealth, levelling / promotion of units, capture the flag. This game tries to be all things to 
 all men (which usually ends up in disaster) , but THQ has done it, and done it very very well indeed.
 
  
  I am not saying this game is original in any way, it is glaringly obvious that it has boorrowed 
 heavily from other games such as Call of Duty &amp; the coomand &amp; conquer series and to some 
 extent first person shooters, but the way it has all been put together makes the game slick, professional 
 and refreshing.
  
  i played the first mission with a big grin on my face (which is always a good sign) . I suspected 
 the novelty would soon wear off, but no, with frequent cut scenes, the story is engrossing and 
 historically accurate. In fact this **** is so good they should make kids play it in history lessons.
 
  
  The graphics are simply the best ever seen in an RTS. The way a player can zoom into the action 
 is great. Despite the new graphics engine technology I can play with all settings maxed out on 
 my Geforce 7800GTX without a hitch.
  
  Sound is very similar to COD2 although it is noticeable that there is a lot of bad langauge, but 
 then again this is war and it simply adds to the realism and atmosphere. For example tou can tell 
 a unit to move somewhere and attack and it will swear at you and say no because it is under heavy 
 fire.
  
  Playing this game makes Joint Task Force which was released last week look laughable ( of which 
 you can read my review here http://uk. gamespot. com/pc/strategy/jointtaskforce/player_review. html? id=364639 
 )
  
  This is the best RTS game ever made and finally one that can challenge the excellent Command and 
 Conquer genre. It is utterly addictive and whilst the basic RTS gameplay is much the same as other 
 titles, it has been made in such a way to make it fresh &amp; new. This title will have you burnining 
 many a midnight candle.
  
  Revolutionary ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moobster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Last 2 years i just didn't find any RTS games that i really found as interesting and fun to play. 
 But then i found COH, the game is fantastic. I'm not gonna write a long stupid text because you 
 can read professional reviews everywhere. But if you want to know how a fellow gamer thinks of 
 this game.
  
  Best WW2 RTS there is, worth buying for EVERY gamer even if you haven't enjoyed any RTS before. 
 No more 10000 shots for one kill! Realistic combat, amazing sounds, fantastic gameplay, ....
  
  P. S. Could be a little harder though, only a small challenge in Expert.
  
  P. P. S. Many 
 people claimed that it resembles Warhammer 40.000. To be honest i was really unsatisfied with the 
 game. COH is just 1000x better and can't be compared. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingman15
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Company of Heros is an amzaing RTS game. I love how it has combined some of the best elements of 
 Dawn of War and Battle for Middle Earth to make an amazing WWII RTS game. There are so many avenues 
 and tactics that can be used in this game that it makes for a never ending game. Each time you 
 play a map, you are likely to see and use different moves, approaches, tactics, etc. to win or 
 just simply stay alive. The visuals are the best seen in any RTS to date. I love how tanks can 
 roll right thru brick walls and now your troops can walk thru that new hole. Buildings can be destroyed, 
 and the ground can be cratered which slows down tanks. This game is a must own for any RTS lover. 
 But it, you will be glad that you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NnethKe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Before Company of Heroes appears there wasnt an RTS game that filled the expectations of a good 
 game based on the Second World War, as they made it the shooters: MOHAA, Call of Duty, etc. Company 
 of Heroes takes you beyond of the amusement, the emotion, the realism and the historical facts 
 in which is based. With excellent graphics, realistic sound, and extraordinary gameplay, without 
 a doubt Company of Heroes will become one of your favorite ones, the tutorial, that I recommend 
 to play it, is even amusing, it takes you to a new dimension in RTS games, and you will enjoy the 
 game better knowing the new things that has this fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  I'm not a real RTS-Fan and playing an RTS with a WW2 theme didn't really sound appealing to me. 
 However i wanted something new and because of the good reviews i thought why not give it a whirl.
 
  
  Company Of Heroes (CoH) takes you back to WW2 in France. You and you're squad have to go to quite 
 a few missions to achieve their goal. When you first play the game you don't really understand 
 what you have to do and it doesn't looks like a great RTS since you can't build anything and you 
 don't have control of any vehicles but when you play a bit longer you get hooked to it and you 
 really starting to like the strategy movements you have to do in the game. After a few missions 
 you eventually gain control over vehicles and you can build buildings like in all RTS games.
  
  Why CoH makes such a great game is the strategy part. What i mean: In other RTS games you often 
 need to build a huge army and hope you have more men then the opponent has. Well in CoH the battles 
 have more strategy , you can't really build tons of units and you have to place your bets carefully.
 
  
  Besides the great gameplay , the game looks great and the missions are very variable, this game 
 is just a must-have for RTS-fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonuchi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  This game has got it all! Honestly, I didn't really notice much about the game until I was browsing 
 around my area (where I work) and stumbled upon pictures and release dates. Remarkable to the lack 
 of PR for such a great game! It's like Call of Duty 2 graphics with a real-time strategy feel. 
 Explosions are great, battle system is sweet, and what more can you get from a game that lets you 
 choose where your squad stands, how much defense they get from where they stand, suppressing fire 
 for your teammates, tanks to blow ANYTHING up, and much, much more! I have an ATI X1900 XTX graphics 
 card which does cause a considerably amount of differences compared to previous cards, but when 
 you grab the right system -- or make, like I did -- it makes the battle one heck of a historic landmark 
 on your computer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiling_bull
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 28, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  Best WW2 RTS game simply because no other WW2 RTS game can match its gfx, sound as well as gameplay. 
 It might not be very original in terms of concept. But it's resource and gameplay concept is very 
 well intergrated.
  
  In terms of gameplay, it definitely have all the best parts of all WW2 RTS. Flanking, garrison, 
 ambush, setting aiming direction. All these are well implemented. The only complains i have in 
 terms of the gameplay is that y the units cannot leave certain vehicles (such as AT guns) and revert 
 back to infantry.
  
  I guess the main shortfall comes in terms of multi player mode. Relic have been quite experience 
 for multiplayer mode in DOW and WA, but when it comes to COH, it seems to be totally screwed. D/C 
 appears to give problems. Leavers also cause errors. Well, this can prob be resolved in a few patch's 
 time. But itsjust verysurprising that relic did not take care of it.
  
  Another -ve point is prob the lack of axis campaign. Including strategy maps for playing will prob 
 up the ratings even more. I guess following a fix storyline will prob be a thing in the past soon. 
 But i'm surprise COH, with all the best in almost everything, miss this observation.
  
  All in all, however, i will still call this a solid game and no RTS gamer should miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massconquer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  If you like D a w n o f W a r or C a l l o f D u t y 2 , you'll love this game! It has realistic 
 gameplay and you can move the camera in all different kinds of angles to match your needs. Well 
 to tell the truth ... i don't have the game ... i just saw the trailers and i think it's kool but 
 i do have C a l l o f D u t y 2 and D a w n o f W a r and since D a w n o f W a r is made by the 
 same company as C o m p a n y o f H e r o s , i can make a presice judgement of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlueSpirals
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Aside from Starcraft and Stacraft: Brood Wars, no RTS game has ever caught my eye. Contrarily most 
 of them were awful and clunky.
  
  When I first played COH I was very happy to see that most of the controls and unit movement were 
 free of clunkiness; the units are, for the most part, quick to respond and the game itself is pretty 
 straight-forward. In COH you get the option of commanding your armies to slaughter from point A 
 to B, or utilize more useful tactics like flanking, grenade-tossing/flushing out, surprise-attack, 
 etc.
  
  What I wasn't impressed with were the graphics- more than one person told me this game was incredible 
 looking, and I'm either too difficult to impress or they were just wrong. I run a 7800GTX and play 
 this game at the highest settings; and I have pretty good eyesight. The graphics in this game are 
 certainly state of the art, and better than any other RTS I've ever seen, but I guess I was expecting 
 something absolutely incredible.
  
  This game's fun factor is almost an even 10, the sound is full and amazing, the number of things 
 to do is endless. However, each unit has their own lush plethora of ridiculously over-the-top curses 
 and swears, which almost completely ruins the experience of the game.
  
  My only complaint is that I shouldn't have to keep my volume turned down so that the game does 
 not upset my parents or siblings; THIS amount of bad language in a game is totally unnecessary 
 and a patch should most certainly fix the issue at some point.
  
  If you like WWII FPS or RTS, this game is certainly for you; it's got a little something for everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Zero
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This games got it all great single and multiplayers. RTS lover shall not be disappointed when buying 
 this game. I say go out and buy it ppl because you will love why so many words i dont wanna say 
 anymore RAWR blah im just spamming now ppl do dont read this i just have to keep writting till 
 i reach 100 words and im really bord right now and am gonna play some COH RAWR gatta write more 
 still like come o wtf this annoying i really hope you ppl arnt reading this cuz if you are sad 
 just plain sad ;p lol how about now?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepit56
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Imagine that you open your door to get the mail or go to the store or do whatever it is that you 
 do, and you find a game called Company of Heroes. Corny name rignt, well, yeah. But corny names 
 aside this is one kickass game.
  
  The graphcics are amazing, delivering first person shooter graphics at the ground level view. Granted 
 this does slow down gameplay but not if you have a decent gaming rig. the Physics are also about 
 as amazing as I have seen in any game EVER!
  
  Sound is about average, although the explosions are particuarly amazing, especially when you have 
 the bass turned way up.
  
  Gamelplay is as addictive as battlefield 2, even if you get bored of the game and stop playing 
 for a while, it's really easy to get right back into the action. That along with the ranking system 
 is amazing and fabulous. The only other game with such a good ranking system is battlefield 2.
 
  
  Unfortunately there are a few bad things about the game. the Singleplayer campaign, while technically 
 about as good as they get in RTS games, is dramatically outshined by it's online play. Also the 
 only way to advance in rank is the play a ranked game which usually takes a long time to start 
 if you can start it at all. I found myself giving up and just playing the much easier to get into 
 basic games. Also the teams are at least a little bit off balance, the Allies have almost every 
 advantage from the begining of the game to about the middle, but by then the game is more than 
 likely over. I also find that the supposedly unstoppable tigers can be taken out with an anti tank 
 gun, that really pissed me off.
  
  All in all it is definitly worht the $50 and I highly suggest buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PilatKau
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Relic really done a great job. Addictive gameplay, superb detail (zoom in, and count how much shots 
 Kar98 do) . Lil' bit lack of unit formation (sometimes unit were not supposed to be there or not 
 in perfect defensive line) , Don't have any unit behaviour on the interface (like in warhammer 40k) 
 so it's a little bit difficult when we try to ambush or to get stealth. But all in all it's a Good 
 and really really perfect job creating this addicted WW2 game!! Waiting for it's expansion pack!! 
 And it'll be good if we can play the axis along with allies in campaign mode (not only in multiplayer 
 or skirmish) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santanachia
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  I'm really impressed by a stunning engine of the game. Graphic vision of IIWW units, details of 
 maps, buildings, wracks, etc. are amazing. But I got used too much to Close Combat, so playing 
 Company of Heroes is making me a little bit nervous. (I must admit, that I havent played campaign 
 mode so far. I hope it's much better than scrimish) .
  When playing maps in a scrimish mode vs computer I got feeling that everything is going too fast, 
 so I'm not able to command my units way I would like to. Moreover, it is not possible to slow the 
 game down or make an active pause which in my opinion would be the only way to give a player a 
 time to give proper orders to each of the unit taking part in a mayhem on a battlefield. I can't 
 stand giving on air orders in a total chaos of battle to each of 20 units spreaded all around the 
 map. Without an anctive pause when taking care of one unit am not not looking after all the others 
 which is a terrible situation especially while I'm flanked or even surrounded by overwhelming enemy 
 force (at the same time computer controlled units are cooperating quite well, and generally enemy's 
 (ally) panzer units were fighting better, than mine?????) .
  I was getting furry each time any of my German tank was trying to fight these god damned Shermans 
 and M-10. Even most heavily armored was not able to destroy M-10 targeting it's back (4-5 shoots) , 
 but for M-10 at the same time was not a problem to send my Tiger straight to Hell by just two shoots 
 in a front armor. Moreover these M-10 and Shermans were invulnerable to most of my attacks (grenades, 
 panzerfausts) . Only AT artillery (3-4 shoots) and Goliats were able to destroy them (2 units for 
 1 M-10 or Sherman) . That is the most funny bug in this game - fight tank vs. artillery. Shooting 
 artillery many times in a roll doesn't make any sense, but on the other hand oneor two accurate 
 ATA shoots in the front armor of my tank was the end for my unit. I hope there gona be some patch 
 for this error. Next. Ally Engineers with a flame throwers and airborn with a stic bombs a the 
 best infantry units of the game (what is wrong with this game? what about SS units? a there any 
 in this game, or just Heroes are fighting with kids in a fog of war?) . Destroying bunkers and tanks 
 from a distance, burning my machinegun posts and soldaten. My question is but how??? Machinegun, 
 as I know has a better range than flamethrower. Maybe whole my life I was wrong. maybe I was also 
 wrong thinking that frontal infantry attack on a tank standing on a plane open space it's a total 
 nonsence. In Company of Heroes above mentioned actions while playing Ally (US) forces are somenthing 
 you have to use to. What's a pity that Close Combat haven't got a graphics like Company of Heroes 
 or Company of Heroes isn't just a little bit more playable for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzmask
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  great graphic..
  
  especially the HaVoK engine makes the bullet actually works like a bullet... nothing like: if ( 
 bullet to hit * random 100 &gt; 50)
  then hp - 25; kind of crap.
  
  Sadly the dev team didn't make further oppertunity with the realistic physical engine .......... 
 I mean, give us the first personal shooter mode!
  
  Anyway, the Engine is good enuff to beat the **** out of W3C, just need more contents. We'll see 
 at the coming patches/expansions.
  
  looking forward to see Japanese, Russian etc in Action.
  
  One more thing, when will the map 
 editor / SDK come out? can't wait to mob the game.
  
  there... one more time:
  all things are almost perfect cept ------- PLEASE ADD FIRST PERSONAL SHOOTER MODE!!!
  and more 
 sides and weapons as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksondoh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  first i tried this game it was so hard and i couldn't even understand how to spawn a tank and after 
 a few days i play it was fun and easy .
  
  the fun part is i get to see many explosive thing , see more gore and blood, and the animations 
 were great. the sound yeah it was very great. ok . the model are very great it has every detail 
 of a soldier. but the loading time is very longg but it is worthy to wait.
  the game play are just like the other RTS game but it has some new thing like you could hide behind 
 almost everything in the game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: araiwaniee
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  GG Relic reinvigorates the World War 2 genre Company of Heroes is a RTS game that really takes 
 the genre to a new level. At least when it comes to the graphics Close Combat 6 should have looked 
 like this! lol GG Relic reinvigorates the World War 2 genreCompany of Heroes is a RTS game that 
 really takes the genre to a new level. GG Relic reinvigorates the World War 2 genreCompany of Heroes 
 is a RTS game that really takes the genre to a new level. GG Relic reinvigorates the World War 
 2 genreCompany of Heroes is a RTS game that really takes the genre to a new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short as I'm no game reviewer as other gamers here so here goes.
  
  Video : 8
  With my hardware, I can't make the game look like a 10. But from what I hear, its 
 a wonderful sight. Everything from animations to explosions are detailes and looks real good.
 
  
  Sound : 8
  Unfortunately my Sound Blaster 2 stopped working and that just doesn't compare with the on-board 
 sound I currently have to play with. Still, everything sounds good to my ears. Language is gritty 
 and foul at times, but such is the realism of war.
  
  Gameplay : 10
  I enjoyed Warhammer 40K and for this purpose Company of Heroes already was a 5 using that model. 
 The other 5 points came when I played the game and thouroughly enjoyed every part of it. It can 
 become repetitive but only if you want it to. Every mission can be completed a different way.
 
  Example : first mission. 1st try I did everything with my soldiers and engineers
  2nd try : Once clearing the 88 near the beachhead, I used it to wipe out everything in sight from 
 Mg42's to bunkers in range.
  
  Value : 8
  For me, once the singleplayer is done, most games fall aside. Not much of a multiplayer guy. But 
 in this case, I might try out a squirmish or two and actually like it. Plus the singleplayer is 
 just too good to get less than a 8.
  
  Tilt : 8 : It was good while it lasted. I have played other games over and over more often so it 
 didn't get to me as much as others 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes is one of the most fun strategy gaming experiences I have had in a long time!!! 
 It has a feel of a Hollywood blockbuster with lots of Explosions! Thankfully CoH is not all flash. 
 It has a deeply developed Strategy model, and improves the whole Strategy Genre. It is fairly easy 
 to pick up and play, and Fans of WW2 and Strategy games will not be disappointed with the experience.
 
  
  The Graphics are simply amazing, rivaling the first person shooters for amount of detail. The environment 
 is completely destructible, buildings degenerate realistically, a fire will gut a building of its 
 wood work, but will leave all the stone work in tact.
  
  Not only does the game look amazing, it boasts some fairly capable AI. If you garrison a building 
 with infantry, they will move to the windows to engage the enemy, if a new hole is opened in the 
 wall a unit may move from a widow to the hole, and use the hole as a firing position. Sadly Relic 
 did not put this level of intelligence into the vehicles. Tanks are powerful, but asking groups 
 of them to move around a map, and they begin to run into each other. Although War Hammer players 
 will be familiar with the capture of control points for resources, I was not. I found this system 
 to be quite enjoyable, and a nice improvement from mining Ore. The addition of 3 Technology Trees 
 for both the Axis and Allies allows for the commander to call in off map support to help turn the 
 tide of a battle. These are not all that dissimilar to the General abilities in C&amp; C Generals 
 Zero Hour.
  
  Sound Effects are another strong point of the game. Everything is loud. And on a 5.1 system you 
 get an experience similar to a big budget movie.
  
  All in all Company of heroes is a great game. There are some small path finding issues with vehicles, 
 but they can be overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper0324
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game one day after I played the demo, because this game is just amazing. I didn't 
 find any RTS game this fun for a long time. Relic's Warhammer series was really good already, but 
 Company of Heroes is sure the masterpiece.
  
  Gameplay wise it gives really great World War II feeling. The fact that all the units take cover 
 in the game had really impressed me. Tank can break through walls and trees like in the real world. 
 Units get suppressed when under heavy fire. Resource can be cut off when enemy has cut your supply 
 line. There is all kind of amazing design in Company of Heroes that will bring you into the game/war.
 
  
  Compared with many other RTS, in Company of Heroes every units count. Mass up units and Attack-Move 
 to the enemy base usually won't work. Players really need to think proper tactic before they push 
 forward. Also due to the not very high unit cap, player will not be able to build very big army; 
 therefore they also need to move their defense line forward while attacking. Attack too fast and 
 too deep into the enemy territory will make the defense line too thin, and it can really bring 
 you into trouble, just like in real world war.
  
  I do not have a very descent video card to turn on all the video options, but even with most setting 
 at low , Company of Heroes' graphic is very impressive already. Almost everything on the maps is 
 destructible. The graphics is so detailed (even at low setting) that after zoom in all the way 
 it feel like I am playing a FPS game instead of a RTS. Moreover, Units' scale is pretty good.
 
  
  In company of Heroes Sound effects are really amazing. All the guns have really realistic sound, 
 and with a descent subwoofer you will love the artillery strike. The voice acting is really good 
 too. With my 5.1 speakers and a SB Audigy2. Once my mom was watching TV, after a while she turned 
 to me and asked Now what? Did WWII just break out in your computer? 
  
  In conclusion, people who love World War II should enjoy Company of Heroes. People who like RTS 
 which has a lot of micro and tactics involves will also love this game. For people who usually 
 like to mass a very big army and attack-move, slaughter all the way into enemy base, they better 
 download the demo first before they get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicecityfan1117
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This game kicks ass. Its fun, it takes forever to do the missions, which is a good thing, and the 
 realism is amazing. The graphics are extraordinary and the gameplay doesnt get boring or repetitive. 
 There are 3 types of military branches you can chosse from, wich makes a game different every time. 
 If your playing on a map you might find yourself constantly being annhialated by artillery. And 
 you can be like, oh, now i just have to watch for artillery and go get some artillery for myself. 
 But then next time you play, you find yourself being attacked by fighters and bombers. The gameplay 
 fluctuates with every match you play, it takes a while to get used to it, especially if you are 
 used to fps's and thing that a little bit of infantry can take out everyone. Anyways i enjoy playing 
 this game. Watch out though it is addictive as hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcshazzo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Relic's new game Company of Heroes is a real time strategy game set during World War Two. The story 
 follows able company from the invasion of Normandy all the way to the end of the war. The game 
 play is fantastic. The animation of the soldiers allows them look and act like real soldiers by 
 the way they walk and look around for enemies while they move., and how they will run for cover 
 if they see an enemy. The only thing I dislike about the game play would be the tanks path finding. 
 They will sometimes get stuck in each other but hopefully relic will fix it in a future patch.
 
  Thanks to Relics new Essence Engine, the tanks can now plow through buildings and can break through 
 most defenses like what they actually did in real life instead of going around obstacles like most 
 games made you do. Everything in every map is destructible in some way. If there is a sniper in 
 a building you can throw a satchel charge into the building and destroy it entirely just to make 
 sure. The games graphics are going to be optimized for direct-x 10 and for Windows Vista when 
 it comes out this winter. Needless to say the graphics are just like call of duty when you zoom 
 in all of the way. They put every last detail into this game and it still runs very nice on a midrange 
 machine.
  The sound in the game is phenomenal; Relic has made one of the most important factors for drawing 
 you into the game a success. The voice acting is very good and the sounds of the guns have a very 
 distinct one for each gun. When two MG-42s are going off the games sound is just like you standing 
 in the actual battlefield.
  Multiplayer is in the form of relics new online system which is fairly decent. It includes a new 
 matchmaking service which best matches you with a player of your skill. When you win auto match 
 games you advance in rank on the server. It keeps the game interesting online I will say.
  All in all this game is a great new addition to Relics outstanding track record and let us hope 
 that they will continue the franchise with some new content and some mapmaking support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shi7aa
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  i have never enjoyed playing a RTS game like this one. really quality product. highly recommended 
 to any RTS fan. the sound is just amazing. when calling artilery, i feel like it's going to hit 
 me. graphics, gameplay, everything about this game is made to perfection. and the tanks you have 
 it hit it from behind because the front is heavily armored. oh i just loved playing every second 
 of this game. paratroppers, manning weapons like anti tanks and machine guns. i almost felt that 
 i'm fight a real war but by using mouse instead of real weapons. thank you THQ, thank you Relic 
 for this master peice. it really is. if you guys out there love RTS this one will keep you busy 
 for a long time. i just finished the game with normal i'll start playing it with more difficulty. 
 dunno how i'm gonig to do that ? i got my butt kicked trying to finish it with normal difficulty. 
 oh i just don't know how to describe how my gaming needs are satisfied. from sound, to eye candy 
 graphics, to everything. three words, GO BUY IT. totally worth every penny. this game is entering 
 my hall of fame games and will be one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zircom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 25, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  When I first played the FPS game Medal of Honor, I loved the opening sequence on D-Day that looked 
 like it came straight out of Saving Private Ryan. I didn't think that any game could replicate 
 that intensity, especially with the exact same opening sequence, but this game did it. Saying that 
 this game is a challenge is an understatement. I started on a high difficulty, got torn to shreds, 
 move down one difficulty and still had a hard time getting through the campaign. There is nothing 
 worse then building up your infantry and machine gun nests to counter an enemy infantry assault 
 only to hear that their is an incoming panzer division. While at its core it is similar to other 
 RTS games, it differs in some very big ways. Similar to the Warhammer series, the goal is capturing 
 strategic points, which in turn generate resources. Imagine the Battlefield series, but in an RTS. 
 Another great feature is the customization available with the units. Need a unit to counter a tank? 
 Equip your paratroopers with recoilless rifles, or better yet grab the bazooka that the Germany 
 you just killed left on the ground and fire away. This type of game play is also what makes it 
 difficult because their are so many strategic combinations for your troops. There are also three 
 specialty tracks for each team that can fine-tune your strategy and help counter the enemys. It 
 is too bad that the campaign is so short and the skirmish maps are limited, because just as you 
 are getting the feel for the game, it ends. Besides the game play itself, the look of the game 
 is outstanding. The graphics blow me away every time I play. Another great thing is that you don't 
 have to have a monster machine to enjoy the great graphics. At moderate settings, the graphics 
 from the standard camera look unchanged, and only degrade as you zoom in, which you will not do 
 a lot because you need a birds eye view of the battlefield. At top settings, the graphics look 
 as good or better then many FPS games up close, and far better then any other RTS on the market. 
 Overall, this game was a pleasant surprise for me, and I am glad that I purchased it. If you are 
 a fan of historic sims, strategy games, or even first person shooters, you will love the depth 
 and action this game provides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarusmk3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  Relic has been at the forefront of unique RTS games, ie. Homeworld and Warhammer. But Company of 
 Heroes is most likely their most ambitious and polished game yet.
  
  With the inclusion of a highly detailed 3D &amp; physics engine and a well defined set of rules 
 for the gameplay system, Company of Heroes's scope goes far beyond mere quick financial micro management 
 and building up of massive tank rushes to take down the enemy. Instead the idea of resource points, 
 which you must hold to gain resources results in a huge game of tug of war, the way real battles 
 play out. This results in a game that is fast paced and with tons of engagements (instead of the 
 camping styles associated with traditional collect resources and then building up huge groups of 
 troops to overwhelm the enemy) . The ability to deform the terrain allows the player to create exellent 
 locations for ambushes and to actually use real tactics to overwhelm larger numbers, for example, 
 a small squad of paratroopers can take out multiple Panzers, if they utilize hit / run (guerrilla) 
 tactics.
  
  Needless to say, Relic has greatly improved upon the success of the Warhammer gametype, and has 
 created a new subgenre of tactical strategy which is definitely here to stay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinss
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  Great game, a must for every wargamer and grognard! Tactical map, picking up weaponry, cover taking, 
 soldiers acting smart, realism involved... just great! Resuplying in sp with parachuters, and whole 
 command over artillery just amazed me. This is kind of great mix of Close Combat 5, Blitzkrieg 
 or sudden strike + call of duty feeling on camera close-up. Great graphics on my 9800pro. Only 
 thing i miss from close combat series is morale and fatigue, and injuries doesn't seem to bother 
 a soldier when running on...
  Wehicles looks great, act just right, tanks can pass thru wooden fances and small stone walls (hello 
 call of duty tank stucking in bushes?)
  must go back to playing, enjoy it ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayonaise390
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to cover the good things too much, as they are pretty well covered by all the others 
 reviews. Great graphics, environment and sound. Multiplayer is a blast, and the few missions there 
 are should be enjoyable to most.
  
  A few things really detract from this game being "great". Hopefully some of them will be addressed 
 sometime in the future.
  
  - line of sight issues. units just plain need longer lines of sight. a squad of infantry runs into 
 a machine gun in an open field before tehy even see it. obvious problems here. you will find yourself 
 stumbling into ambushes frequently because of a completely unrealistic LOS system.
  
  - completely dependent AI. while the AI does a adequate job of finding cover in a firefight (assuming 
 its close and obvious) , it utterly dumbfounded if it has to make any decision whatsoever on its 
 own. an AT gun will just stand there if the tank drives around it. a machine gunner will do nothing 
 to react if an infantry squad comes up behind it. controlling tanks is extremely unpredicatble, 
 as they will often turn their rears to the enemy for no good reason at all. there is no way to 
 retreat in reverse, you have to expose your weak armor. a squad will stand right next to a victory 
 point all day long without capturing it unless you tell it to. if you tell an MG, AT, or similar 
 fixed gun to target a specific target, even if its in its radius of fire, it will reposition instead 
 of just firing. all of this contributes to excessive micromanagement in a game that already overbears 
 the user with things to do
  
  - some of the gameplay elements get downright silly. be prepared to see the following episodes 
 often: an AT crew turning its gun in circles trying to get a shot on the enemy tank circling it. 
 infantry standing practically on top of eachother exchanging fire for a minute or more. tanks running 
 into eachother like battering rams and exchanging fire point blank, or circling eachother. men 
 completely surrounded and almost dead getting up and running straight through enemy lines because 
 they're practically invincible when commanded to 'retreat'. a lot of these are more than irritating 
 to look at, they actually significantly and adversely effect gameplay.
  
  - the swearing should really be an option. im really not a prude, and it's great for awhile, real 
 immersive... but after awhile it just gets to annoying hearing them scream and curse bloody hell 
 over and over and over
  
  - my last point is completely subjective. the game plays too fast. the game is utterly reliant 
 on whoever micromanages their units in combat the best wins, and so it devolves into who can click 
 the fastest and the mostest. some sort of variable speed option for us geezers would have been 
 nice.
  
  its a good game, but with too many shortcomings to be called great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedog8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best WWII RTS games I have ever played. At first it seems very basic with only 
 the Germans and the Americans available during Normandy and the breakout battles. I was an Army 
 office for over 10 years and this games really makes you really usie military tactics.
  
  The AI does appear to understand the concept of occupying key points for resources. Even at the 
 easy setting the AI would try to counter attack and recapture lost depots and strategic points.
 
  
  The graphics are good. I have a dual SLI system with Nvidia 7900 cards. I ran the game at 1900 
 X 1200 resolution with medium to high settings. The game never bogged down even with a lot of units 
 fights and explosions and things blowing up. I did play with the graphic settings until I got a 
 good rating in the performance test at 1900 X 1200 resolution.
  
  I played mostly using version 1.2. I had to save the game ever 5 mins to prevent loss of advance 
 due to the game freezing up and requiring a hard reset of the computer. I have AMD dual core 4400+ 
 processor with 2 GB of RAM and the new soundcard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes Review
  By: Carter Daniels
  
  Around 15 to 17 hours. That is how long it will take you to beat the 15 level campaign of Company 
 of Heroes (CoH) . Either that or I make a really bad general. If you do not know what CoH is let 
 me inform you as to what it is. It is a World War 2 Real Time Strategy Game. The makers of Dawn 
 of War bring you Company of Heroes. The land of the brave, where soldiers die for you and French 
 wine is abundant. Getting drunk on wine though is not the subject of this game. We have all been 
 there before, pushing the Nazi war machine back into Germany and ultimately watching Hitler piss 
 his pants. Or did he kill himself? Either way we know the outcome. If you have a decent computer 
 that runs, oh lets say, Half-Life 2 Episode One on high settings you are going to get a gorgeous 
 game. The Essence Engine which is Relics new RTS engine shows what its made of with destructive 
 environments, hill sides, multi-level maps, and fireworks galore. When you send your first artillery 
 shower onto a group of panzers you will be delighted to see dirt fly up in the air and massive 
 explosions as the panzers blow up along with the people inside. While most WW2 games tend to make 
 the world look bleak a lot of times the French and German countryside come out as a nice serene 
 place where The Sound of Music may have occurred. It only becomes bleak when you decimate it while 
 liberating the French from Nazi Control.
  I have not talked on much of game play and usually I would do that in the first or second paragraph. 
 Ultimately controls are the same as Dawn of War except some exceptions. You have three resources; 
 munitions, manpower, and fuel. All of which you will need to conduct a coordinated attack on the 
 enemy. You obviously capture certain control points to acquire these resources and use them to 
 deploy troops, tanks, throw grenades, and call in air strikes. and so on. Then there also strategic 
 control points that one would think most of them would be useful but most of the time they really 
 arent. As I played through the game I just found it necessary to control most of the map and completely 
 obliterate Hitlers toys. The campaign also very subtly sneaks in one of the multiplayer modes 
 that way you will know what to do when you actually play the mode. The mode is one where you just 
 control strategic points. Now it only does this for one map but, it is a good way of introducing 
 you to it. I wont elaborate anymore because if you played Dawn of War or any other RTS you should 
 be able to pick this game up with ease.
  The sounds of the game are not only phenomenal but, immersive. Go ahead and turn up the volume 
 of your speakers to experience the sound of shell shock during an artillery blast or hear the 
 very pissed off infantry or arrogant mechanics. There are obviously guns in this game now its 
 not always clear what is being used but, the sounds are nice and just add more to the fact that 
 you wish you had been in WW2. Think of it this way, back then you had to go to war to be a man. 
 Now we just hate you if you go to war in Iraq. The musical score for this game will lift your hearts 
 and sometimes make you think you are watching Saving Private Ryan which this game, no doubt, takes 
 inspiration from. That is noticed in the very cinematic beginning of this game. Watch your army 
 take a beating on the beaches of Normandy while you try to rescue 25 of 100 people. Load times 
 arent really that bad but feel long because it doesnt play music during them. Not really a con 
 just the load times arent as long as some people may think they are. The story of Company of Heroes 
 is told through a very cool artistic style combined with game cinematics that feel very unique 
 and professional. This game will take you through hell and back again, through night and day, in 
 the end your small and big combat dreams will be fulfilled by this game. I of course will recommend 
 this game to any one who wants a non formulaic WW2 game with its own unique spins. This game gets 
 9.8 out of 10 mainly because it crashed on my computer twice but, thats what I get for putting 
 everything on high when I should have it on medium-high graphics. Reviewed on:
  Pentium D (3.2ghz) rated at 5.67ghz
  2gb RAM
  X800 w/256MB of Ram
  
  Recommend:
  3.0ghz 
 processor/Dual Core is better
  X800 or equivalent graphics card w/512MB of video ram
  1 to 2gb of RAM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ronni_Arbitiaas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  The game is great , realistic and able to make a revolution in RTS gaming.
  The AI , effects , detail of figures (units and building) are undoubetly the best in all RTS game.
 
  When I saw the 3D movie beginging in a mission , I thought it was a FPS game
  
  Something that can be improved are
  1. Custom battle mode - more maps , map builder and more 
 game mode are needed
  2. Graphic of movement of vehicle - sometimes the tank will combine when they move too close
 
  3. Bigger map and larger scale of units will make the game more addictive and attractive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WestleyViau
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 24, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  If you're reading my review you probably agree with my heading, like many, i've gotten bored with 
 the same old WWII fps games and takes you into real battles with the allies and the axis. When 
 I first saw it on the cover of pc gamer, i thought it was gonna be another gaming company trying 
 to attempt the re birth of another WWII fps. But when my bother bought this game i thought why 
 not give it a shot, and i discovered something that hasn't been done yet, or hasnt been done yet 
 to my knowledge. First of all the graphics.... amazing, also the feature where u can totally rotate 
 the camera to any angle makes the game much more enjoyable because you can view the battle from 
 another perspective. The audio in this game again... amazing, when you arn't looking at your men 
 die, you can surely hear em in the far distant, the units sounds and voices are really acurate 
 to how they actually spoke during a battle and how the ferer the germans to Jerry and the Krout. 
 The infantry feature where you can see where your units will be places behind obstacles is great 
 and the list goes on with the greatness. But one thing that really bothered me was the difficulty, 
 on single player easy mode, you really need to make the right choices or else you're doomed because 
 easy cpu, really gives you a fight to remember. Also there should of been more units and maybe 
 more armies to fight with such as the UK and the russians. But i guess the makers just want to 
 perfect the two basic armies in WWII. And one last thing that there should of been more of are 
 maps, theres only like 5 1v1 maps and like 2 or 3 sic player maps. Overall this game really goes 
 its way, but i dont think it'll be able to compare to C&amp; C 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  As a WWII buff I am a bit biased but perhaps it helped me to look at this game critically instead 
 of just being swayed by it. This game shows a very professional attention to detail. In terms of 
 realism, Act of War is the only game that comes close and this one has it beat.
  This game offers the standard package as in other games: Campaign, Skirmish, Multiplayer. Another 
 similarity to point out is the squad based units (for infantry) that THQ has had in its previous 
 games (WH40K) . That said, the gameplay is very realistic. The effects that units have on each other 
 is brought as close to actuality as can be. From bullets to shells to sticky-bombs, they all produce 
 the damage as one would expect from the war.
  Naturally the next thing that comes to mind is the graphics tied to the interactions of these units. 
 Fine droplets of bloodspray from bullets, particulates of dirt and chunks of rock thrown up by 
 shells, you may as well be watching the war or Band of Brothers/ Saving Private Ryan. In fact, 
 the feel I get from the game is of actually hovering over the actual battlefield instead of that 
 cartoonish disembodiment that other games make you feel.
  The sound effects are spectacular too. From units acknowledging orders to the weapons effects. 
 At the risk of sounding like a broken record by repeating myself I keep thinking of the later WWII 
 movies that have been made.
  This game has been done very professionally and with a level of focus that I haven't found in many 
 other games. The downside is that the campaign didn't seem that long to me even though the missions 
 within the campaign can be quite long individually. My reasoning on why the campaign should be 
 longer is that part of the experience is about the events surrounding WWII and so greater exposure 
 would be nice. However, THQ did a good job of trying to keep things as historically realistic as 
 possible and all other features dwarf any viewed inadequacy on the length. In skirmish you can 
 only play one side against the other instead of the enemy being the same type of army. I suppose 
 this is where the realism support can explain this - you really don't want to be killing German 
 troops with other Germans for instance.
  In conclusion, this is a phenomenal game. I think the only other game I gave a perfect score to 
 was Empire At War and that was because in spite of the glitches Lucas finally came out with something 
 decent. That is not the case here and in retrospect I would have given that game a 9.5 tops. But 
 I digress - this game deserves a perfect score in all aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIAIP
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  We have seen lots of WW2 games lately, but none of them are this good looking. Company of Heroes 
 has a solid gameplay. Taking units though out the battlefield is easy and the game has some awesome 
 features, such as your unit can take cover behind destroyed vehicles. Unfortunately the units AI 
 are not the best you have seen in RTS games so far. Games like C&amp; C Generals has units that 
 understands when you get shot at, you fire back. It&acute; s a shame that Company of Heroes&acute; 
 units doesnt do that. The best thing about Company of Heroes is with out a doubt the graphics 
 and the environment. No question about it. The details in the environment are amazing and really 
 looks like the next generation of graphics for RTS games. The destructible environment works incredible 
 well. Fx. when you notice that a building is in ruins after a battle. As well as the graphics, 
 the sound is implanted in a believable way. Stuff like soldiers whisper at night, or even when 
 they talk internally to each other in a formation gives you a good sense of realizme. The game 
 offers 2 factions; The Allied and the Axis. They have some well put together units. But the factions 
 are just too alike. You do have some power-ups, like C&amp; C Generals where it first was introduced, 
 where you can choose what direction your strategy shall go. Fx. Airborne, Armor and such. But still 
 for all the beautiful details, the game has no substance, You easily get bored with the game for 
 some reason. You keep felling like something is missing. Its probably that you do not feel like 
 a commander. Since the orders you can give a limited, and that becomes frustrating, which is too 
 bad, because the creators made a WW2 game that makes you feel like part of fighting the war. For 
 all the great looks Company af Heroes needs more unique units and strategic knowhow. Maybe more 
 factions? But what the game does have is amazing graphics and environment that works really well. 
 What the developers have now is a good engine and a reason to make a really, really great expansion 
 later on. All the elements are there. All they need is to do is balance the game right, and put 
 new stuff in it such as new units or even a new faction (s) . Maybe split them up (the factions) 
 in countries to have more unique units and extended gameplay? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  It is with high hopes that I picked up my copy of COH. Prior to this game, I have never played 
 a WW2 strategy game b4 cos I feel that none of them can truly capture the essence of the war. But 
 coming from the creators of Warhammer 40K and Homeworld, I decided to give COH a shot and boy, 
 i'm sure glad I did.
  
  Gameplay: One word - Realistic. The action is none stop, fast &amp; furious, with strategic locations 
 changing hands to and fro and great attention to detail. Never in this game will u encounter the 
 Civilization way of 'soldier killing a tank'. Nope, u wanna kill a tank, grab some anti-tank weapons 
 or better yet, another tank else u'll be blown to bits. Rushing your army at an entrenched location 
 will probably get u killed in real life and in this game as well. You have to think of ways to 
 overcome the enemy's defenses, like flanking, arty bombardments, or paradrop troops behind enemy 
 lines. An the AI is the smartest i've seen in any strategy game, and i've played a lot of them.
 
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: Sound is top class, really bringing out the terror &amp; excitement of the 
 war. TAnks, bullets etc all sound realistic and the voice acting from the soldiers is top notch. 
 The graphics are great, a pity that there is significant slowdown on higher settings though.
  
  Value: The single player will take u around 10-15hrs to complete and then u can go online and 
 battle against real players. The AI skirmish mode ain't no joke either and serves as a good sparring 
 partner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerryKouloumbes
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  this game is absolutely amazing, the audio level and the immersive battle play. The game gets challenging 
 at moments, without company hints or cheats, its a game that will keep u smashing ur keyboard against 
 the desk. But that just adds to the feeling of victory at the end of your trial. Games worth every 
 minute of playing. This game combines RTS strategy Command &amp; Conquer with Brothers in Arms 
 style combat. With the ability to raise supporting structures and head into battle, your infantry 
 suffer from being supressed to even being pinned down and completely annihalated. AI is completely 
 excellent. The computer will always show up at your weakest moments, and try and flank around you. 
 Im Glad i purchased the game. Now, i just have to beat the damn thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabe5
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. Great mix of RTS with realism to boot. But, only 16 missions? If had played 
 this game every day I would have completed it in 3 days. I see no reason why they couldn't have 
 made the game much longer. As it is, it seems like a set up for an exspansion. I don't play RTS 
 online so don't start talking about it. This game needed to be at least 8 more maps/missions long. 
 I was in shock when I saw the credits roll tonight. I thought I had at least 5 more days of combat 
 since the average mission takes 1-3 hours depending on your play style.
  Still a great game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leavemebe
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  I guess I asked for it over all these years. Countless new video cards, cpus, motherboards, more 
 more more... all in the name of supporting, demanding, financing ever more realistic games. So here 
 it finally is, a game so real and immersive and focused on killing my fellow humans, that I am 
 forced to remember all too well my own war time experiences. The shrieking rounds and other impossibly 
 loud weaponry, the slow and bloody advances to take this building or that structure, only to have 
 it be smashed to bits bare seconds after you scramble out, but your squad mate didn't.
  Sure, it's a pretty game, very graphically faithful, too faithful at 1600x1200, (thank you SLI) . 
 My eyes widened with terror as I experienced the first incoming artillery strike. Dirt, dust, debris, 
 and dead bodies, not always intact... including people I was just laughing with as they uttered 
 some cheeky gallows humor. I joined the Army for this? Was the last thing I heard a young solider 
 say before a body part flew up into the sky from the blast.
  I'm done with War, in the real world, and I thought I would be thrilled to see it contained on 
 little silicon battlefields, far from real blood. But now I'm not so sure. You see this game doesn't 
 give the same physical thrill like a roller coaster, or excite base passions like a sporting event, 
 like boxing. This game gives conflicting feelings of a mass murderer enjoying a very gulity pleasure. 
 How does that saying go? Kill one man you are a murderer, kill many, a hero?
  This game is a technical success on many levels. Such as being a Games For Windows featured title, 
 and if you know anything about this initiative, to bring higher standards to PC gaming, you will 
 be happy to find standards that are intituve and useful. (Alt-Tab for example) . Multiple visual 
 settings support a wide range of hardware choices, but this game deserves a GeForce7 class card, 
 minimum. The UI is standard RTS, think Starcraft. But very well done. the only gripe so far is 
 the save system, it's somewhat slow and the ESC key doesn't bring up the Menu (F10 does, odd) .
 
  This game also succeeds on an artistic level with luscious textures, detailed models and a flexible 
 camera that can tilt and pan all the way down to ground level to get a much better view of the 
 playing environment. This feature alone gives the game a superior look. How many times have you 
 wanted to rotate a camera and couldn't? Bliss.
  But, the real genius of this title, as I said earlier, is it's immersiveness by capturing the salient 
 events and triggers that define modern human warfare. The fear, uncertainty and doubt, combined 
 with the immediacy of killing your enemy. Kill or be killed, because this guy said so. Those of 
 you who have been there, know what I mean, and you probably play this game just a touch differently 
 than those who have never seen combat. Each unit is a man, and each man is a brother. Pindar said 
 it best, War is sweet... to those who have not experienced it .
  To those people who have not served, play this game, enjoy it, marvel at it, be spooked by it, 
 get a little tense and sweaty, and hope that this is as close as you will ever get to the front 
 lines. Until, naturally, Company of Heroes, II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean4566
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Relic, the company that made Warhammer 40000 is back with the next big RTS. In Company of Heroes 
 you Play as an Allied (Single, Multiplayer) or German (Skirmish, Multiplayer) commander in charge 
 of leading your 'company' of troops to victory. When you start playing this game you will realize 
 it's perfect. The graphics are absolutly amazing for an RTS, the sound is amazing (and with hillarious 
 voice acting) for both sides. The only problem I can find with this game is it can be sometimes 
 hard to connect to an online game, because of Relic's new Relic Online. Next generation games are 
 here to stay, and Company of Heroes is at the top of the pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airrun
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  The game is fun to play. However, it will take some time to get good at handling the tasks at hand. 
 I thought the instruction manual was kind of skimpy, and it left out any kind of hints or tatics. 
 Instead, you have to learn from experience. I bought the strategy book by Brady, just to get some 
 inside help. I started with the skirmish mode, which may have been my mistake. You probably want 
 to start with the tutorial, then move right into the campaingn. The reason is because the campaign 
 mode gives you instructions on how to attack and position yourself against the enemy. With all 
 that said, this is a fun game. It will take some thinking and tatics to win the battle, but when 
 you do, it's a great since of accomplishment. The game has realistic physics and anything can blow 
 up, fall over or be pushed down. The graphics are great, and you can zoom in right on the action. 
 The sound is top notch too. If you like war games and stategy games, then you will want to get 
 this one. I give it a 9, just because of the lack of instructions, and it is a lot harder to play 
 in skirmish mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahba2005
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  How many strategic you have ever played?
  this game publish to break the classic rules of strategic game. we can see many strategic game 
 in the world. but how many of this game value to play?
  the main rulse of strategic game is: build main base. build so many kind of soldier and then atack 
 to enemy main base. but in company of heros we don't seen this ruls, you must learn new rules of 
 strategic game that compnay of heros make it. Compnay of heros has amazing game play I have evern 
 seen in strategic game. in first look in game you have little soldier and vehicle, if you are profesional 
 player, you will win with this units but when you pleasue the game that send some enginiers into 
 any building and upgarde it to bracckes and then build a huge number of soldier and then atack 
 to enemy. so many item you have in game that change Portion of games for example you atack to enemy 
 but you soldier and Vehicle die and destory you say I lost the game but you can use the so many 
 relief help: ( (you can suit a airborne soldier) )
  world war 2 is a very good subject for game maker to make their game we have so many game with 
 this title. but company of heros exhibit the verity of secon world war with fire. you really think 
 you are in a deploy of war.
  game have very amazing graphic you need a performance Video card to can run this game. you can 
 turn of many graphic object but you don't enjoy the game. company of heros have : ( (the performance) ) 
 item, and this action give a Poor title to my video card. my video card is Nvidia geforce 7300gs.
 
  the texure are in a best postion. Company of heros use the new technology of sound in game. when 
 you or enemy use a rocket to destory a pixel you can hear a terrible sound look like a really rocket. 
 companyf of heros use a Havok3 physic engine for unit in game. each unit has own physin in game. 
 for example you cand diagonse a burden of unit. you cand diagonse a ballast of tank.
  if you are a profesional strategic player must have play this game.
  
  You cand read this review 
 in same link:
  www. kingofgame. myblog. ir
  SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
  
  MINIMUM  Windows XP or Vista
   2.0 Ghz Intel Pentium IV or equivalent or AMD Athlon XP or 
 equivalent  512 MB RAM  100% DirectX 9.0c compatible 64MB video card with Pixel Shader 1.1 support 
 or equivalent and latest manufacturer drivers (see supported chipsets below)
   DirectX 9.0c compatible 16-bit sound card  8x or faster CD-ROM drive or DVD-ROM drive
   
 Keyboard, Mouse
   6.5 GB of uncompressed free hard drive space (We recommend having 1 gigabyte of of free space 
 after installation) RECOMMENDED
  
   3.0 Ghz Intel Pentium IV or equivalent  1 GB RAM  256 MB NVIDIA GeForce 6800 series or better 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maestro85282
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  I guess if you took Full Spectrum Warrior (another awesome title) , and jam it up against a great 
 RTS schema, then threw in stellar graphics, eye-popping cinematics, exciting action, and of course 
 a war-time setting that commands great respect and interest from all.... well, even all of these 
 things don't do it justice for a description. Just give it a shot... warning though, it'll certainly 
 give your PC a workout ;) And it even supports 7.1 and 8.1 audio (although I didn't find the audio 
 to be nearly as jaw dropping as other features of the game)
  
  Abit AW8D 3.4G 800 FSB (OCed to 4.1) w/uGuru Clock
  ATI X1900 XTX (i know, no crossfire.. just 
 haven't gotten time)
  CL Fata1ity @ 7.1
  1G 4-4-4-5
  Watercooling by TT (and a few of my own inventions)
  Antec 550W HE
  150G WD Raptor x4 Raid0
 
  2TB NetStore
  Westinghouse 22 LCD x4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lysluk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The answer to that is quite simply, yes. Company of Heroes didnt get attention until after people 
 started raving about it. From its visuals, the game looks just like another typical RTS game but 
 with amazing graphics. From its gameplay however, the game speaks a whole different language.
 
  
  With a new expansion in the works, but where the developers claim its actually more of a next and 
 new installment than a short expansion game, COH wanted to be innovative rather than just be a 
 copycat. They recently released a patch where it also contains the Directx10 features, so if you 
 have a Dx10 capable card and system, you're lucky because you can now experience the game again 
 with new eye sugar. Speaking of system specs, even if you exceed the recommended requirements to 
 run this game normally, you wont be able to max or ultra out all the settings unless you like playing 
 with low frames. Not that the game looks and plays horrible, but you will be missing out its full 
 potential unless you got a monster PC. I am guessing that its never your computers fault, its always 
 the game's coding and optimization for the hardware.... and i think this lies true here also. But 
 enough about that, lets see what others (and myself) have been talking about when the name COH 
 pops out.
  
  Basically, lots of blowing up of stuff. Everything is designed so that you actually feel like your 
 commanding your troops in a life like environment. You get to visit the many places in germany, 
 the cities, the surroundings, the damage, the dirt is all there and very authentic. By being able 
 to zoom in and out and move around your camera in the action, I cant believe the amount of detail 
 they put in, since most of the time you will spend your view on the birds eye level while playing. 
 The animation, the textures, the sounds, the lighting, the coolness of destroying and blowing up 
 things..... just cant be described in one word. A tank will act like one, they will run over trees, 
 they will demolish anything in its path, they will crush down walls, you name it. Placing or forming 
 your troops along the battlefield is important since putting them behind cover is best, but the 
 AI is smart to use cover when they are exposed. Nearly every building on the map is destructible, 
 heck, nearly everything on the map is destructible including the terrain. SWEET.
  
  But besides the fun of watching and having lots of stuff get damaged, what does it add to the gameplay? 
 Well, just like in real situations, this game allows more than one way to play a mission. Because 
 you need to control strategic points like fuel, money, and ammunition, and because the enemy will 
 try to take over them, you are always trying to act quickly and find a better way to win, or figure 
 out a better strategy, which adds to replayability. Because of the freedom of the destructible 
 environment and its open space, and that any wall can be crushed down at any moment, the buidlings 
 wont stand forever, you are constantly busy at all times in the game. Whether you are sending reinforcements 
 to defend a point, sending troops out to multiple areas to fight, training more units, defending 
 your base, completing your objectives and/or secondary objectives, COH will always keep it interesting 
 throughout.
  
  This game doesnt have a complex tech tree like other games, going through the tutorial, you will 
 quickly learn the basics, building placements, unit training, combat, etc. However, I dont think 
 the game lets you customize the keyboard mapping.... anyways, I find that you'll be using your mouse 
 more often than the keyboard shortcuts so its not a big problem. I didnt like how the AI doesnt 
 always behave realistically, sometimes when they move in the water they would move like they do 
 on land, at times when the enemy is within reach of your troops..... they would keep shooting rather 
 than doing some hand combat, theres other small bugs here and there and the game isnt perfect, 
 but they dont affect gameplay much.
  
  Aside from sometimes feeling the game can be repetitive, or that the missions are too easy or hard, 
 Company of Heroes remains unique because of its innovative gameplay and the great feature of destructible 
 terrain, and pretty much anything that moves. Im sure fan or no fan of WWII type games, this RTS 
 will impress and wont disappoint. The next sequel will only make the game better than it already 
 is, and I cant wait for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alonmaimon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  i don't like world war II games but this game is so good that I don't mind.
  this is a real RTS game you can't just send all your army to the enemy base , you must plan an 
 attack that will surprise the enemy . it's a little difficult in the beginning but it worth it. 
 the graphics are the best , and the sound is amazing . it's been a long time (since F. E. A. R) since 
 i've enjoyed a game so much . I truly belive that this game will lead the next geneation of RTS 
 and we will all benefit from it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lurker28
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes has done a remarkable job at depicting a strong, rugged, and versatile World 
 War II Real Time Strategy Game. Taking key notes directly from Steven Spielbergs Film Saving 
 Private Ryan the story begins at the beach front at Normandy. The visual are impressive, capturing 
 not only the gritty hardships of the war, but the frantic chaotic state of the troops. Relic has 
 once again added the amount of polish to a game to make it stand out among its competitors, with 
 its long breathe of features and realistic approach to combat. If you have enjoyed Relics Homeworld 
 and Warhammer 40000 titles, many of the genres defining features of these platinum titles of been 
 reworked and evolved creating one the years finest real time strategies games.
  
  Graphically the game is impressive and if you have a high end graphics card to run at the appropriate 
 settings you can truly appreciate all the eye candy. The detail of the maps, units, and enjoinment 
 are astounding. Zooming in to catch all the small details of the action can really add to the life 
 like feel and immersion so many players are looking for. With a completely destructible terrain 
 players will see a vastly changing world from when they first started from caters left in the ground 
 by tanks and artillery fire, buildings left in rubble, and walls exploding into piece when a tank 
 roles through. These small minute details add diversity not seen in an RTS and the graphics are 
 not only there for visual appeal, but change game play. Players are cable to find new cover in 
 caters or cover that was once good cover has now been demolished by a tank shell. Infantry take 
 cover when being fired upon, rockets explode on impact literally leaving units in pieces, and even 
 the scale in the game is accurate as tanks dwarf infantry on the battlefield. They have done a 
 brilliant job in crafting such a richly detailed game.
  
  Game play is in depth, requires an immense amount of micromanagement, and can feel vast for many 
 new gamers to this genre. There are three types of resources in the game, manpower, fuel, and munitions. 
 In order to acquire these resources a player has to capture certain points/territories scattered 
 across the map. Each resource has a specific niche in your army. Munitions are used manly for special 
 abilities such as grenades, sticky bombs, and other upgradeable abilities, while fuel is usually 
 required for high tech units like tanks and buildings. Lastly, manpower is the main resource and 
 will be consumed more than any other resource in the game. The headquarters or HQ is your command 
 center and the most vital structure, not only do you build units from the structure but it generates 
 a set amount of resources when this structure is destroyed you faction is pretty much finished 
 without reinforcements.
  
  Some features from Relics previous games like Warhammer have found there way into Company of Heroes. 
 For example, units can have three different types of cover, ranging from open, medium cover, and 
 heavy cover depending on where you tell your troops to move. Hiding behind a brick wall will give 
 you heavy cover, while being out in the middle of an open filed will give you no cover. These small 
 bonuses can really change the tide of the game, but also increase many aspects of the daunting 
 micromanagement system. The player constantly has to multitask from, sending troops to capture 
 resources points, building new structures, and micromanaging armies in battle. This leads many 
 players in feeling they can always be more efficient, but can be almost too tedious at times. Since 
 computers do not have the problem of using a mouse and keyboard like human players, many players 
 will receive a good run for there money when it comes to computer combat. Also, unit path finding 
 can be another micromanagement headache. Most units do not have a problem reaching there target, 
 however when grouping multiple vehicles together can actually hind your units from move in and 
 around obstacles. If you click each units individual there is no problem, hopefully this is a 
 path finding issue which can be resolved with a patch.
  
  Tactically the game is unmatched; tanks are more vulnerable from the rear and can even be immobilized. 
 Correctly placed infantry can do major damage to tanks and with special upgrades and placement 
 of infantry one platoon can take out a small base. However, micromanagement is such as necessity 
 learning hot keys will become vital survival tool for any player. The game my not be as much of 
 a clickfest as games like Starcraft or Warcraft, but require a lot more multitasking and manipulation 
 of your surroundings. Strategically, well placed mines can be the difference in winning a mission 
 or losing one, but many different situations require timing and control of the maps key resource 
 points. Since controlling the resources points are such a essential part of Company of Heroes, 
 turtling or defending will actually leave player at a lose rather give them the strategic edge. 
 Offensive maneuvers can easily cripple a players resources, seeing as if you loose a direct route 
 to your HQ those resources are not collected even though you may have territory on the other side 
 of the map, if your territory is not touching a plot of land connected to your HQ you do not receive 
 those resources. Flanking, offensive, and stealthy maneuvers are the primary strategys that are 
 not ostracized in Company of Heroes, therefore games are quick, fast paced, and action packed.
 
  
  Many times in real time strategy games, sound is sub par and never looked upon as a really source 
 of immersion for RTSers. Nonetheless, Company of Heroes sets a new bar for the genre with its 
 in your face action and sound quality. Tanks fire shells across the map with piercing accuracy. 
 Unit commands are beautifully done and immerse the player. At night your men will whisper when 
 given a command, distance units sound like they are coming from an early 20th century radio, and 
 explosions rumble your body as they tumbling down. Company of Heroes has done an excellent job, 
 if you have a high end sound system with an EAX sound card or better you will really appreciate 
 the craftsmanship in the sound editing. Company of Heroes has a good lasting appeal to players 
 of the RTS genre and the extreme tactile side of the game play. Many Players who dislike a lot 
 of micromanagement may be taken back and to turn the other cheek to look else where for something 
 less ambiguous. Those who appreciate what CoH has to offer will definitely not be disappointed 
 with the multiplayer capabilities, but there are a few minor flaws that seem to stick out, one 
 is the lack of any map editor tool and the other lack of diverse multiplayer maps and options. 
 The two main play options you have to choose from are Annihilation which is simple enough, destroy 
 the other player and the other is victory points control. Victory points control is a lot like 
 Battlefields 2s tickets system where you slowly dwindle down the opposing factions points by holding 
 key areas on the map or killing units. CoH offers LAN and Internet play both offer perfect game 
 play with little to no network hiccups.
  
  If you are looking for a game to spice up your real time strategy life, Company of Heroes is the 
 game for you. It has enough new features, polish, and exceptional tactical elements to recommend 
 it to anyone who fancies an impressive World War II RTS game. With only two factions, Axis or Allies 
 it came seem slightly bleak in terms of unit interaction, but with the amount of detail and care 
 given to almost every aspect of this game a few minor flaws are be easily overlooked. The graphics 
 and sound are unlike any previous game in its category and should not be missed. Like many deep 
 games it does take some time to assimilate everything CoH has to offer and may draw genre selective 
 gamers away, but even given a chance Company of Heroes can grow to incredible experience worthy 
 of any gamers time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilley122
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  When i first started reading up on this game i thought 'great another world war 2 rts game' but 
 then i heard of the destructive environments, then i thought ' hmm this might not be so bad after 
 all'. After i got the beta, it blew me away. Even the tutorial is emersive, the first mission, 
 D-Day obviously, was incredible and it just goes to show just how hard relic went at this and took 
 the plunge to try and get us into it. The sound is amazing, you could hear the sound of the 88mm 
 firing off in the distance half way across the map and then hear the massive explosion from the 
 other end of the map. The sound plays a really big part in the game, most war games, world war 
 2 games esspecially, dont really make you feel like your in a war, however with company of heroes 
 the atmosphere sucks you in, its really quite amazing.
  
  The graphics are superb for this kind of game, with the physics engine in the game working around 
 the clock to produce real world calibre explosions, men flying tanks blowing up, buildings falling 
 down, what ever the case it does it.
  
  The gameplay really takes alot from warhammer (obviously since relic also made 40k) but then runs 
 on its own 2 feet. Troops are smarter and will take cover on there own but they wont fight your 
 battles for you, the enemy AI is also incredible, making the ability to make multiple desicions 
 like a normal person would, they will find your weaknesses and impose on them i. e. if you have 
 a group of soldiers in cover, the enemy AI will try and outflank you and cut you off. It is really 
 amazing what relic has done with the latest technology.
  
  This game is a must have for any strategy enthusiast and is highly recommended by major reviewing 
 sites and magazines, and by myself ofcoarse. Wether you absolutely love RTS games, or its your 
 first time, Company of Heroes is your game, It really does set the bar for future games of this 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to strategy, Company of Heroes is one of the best games of its time. Not only is 
 it pretty but it is addicting and fun to play and very easy to get used to.
  
  Although even on easy it can be hard it is definitely a great experience once you get used to it.
 
  
  Graphics: Great... doesn't really make your jaw drop but the physics and explosions are amazing 
 and explosions that occured when you first started the game will still be there 2 hours later and 
 of course it is always exciting seeing your tank rounds send opposing troops flying down a street 
 or across a field.
  
  Gameplay: Great... fun and easy set up makes you want to come back for more constantly. The special 
 acions your units get a great too, riflemen squads having sticky-bombs are a plus especially if 
 your facing a tank or other enemy vehicle.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game really puts you there. From the crude soldier talk to the sounds 
 of mortar shots hitting your men it really makes for an immersive experience.
  
  This game also has explosive replay value.
  
  Overall, CoH is one of the best strategy games 
 to date and lets hope that any expansions or sequels will be as equally fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daxequa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard, entertaining, addicting and annoying. But WOW I just can't seem to put it down! 
 This is a real RTS. From a strict RTS perspective, I can't begin to describe how well the game 
 flows and how unique the simple additions are. The gameplay is different, but not too different 
 to steer away the casual gamer. Then again, be prepared to take that tutorial. This game isn't 
 exactly easy nor does it pretend to be. There is so much content here that it has to bring the 
 difficulty level up a notch. But trust me, this is really worth it. The addicting part is pretty 
 self explanatory and you might be wondering what the annoying part is. Well, here is why the game 
 doesn't get 10/10. The load times are crazy. I know I klnow, this shouldn't be that bad considering 
 the overall gameplay but should we really have to wait 5 minutes at times for the game to load? 
 Nah, I'm not feeling that. Regardless, this is a great game. Good gameplay, amazing graphics and 
 overall a great pick to get immersed. GAME ON! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Simply put... this is a phenomenal RTS Game. It is both challenging and dramatic. The battles are 
 often pitched and instense. You need to use strategy and take the offensive. Sitting around your 
 base is a recepie for disaster. Innovative gameplay and phenomenal graphics make it a pleasure 
 to play. It is the first RTS game that I have wanted to learn upside down and inside out. The physics 
 engine is very powerful and allows for some pretty spectacular effects. Fun ... fun and simply fun. 
 I am looking forward to playing as a Nazi commander and getting my hands on the V-2 rockets. It 
 is especially cool to scroll in tight on a raging battle and watch the explosions and fighting 
 from ground level. A winner to be sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amish07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay itself is amazing. I can deal with the long loading screens. The one problem is that 
 the demands this game needs to play well is outrageous. 4,000+ Megabites, 1GB RAM, 3.0Ghz processor. 
 Ouchee. Either way it still plays good on a 2.0 if you turn off a few things and the options are 
 down a few notches. The graphics are still good, even better than some of the other games I have 
 like Rome: Total War. The battles get rather in depth like in D-Day and the defense of Carentan. 
 That battle was a real sucker to figure out too. Still I give this game ROCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devnull
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 21, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  CoH is addictive and has some new combination of features that makes it feel refreshing. The ability 
 to go from an overview down to a close up view from ground perspective is really great, though 
 it's most useful at replay as you really need to keep track of the general picture during game 
 play.
  
  At first I was a bit annoyed as I couldn't find a pause function (as someone noted in another review) 
 as I'm used to one from the Blitzkrieg series but then I simply tried the Pause/Break key on the 
 keyboard and, lo and behold, there it was making the game a lot easier to play.
  
  From the start I also thought the idea of resource gathering and skills trees was a bit odd for 
 a WWII game but after a few hours of game play I got used to it and it really adds to the intensity 
 of the game.
  
  As is more and more usual in games today the campaign is to short and you wish for more, but the 
 skirmishes adds the playability and variations. Now one can only hope for extensions and sequels, 
 adding more playable countries and environments, just US/German in France is a bit limited.
  
  I still think Brothers in Arms is a game more to my liking but CoH is best in it's class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeroRathe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 20, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Where can I start with CoH ? It's not your average RTS that seems to hit the market pretty much 
 every month. It's not a complete rehash of things that have been done before.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The days of the tank rush from Comand and Conquer are gone. No more just 
 zerging the enemy base, try it here, and you will more than likely lose early, and often. You'll 
 have to exercise some tactics is you really want to accomplish things. Move units around, fire 
 from cover, know when it's time to pull up stakes and retreat. The AI is extremely solid, and will 
 find your weakpoints, and take advantage of your mistakes. After so many of the same style RTS's 
 in the past, it does take some time to get used to it, to find out when and what you should be 
 upgrading, and what will give you the best benefit.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Okay, I've got a newer system, so I can turn everything up, and it look fabulous. However, the 
 detail, and the ability to use surroundings to your advantage is new. Blow up a building, and then 
 use the rubble for your infantry to get behind, and provide them with cover. See a blown up tank, 
 and do the same. If it's there, odds are it can have some effect in the game, that you can take 
 advantage of.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The sounds of the airstrikes are great, hearing the howitzers or PAK-38's roar is outstanding, 
 and hearing your troops barking out orders. Although I do wish they had a few more things they 
 say, and be aware, they can give it loud and dirty to make the grunts understand it !
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  On the whole, very solid. The single player campaign is shaping up to be fairly 
 solid so far, but Multiplayer by far is what attracts me to the game. I would have really liked 
 to have a Risk mode that some other RTS's seem to have, although enough pieces are in place that 
 it could happen in an expansion. I certainly wont take away too much for it not having it.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  Best RTS I've picked up in a few years, enough innovations to make it worth 
 the while, and a relief that tactics matters, which is more what I'd expect from a Total War type 
 game, as opposed to this style. I'd have liked to have seen another faction, or a German campaign, 
 but again, I'm sure we could easily see the Russian Front as an expansion. A few things I would 
 have liked, but the good is tremendously good, and makes me almost forget those other things that 
 I might wish.
  
  I think this game might hold a little more value for folks who want a little more complexity, and 
 focus on tactics than those who want the standard RTS fare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auriantitan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  We've all played strategy games, onto to RTS which brings strategy games to life-like, similar 
 to generals setting down operations during wartime. Now the new and next generation of RTS has 
 came and that's Company of Heroes.
  
  This amazing RTS game isn't just a basic strategy of build and destroy, but also a very strategic 
 game where people can't really build tons of units and raid the enemies' base. Chess players, you 
 would love this game as you battle on the battlefield of the Second World War and in a story, inspired 
 on a true story and book called -- Company of Heroes. This game has many interesting features. I 
 have just started playing and was filled with great awe. This game would be very strategic, leading 
 your troops into dangerous battles which you have to be the next 'Eisenhower' to defeat them using 
 these features such as garrison, abilities, weaknesses or strengths, aquring weapons from enemies (Like 
 a 1st-person shooter!) , taking command of inoperable weapons, and squad tactis and a variety of 
 units that fits every situation you could possibly be in.
  
  Balance and strength/weaknesses of units is an amazing feature as I also seen this on StarWars: 
 Empire at War. But this, this game makes tanks scary as Hell. Unlike other games where infantry 
 can easily destroy tanks with guns, with no piercing bullets skills. Tanks in this are very scary 
 and also almost invincible! Like in Saving Private Ryan and other WWII games and actually from 
 the real WWII, this game let's units aquire skills specializing in destroying tanks (also in gernades 
 for a horde of enemy units) The game also have amazing AI and a very strategic environment which 
 doesn't really look like it's set up to flank the enemy like in, Brothers in Arms, a 1st person 
 shooter where your able to find a planned path to flank them. But in this game, the enemy has great 
 AI and can easily flee as you flank and eventually coming back to counterattack you. The environment 
 defenses are great! In some games in the past, you couldn't even shoot out of the trenches or take 
 normal damage when your behind a wall!
  
  The graphics and sound is just incredibly amazing. The graphics are smooth, great bloom, and great 
 effects during combat! It makes the game filled with great intensity just like the movies! The 
 sound is also great where the sounds similar to the actual thing itself. The sound has great distant 
 effects like units from a distances talk through a radio or how the unit is talking during night. 
 This game is just so realistic and hopefully opens the new era of RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blastpop
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  After reading the reviews, I thought this would be the fun quick playing and realistic RT game 
 for me. Unfortunately the game doesnt live up to all its hype. I really wanted to like the game. 
 On the merits of its graphics it would be a great game. The game play on the other hand doesnt 
 live up to the fine looking graphics. Graphics can make a great game fantastic. Lets not forget 
 that once the eye candy has been consumed the game play is what will bring you back to play and 
 keep it on your computers hard drive. I would have expected the designers would have tried to impart 
 not only somewhat realistic tactics that in some sense mimic the history it attempts to portray. 
 I didnt see that here. The historical information given while generally OK to me, is uninspired 
 and of limited value, to me at least. Between the lack of good and realistic game play, it leaves 
 me feeling that I should go back and play Warcraft III- since both are apparently fantasy  why 
 not play a truly great game? This game fell incredibly short of my expectations. The Gamespot review 
 after further examination and considerable gameplay on my part seemed to glow about the games graphics 
 and very little about the real gameplay- shame on Gamespot. At the end of the day Company of Heroes 
 is just another formulaic RTS that is ultimately forgettable. Been here, done that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonelezz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Right off the start this game begins with the same flow as the movie Saving Private Ryan . All 
 action and none of your jibberish talk, which makes this game one of the best RTS games out for 
 this year. Lets begin with the review
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The gameplay mechanics are very similar to your games like Dawn of war where you dont have to gather 
 minerals and expand to more mineral bays. Instead you are given strategic points. There are 3 types 
 of strategic points in this game known as Munition, Manpower, and fuel. Each of these represents 
 a resource for you to build your army from soldiers to tanks. The more strategic points you gather, 
 the more of each resource you get. There are shortcuts on the keyboard that give pros or players 
 that know what they are doing to build units faster. The most general game play is used with the 
 mouse which is very simple drag, select and move. So the game has 3 different levels of difficuulty 
 depending on how the player wants to take on the challenge or not. Easy, normal, and hard can be 
 selected on each mission before you start. Playing it on normal is already pretty difficult because 
 of the AI that was built in this game takes it to another whole new level where the user has to 
 think more then just mass on units and attack.. So just like real war, you have to make strategic 
 plans or you wont even get close to finishing the mission.
  
  There is multi player in this game where you can take your battles of d-day online and challenge 
 other users. The multiplayer works very welll but since there is only 2 factions known as the alliance 
 and axis. But even having only 2 factions brings out the full potential of the game. When you are 
 on either the alinace or axis there are maps where you and your buddies are placed beside each 
 other where you can make strategic plans to wipe out your opponent. Graphics:10/10
  Company of Heroes has some of the most immersive graphics up to date on the pc for a RTS game. 
 The physics in this game are unbelivable, because of what you can see on screen while your units 
 are moving. From each gernade you throw at your oppponent to a bombing attack, you see all that 
 happening on screen. Each crater the bombers make will appear and stay in the game until the level 
 has been completed. The game does have some cutscenes through the begining and end of a mission, 
 but ther are no CG vides which could be an extra if they added it. But even with out the CG cinematics 
 the gameplay is just great.
  
  Sound:10/10
  Have you even wondered how it feels like to be in a real war. Well Company of Heroes sure shows 
 you the way of how real war can sound like. When you are selecting your units on the alliance, 
 they have there american voices and the germans have there own. You will hear units screaming and 
 whispering to each other when they are out in the battlefield. Whats great about the sound is, 
 everything sounds almost too real. Why you say? When you have your selected troops and they are 
 fighting your opponent in another area of the map, you can hear the echos of war from soldiers 
 screaming to tanks blowing buildings up. Another great thing about Company Of Heroes is the music, 
 just because each soundtrack is very dramatic in the game from being in a in game cinematic to 
 actual gameplay.
  
  If your a fan of war games, RTS games, and looking for a hell lot of fun to blowing up things. 
 I recommend this game and because if your a fan of the Dawn of War series and liked that, you will 
 for sure like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOpinionated
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Forget Command and Conquer. Forget Warcraft. This is the real king of the RTS genre now. Company 
 of Heroes is perhaps the most intense RTS experiance i've ever had, not to mention the most fun! 
 Crushing the Axis with tanks, troops, and heavy artilery never gets old...
  
  Gameplay: The single player campaign is very challenging, even on normal difficulty. It gets progressively 
 harder as you take on the tougher aspects of the German war machine. It gets down right hairy when 
 German Panthers and Tigers show up on the scene, usually resulting in many dead troops and destroyed 
 vehicles. The skirmish mode allows you to go against a computer controlled opponent, which is good 
 practice for multiplayer. In both skirmish and multiplayer there are two gameplay modes. One is 
 similar to Battlefield 2 as in you have to control critical sectors in order to reduce your opponents 
 tickets to 0. The second gameplay mode is simple: destroy your opponent's base. Sectors are still 
 critical in this mode, as the more resources you have, the better units you will get.
  
  Graphics: The ammount of detail in Company of Heroes is unprecedanted in the RTS genre. Zooming 
 into the battlefield shows very detailed troops and vehicles. The environment is destructable. 
 Buildings can be blown up to the point of collapsing into rubble and tanks can basically plow through 
 everything but buildings!
  
  Sound: The sound is top notch, from sound effects to voice acting. If you're playing Axis in multiplayer, 
 the Germans all seem to speak English with a thick German accent. We're ready to push back ze Yankees! 
 
  
  Conclusion: Get this game, even if you suck at RTS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelkien
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  I'll start of with adding that while I wasn't a big fan of Warhammer, I love RTS and WWII. As the 
 action begins you will quickly realize that strategy is at the forefront of this game. The days 
 of sitting back and building an amazing army to crush the enemy on your command is over. The key 
 to Co. of Heroes is rationing supplies and thinking of your plan. Much like picking a Titan, your 
 choices, given the enemy, can keep you from winning. All upgrades are not equal, but each are unique 
 to various maps and campaigns. The game has depth, but is somewhat frustrating because you do seem 
 always behind the pace of the enemy. The gameplay is there you just really have to work for it 
 even on the normal setting. The graphics and sounds are phenomenal when compared to any other RTS. 
 The demand on my 3.0P4 (OC3.35) . 2 gig RAM, 256MB 7800GT at medium is greater than running BF2 almost 
 maxed. If you have a top notch system you will be amazed at the detail and multitude of sounds 
 in the game. Just a hint, if it sounds like a plane overhead, run. The detail of the characters 
 when you zoom in is eerie. The little splatters of blood from a body, to the cry of death and dispair 
 are painstakingly created to push a rush of adrenaline and fear into your veins. All in all its 
 a good game. The pace is lightining quick, but rewarding after you learn it's not like other RTS's. 
 It's not a 10 because of the lack of platoon controls, zoom out limitations, and it introduces 
 very little thats new to the genre. If you like RTS then this MAY be a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylMad
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Ok ,even if you are not a WWII fanatic Or RTS Fanatic, you gotta get this. Reasons?? because it just 
 rocks ur socks!!!!. It is so strategic that you gotta think before executing your actions. Like for 
 example, you have attacked an enemy outpost before but the experience causes you all ur tanks and 
 a few squads of infantry, then, you find a perfect strategic point that could turn the tide of the 
 battle. But! strength unknown, u do not want to risk getting ur tanks all wiped out, what do u do???. Well 
 in my case, i pounded the area with motors and artillery to soften up the area. When i sent my troops 
 there, lets just say there was only pockets of resistance, and i took the point. Like that! and furthermore, the 
 graphics is just great! i mean in most Rts, u try to zoom in on your troops but only a certain amount 
 and the detail of the unit sucks, but in Company Of Heroes, You zooom in right on the guys face and 
 he will still blink, check his rifle or even wipe dirt off his shirt. Oh and the AI is really smart!~! 
 Easy is like Hard And hard is like the hardest and the hardest..... is like picking a fight with 
 ur local Army camp general
  
  Overall this game is a beauty, and is a fine masterpiece, although the population cap is a little 
 small, it bring even more intensity.2 words, Perfecto Supremo!!! SO BUY IT AND HIT THE BEACHES OF 
 NORMANDY SOLDIER!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This is based on the single-player portion of the game, there will be a multiplayer portion as 
 i am playing it frequently to review it if there are people actually reading this, sorry for the 
 inconvienience 
  
  Now to begin, i believe some people would know about the warhammer 40k Dawn of War series. It brang 
 a new system to RTS games, and it received very well reviews from all around the web. Now the company 
 that brought you the new game and system, is Relic. Relic's known for that series, and many other 
 games as well. This time Relic has not only brang a new game or new system, but an experience you 
 would remember if you enjoy these kind of games. Lets startt by breaking into the different portions 
 of the game. Gameplay: Unbelievably Realistic. You actually feel like you're commanding a squad 
 in World War II, and the objectives that are set out for you are really realistic. Taking on Omaha 
 beach on D-Day is really exciting and fun as well. Seeing a builing collaspe by using your infantry 
 squad is something to look at for sure. Now I am sure gameplay would receive a perfect score as 
 there is too much to be said, just try it and you'll understand.
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pages/gamespace/download. php? pid=927618&amp; sid=6157004&amp; mode=latest
 
  
  Graphics: Very well done, but i believe the game still couldve gone farther than this. Even though 
 i said that, this game's graphics are jaw-dropping. Sometimes you can even notice facial expressions 
 on the characters when you zoom up on them, and from that, i believe enoguhs said.
  
  Sound: Very good sound effects. When you bring down a building, you'll see what im trying to say.
 
  
  Overall: Now after you read this review, you would probably think that im a useless reviewer because 
 i tell everyone to try it to see. My reason for doing this for this particular game is becuase 
 this is truly a game to experience. There are just some things in the game that are truly too good 
 for me to tell you readers about it. Now if you dont feel like purchasing the game, i understand. 
 Here's the Link for the demo, now PLEASE, PLEASE try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikepigeo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  As far as RTS games go, i cannot wait to get my hands on the latest benchmark game. Every now and 
 then an RTS will be released, people will buy it and forget about it... woopdedoo. Its not very 
 often, however that and RTS is realeased and brings something completely new to the table, this 
 thing is known as a benchmark. CoH IS a benchmark and it totally delivers. When I fired up the 
 campaign i was instatnly stunned by the visuals... then i realized that the animations i was seeing 
 was a pre-rendered video. So i kept watching, and eventually, i thought it switched over to actual 
 gameplay graphics but i wasn't sure. That's how good it looked. i didn't know whether to think 
 i was still seeing CG or gameplay, but it WAS actual gameplay. As for the sound, it's funny. The 
 troops say hilarious things AND the SFX are fantastic. The gameplay tactics are very dynamic and 
 smooth. The only thing that kinda urked me was the overwhelming feeling that your not doing enough 
 with the time you have. Definetely Hard-core REAL TIME strategy. If you thought Call of Duty 2 
 was immersive (which it was) wait till you play CoH! if you angle and zoom your camera view so that 
 you're right in the action as if you, yourself, were a troop then you might wet your pants. You 
 can't say i didn't warn you. If you are looking for a WWII, immersive, RTS tactical game, buy CoH. 
 If you are looking for a WWII RTS game, buy CoH If you are looking for an RTS game, buy CoH If 
 you are looking for a game.... buy CoH If you are looking for something to buy.... buy a nice new 
 car, then buy CoH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UType
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is a real high quality make. It features zoom in almost as close to first person view, 
 and you can pan down all the way to see the horizon.
  This game alt+tab's cleanly and at an amazing speed ( I have 1gb of RAM) . The graphics menu provides 
 a medium amount of customization, but I do not recall seeing a keyboard / shortcut configuration. 
 When you launch a full scale attack, the game really provides a deep immersion to the battle. The 
 explosions and effects are awesome! The building destruction and real-time physics of many, many 
 objects add to the environment. Overall a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerneyb123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  i love RTS ever since i played starcraft but never found anything better until now! skirmis games 
 are fun to play specially with smart enemys. but online play sums it all up!!! 4v4 games are fun 
 because people will select a commander that there good at and we will have a ton of units to deploy 
 againts a certain situation. tanks cant b destroyed by bullets anymore lol most game as long as 
 u have alot of bullets u can kill a tank with it. every1 knows that goin against a real Tiger tank 
 is scary well in this game that experience is relived u have to use real tactics to kill 1 tiger 
 and ull have to use alot of shermans or wolverines to destroy it. real resource hog to kill 1 this 
 game makes WW2 realistic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimension_X
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  An impressive title from Relic, the Creators of Dawn of War. This game delivers instant results 
 I was so impressed. At first trial to play my computer couldn't handle so I stuck another GIG of 
 RAM in her and she runs fine now. One thing that gets me right off the bat is the sound design 
 and the explosions are absolutely amazing. Mortar and Artillery explosions have such hi fidelity 
 they crackle and rumble its **** amazing, my whole room shakes its awesome. One neat feature is 
 the sound distancing feature. As you move from the battle back to your base all you can hear are 
 rumbles of tanks firing, explosions and radio contact. That is such a neat feature that when you 
 aren't looking down at your squads they radio you so its as if you are far away. The graphics are 
 awesome, completely destroyable buildings and somewhat environments. Unlike Dawn of War, which 
 is primarily flat maps, Company has hills and trenches and all sorts of things you can hide behind. 
 The water reflections are awesome, again also unlike Dawn of War (please note I love Dawn of War, 
 this game has merely upped the anit) .
  
  The game has so many neat features its hard to go through them all. One I will mention is the unit 
 spacing, depending on where you click on the map little dots appear where each individual unit 
 will go, so choose spacing wisely and look for cover, or build it. the game is highly realistic 
 and that makes the gameplay evened out, if a tank rolls in and all you have is infantry your screwed. 
 But there are some countermeasures such as sticky bombs and AP bullet upgrades. As you romp through 
 German offenses and kill troops you can upgrade your squads with the enemies weapons but be wary 
 once you pick up a mortar batter, M4 machine gun or a Anti tank cannon, that unit remains on that 
 weapon until they die. Its true what the games producers said in the demonstration videos, micro-management 
 is a must and holding up in your base does not work in this game, you need to get out in the fight 
 and keep the heat on. All in all a excellent addition to the RTS world. I have put down all my 
 games just ot play this its that much fun, go get it if you are a RTS fan or a WWII buff or hell 
 just get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabre
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting something entirely different. Although it is a RTS game it more closely resembles 
 Command &amp; Conquer or Warcraft from years ago rather than Microsoft's old Close Combat. Close 
 Combat revamped is what I was expecting.
  
  It's a resource management game where quick mouse actions and quick unit build options are necessary. 
 There's nothing new here with scripted missions and unit and building upgrades. Par for the course. 
 Graphics, physics, sound and cut scenes are fantastic. Fluff.
  
  Mortar units can target and fire at units mere meters away. Wait for your upgrades to purchase 
 artillery. You cannot command a squad to hide, only to move and fire. Sure they cover (somewhat) 
 on their own but you cannot command them to go prone or hide once at their destination. Opposing 
 tanks fire at each other trading round after round until their hit points are depleted. Weak. Satchel 
 charges are thrown like Brett Favre in his MVP years. Unrealistic.
  
  I think all these 9+ reviews are from people and editors starving for a great WWII RST game. My 
 wait continues... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 19, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Pre-Played Impression: Oh boy!! Yet another RTS game. Played one, played them all.
  
  Post-Play Impression:
  
  This is a game unlike any I have played to date. The premise is simple. 
 Axis vs Allies. Where the game shines is in tactics. Yes, there is base building and in resource 
 gathering, but neither are the focus of the game. The focus is on war. Imagine that!
  
  While the game has a very nice campaign that helps introduce you to the units and gameplay, the 
 main part of the game is Skirmish/Online.
  
  You choose Axis or Allies. Then as you begin to gain som experinces in the scenario, you gain command 
 points. With these Command Points you choose a Military Doctrine. Each side has 3 Doctrines to 
 choose from and each plays a bit different. For example, as the allies you can choose to go Infantry, 
 Paratrooper, or Armor. Each has it's unique units/abilities.
  
  The focus of the game is war. You capture and hold Victory Points which help you to gain resources. 
 You must also maintain supply lines (a series of connected VPs. There are no huge build ups of 
 troops as your number of VPs held will decide the total number of troops you can have in the field. 
 This tends to average maybe 80 men total. 1 squad can take 6 men. So you could only have 12 squads, 
 though you won't want to do that. You also need MG squads (3 men) , Snipers (4 men) , etc. etc. Sound 
 is great in the game as well. Zoom in close and you get to hear them get loader. As far as zoom 
 goes, you can zoom in so close it is like a FPS!! As for the maps, EVERYTHING can be destroyed. 
 Garrison your squad in a building and watch as a tank comes along and levels the place (assuming 
 you don't fight back of course) . The FUNNEST thing can be watching replays. It is VERY entertaining 
 to get a soldiers eye view of that bridge you were pounding with artillery throughout the game. 
 If you only buy one RTS type game this year, you cannot go wrong choosing Company of Heroes as 
 that game. -Dylen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  It is great. It adds many parts that most RTS's should have like making Barbed wire Tank traps 
 and sand bags. The missions are quite fun especially the D-day Paratrooper mission atleast I thought. 
 The multiplayer is fun. It may seem hard at first because in some city fighting it can use a lot 
 of strategy and get hard. It does a good job of resembling a real world conflict in a urban situation. 
 Like how panzers work much better than Shermans but Shermans are much faster. Infantry only games 
 are very fun. If you get it try and find someone who hopefully won't cheat. Infantry only can be 
 fun because theres not as much tanks blowing things over. One thing I absolutly love is how in 
 most RTS's these days you can blow a tank up from regular guns. Thats always Lame, But in Company 
 of heroes nope the only way a regular squad is killing a tank is if you have a couple of bazookas 
 and lots of grenades. Its neat how like to use grenades you use Ammunition resource you accumulate 
 making you think when to use your stuff. It has a system similar to Generals were you pick a general. 
 Allies have Infantry, Airborne, Tank. Germans have Defensive, Tank, Terror. Remmember to use cover 
 if you don't your going to get massacred like my friend did when i played him. Think of ghost recon 
 walls are your best friend ghost recon advanced warfighter I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imkain
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after reading some reviews and double checked my computer to make sure I met 
 the recommended system requirements. After purchasing this bad boy and installing it I immediately 
 immersed myself with the tutorial. I was quite impressed with the way the tutorial was presented 
 to the user, since if you are new to RTS games, this was definitely a nice introduction to the 
 style of play. I then started in on the campaign and was thoroughly impressed with the cut scenes... all 
 reviews are correct, they were definitely inspired by Saving Private Ryan style WWII movies. You 
 have a sense that you are experiencing the war through your soldiers eyes since they react to the 
 environment around them, basically increasing the immersion effect. I haven't made it too far into 
 the game, as I just finished the Airborne portion, which I thought was completely incredible due 
 to the fact that I actually used the creation of sandbags and a MG42 to set up an ambush on a road 
 to stop a German patrol... lots of tactical military maneuvers make this game fun to play, as well 
 as you can use different strategies on the fly to succeed in missions. I would definitely recommend 
 this title to anyone looking for what I believe has been seriously lacking in the RTS community. 
 Tactics are a definite positive addition to the RTS genre and is definitely welcomed by this RTS 
 player. I look forward to a possible expansion if it is in the works as well as look forward to 
 the next expansion to Warhammer: 40K Dawn of War: Dark Crusade. Till then, I'll see you on the 
 virtual beaches of Normandy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_enigma
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  My first impressions upon first playing the game were very good. For one thing in multiplayer or 
 skirmish mode, players are given the chance to create different tactics. As you have special capabilities 
 that would say, like call for reinforcements, etc (these are in the commander type choosing things) . 
 The good thing is that a player can be a rush or a set-up kinda guy. And there are a lot of ways 
 to defend against rushes, which is good. This is what I see lacking in the Dawn of War series that 
 Relic also made. Though DOW was good, there was nearly no other way to stop a rush.
  
  Gameplay simply introduces some new elements, compared with the DOW series.
  
  For single player 
 though, I don't think (though i haven't yet finished the story mode so these are assumptions) that 
 there isn't anything new on the block about the story. This is what I assume after playing:
  
  *Medal of Honor Allied Assault, Breakthrough, Spearhead, Pacific Assault
  *Codename Panzers: 
 Phase One, Phase Two
  *Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30, Earned in Blood
  *Desert Rats Vs. Afrika Korps
  (I know that Call of Duty seems to be missing from the list, because 
 I really didn't play it. C'mon I've gotten through the whole MOH series, it's already quite sickening.)
 
  
  Also from watching National Geographic and Discovery Channel.
  
  Though. I would still play this thing, to see if they have done anything new. Or else I'll just 
 simply cheat my way through if the gameplay gets too boring :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakos
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 18, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Frankly put, I was out of the loop on the latest and greatest games. I have been preoccupied with 
 work and family and decided to check out what was new with Gamespot. Company of Heroes? What's 
 that? After checking out the reviews, images, and vids, I had to grab a copy. I picked it up at 
 Best Buy on sale for $39.99 CAD, which is quite unreal for a new hot title. When I first started 
 going into the training modes, the first thing I noticed was what incredible thought and detail 
 that was put into the user interface. I thought to myself that there was no way the game would 
 be that easy to get into and play. The graphics are awesome!! I have the setting cranked at full 
 and the level of detail creates a new standard for RTS games. Body parts flying, full lighting 
 effect explosions and flame effects, smoke, reflections, man this game has it all. The audio is 
 very good too, not just guns firing and explosions (we've all heard that before) but the sure ambience 
 of your surroundings. The narration voice is really good and kinda sounds like Jack Nicholson. 
 The difference troops that are selected have voice responses to your requests and many of the comments 
 are quite comical, some cannot be repeated without a parental guidance warning. Well, I have been 
 playing this game since I got home from work. Let's see...2pm - 12pm. Holy crap, 10 hrs non stop. 
 Civ IV just might have a contender on it's hands. Thanks THQ, just when my wife started appreciating 
 more time I have spent with her, Company of Heroes comes along!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  What strikes you first when playing this game on a decent rig is the graphics is on par with or 
 in fact better than what you would expect from a high end first person shooter. You can zoom all 
 the way in to an individual soldiers face, and it looks awesome. Especially when combined with 
 the game's advanced physics system which will gradually leave the battlefield into rubble as you 
 play. Anything can be destroyed, and the attention to detail is simply amazing.
  
  The story is set to WW2, which makes it a total new setting compared to Relic's previous Warhammer 
 game, however you can still find many game concepts from that game here. They have the same concept 
 of capture-points which gains you various forms of resources when in your control, and you get 
 the same sense of brutal war. However, even though many key elements of the game has been seen 
 before, it feels totally different. The major difference lies in how valuable your units are. Instead 
 of pouring out new units and pushing them into their death, quickly replacing them with new ones 
 as you advance through enemy territory, each unit is precious and much more powerful than normal. 
 You therefore really need to take proper care of each one, and this means the game is a real strategy 
 game, almost on the level of games such as Rainbow Six or Advanced Warfighter. You can use advanced 
 tactics like suppressing fire, blowing up obstacles like walls to take the enemy by surprise and 
 a big element is making sure your troops use proper cover as you advance.
  
  One element I particularily enjoyed is the various weapons and units are as powerful as you would 
 expect them to be in real life. There is no more of this nonsense where a soldier is immune to 
 rockets or high explosive weapons and only is endangered by bullets, like in most RTSes, a feature 
 meant to balance out the effectiveness of the various units. If your men are hit by a rocket in 
 this game, they will die like flies, and a tank is truly a scary threat to them.
  
  The computer poses as a pretty good opponent, and I was relieved to see they are not doing what 
 most other games in the genre is doing: Flooding out new units in a continuous stream, trying to 
 overflow your defences in a series of brute force attacks. Instead you have to use your head to 
 get through enemy territory which is preset with enemies in smart locations, forcing you to advance 
 slowly while using all possible tactics to survive. The AI seems pretty smart, and you will find 
 yourself flanked, have hurt soldiers and tanks flee before you can finish them off and the enemy 
 are in general taking good care of their units.
  
  It's still a pretty easy game though, at least for the experienced RTS gamer. It just needs patience, 
 and you can only win by carefully ascending your frontline step by step.
  
  Another feature worth noting is you can bring previously experienced units from an earlied mission 
 into play in new missions. Unit advancements plays a big role, and you also get special powers 
 as you make progress through the levels. You get access to spy planes, paratrooper drops and many 
 other more powerful special commands. You do not have too many choices on how to spend your experience 
 points though, only two different paths are possible. You usually choose between defensive special 
 powers or aggressive ones.
  
  As expected you will find tutorial missions, campaign missions and skirmish missions. Online play 
 is also available, although I did not check it out yet.
  
  Is there anything bad to say about the game at all? If you put a gun to my head and force me to 
 say something, I would say that it's quite demanding on your computer. But, then again, even in 
 low detail mode it still looks better than anything out there. Also, I found it a bit too easy 
 as the computer is not very aggressive, it's mostly about carefully plowing your way through preset 
 defences or fight off scripted events like rocket attacks. More variation and less abruptive cut-scenes 
 might also help. But, that would be really looking hard for problems.
  
  This is a higly polished and feature-rich game. If you like the genre and find the WW2 setting 
 appealing, this is a great investment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bundesligaBM
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes (CoH) is a well made, graphically intense, Real Time Stategy game. There is a 
 quick tutorial that gets you into the game fast and the single player campain itself builds you 
 up steady, and for me I was playing a game I thought was easy, and then I lost a map. I had Germans 
 coming for me at every angle, and they were smart, and would flank around to attack. The graphics 
 engine is amazing but will take a really nice rig to run at 100%, no worries even at lower settings 
 the game still shines.
  
  The games single player campain so far is told with game engine cut scenes, that tend to show the 
 overall americans role in the invasion of normandy, and the violence of the combat. The gameplay 
 is very fluid, with a lot of small details, houses that can be manned, everything can be destoryed 
 in some way, and then used for extra or lessor cover. Every unit has small upgrades and the fighting 
 is well balanced, infantry isn't completly outmatched with armor, but it takes some skill to get 
 the job done.
  
  I don't play multi-player often so I can't give any review on that aspect.
  
  I strongly recommend 
 this game, and I'm hoping that a later expanshion will allow you to play as the Germans, as only 
 the allies are playable in CoH at present, unless multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moraitheungimp
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 18, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  This game in a nutshell, is fast. If you like slower strategy games, you might to consider if you 
 should buy this. While the single player can be paused and is quite fun, the most crazy random 
 part is the multiplayer. You might think that World War II strategy games are played out, and you 
 may be right. But this game adds a whole new feel too it. For anyone who played Dawn of War (made 
 by the same developers) you will recognize the style even if it is different here. The battlefields 
 are dynamic and the action doesnt and cant stop. If you halt for a minute the enemy might get an 
 upper hand. The frantic feeling fighting is quite a rush. The graphics are also gorgeous, no matter 
 if you are playing zoomed out or reviewing where that american Fighter bomber crashed into the 
 building. The raw detail and destructive environments are real and do make a difference both to 
 wow factor and gameplay. The fact if you fight somewhere long enough it will all be leveled and 
 you are fighting in rubble which totally changes the strategy. For me the multiplayer is the most 
 appealing aspect of this game. Playing online with the random human factor just doesnt let up with 
 the excitement. You can play many different modes but the ranked ones are the ones that stick with 
 you. Keeping track of how you do can be a real motivation. Ok that is long enough considering the 
 gamespot review said alot and so did the other reviewers, these are just the key points in my mind. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  As all of us know, Call of Duty (COD) has dominated the WWII genre around here, and for good reason. 
 The game have giving us the closest look we have had to the feel of fighting a real war. Company 
 of Heroes would be the second closet look! Yes folks, its that good. For a RTS this game submerge 
 you so into the business of fighting a war, like no other RTS that I have played have. The game 
 is beautiful to start out. Even after you zoom in, you still see a beautifully design animation 
 and details. The details on every thing from buildings to foot soldiers are amazingly done. Blast 
 a building and you see amazing explosion, with parts of the building blowing in all directions. 
 You grenade a soldier, he also blows up in all directions! Gruesome but true!
  The sound in the game is as good a visional, Commands are clear concise, you can also hear the 
 soldier scream when body parts go fling! Hey, its war!!
  The startup screen and menus are all well laid out and easy to use. You can get a skirmish up and 
 running in only a few minutes.
  Talking about skirmish, the skirmish mode is easy to use, maybe to easy to use, with very little 
 in the way of changing settings, you can change a few things, like location, and how difficult 
 the mode will be but not much more. COH is in need of some way to customize the game. There seem 
 to be no editor of any time, so after the campaign you are pretty much stuck with skirmish mode 
 and multiplayer, which BTW I didnt try out, but heard it was well done.
  This game is amazing in the ingenuity and details that you can tell the THQ and Relic put into 
 this game, even the panning of the camera is amazingly easy to use. You have to wonder why other 
 companies cant use the same system. I just hope that they will continue with more add-ons, because 
 at this point, you only have 2 teams, and that is the Americans and the Germans. The Brits and 
 the Japs would be a very cool add-on! This is a winner guys, one of the best RTS that Ive played 
 in a long time, if not ever!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperDJ
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  I recently purchased COH and while i was worried about the demands it would place upon my system, 
 it ran without a hitch and is THE best WW2 RTS i have ever played. This game puts the Sudden Strike 
 series to shame. It is a game which features the brutality of Warhammer 40k, the beautiful maps 
 that were a trademark of the Commandos series in 3D AND as if a georgeous map wasn't enough.... you 
 actually can blow it ALL up. Call me crazy, but there's just something extremely satisfying about 
 turning a beautiful, pristine French landscape into a grey and brown mess of charred Vehicles, 
 impact craters from off map aritillery, and wrecked buildings. After you have fought a battle in 
 an area, it looks like you've fought a battle there.... the only things missing are all the corpses 
 that slowly dissapear, which isn't a problem since there are so many other things going on.
  
  The animations in the game are fantastic. I love watching German and American heavy MG crews 
 tear down and lug around their hardware, run upstairs into a nearby townhouse, rip open the shudders 
 and perch their 20 pound Heavy Machine Gun atop a window sill, then opun up on nearby enemy squads, 
 rendering them surpressed and uterlly helpless. Watching as your squads move about the battlefield 
 TACTICALLY is really cool to see in an RTS game. Most of us RTS vets are used to seeing our troops 
 bound wrecklessly toward our mouse pointers without even considering the reality that there might 
 be enemies in the area. Add on top of that the AI in your troops being so sophisticated that they 
 will find cover by themselves... it really adds a lot to the gameplay, reducing micromanagment and 
 allowing more time for tactical desicion making.
  
  The Doctrine command system is very original and brings all kinds of new elements to strategy, 
 teamwork in multiplayer, and just cool ass bonuses for your armies. Of course the off-map artillery 
 barrage and the Para Drop are the favorites for American players.... as a guy that likes to play 
 as the bad guys, i am especially particular to the Germans Stormtroopers, better Armor, ALSO the 
 fact the Germans get to have a friendly, neighborhood morale officer is just priceless. The weapons 
 upgrades for both sides are very authentic, not to mention FUN. Playing as the Germans and being 
 able to upgrade ALL of my grenadier squads with MG'42 light machine guns as well as Panzerschreks 
 was really neat, as this is what many German squads were typically equipped with. Recoilless rifles 
 for the Americans, .50 cal MG's for American Armor, the weapons upgrade system is also a key component 
 to a deeply authentic and very entertaining WW2 gaming experience.
  
  I didn't get too far into the Single Player missions before i was hungry for Multi player. The 
 Single Player Campaign is fun, but at times it starts to drag a little bit... with a game like this, 
 it's Multi-player that really sets it apart from other titles. Some shortcomings.... not many. I 
 don't like that the Germans ONLY have the ability to barrage DEFENSIVELY with their off map artillery, 
 i haven't seen them yet, but German Falschrimjaegers would be a great addition to the game. (for 
 those that don't know.... those are German Paratroopers.) There were two German Falschrimjaeger 
 Divisions involved in the Normandy Campaign and it's a bummer not to see them represented in the 
 game simply as a more elite version of the typical Volksgrenadier (or rifle platoon) , maybe after 
 you've upgraded your base to assault stage ?
  
  I Think that there should be some options for engineers to build sand bag emplacements that can 
 hold AT guns or Hull-Down Tanks especially in urban fights instead of just being able to build 
 a line of sandbags.... it would just make things look a little more realistic, but again.... nit 
 picking on that one. Otherwise, great game, will master the Germans and i'll see you all on the 
 Multi game rooms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dxes
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 18, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  Let me tell you first, My PC runs with 1 Gig of Ram and a Geforce 6600 and YES it does run fast. 
 Lets talk about its gameplay. The games main game advances through WW2 and does it in an amazing 
 way. Your troops will act like they would in the battlefield, issuing orders and diving for cover 
 from fire. Although there are only 2 factions (much like Empire At War) these 2 factions are developed 
 in a very strong way and the physics engine and basic game system is FANTASTIC.
  
  Graphics are pure eye candy, the environment is blown to bits from artillary fire and gun fire. 
 Dust flying all over, soldiers mourning in pain and buildings catching fire from Crocodile tanks.
 
  
  The Game sounds fantastic, gun shots all over and tank fire, artillary fire falling to the ground, 
 troops shouting to each other and everything else sound fantastic.
  
  Its a game to play overall and if you love watching movies like Saving Private Ryan or other war 
 movies or just like pure action, THIS is the RTS for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  i've been playing this game almost completly lag free (on medium-high settings) and heres my sys 
 specs: Pentium4 proces. 3.0 ghz spd
  1 gig ram
  256mb nvidia 6800 pci express
  
  this is the best ww2 rts out there right now. many other ww2 games of this genre have done ok but 
 where they failed COH succeeds. although like every game its not perfect. (PS i've only played 
 through 3/4 of the campaign so far and and whole tutorial, no skirmish yet, so i cant give you 
 info on how different the germans play.)
  
  this game has a unit roster list thats nearly perfect, it has all the basics with a few vehicles 
 you've never seen before, and others you know and love. infantry: riflemen, machingunners, snipers, 
 engineers (very useful) , mortar crews, stormtroopers (german only) , paratroopers and rangers (US only) , 
 grenadiers and officers (german only) .
  
  engineers are your basic builders for base structures (but there are not many base structures to 
 build in total) , but most importantly they build defensive structures like maching gun nest, barbed 
 wire, mines, tank obstacules, bunkers, and sandbags (heavy cover) , the only ones that cost money 
 is the mines and machine gun nest and bunkers, the rest can be built for free, barbed wire, tank 
 obtacules, and sandbags can be built in any pattern you want on the battlfield, but it takes time 
 to set up great defenses. *i personally like have tank obstatules in front, then behind that barbed 
 wire, then sand bags (where my troops will be) , and a little further back a machine gun nest*
  when infantry take loses they can only be replenished when back at your hq (main base) or field 
 barracks you built in a civilian house. you can only upgrade you units (such as better/different 
 weapons, extra equipment, etc.) in your own territory, not in the enemies. infantry have the ability 
 to throw grenades or sachel charges, and even sticky bombs, but this all depends on the infantry 
 type, and in order to use this equipment you pay resources each time you use it, so choose wisely 
 because a sachel charge can destroy a building but if you throw a grenade instead (due lack of 
 funds for the sachel) , you will only barly damage the building. and all other abilities require 
 resources as well to use them, like a rocket barrage from a sherman calliope (sherman tank with 
 rockets on top) .
  only infantry can capture territory (with a few exceptions like special abilities from comand company 
 you choose like the armored US one where light vehicles can capture territory) .
  AT-guns and machingun teams must deploy and be faced in a certain direction, and while you face 
 them you can see thier degrees of attack, MG teams have a 70 to 90 degrees area in front of them 
 that they can attck, while AT guns have a smaller margin. if these guys are attacked from the rear 
 or sides they will not fire back because they cant^. equipment from mortar crew, MG team, AT gun, 
 or bazooka from rangers.... this stuff will remain on the battle field even after their owners 
 die so if you dont have a MG team and you just killed and enemy MG team, order your basic infantry 
 to take the equipment thuse becoming that unit (completly on the fly!) although bazookas dont change 
 you team at all they just give you an added punch.
  
  cover: ranges from light to heavy, and light cover cant take much punishment so watch out, due 
 to the actual physics in this game stuff breaks or is no longer in its prime as we like to say, 
 wooden barels fly in the air and then roll around after a grenade blast or they just get blown 
 up altogether! walls are meant to be blown up by sachels or steamrolled by tanks, houses can only 
 take so many holes and explosions before they callapse, but while they last they provide great 
 cover, as well as a strong MG team/sniper position. when you move your suqad around you can see 
 what cover objects or terrain will provide by the color of the dots (each dot is where one of your 
 sqd members will go) , yellow dots are light cover, green is heavy, and red in no cover, and these 
 colors are displayed on top of your sqd's in the form of a shield so no guessing whos safe and 
 whos not, you'll know.
  
  Vehicles: (aircraft not mentioned because its a command ability not a buildable unit)
  US: jeep, 
 M3 halftrack, M8 armored car (looks like an apc) , M4 sherman tank, M4 crocodile sherman tank (flamthrower 
 sherman) , sherman calliope (the rocket artillery sherman) , M10 tank destroyer (its a tank, not a 
 AT gun) , M26 pershing tank, M2 105mm howitzer (long range artiller) , M1 57mm AT gun (comes with crew) .
 
  German: Pak 23 50mm AT gun, 150mm nebelwerfer rocket battery (long range rocket artillery) , 88mm 
 flak 36 AT/AA gun, mortorcycles, sdkfz 251 halftrack, sdkfz 234/1 armoreed car (apc again) , stug 
 4 (tank) , stuh 42 (tank) , panzer 4 tank, ostwind flakpanzer tank (anit infantry, building, aircraft) , 
 panther tank, tiger and tiger ace tank......... lots of tanks!!!!!
  
  vehicles are primary used for supporting your infantry, most can ram through walls and create new 
 paths for troops, others can race ahead to deal with MG teams before they do any damage, the artillery 
 units are very powerful but as metioned to fire them means you have to spend munitions resources. 
 any vehicle can be used as cover for troops, most vehicles offer heavy cover, and they will continue 
 to be cover even when destroyed, because any vehicle othe than jeeps and mortocyles will have enough 
 left of it when destroyed that it will remain on the battlefield forever unless a tank runs over 
 it something else causes so much damage to this remaining cover that nothing is left and only then 
 will it sink into the ground and dissapear. tank fights are cool, you can do more damage by attacking 
 the rear or the sides, and by doing so can casue damage to systems like the main gun or the engines, 
 and if the vehicles health gets to the lowest it ever can before dying, it will drive out of control 
 into anyone/anything and explode! ****Ai ***:
  the ai is smart, troops will do what you tell them to do, and in quick fashion, but dont expect 
 you MG team whos being shot from behind to auto decide to reposition and turn around, they'll just 
 take the beating, but thats normal, would you like your guys ajusting at an imapropriate time... 
 if they assumed the right course of action for you they would be prone to not getting it right 
 all the time, making bad mistakes, their still is a need for the human to control most things, 
 we after all have better judgement on whether to turn the MG team around or retreat etc. the ai 
 when under attack will find cover if close, etc. enemy will retreat when neccessary, and it wont 
 hesitat to artillery you as you aproach (if they got it of course) .
  
  graphics: very impressive, best i've seen in an rts, ever! (even on my video card which is somewhat 
 out of date) , facial and equipment detail is great.
  
  sound: good music but the action can get so crazy you wont pay attention to much to the music, 
 wont totally blow you away, but its sound reminds me of .... well.... ww2, you know band of brothers, 
 saving private ryan, the medal of honor games, etc. voice acting is really good, somewhat repeatative 
 responses from your units though, although some lines never get old like: cant talk right now i'm 
 a little f**ckin busy -great stuff.
  
  i recommend buying this game because it finally gives you the ww2 rts expierence you've been wanting. 
 others have maybe been half as good as this, such as codename panzers, etc. this game really represents 
 the ww2 era well, with no cornyness, everything, even the cutscenes during campaign are done very 
 well, and the 2 factions are very high quality even for just 2. the campaign is interesting and 
 hasnt let me down yet on any single level. this is a great game....
  i hope my info helps.-hampton2003 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbryan06
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Hands down THE best rts to date. Simply because, it's a real strategy game unlike most other RTS 
 games this one isn't just about counter units and micromanagement, it's about strategy and that's 
 what makes the game so damn good. Thank you Relic for raising the bar with this very innovative 
 game. Every battle is as dynamic as you choose and the graphics and sounds are amazing. This game 
 is a must own, no questions asked.
  . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . 
 . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . 
 . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . 
 . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . 
 . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 .. . . . . . .BUY IT TODAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heros is awesome. Its so simple at its core yet so hard and staisfying. The hard part 
 comes from playing the skirmishes. The A. I. is good but mostly resorts to rushing you with tanks 
 while seeming to have an unfair advantage but you know what? The game is so good you want to keep 
 playing to persevere and beat your computer opponent. The campaign is great as well, it starts 
 off with a great cinematic that switches over to ingame cinematics and then lets you take control 
 and is so seamlessly edited you hardly notice it. Company of Heros is one of those few titles that 
 every PC gamers has to buy for his game library. Company of Heros is the Half-Life 2 or World of 
 Warcraft of RTS games so flawlessly produced that it almost seems like it was effortless for Relic. 
 Its almost like Relic can whip out high quality RTS games with such ease that you'd think they'd 
 have the creators of Starcraft and Total Annihaltion hidden in some basement somewhere feeding 
 them the secrets of making an amazing RTS game. Relic will sound familiar for its last outing on 
 the PC which was the incredible Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War, currently now expecting a 2nd expansion 
 this October. A bit about the gameplay, its World War 2 (yes, another game set in WW2) but somehow 
 it seems fresh because Relics high polish has made the subject matter approachable no matter how 
 many WW2 games have hit the market in the past 10 years. Also, the economy model may seem new as 
 well but huge Relic fans will recognize it as a mixture of the minimalist supply-line economy model 
 from Relics Xbox 360 game The Outfit and the strategy point economy model initially seen in Relics 
 superb Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War pc game series. The economy modelfor Company of Heros however 
 is now more vital because if a point between you and your other strategic points are captured, 
 say goodbye to that resource. This makes you actively and intelligently make decisions of what 
 to defend and reinforce before planting an offensive. Minor gripes are small: a squad / vehicle 
 cap and no adujstable game speed. This said these are small annoyances to withstand when taking 
 into account this brilliant, unchallenged RTS game. As a huge fan of Relic, I am personally awaiting 
 the second expansion to Relics Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War. Yes, I am talking about the Dark Crusade 
 but the wait now seems easy with this great game. Theres a reason why this game is going to sell 
 like hotcakes and why Relics RTS Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War has seen 2 expansions. Its because 
 Relic is amazing and almost has some sort of unreachable amount of synergy between the creative 
 teams that every production is brilliant. I am surprised Microsoft has not made a move to buy Relic 
 from THQ because every fan of Relic knows where they are going. They are going to be the next Blizzard 
 and will be pelting the game industry with one amazing game after another. Yes ladies and germs, 
 Relic has taken the RTS crown from Blizzard and ran with it without any signs of slowing down. 
 The question is can anybody take it from them or will anybody ever measure up? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This is one hell best RTS game ever create . Relic development surely make a break through in RTS 
 gaming by creating COH . Simply amazing stuff ! Before I thought ,Brother in arm is one great game 
 but not until I
  get a hang of COH .
  
  Gameplay is superb . And not to mention the AI which is very smart . As
  soldier will automatically 
 prone or find cover when under fire. Although ,
  building up base is nothing fresh but this doesn't take much of it . As
  the main objective is 
 to secure strategic point and resources build up .
  Except is a bit costly to build and recurits new units. But that should not spoil
  in game . 
 Both fire power between the allies and the enemy is well tune . Everthing is destructible. Mission 
 briefing is well done. Not only its brief you
  on mission objective ,it does suggest the way of approach, attack and what
  forces is effective 
 against it .
  
  The graphic is amazing . Well define and detail . The surrounding such as
  the landscape , building 
 and other small little object or item looks sharp
  and real . Can compete with games such as Oblivion . Needless to say , this is a demanding game 
 as you require a good VGA card and at least a 1Gb ram to run the game smoothly. Of course , processor 
 does play an
  important part too . Sound . Its fantastic and successfully done. U can hear soldiers shouting,
 
  calling for cover , backup... etc Sound from bombing , shooting , raining
  of bomb shell from artillery , machine gun from the MG..... Its so real . As if ,you're in the battlefield 
 .Great work !
  
  What can I say , hard to find any major fault in this game only a little bug
  here and there. 
 But nothing serious . A game that should not be miss by
  hard core RTS gamers. Worth every single cents . So ! soldiers what are
  you waiting for ? Go, 
 get it now before you live to regret . Go ! Go ! Go !........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matkwan
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Got a insufficient virtual memory error straight off. Need to assign max page file memory.
  
  Couldn't play game under different name.
  
  Contrary to reviews, units are not proportional 
 to scale.
  
  The game is like an ongoing capture the flag campaign 'cause your forced to capture and defend 
 keypoints to gain resources.
  
  Cap on number of units is a pain.
  
  Use of flamethrower on building starts irreversible process of turning building to rubble; even 
 if it was 1 short burst. Can't use that building for your own means.
  
  Spatial sound design is great. Graphics and physic effects are great. Cut scenes, narration and 
 story is great.
  
  Use of explitives in-game is irritating and embarrasing. Should be option to use more sanitised 
 dialogue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myke2010
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 17, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  After anxiously awaiting this game since I heard about it a year ago I wasn't disapointed. The 
 first thing that will get you about the game is the incredible graphics. While not quite up to 
 the description of playing a first person shooter from a rts perspective, they have definitely 
 raised the bar on what gamers are going to expect. The only drawback is it requires a hefty rig 
 to get the best performance from this game. Equally impressive is the sound. Sure all the gunfire 
 and artillery booms nicely out of my speakers, but what really stands out is the battlefield chatter. 
 Grunts will call out for grenades or satchel charges for structures, complain about having to reinforce 
 fighting positions and warn you of incoming enemy attacks. Heck, I've played a lot of shooters 
 with less talkative AI. Game play is dead on for what most RTS lovers want. The constant tug of 
 war for supply points makes for some intense battles. One minute you're fortifying your forward 
 base, only seconds later to have an enemy take a position to your rear cutting your supply line 
 and making your now fortified position nothing more then your own Alamo. Unfortunately, as great 
 as the gameplay is there are a few areas that could use a little more polish. Its nice to be able 
 to point a squad to a wall or rubble to take cover, but it kind of defeats the purpose when they 
 line up on the side of the incoming enemy fire. It's also way to easy for your troops to get distracted. 
 Too often I'd sit a tank between two structures for concealment, only to come back to it moments 
 later to find it took off across an open field chasing some soldiers that passed by. This game 
 is in sore need of some basic commands, like defend area or do not attack. For a game that tries 
 to be so cutting edge it needs to pay attention to what other rts games have already proven is 
 the best solution. Despite these complaints, this is still a great game. Building massive amounts 
 of cheap units and zerging the enemy will only get you a lot of dead units here, and a good defense 
 if as important as the offense. The physics engine can make for some interesting gameplay if you're 
 not careful. You think mining a bridge and barricading the near side with an MG nest sounds like 
 a good defense. Then just wait till the first jeep tries to cross and hits a mine, careens to the 
 side and slides into the nest in a huge explosion taking out the fortifications as well as your 
 engineers to the rear. It's these type of non-scripted events that make this game truly shine.
 
  The one thing I'd point out is this is not what I'd call a true tactics game. If you're looking 
 for that experience I'd go back to Hearts of Iron 2 or someother such game. While I haven't played 
 enough multi-player to accurately rate it yet, the game gives you a lot of diversity in playing 
 style despite only having two sides. For instance infantry units must return to HQ to reinforce 
 their units, whereas airborne companys can resupply squads by dropping troops in directly on the 
 battlefield. Each side allows you to pick one technology tree, or company type to command. Once 
 you pick it you are locked into the line for the duration of the battle, so that it is imperative 
 that your partner choose a different technology tree to support each other. My final word, even 
 if you're burnt out on the whole WWII genre, you're going to want to give this game a try. If you're 
 an RTS fanatic, just go buy the game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaiOfDeath
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it come out. I knew what to expect... Well I guess I had less expectation 
 but I knew that I wanted a new RTS. I love WWII and I love Relic's games so what could go wrong? 
 The real question I shouldve asked is why didnt I read on this game more? It is so amazing. A RTS 
 that has a very real physics engine in it! Im just now starting to get the hang of it. It's quite 
 challenging in its own regard but I now have a few victories under my belt. This game truly puts 
 the Strategy back in an RTS in the fact that you cant just mindlessly tank rush or you just cant 
 throw your infantry into a place where the opponent is fortified. Ive had one guy left from a rifleman 
 squad take out a stug by himself by hiding behind sandbags and tossing sticky bombs. Now that is 
 amazing. The sound and graphics are beautiful in this game. Everything is so visceral and glorious. 
 When you shoot artillery or heavy machine guns open fire you KNOW it and you know your guys are 
 about to be screwed ( Or you're about to whoop someone) . I love this game and Im gonna keep playing 
 it. I may even get the courage to play it online... Maybe. All in all I think this game is worthy 
 of the 50 bucks and worthy of the game of the year title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bijak99
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics and presentation. The way the units react to you order are excellent. How the units 
 react with it surroundings are fantastic showing how good the AI have been built. The music is 
 well-made with the situations and surroundings. Mission and campaign are also excellent. Although 
 its we have been introduced with a lot of WWII games such as Panzer and etc, this game has its 
 own identity that make gamers stucks in front of the monitor for long hours. The background story 
 is very well made and written.
  
  Gameplay remind me the introduction of Warhammer, since it is built by the same game developer. 
 It is sad that there are some restrictions in the game. Less units and less creativity on how-to-play. 
 Anyway, it is a great game. Give the gamers a different perspective on how to play WWII-RTS games. 
 WeLL-Done Lads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnie06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I know many people are beggining to think that the RTS genre is a decaying gametype. In some cases, 
 it is, but in the case of CoH, this genre is back up and running. This is my first ever review 
 for gamespot. Ive never really felt compelled to write one because i havent played an extremely 
 good enough game to review, but CoH made me a new person! Right from the beggining level of Omaha 
 beach, you get thrown into the action without even really knowing it. It almost makes you remember 
 the brutal and utterly amazing opening sequence of Saving Private Ryan. There is so much going 
 on at once its amazing to think that this is infact an RTS game. The graphics, for an RTS, are 
 simply amazing. i think these graphics and visuals beat AoW with ease. Everything in the environment 
 is destructable, giving this game the only real title of strategy, you must use the blown buildings, 
 destroyed vehicles, and other debris as cover. A lot of people are thrown off by the lack of sides 
 to choose from, there is only allies and axis, but each has three different commanders to play 
 as, for instance, you can be an infrantry, paratrooper, or tank commander, each with its own unique 
 abilities. I first played the demo an was immidiately hooked, i got the game today and am so glad 
 that i made this decision. If you love RTS games, or just love playing a game where everything 
 goes BOOM, then CoH is for you. If you dont think this game deserves anything better then a 9 grade, 
 then there are some serious issues in your life you have to fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erikwutaguy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Company of heroes is a great RTS that really is all that its cracked up to be. The gameplay is 
 great and easy to master, the graphics are incredible for an RTS and the historical accuracy is 
 great. It feels like your playing Saving private ryan with some band of brothers thrown in there. 
 It sounds great when you turn up the volume during heated firefights and the AI is great. If you 
 like WW2 get it, if you like RTS's get it, if you like playing video games, get it. This game is 
 great and addicting so you will be losing some sleep on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImJohnnyKnoxvil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Well let me just start by saying wow this game is amazing. It has everything a grown boy needs 
 to be very happy with their 50 buck investment and more. I got this game last week right after 
 trying the demo and let me say that i have not gone a day yet with out atleast running a 30 min 
 match between those crazy Germans and I. Ok well first ill talk about the graphics which were hands 
 down the best RTS graphics i have ever seen mostly due to that the maps are totally fully destructible 
 which adds a sort of atmosphere of really feeling like that 57 MM AT gun is just causing havoc. 
 Next ill touch on the gameplay which is also pretty much as good as it gets and has many, many 
 hours of fun in store for its owner. Next is sound Which is amazing every object in this game that 
 has a distinctive sound in real life is made out to sound to a key. In all i have to say that this 
 game is a must have for any PC gamer its just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JzDog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm a sucker for WWII. Yeah, they keep making 'em and I keep buying 'em. So, this falls right into 
 my wheelhouse.
  
  Numerous RTS' have come and gone without becoming involved with them myself. They are all pretty 
 much the same.... and they haven't really changed in years. Build stuff, capture stuff, build more 
 stuff, kill stuff. Company of Heroes is no real exception to the rule. You build, capture and kill; 
 sending your armies across the maps with a click, click, click that will echo deep into the night. 
 Let's start with the maps. They are big, they feel like a battlefield. They are detailed, and just 
 about everything on it is destructable. It's disheartning spending time setting up a defense when 
 a stug comes barreling right through.... but oh so fun when you accomplish the same. Game play has 
 been fun, and challenging, well into the campaingn. It takes hard gritty work to move your forces 
 forward in the battle map. And if you leave an opening you'll find yourself wondering how the Axis 
 got there and to take that command point back. This RTS also has more of a strategy feel too it. 
 Again, this might just be my penchant for all things WWII... but, each unit has a role, and it fills 
 that role well. Each and every unit, so far, has had a place and a time to do it's thing. Using 
 those units wisely is part of the fun, and strategy. What is the best way to do what I want to 
 do? With what units? There is still a element of the zerg rush... but it does seem toned down. I 
 have not tried MP yet (which in these type of games is knowing the best and fasted build order) 
 so I'm not sure how the zerg works or does not work there. Graphis and sound? Yeah, it's there. 
 Interesting and challenging campaign? Yep. Addictive? Yep. If you like RTS at all, this is one 
 to have. It's enjoyable... and also offers enough strategy to keep it interesting beyond just zerging. 
 It's a quality game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretg80
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  If you bought this game looking for realism, then you've never played an RTS before. Who would 
 ever think an RTS is supposed to be real. You want real, buy Combat Mission. If you want fun and 
 a real challenge, play COH. The game is extremely challenging, but I guarantee you won't be putting 
 it on your shelf because you are tired of winning all the time. I hear a lot of folks complaining 
 that they can't beat this game. So, why would you want to crush the game in the first 24 hrs anyway. 
 Enjoy it for a while. After all, it's beautiful to watch and listen to. The campaign is very straightforward 
 and easy to play. The skirmish battles are very difficult except on easy setting. I have yet to 
 beat one on normal, but then again, I haven't learned how the system works yet. I'm sure once I 
 understand how the AI plays, I'll be able to take it down just like all the other RTS's out there.
 
  
  As for me, I've played through 1/2 the campaign and it's a blast. I can't remember the last itme 
 I had so much fun. The graphics and the story are great fun and the sound effects are stunning. 
 This game isn't anywhere close to real, but it gives you a flavor for how crazy war is. There is 
 always something going on and you have to keep your guys busy or they'll end up dead. The only 
 complaints I have about the game are that your guys seem to sleep if you aren't paying attention 
 to 'em. I guess in many ways this is like the real world, but it is frustrating when the enemy 
 wipes them out while you are busy doing something else.
  
  Anyway, this is a great game and I really enjoy playing it. I truly believe if you like RTS games 
 and you like a good challenge, this game is for you. If are a grognard and are looking for realism, 
 don't look here. However, I'm a big Close Combat fan and while I enjoy the realism in that game, 
 it's no where near as fun as this game is. Enjoy all the hard work these guys put into this game. 
 It truly is a masterpiece.
  
  Cheers, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juventus_fc97
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 16, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Im in a predicament as to what to think of the gameplay in COH. It's one of the best 
 things about the game, and also the only thing I could complain about. Overall the gameplay is 
 quite realistic, especially when compared to other games in the genre. It borrows some of the best 
 concepts of games past, and turns them into something even better. If, like me, your sick of games 
 that only require a massive army and half a brain stem to succeed at, then this game is exactly 
 what you need. The campaign is superb and multiplayer is equally as fun. Battle situations are, 
 for the most part, accurate. Attacking a tank from the front, for example, will likely just get 
 your units destroyed. If you keep the tank's attention to the front however, and circle around 
 the back or sides to attack, there will soon be a heaping pile of burning metal right before your 
 eyes. The great thing is, now you could use that chunk of metal for cover. This game is full of 
 such tactical possibilities, and it really adds a whole new level of depth not found in any other 
 game in the genre. This is however the part of the gameplay that causes the most problems as well. 
 Although the box emphasizes Advanced Squad AI , you'll still likely find yourself micro-managing 
 every single battle, as it's usually the only way to win. This gets VERY overwhelming at times. 
 This also makes the learning curve significantly longer. I have faith that these problems will 
 be fixed in future patches or the inevitable expansion pack though. If you can handle the difficulty, 
 you'll find the gameplay is extremely fun compared to any other RTS to date.
  
  Graphics: Wow! Absolutely incredible! COH quite simply has the best graphics of any RTS ever released. 
 Dare I say they are just as good or better than some recent FPS's that I've played. Every little 
 detail is there, perfectly animated and crisp. Arguably the most fascinating thing about the graphics 
 are the fully destructible enviroments. I'm always amazed at the fact that when I start a map it 
 looks like a nice, peacful French landscape, and then after all hell breaks loose, it really looks 
 like it! What was once a small cafe becomes a pile of rubble after a Panzer tank has it's way with 
 it, or the rolling green hills become a charred, war ravaged wasteland full of craters and fire. 
 I could go on all day about these graphics. Simply astounding.
  
  Sound: The sound in COH is almost as impressive as it's visuals. Every gun, every tank, every vehicle 
 has it's own unique sound, and realistic sound at that. Explosions sound fantastic as well. The 
 only complaint I have is the repetitive phrases that units use when clicked. I know, not a big 
 deal at all but, hey, it get's a little annoying. Value: Considering all the innovation crammed 
 into this game and all the obvious hard work, this game shouldn't be any cheaper. $50 is well worth 
 it.
  
  Conclusion: Unless it comes from Relic, I don't think we'll see another RTS as great as Company 
 of Heroes for quite some time. I strongly recommend this awesome game to anyone and everyone, except 
 maybe newcomers to the genre. This game is very complex and if your new to the RTS field, it could 
 make you wish you hadn't gotten into it. Otherwise, do yourself a big favor, and go buy COH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 16, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Imagine being General Patton and commanding your troops into enemy territory and fighting over 
 waypoints. Imagine riding your tanks into battle only to see them destroyed. Imagine all of your 
 hard work and all you get is a screen that says You have been defeated . That is the game of CoH. 
 CoH is by far the best RTS game out there and it holds true to the Strategy aspect of its name. 
 There is no more strategy in any other game then in this one. This one holds the ring that controls 
 them all, all other RTS games should cower at the mere sight of this game. Because face it, cowering 
 is all you do in this game. One of the best RTS games i've every played and one of the hardest 
 games as well. The gameplay in CoH is the same as any other RTS game so there's no reason to criticize 
 what works well. Though the graphics on the other hand are extremely well done and detailed. No 
 other game have i seen a battle that made even the player cringe. The craters made by artillery, 
 the explosions made by sherman tanks, the gunfire made by infantry. All done to perfection, you 
 can't get better then this game it is by far the most detailed RTS i've ever played in my opinion. 
 Granted when you zoom into the game it doesn't look pretty but who's zooming in on an RTS game 
 anyway. The sound is awesome too, even though you're looking from a bird's eye view you're still 
 hearing the sounds as if you were down in the midst of it all. Also, the voices of all of your 
 troops, at first i was expecting the same redundant comments that all the other RTS games have 
 on there units. Though CoH didn't go that route they went true with the WWII era and the voices 
 of your soldiers and what they say are perfect. You won't hear Lets go kick butt or I'm gonna tear 
 them apart or the infamous Lets do it . Instead you hear what these soldiers should say like Krauts 
 on our six! , Get down soldier! , Cover me! . The over all essence that this game provides is surreal 
 and extremely well done. Hats off to Relic to make a WWII game that not only tackled the RTS genre 
 but did it with a vengeance. Even though i love this game and its great to play and it holds more 
 strategic aspects to it then any other game its hard to bring myself to play it. I usually just 
 play skirmishes on these games so i can practice for online play. So i set the CPU to easy always 
 to start off so i can get the feel of the game. Though in this game there is no easy setting, you 
 either learn on the fly or you get left behind. You will see PLENTY of You have been defeated screens 
 before you get used to how the game works and how to beat the CPU. The bad aspect is that you'll 
 see so many of those screens that you might just stop playing and be angry that Relic made such 
 a great game that couldn't be beat, literally. In all of its great aspects and awesome gameplay 
 holds the mark of a CPU team that doesn't take any prisoners and holds no compassion for anybody. 
 So if you love RTS games and you feel up to the challenge and think you can tackle this boss of 
 a game then feel free, have at it, just don't say i didn't warn ya when you're chopped off at the 
 waist by and MG-32. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morketh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I am an avid Starcraft player, so I critique RTS games pretty hard. 
 I must say that I have only played about 30 minutes of this game so I may not be accurate with 
 everything. I am excited that there are now some RTS games out there with fantastic graphics as 
 this game, yet graphics do not make a game. I believe gameplat is what makes a game. Company of 
 Heroes has a lot of little extras that other RTS games may not have, such as, being able to tell 
 your units to take cover inside of any building and hiding behind a destroyed tank for cover. Things 
 like that, I find utterly amazing! A few things I found disappointing is that I was not controlling 
 too many units at one time in a skirmish. I had probably 5 groups of troups (remember I only played 
 about 30 minutes, this may be incorrect) at once and I found this to be lame. In a game like Starcraft 
 you are able to control up to 200 units, and it actually looks like 200 units, theres masses of 
 them on your screen especially if you have zerglings running around! I believe there should be 
 more races that you can play, maybe they could have put France, and Russia in or something and 
 not have named them the Axis and Allies just the name of the country. The reason why is not because 
 I want variety of units to play with, more so that I want to be able to play a 2v2v2v2 instead 
 of just a 4v4, 3v3, 2v2, or 1v1. The game only allows that you play Axis vs the Allies, so it forces 
 you to play one team versus another team and nothing else. I find this to be the most disappointing 
 of all in Company of Heroes. (That is all I play on Starcraft is 2v2v2v2's and they are absolute 
 chaos and fun!) In a 2v2v2v2, you have to be aware of all teams, and what they are doing, who they 
 are attacking therefore you would know to attack them or not to attack at all because there is 
 time for you to build up your forces. There is so much strategy involved in a 2v2v2v2, that it 
 is unbelievable, it's always a different game! Had they allowed more players, more races, and more 
 gametype/versus options, the game may have gotten a 9 from me.
  
  I will play the game a little longer and see if I change my mind about anything, if so, I will 
 let you all know.
  
  -Morketh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powarmetal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Who said there is no such thing as a 'good' ww2 rts? ww2 theme may feel like its approaching the 
 end of its era, but Relic has once again proven that they are a force to be reckoned with. This 
 game grabbed my attention as soon as the first gameplay video was out. Filled with absolute realism 
 and intense atmosphere, it really drags you into the game.
  
  The gameplay is immersive as hell. There is not one minute spent in the game where I'm just sitting 
 back and waiting for things to be built. Micromanagement aspect of this game is overwhelmingly 
 challenging, yet satisfying.
  
  This game will definitely become a classic, if it hasn't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: programexpert
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 16, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Company of Heroes, I was excited. I thought another Relic game couldn't end 
 up bad. Then, I read more about it and found out all the innovations they wanted to put in there. 
 Since I loved most Relic games, I expected it to be very well done, just like Homeworld or Dawn 
 of War before it. I was totally right. I will subdivide my review in five sections, one for each 
 attribute.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game tasks you to take control of a limited number of units (A WW2 Company) and to wage war 
 over France and Europe. Relic boasted CoH to feature fully destructible environments and advanced 
 infantry combat.
  
  The environments are indeed destructible, thanks to the Havok engine. You can fire at a building 
 with tank shells and see chunks of wall flying off while the roof gets torn apart. Even better, 
 the holes made through the building can then be used by garrisoned infantry to fire through... 
 Or the enemy shells to fire through too. I can only complain about the fact destroyed buildings 
 leave rubbles which cannot be destroyed or ran over by tanks, so destroying buildings only allows 
 you to fire through where it was, but not to actually open up a new way through.
  
  The infantry combat is amazing. Inspired from Dawn of War, you take control of squads formed by 
 2 to 6 men which will always behave in groups. Then, you can order the squads to move, and they 
 will behave just like real soldiers. Not only does that mean they will often look around and move 
 in fluid groups, they will also take cover when under attack and try to move around from cover 
 to cover to find the best firing angle. Yes, they take cover. Virtually anything in the game can 
 be used as cover: walls, buildings, fences, explosion holes, even tank remnants! You can then use 
 special upgrades or actions to help you out. This ranges from grenades, satchel charges or bazookas 
 to automatic rifle upgrades and MG42 Light Machine Guns.
  
  Then, there's the realistic vehicle combat. This means that vehicles, especially tanks, can get 
 damaged in multiple ways. Rear armor hits, damaged or blown up engine, main gun destroyed or gunner 
 killed are all possible damages, each having their own (pretty obvious) effect. You can also easily 
 make your tanks move backwards or upgrade them with mine destroyers or better guns and a MG on 
 top. There's only one negative point I can find: vehicle control. Most vehicles will behave good 
 when controlled individually, but whenever you take control of many of them, they will start blocking 
 each-other and exposing their rear armor to the enemy.
  
  Also, needed to be mentioned is the Doctrine/Company concept. As with many games (Battle for Middle 
 Earth, for example) , you can use special powers. But this time, you must also choose a tree . Each 
 side has three trees. Allies (US) get Airborne, Infantry and Armor. Axis (Germans) get Terror, 
 Blitzkrieg and Defensive. Each tree enables specific powers like Raid (Light vehicles can take 
 over strategic points) or Calliope Tank (Ships a Calliope on the battlefield, which is a Sherman 
 Tank with a rockets launcher on top) for Armor Company, for example. While it might seem like a 
 simple addon, each Doctrine/Company can turn the tide of the game if used properly. Even better, 
 multiplayer matches will allow for combinations, and each Doctrine/Company perfectly completes 
 the other two.
  
  There's also the Campaign which is really worth mentioning. Starting from D-Day and running through 
 the whole Allied counterattack to take back France, it follows Able company through multiple famous 
 battles. The campaign is a good long tutorial , slowly unlocking possibilities and giving you more 
 and more units as you move through it.
  
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND
  
  Company of Heroes is beautiful. Although it requires a beefy computer, if you have it, you easily 
 will be stunned. Infantry is modelled precisely with individual fingers, moving mouths and lip-synch 
 as well as impressively detailed equipment. Vehicles have awesome caterpillars and detailed hulls. 
 Buildings have incredible polish, with curtains moving through the wind or when a machine gun nest 
 fires. When attacked, pieces of walls will reveal the structure of the floor or the roof. Animations 
 are very well made, with infantry jumping under cover when under fire or them crawling on the ground 
 when pinned by MGs.
  
  The sound is pretty amazing. Machine guns have punching sounds, tanks will fire realistically and 
 each of them will be distinguishable, men will shout orders or scream for help when attacked, explosions 
 will shake the whole screen while distant firefights can be heard in the background, dulled. Voice 
 answers from your units will have radio distortion when coming from further away. Music will be 
 subtle but will blend with the game perfectly. Additional background firefight sounds will kick 
 in when a combat starts.
  
  VALUE
  
  Company of Heroes gives a good bang for your buck, but it could have been a bit better. Multiplayer 
 maps are rather limited in numbers and only US and Germans are playable. The campaign is rather 
 lengthy, though it could have been fun to try out the war from the German perspective.
  
  FINAL WORDS
  
  All in all, CoH is an impressive game. No matter if you are a RTS fan, a WW2 
 addict or a PC Gamer looking for a fresh breath, CoH will please you. The game's not easy, but 
 it definitively is worth the try.
  
  All in all, CoH packs quite a punch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: za_wanted
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  The game is most wanted game in this year.! This STR is to good at everything, i seen Videos, Pictures 
 and more, and i want to have this game !! I see, most players prefere STR game of WW2, because 
 is realistic and every time is on the first place. This game is a revololutin in game world !!! 
 yahoo id: za_wanted, and we can disguss the game !!! who want
  The game i hear dont hav major bugs, and gameplay is very good, i finish to speak, lets play
 
  
  I WANT TO PLAY !!!! I WANT TO BUY !!!! I WANT TO FINISH THE GAME !!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasmaron2003
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Best Graphics, Best Sound, Best controller interface, smartest AI all make for some great fun. 
 Things I wish for would be better control over your vehicles that would allow me to back up all 
 the way to the end of they map if needed to avoid deadly artillery. Getting out of the way is sometimes 
 a pain in this game. Also I wish my vehicles would run and hide if I choose instead of just sitting 
 there and letting AI rain bombs on them when I'm not looking. Luckily the sound warns you, but 
 sometimes you are knee deep and can't do two things at once. Also wish that the AI would focus 
 on building a better defense. They seem to focus on offence. Also the computer should allow us 
 to build defencive structures much cheaper and use less points when they are going on your base. 
 There are some many things to love about the game. Take the time and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cybrcatter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes brings the Strategy back in the RTS genre, as was as an unparalleled sense of 
 realism not before seen in any RTS game before.
  
  As a decade and a half RTS veteran, please take my advise if you have any desire to play an RTS 
 game: Buy CoH, because this is going to be THE game played for the next 2 years in this genre.
 
  
  Some quick highlights:
  1. Highly polished presentation. The cinematics are blended seemlessly with the gameplay, and complement 
 it very well while giving you just one more reason to get to the next level.
  
  2. Rich gameplay gives you so much to do and think about during a game that you will constantly 
 feel like there is so much more that you could be doing, and never gets boring or tediouse.
  
  3. Amazing Sound FX and music score bring an amazing real life feel to the game, as if you 
 were actually there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightymorfar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  COH has great presentation, massive promotion and it IS a cool game. Still, there are mixed feelings. 
 My first impression of the game was a solid Wow! and at the same time, Oh no, not again . Seriously 
 - Saving Private Ryan came out in 1998. We're well into 2006, but yet, it seems that we're still 
 cramped into Steven Spielbergs WW2 vision. Is this the end? The same scenery, same screenplay 
 (mixed with bits of Band of Brothers, of course) , same sounds, the same characters... the result 
 is that the game doesnt motivate me enough to play through the single-player campaign  I can 
 figure out where the battles will be and how they will be portrayed, thank you very much. The score 
 for originality is a solid 0. Im going for some intense skirmish and multiplayer instead. The 
 graphics are amazing  everything is very well done. The very critical pathfinding is great, though 
 the solution is hardly an elegant one; your vehicles will buffer into whatever they touch, creating 
 some interesting visuals at times and wheeled vehicles can turn in place when they want to. (God, 
 Id like to have that feature in my car at times)
  So, no breakthrough in pathfinding techniques, but its good for gameplay and I can live with this 
 gladly. The audio is super; you have to hear it to believe it. The nice soundtrack adds a lot of 
 immersion, too.
  
  The few letdowns are: 1. The gameplay is not really tactical , depending on how you define the 
 word, of course. Sure, you have cover, you can flank a bunker and so on, but in my world, it's 
 called not committing suicide and not tactics . The game is too fast and vicious to be tactical 
 game, it's a fast paced action RTS. Cover doesnt matter that much in the later stages of a game. 
 Also, the men are very unpredictable, making any advanced approach hard to plan and execute. 2. 
 Unpredictable units. Which would be fine, but squad members are just plain stupid and / or blind 
 at times. Its not unusual to see half of the squad doing what you want them to do, while the other 
 half runs off 50 yards in random direction towell Im not sure why. Not once, I had to watch helplessly 
 as a number of men calmly ran towards a heavy machine gun and a tank, leaving their squad mates 
 behind to capture a location. Of course, they all got killed on the way to wherever they thought 
 they were going, causing heavy frustration.
  
  2. Buildings are eye-candy, but not very useful. Entering a building means losing control. You 
 have no influence over the squad, cant control its fire, and basically you're just a sitting duck. 
 Taking cover behind a stone wall seems to be a better choice?
  
  All in all  the way the soldiers react and the game plays makes you feel like being on the sideline 
 at times more like a game you watch rather then a game you actually play. But, despite it being 
 a weird alchemists mix of odd hardcore game elements and furious action, its a gritty and above 
 all cool game that should be part of any RTS collection  Company of Heroes delivers pure fun and 
 entertainment, and that's what a game should do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webseed
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Anybody who has seriously played CoH will realize there's something not quite right with this game. 
 For starters, there's the terrible AI of your own soldiers on the field. An anti-tank team, for 
 example, will stand by doing nothing even while an enemy tank is right next to them blasting away. 
 Apparently, the AT team hasn't figured out how to turn their AT weapon and start firing on the 
 enemy tank.
  
  Similarly, soldiers standing right next to a resource point owned by the enemy will do nothing 
 to start capturing the resource point unless you tell them to. It sort of makes the game play like 
 a Company of Idiots, or CoI.
  
  Then there's the game speed. The game claims to be a real-time strategy game, but this isn't real 
 time at all: it's arcade time. A real soldier doesn't sprint 200 meters in 20 seconds as they seem 
 to do in this game.
  
  And then there's the line of sight issue. All units, including tanks, have artificially shortened 
 line of sight, so even a German Panzer tank, for example, can only see a very short distance, like 
 maybe 25 meters or so.
  
  Those of you looking for an arcade game using WWII icons might love this game, but if you're looking 
 for a quality WWII squad-level simulator, CoH doesn't stand up to the classic Close Combat games, 
 which are far more intelligent and realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  I was really in the mood for an exciting, fun WWII RTS for the past few months. I watched Saving 
 Private Ryan and a couple other moveis that sparked my interest, and so I went out and bought a 
 few WWII games.
  
  They were alright, but didn't really satisfy me in the way I'd hoped. Company of Heroes did that, 
 however. Not only is the game satisfying my WWII intereste, but it's really bringing some great 
 new RTS features to the genre. Fully destructable environments have been done before, but never 
 before like this, in such as way that can be used in strategy.
  
  I've played a lot of games with excellent graphics, but not like this. The graphics are not really 
 a whole lot better than most top games, it's the way in which the graphics pull you right down 
 into the action. I suppose not only the graphics do this, the sound in the game is excellent as 
 well. Overall, the game takes you from the outside generals chair and smacks you right down onto 
 the battlefield with the boys .
  
  The action is fast, and I barely have time to micro-manage. I admit I like to do this, and sometimes 
 get frustrated in games that move to fast preventing me from micro-managing. In CoH, I've forgotton 
 all about this and go with the flow of the action. There are so many different ways to accomplish 
 missions, you can be creative or take the preferred path. This freedom of play is acting as a substitute 
 for my anal retentive micro-managing, and its a welcome change.
  
  Some of the interface choices that were made are a little odd. I am finding it a little more difficult 
 than normal to keep track of squads, and I still have not figured out how to combine squads and 
 separate them. The typical CTRL and SHIFT doesnt seem to work as it ususally does in RTS games 
 for CoH.
  
  The game can get a little difficult for me, nothing that will put much of a damper on my enjoyment, 
 though. It is so much fun to play, and so many different things to try, I don't mind replaying 
 missions until I get it right. Plus there are badges and little extras that add to the fun of replaying.
 
  
  The storyline is helpful along with excellent cutscenes. The missions are diverse. There are just 
 the right amount of units to manage, and they each have distinct roles. I really like how tanks 
 are now the force they deserve to be in a WWII RTS. Gone of the days of infantry shooting and destroying 
 a tank with their small arms. Now only a precisely aimed shot from an anti-tank weapon to a weak 
 spot in its armor will destroy these metal beasts. When armor can be heard rumbling towards your 
 troops, a certain dread come over you, and you've got to think and act quick.
  
  I can go on about the excellent gameplay and presentation of the game, but it's best to just sum 
 up and say that this RTS is one that is far superior, a pleasure to play, largely historically 
 accurate, and as polished as I've seen a PC can be. My new favorite RTS game, I'll be playing this 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Company of heroes is an historic RTS game from THQ and relic, The game is just B-E-A-UTIFUL with 
 the amazing non tiring and just great gameplay. The graphics are just unbelievably amazing and offers 
 more than any RTS fan could ask for, The game is flawless on every basis. The game story is based 
 on world war II events that occured and depicts the carnage better than any other game i have seen 
 that has a world war II story (except call of duty) . In the game you lead a squad of people to 
 fight and conquer areas this just seems to work in the game. Overall the game is flawless and should 
 be a must by for and RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  CoH looks alot like the former Warhammer Games ( same developer) , with a WW2 Theme, which is even 
 better imo.
  
  Graphics : The Graphics in CoH looks amazing on high, the detail level of units is just amazing 
 and so realistic, if you zoom in you'd think it was a FPS shooter and you were looking at your 
 men from that view, bullets, rockets, Explosions, and all that have remarkable detail and is very 
 very well done, if you take position in a building, you see your men taking cover in the windows, 
 popping their head out and shooting then taking cover again. When a building gets a grenade in 
 its side for example it leaves a hole and if a soldier was near that blast he is most likely blown 
 out of there. Soldiers have Ragdoll physics so they get thrown around different directions depending 
 on explosions and such. Also the battlefield doesnt recover from bomb craters or building destructions, 
 which is very cool.
  
  AI : The AI of all units is Superb, they wont do stupid actions which get them killed, they will 
 hide as well as possible, and throw down if they get too much fire on them and get pinned down 
 so they cant move until you back them up with supressing fire or something. Can honestly say its 
 the best AI in a RTS game ive seen so far. Sound : The Sound of CoH is also a big factor, all sounds 
 fit very well and are top notch, if you zoom into the battlefield near your troops shooting the 
 sound is enhanced even more and sounds Perfect. Troops also sound very cool, they taunt the Axis 
 from time to time, soldiers sounded very real, they swear ,yell, and whisper, depending on their 
 surroundings.,
  
  Gameplay : The Gameplay is great, lots of upgrades for each individual squad for new weapons, grenades, sticky 
 bombs which makes them so much more vital to your army, not like many other games soldiers are 
 just to distract fire away from the heavier units. There is also points you get for killing and 
 progressing in the field, which you can spend on reinforcements, artillerty fire, better units, 
 faster deployment, and so on...
  there are 3 different Trees ( (where you spend points) ) you can choose from in Skirmish mode, The 
 Defensive one, where you get better at the defense obviously, and the Airborne one, where you can 
 send surprise attacks around on the map, and the Armored one, which you get better armored units.
 
  
  Story : The War Stories have been repeatedly used in many war games, but we're still not tired 
 of it, very good story and some fine cut scenes.
  
  Content : Bit few Skirmish maps, i assume you can download new ones in the future maybe... also 
 only 2 playable teams but thats okay..
  
  Conclusion : I loved this game, Perfect mix of things to do with cutting edge Graphics and cool 
 units to command. Its now officially on my top 10 favorite RTS and game ever, i Recommend this 
 to anyone who likes Strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reckert
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 15, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Similar to Warhammer-Dawn of War mechanics but in a realistic way, nice break from the future theme 
 of DoW. Normally I play FPS games, like Doom 3, Quake 4, Unreal Tournament, and RPG's like Dungeon 
 Siege, Neverwinter Nights, all three episodes...... However this is a nice break from those genre's, 
 for a quik 30 minute Skirmish game or a few episodes of the single player game it's enjoyable placing 
 troops in a strategic way on the battlefield to watch everything unfold. I normally dont play RTS 
 games due to the monotonous resource gathering ploys, this game focuses on the combat! (Instant 
 Action) Every time I finish a game I want to go rent a good war movie from Blockbuster or something, 
 cuz the game keeps you entertained all the way to the end of the scenario, as if you were watching 
 an awsome epic war movie. Download the demo and give it a try and you will see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erik_K
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 15, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  Pros: Deep tactical gameplay, amazing graphics, stunning sound, quality first party online matchmaking 
 service, amazing single player campaign compared to most RTS games, online is immensely fun.
  
  Cons: Needs a moderately powerful PC to run well, vehicle pathing is horrific.
  
  First 
 of all, this game is not your average RTS game. I got into this game in the beta expecting a moderately 
 similar RTS to other games in the genre. I was wrong. The first thing that stuck out at me while 
 playing Company of Heroes is the slower paced buildup of units and preciousness of them as opposed 
 to other game such as Starcraft where if you lose a battle you can just shrug it off and pump out 
 more units. Every unit (and battle) in Company of Heroes feels precious and losing them hurts in 
 a competitive game. This feature turned me off slightly at first glance, but it quickly became 
 apparent to me that this forces you to conserve troops and play tactical and smart in a skirmish 
 match, more so than most other real time strategy games I have played. Fear not, the population 
 cap is not small but the buildup is slower than usual, and that is a good thing.
  
  Each map is divided up into many different sectors of fuel, manpower and ammunition. In addition 
 there are victory points that work just like tickets in games such as the battlefield series where 
 having more points than the your opponent slowly lowers their points until they reach zero. This 
 makes aquiring certain territory extremely important to the outcome of the game and prevents trying 
 to just stomp the enemies base that is the goal in many previous RTS games.
  
  The units and their associated abilities add a wealth of depth in gameplay and fixes problems from 
 passed strategy games. For instance, the fire from an MG42 machine gun will send troops jumping 
 onto their stomachs desperately trying to avoid the fire, effectively stopping brainless mass unit 
 tactics that have become prevalent in some RTS games from the past. This also effectively stops 
 the dreaded base rush that has been seen in older RTS games as each base is equipped with bunkers 
 and machine gun nests to prevent these early mindless rushes. This game rewards a combined arms 
 mentality, using all of your units together for the best results.
  
  Range also plays a key role in battles believe it or not. Units are more or less accurate at different 
 ranges aswell as tanks having more penetrating power at close range. For instance, the Volksgrenadier 
 Squad's Karabiner 98k rifle is more effective at longer ranges, whereas the M1 Garand of the allied 
 infantry is a more effective mid-range weapon, making range and positioning a key factor in a battles 
 outcome.
  
  Company of Heroes' Environmental Gameplay is no gimmick. Utilizing the terrain is vital to winning 
 battles. Every single object in the environment can be used as cover for troops and they all give 
 varying degrees of cover. Also every piece of the environment in the game is destructible to boot, 
 are those enemy rangers blasting your tanks giving you trouble? Well take that tank and pulverize 
 their cover to make life easier, possibly crushing a few in your tank tracks too! Furthermore any 
 building can be garissoned to provide great cover for troops (but watch out for grenades) . Also 
 to note, elevation is important to accuracy aswell, firing down at the enemy from a hill usually 
 yields better results than shooting up one.
  
  Tanks are handled quite well in this game. Locational damage really makes the fighting interesting, 
 scoring a rear shot to armor, as well as side shots, deals much more damage than hitting the dense 
 front armor. The best way to take on tanks is with everything at your disposal, mines, AT personel, 
 other armor and strategies such as flanking. No one way is very effective on its own. Tank pathing 
 in this game is very bad, you need to order them individually as if you order more than one to 
 go somewhere they will likely collide and can get stuck without your help.
  
  Defensive structures add even more strategy to this already strategy loaded game. Barbed wire, 
 machine gun nests, tank traps, mines are great strategic tools and add to the options for tackling 
 certain situations and never feel useless, although static.
  
  The single player campaign for Company of Heroes is truly a treat. The ingame cinematics are great 
 and full of character and keep you wanting to see more. The gameplay is also superb, the missions 
 rarely feel dull and keep interesting and fun the whole way through.
  
  Multiplayer has a great, clean interface, loaded with a ton of useful features for checking the 
 leader boards, to arranging games with friends. Rarely have I experienced any lag online in my 
 experience.
  
  I personally have no issues with only having two sides to play on as they are both well balanced 
 and have their own strengths and weaknesses. How many sides the game has does not seem quite as 
 important because the game is so flexible in how you choose to play that each game just plays much 
 more differently than the last and peoples strategies are so different.
  
  Overall Company of Heroes is an absolutely amazing and innovative experience that should not be 
 missed. The incredible amount of variables in a match makes a very unique and cerebral experience 
 in every game and gives you a ton of creative ways to take on any situation and achieve victory. 
 It is easy to get into and very hard to master and most importantly, just plain fun. The more you 
 play it, the more you will appreciate what an amazing game it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaksauce92
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  If your on the fence of getting that top of the line video card, this game will slap you in the 
 mouth to how stupid it was to think any other way. This game blows away all RTS games, the concept 
 is genious, cover system and group tactics rock. Dawn of War almost had this, but fell short. CoH 
 brings everything you would have wanted in a beautiful WWII setting. If you can enjoy this game 
 with settings tapped out, I'm sure that you won't be going to any other RTS for a very long time. 
 I need some more words to fill the 100 word requirement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2reddy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  The guys at Relic &amp; THQ did a great job again. This game comes from the creators of Dawn of 
 War.
  
  Company of Heroes is a WWII RTS, in which you control American forces. Like DOW, your units are 
 in squads and you can upgrade the manpower and the weapons of that squad. The game starts with 
 a classical Omaha Beach invasion and continues with airborne operations, which took place before 
 the D-Day. Omaha Beach mission is good, but airborne mission is fun, especially the ambushing the 
 German convoy part. Just like DOW, there are strategic points and when you capture them, you start 
 to get resoruces to upgrade your forces. If you liked the DOW, you'll surely like this. This game 
 is a brand new WWII RTS, which is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StraiN-ShifTeD
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure at one point everyone has played a Real-Time Strategy game and hoped that Company of Heroes 
 had a feature that other games have. Company of Heroes has finally fulfilled those people their 
 wish. Like in the CnC games, if you had a unit that performed well by making several kills it would 
 gain a promotion or rank up. Making the unit stronger, faster and more deadly from it's standard. 
 Company of Heroes does this as well in an even better way then the CnC games did. Not making them 
 into super soldiers but enough to really have an impact on the battlefield and changing the way 
 the battle turns out. For every unit you kill you receive experience points. Once you get enough 
 experience points you are issued 1 command point. You can then use this point to look at a list 
 to work towards upgrading, calling in reinforcements or to increase the efficiency for your army. 
 The more you destroy the enemy, the more options you get. The more options you get, how more intense 
 the fights become. In any other Real-Time Strategy game its very basic when it comes to vehicle 
 fights. Majority of the time its pretty cut and dry. Whoever has the stronger unit wins the battle 
 but Company of Heroes takes it to another level. Just like in real time tanks have their weak points. 
 If you can manage to get behind a vehicle unit and fire on it at its weak points, you have a decent 
 chance of taking it out before it kills you or even damages you. There is also a damage system 
 when it comes to vehicle fights. If your tank takes enough of a beating and is still operational, 
 the chances of something bad happening will increase. This includes damaged motor which means you 
 can no longer move and destroyed weapons. Not to fear though you have units in game that can repair 
 if this happens.
  
  [u] It can be frustrating to lay saturated fire on an enemy and still watch them mosey on through 
 and have them take you out! In Company of Heroes its much different. If you can manage enough firepower 
 on a ground infantry unit, it will force them to go prone and immobilize them known as pinning 
 them down. When a unit is pinned down, they can not return fire and have the option to retreat. 
 In most cases, this gives enough time for the force to move in for the kill while the enemy is 
 trying to stay alive.
  
  [u] Unlike any other Real-Time Strategy game release yet this game feels rarely unique. The superior 
 graphics and sound effects combined with the above mentioned features makes this game a must! I 
 didn't even mention the gameplay since this game has too much to offer Real-Time Strategy freaks.
 
  
  ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dietcola
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 14, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This is what RTS is about. Sure, we're all sick to death of Axis and Allies themed games, but the 
 RTS gameplay makes up for the skins. Maps are great, in depth, visceral offerings with true strategic 
 advantages/disadvantages. The tech tree is there, but not too imposing, resource gathering is streamlined 
 to allow you to focus on the action. AI is pretty good and there is a good deal of content in the 
 Single player campaigns. I started with Starcraft, I've played Rise of Nations, Battle for Middle 
 Earth 2, Warcraft 3, you name it in the RTS genre and this is hands down the best game. My only 
 gripe? It's an awful lot like the Warhammer Games in terms of repetive dialogue that you just want 
 to turn off. Go buy this game. Now. Seriously, go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando8535
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I thought to myself, god not another WW2 FPS; A friend of mine bugged 
 the crap out of me to download the demo which I complied and from the first LAN game I played I 
 instantly fell in love with the game.
  
  Company of Heroes is about Two Companies (One Airborne, designated Fox Company and one Infantry/Armour 
 designated Able Company) . You ride along as both companies drive there way from the bloody sands 
 of Omaha to the Streets of Cherbourg as they try to liberate France from Nazi occupation.
  
  The game play of CoH will immerse you as a battlefield commander in some of history's darkest 
 moments, from the first tutorial to the first mission commanding troops and tanks will be hard 
 but not impossible. Like any other Strategy games CoH is limited to a number of Allied and Axis 
 Units from Infantry to Tanks, each unit has it's weaknesses and strengths, from a player of strategy 
 games point of view CoH is for the most part balanced, although taking liberties in real life each 
 Axis unit has a Allied counter part and so on. Tigers and Panthers can take on Pershings while 
 AT guns can take on everything. Infantry units are a different story, Axis units are better armed 
 and have a higher skill level than there American counter parts but what lacks in training is made 
 up with numbers, although Allied units are under armed they certainly have the numbers to balance 
 the fight. When you begin each MP or Skirmish game your allowed to choose from one of the three 
 Company Commanders skills ranging from Airborne to Blitzkrieg like tactics each skill has there 
 own strengths and weaknesses take for example the Allied Armour choice, It is EXTREMELY slow to 
 power up but once you unlock certain trades your glad that you waited that long. Graphically wise 
 the game is spectacular, using the Essence engine the game brings out outstanding rag doll and 
 quality. In this game you can destroy or blow up anything or anyone. Enough said
  
  Sound wise the game brings out audio quality that I have yet to see in any game, you can almost 
 feel the ground tremble when a Panther or Pershing is on the battlefield, feel every Machine gun 
 burst or every scream, every explosion etc.
  
  Like all games CoH has its number of flaws, sometimes Infantry units that won't exactly take cover 
 behind say a wall, instead once in a fight they have a tendency to move in front of the wall and 
 into the Line of Fire. Tanks for some odd reason have a tendency to charge there opponents, some 
 units may take a longer time in seeking cover wounded bodies seem to disappear. Other than the 
 above problems the game proves to be the best I have ever played
  
  This is the best game I have ever played. It was worth the wait, anybody who is a fan of WW2 or 
 Strategy this game is a must have. Although it isn't Historically Accurate (I'm a realism whore) 
 I find that the outstanding game play far outweighs the Accuracy of the events. Until next time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keldon123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I first played the demo through PC Gamer. It was the best!!! Relic did an amazing job just like 
 with Dawn of War. Learning how to play it was very simple, much like Relic's Dawn of War, and it 
 also had a lot of depth. It felt like I was playing Call of Duty, except it was an RTS. I love 
 how realistic the environments were and how well the A. I. took advantage of them. The next day 
 I immediately pre-ordered my copy and started counting down the days till its release. When the 
 day finally came, I picked it up, and in a few minutes was at home installing it. Wow, did it take 
 long to install! After I installed it I set up my graphic preferences and started a skirmish game. 
 Let me tell you, this game requires way too much. I mean, I have 1.5 GB of ram, Windows XP SP2, 
 and a fairly decent video-card, but it still moved extremely slow. So I lowered everything to minimum 
 and started another match. Again it stilled moved slow! Granted it moved faster than before, but 
 the graphics were dramatically lower. It was so bad that way that the shadows of the buildings 
 and people were squared. I didn't pay $60 for graphics like that!!! I am one of those people that 
 are really picky when it comes to graphics, but I don't want something so good that you need such 
 an expensive computer to play it. But if I did have a super computer then it would definitely be 
 the greatest RTS out to date. For anyone with an awesome computer, buy this game, it is definitely 
 worth every penny!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  A very good RTS once again Relic does a amazing CoH is a very cinimatic game which litteraly makes 
 it come alive im loving this game i played it in the multiplayer beta test and the single player 
 campaign and im loving it the physiscs are great i have never played a RTS with rag doll physiscs 
 :P everything and i mean everything in game is destructible. if your reading this i highly suggest 
 CoH. Each side has 3 doctrins or strategies Allies have
  Airborn, Defensive and Armored Doctrins and Axis have Blitz, Propaganda, and Terror doctrins which 
 give the game alot of dept and well more then one way to play and misson the only one down side 
 is the steep system requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thescorpion1983
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is ismply amazing, plays very well, can get sometimes hard. Sometimes you think 
 you shouldn have done that and that unit but they all come usefull to the level. Gameplay with 
 the infantry makes me think of Brother in Arms with looks taken from the great WW2 movies and Band 
 of brothers. Not alot of base building, it is quite simple , its more of gaining terrain and pushing 
 back the ennemy with a wide variety of level ex: day, night, city, bridge, forst type of level 
 etc... The only thing i can say is your unit cap is 75, ranging from units that take 1-2 to tanks 
 that take 8, certain times you might find this dosent make a big army, but the way the game is 
 made i think would have been too hard to control having a bigger army.
  
  Graphics: Simply wow, previous games that we could zoom in was only to tilt the level or turn around 
 the camera, or even zoom a little. In this game you zoom until you see your soldiers faces. At 
 some point with the camera max zoomed , we can think we are playing Call of Duty or Medal of honor.!! 
 Great animations, voices, explosions. But graphics are also the downfall of the game, it takes 
 a powerfull machine to run it on max or to take advantage of the game. But of course you can play 
 with a couple of things turned down or off.
  
  Sound: Great sound, great voices, guns firing, artillery, tanks everything sounds great. You can 
 hear your tanks firing off screen as a small explosion. Alot of detials in the sound of units and 
 the surroundings.
  
  Value: To all fans of RTS, of Dawn of war, of WW2, its a great one. Difficulty is just right for 
 starters and for veterans of RTS. Each mission can be complete in alot of ways, depending on your 
 approach. After you can play the Skirmish mode and try out the Germans or play online from 1VS1 
 to 6VS6 if im not mistaken... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie785
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  it's a world war 2 era real time strategy game. and it's freakin awesome. graphics are very solid, 
 the sound in this game is AWESOME. but the game play is just killer. tons of fun. the interface 
 for the game is very standard and easy to use for anyone with any RTS experience.
  
  one very awesome feature of this game is a units ability to have/take cover. there are 2 levels 
 of cover, light cover (which gives your units a yellow shield icon) and heavy cover (which gives 
 your units a green shield icon) . things like fence lines, trees, or even just small ditches (possibly 
 made by explosions: the terrain can change, say from tank, mortar, or air strikes) will give u 
 light cover, things like brick walls or sandbags (which your units can make just about anywhere 
 + at any time for free) will give u heavy cover. taking advantage of, or creating your own cover 
 is key in this game.
  
  something similar to c+c generals: your units can go into building's and fire out the windows. 
 something really cool tho is, units have grenades + c4, but u have to manually select for them 
 to use them and where they should go. c4 is good for taking out buildings, tho a few grenades can 
 take out all the units in a building, without completely destroying it.
  
  grenades are good for taking out heavy machine gun points (often found behind some heavy cover) 
 machine gun points are also directional, they have a wide arc, but if u can catch them off guard, 
 u can flank them quick, run in with grenade, toss it, and run out before they get a chance to reposition 
 the turret to point at u. then they go boom and die.
  
  units: there is a lot of different units, but the key is to use them where they are needed most. 
 your standard group of combat units is made up of 6 men. most specialty units are 3 men. sometimes 
 there are guns on the ground, like mortars or machine guns, (which only use 3 men per unit) so 
 3 men can break off from your standard combat unit and now u have 2 units, both with three men. 
 the standard combat unit is now missing three men, but it restock men by either being by your HQ 
 (which is where u also build new units) or if your map has air support, anywhere in the map u can 
 fly in an extra man, one at a time, to get your unit back to full. there are also weapon upgrades 
 that u can buy for a unit (such as flamethrowers, or anti-tank guns) ect...
  
  tank warfare: this also has realistic strategy. if u and your opponent just face each other and 
 keep firing, it takes forever cause both tanks have tons of armor in the front, the key is to get 
 next to them, or even better, behind them and hit their engine. critical hits (from behind) disable 
 a tanks engine, immobilizing it. it can still move a little, but VERY slowly. engineer units can 
 repair tanks.
  
  resources: 3 resources in this game, and they are generated by holding a control point (which give 
 u control of a certain area of the map) . control points only generate one type of resource. they 
 are Manpower, Ammunition, and Fuel. Manpower is used for building new units, or when u resupply 
 men to existing units. things like weapon upgrades will cost ammunition, as will placing mines, 
 grenades, c4 + some buildings (think defensive structures) . vehicles and certain buildings cost 
 fuel.
  
  without a doubt, 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pidow
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game. This one of the best I have ever played. Being an ex-combat vet myself (Vietnam) , 
 Company of Heroes depicts WAR as it really is, brutal, bloody, and heartening. It show man at his 
 worse and at the same time displaying what men will do for his brother. Men live together and sometimes 
 will die together. COH depicts men determined not to let the Axis survive any engagement and to 
 drive them into extinction. The challenges of individual squads in the game was daunting or near 
 impossible. Being out numbered and most of the time on offence, squads had to do with limited resources 
 to accomplish goals ,in my view ,were qualifications for supermen, and not the every day joe. However, 
 it was the every day joe who performed the tasks and gave up their lives to insure that the objectives 
 placed before them were accomplished at any and all costs. COH, again depicts man's ability to 
 do the impossible, as small units , or part of the greater cause. Excellent Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Company of Heros is the breakthrough RTS game we have all been waiting for. If the extremely high 
 reviews (PC Gamer 96%, IGN 9.4 Gamespot 90 and so on) do not impressive you than take my word for 
 it. This is the best game to come out in years, let alone RTS. Why is this game so good? Let me 
 explain.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on this game are extremely astounding. The characters are extremely detailed, 
 the terrain is vivid and alive, and the explosions make me duck for coverok maybe I dont duck 
 for cover but you know what I mean. The games graphics set it aside from any other RTS game to 
 date, and its definitely this games high point. Not to mention the game has a TON of cut scenes 
 threw the campaign, and they are a joy to watch and add to the emotional experience.
  
  One of the most impressive things about this game is the terrain and what happens to it. When a 
 game is fresh, trees stand tall and buildings tower over the ground. At the end of the game trees 
 are toppled and buildings are desolated. Everything in the environment can be destroyed, thanks 
 to your clicking finger.
  
  Sound:
  Brilliant sounding fire fights, explosions make my house shake. Its extremely well polished and 
 crisp. The squads will cry, scream, yell, curse, encourage, and cheer. The sound is perfect in 
 this game.
  
  Computer AI: Computer AI has always been a low point in RTS games. The AI in Company of Heros 
 is so good, that I spent most of my games in skirmishes and not online. The computer feels very 
 smart but not to the point where its cheating. The AI flanks you, dodges grenades, and just overall 
 fun as hell to play against it.
  
  Multiplayer/Online: When I buy RTS games I buy them to play online. Most the time I dont even 
 play campaigns (but I made an exception for this game, because the campaign is so original and 
 fun) . So my biggest concern was whether the online play would be fun and lag free or laggy and 
 lame. Ive played 5 online games and experienced no lag at all. Online play is as smooth as playing 
 single player, and the online interface is clear and easy to navigate. Ive 100% pleased with everything 
 about the multiplayer. Its about time a game got it right!
  
  Well there you go, thats just a sample of the great things to expect in Company of Heros. There 
 are so many more things I could sit here and write about, but frankly I want to get back to the 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperPhi
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Company of heroes is exactly what the RTS genre needed! All new RTS to come, now have a new benchmark 
 due to COH .
  
  AI is the smartest on any game at any difficulty setting, either be it on the easier setting or 
 the hardest , the AI responds the same way by taking cover, counter attacking and flanking you.
 
  
  Graphics are amazing and the havoc physics engine (used in the MMO Auto Assault) works great. you 
 can zoom in very close and get Call of duty level Graphics! on an RTS! explosions are great as 
 well.
  
  Gameplay ... well what can I say is possibly the best RTS to date, although Iit would off been 
 better if the AI did rush you so soon in game., not too much time for base building, which brings 
 me to my main let down, NOT enough unit types! ,however, the units that are available are well 
 balanced.
  you cant play as axis as stated on GS review so that basically keeps this game from being perfect, 
 if you only play the single player the game is fairly short. (depending on your level RTS experience) 
 Multiplayer. you can host games or join existing ones, there is a friends list to track your online 
 buddies, and the performance is excellent. never had a problem.
  
  COH is the Command and Conquer replacement on my desktop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionreplay
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  When I first installed this game and played the tutorial, at first I was very disappointed in the 
 need to build barracks, shore up resources, etc. All I could think of was prior RTS games and the 
 constant need to chop wood or mine gold. I put that disappointment aside very quickly upon playing 
 the campaign. The game is very reminiscent of the older Close Combat series, which I adored. The 
 strategy is very much there even as an RTS. I sometimes feel ike RTSes can get laborious as it 
 boils down to who can create more units faster. But COH really allows you to "strategize" and conduct 
 flanking moves against enemy troops. The levels are also very long at times, truly wearing me out. 
 I like that. My brain hurts after a level or two.
  
  It can be a gaming PC nightmare, especially when I first tried the video settings at Ultra. It 
 crawled on my dual 7800GT machine. I went back and allowed the game to suggest my settings, which 
 is right on target. the game flows beautifully now.
  
  This game is terrfiic. Don't pass it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slidr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 14, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  When you first pick up the game it will take you some time to get used to the slow resources and 
 lack of units. You will find that a certain command tree will suit your style of gameplay and that 
 once you learn how to used these new found powers the game becomes an entire new level of fun. 
 It took me a couple of skirmish rounds before I caught on and found my command tree so now I cant 
 get enough of it. Definitely a game for people with a little patients and a willing to learn lol 
 but honestly it still stands as one of the best RTS games out there to date. Hooah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRGeist
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I am sure at one point everyone has played a real time strategy game and wished that this game 
 had a feature that another game has and vice versa. Company of Heroes has finally answered that 
 call. I will go over some of those features.
  
  Promotion or advance in rank : Just like in the Command and Conquer games, if you had a unit that 
 performed well and made several kills it would get a promotion. Making the unit stronger, faster 
 and more deadly. Company of Heroes does this as well. Not making them into super soldiers but enough 
 to really have an impact on the battlefield. Experience points : For every unit you kill you receive 
 experience points or abbreviated on the game XP. Once you get enough experience points you are 
 issued 1 command point. You can then use this point to look at a list to work towards upgrading, 
 calling in reinforcements or to increase the efficiency for your army. The more you destroy the 
 enemy, the more options you have to expand and win.
  
  Vehicle fights : This is one of my favorite things of Company of Heroes. In any other RTS game 
 its very basic when it comes to vehicle fights. Majority of the time its pretty cut and dry. Whoever 
 has the stronger unit wins the battle but Company of Heroes takes it to another level.
  
  Just like in real time tanks have their weak points. So if you see that tiger tank coming at you 
 with your proud sherman, dont throw the towel in just yet. If you can manage to get behind a vehicle 
 unit and fire on it at its weak points, you have a decent chance of taking it out before it kills 
 you.
  
  There is also a damage system when it comes to vehicle fights. If your tank takes enough of a beating 
 and is still operational, the chances of something bad happening will increase. This includes damaged 
 motor which means you can no longer move and destroyed weapons. Not to fear though you have units 
 in game that can repair if this happens.
  
  Pinned down enemy's : It can be frustrating to lay saturated fire on an enemy and still watch them 
 mosey on through and have them take you out! In CoH its much different. If you can manage enough 
 firepower on a ground infantry unit, it will force them to go prone and immobilize them known as 
 pinning them down. When a unit is pinned down, they can not return fire and have the option to 
 retreat. In most cases, this gives enough time for the force to move in for the kill while the 
 enemy is trying to stay alive.
  
  There is much much more I will add but dont have time right at the moment. I will add to this later 
 and show what else makes this RTS in my opinion the best since starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSUFooF
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of RTS games and Relic has topped them all next to the original "perfectly balanced" 
 Starcraft. This is THE direction RTS games will be going in. You have to play it to believe it. 
 Try the Demo out and you'll see what you're getting into. The level of detail and destruction is 
 simply hard to put into words.
  
  Graphics: Bar none, the best RTS out there.
  Gameplay: Pure TACTICS which is so cool.
  Longevity: Should be around awhile
  Multiplayer: 
 Hardcore to Casual gamers will love it (played the Beta)
  Overall: Near-perfect minus some more options in multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Dukes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Listen and listen good... ive played a number of RTS's in my day and this is hands down the most 
 action packed, best looking, most strategic, and best sounding game ive ever played. i noticed 
 gamespot gave this game a 9.0, which is good, however we all know they expect so much from games... i 
 dont know how relic and thq could have got this game any better... sure it would have been nice 
 to throw the red army in the game, but hey, they did such a good job with this its just incredable. 
 The balancing between the two factions is awesome! there arent that many types of units... however 
 there are many ways to upgrade your units to make them more effective in there own ways... i think 
 the game is as realistic as possible while keeping action and replayablity in mind! Great job relic/thq! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixPrime
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  A very good RTS once again Relic does a amazing CoH is a very cinimatic game which litteraly makes 
 it come alive im loving this game i played it in the multiplayer beta test and the single player 
 campaign and im loving it the physiscs are great i have never played a RTS with rag doll physiscs 
 :P everything and i mean everything in game is destructible. if your reading this i highly suggest 
 CoH. Each side has 3 doctrins or strategies Allies have
  Airborn, Defensive and Armored Doctrins and Axis have Blitz, Propaganda, and Terror doctrins which 
 give the game alot of dept and well more then one way to play and misson the only one down side 
 is the steep system requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hegemonious
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The reason I even downloaded this game is because is was made by the makers of Warhammer 40,000. 
 If you are a fan of the RTS genre go buy Company of Heros! Graphics & sound effects are incredible, 
 the interface is predictable and doesn't get in the way of the action. Only problem with game is 
 only two factions and no Navy. If it could of included Japan, Russia, France & England.... Maybe 
 they are saving them for the expansion pack.
  
  Come on Blizzard, I know you are making tons of money on WOW but it's time to answer, GREAT JOB 
 RELIC & THQ!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 15, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Company of Heroes, the newest RTS from Relic the makers of another amazing RTS Warhammer 40,000 
 Dawn of War, is easily the best RTS to come out in years, and the best WWII RTS ever.
  
  The game concept is pretty simple, as you'd expect. You have the Allies and the Axis fighting it 
 out on maps to control territory. But, what the game does so well is combining amazingly immersive 
 visuals and physics with equally amazing gameplay.
  
  Gameplay on the surface sems to be traditional RTS fare. You build a base, build units and attack 
 the enemy. But, it's a little deeper than that. Units can take cover behind various obsticals, 
 like ruined vehicles, haystacks, sandbags etc, each of which provies a certain amount of cover. 
 Doing this effectively with your squads is necessary to ensure they live long enough to accomplish 
 the mission. You can garrison inside buildings, set up forward barracks', and use special abilities 
 you get from whatever commander you chose to use for the battle (Allies get Airborne, Armor and 
 Infantry, and the Axis get Terror, Blitzkrieg and Defensive) .
  
  The graphics are some of the best I've ever seen. Everything responds to realistic physics. Blow 
 up tank and it explodes somewhat realistically and extremely impressively. The particle effects 
 are very good, it's always fun to see artillery shells blast craters in the ground and see dirt 
 fly everywhere.
  There is so much more to the game, but it would take forever to type up. You can check out the 
 review here on GS for that. But, I can assure you that the game is simply amazing on almost all 
 levels. The depth of strategy is impressive, and will take a long time to master. There are a few 
 balance issues right now, as there always is with new RTS games. But that should be fixed over 
 time
  
  Simply breathtaking!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsm164
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 13, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I really really do hate RTS games. I find them very boring and don't like "watching 
 the fighting." Company of Hereos is definitley breaks the mold. I love the smooth transicion from 
 cut scenes to gameplay, the graphics are top notch, and from what I've seen so far the historical 
 accuracy is second to none with the way the troop movement is and the abilities, or lake of abilities 
 of the units, engineers, and heavy weapons. It is worth every penny, I see several late nights 
 defeating the Krauts. My only complaint is I'd like a game that actually lets you play as the Germans. 
 I realize that its not politically correct but, for historical purposes it would be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slunk32
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 15, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Company of Heros is the breakthrough RTS game we have all been waiting for. If the extremely high 
 reviews (PC Gamer 96%, IGN 9.4 Gamespot 90 and so on) do not impress you than take my word for 
 it. This is the best game to come out in years, let alone RTS. Why is this game so good? Let me 
 explain.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on this game are extremely astounding. The characters are greatly detailed, 
 the terrain is vivid and alive, and the explosions make me duck for coverok maybe I dont duck 
 for cover but you know what I mean. The games graphics set it aside from any other RTS game to 
 date, and its definitely this games high point. Not to mention the game has a TON of cut scenes 
 through the campaign, and they are a joy to watch and add to the emotional experience.
  
  One of the most impressive things about this game is the terrain and what happens to it. When a 
 game is fresh, trees stand tall and buildings tower over the ground. At the end of the game trees 
 are toppled and buildings are desolated. Everything in the environment can be destroyed, thanks 
 to your clicking finger.
  
  Sound:
  Brilliant sounding fire fights, explosions make my house shake. Its extremely well polished and 
 crisp. The squads will cry, scream, yell, curse, encourage, and cheer. The sound is perfect in 
 this game.
  
  Computer AI: Computer AI has always been a low point in RTS games. The AI in Company of Heros 
 is so good, that I spent most of my games in skirmishes and not online. The computer feels very 
 smart but not to the point where its cheating. The AI flanks you, dodges grenades, and just overall 
 fun as hell to play against.
  
  Multiplayer/Online: When I buy RTS games I buy them to play online. Most the time I dont even 
 play campaigns (but I made an exception for this game, because the campaign is so original and 
 fun) . So my biggest concern was whether the online play would be fun and lag free or laggy and 
 lame. Ive played 5 online games and experienced no lag at all. Online play is as smooth as playing 
 single player, and the online interface is clear and easy to navigate. Ive 100% pleased with everything 
 about the multiplayer. Its about time a game got it right!
  
  Well there you go, thats just a sample of the great things to expect in Company of Heros. There 
 are so many more things I could sit here and write about, but frankly I want to get back to the 
 game!
  
  Cheers -Slunk 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
