-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Condemned: Criminal Origins
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/condemned/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Ferocious first-person hand-to-hand combat looks completely insane.
 Compelling premise puts you on the trail of a deranged serial killer.
 Morbidly unsettling atmosphere (in a good way!).
 Excellent presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Boring level design makes you get lost in hallway after hallway.
 Not much depth or variety to the combat after the first few hours.
 Storyline teases more than it delivers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 2,235 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Apr 11, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This first-person action game hits you like a sledgehammer with its astounding, stunningly creepy 
 presentation, but it sacrifices opportunities for more shocks and surprises by settling for repetition. 
 

  Raw, savage beatings are the order of the day in Condemned: Criminal Origins, an original first-person 
 action game from the makers of F. E. A. R. The game was originally released for the Xbox 360, but 
 has now been faithfully adapted to the PC. You play as an investigator who's struggling to keep 
 his own sanity while tailing a serial killer and facing off against what seems like an army of 
 depraved sociopaths. Condemned's impressive graphics and bone-crushing hand-to-hand combat sequences 
 make for a visceral, highly atmospheric experience that's quite unlike anything you've ever played 
 before. But as great as that may sound, Condemned is something of a one-trick pony, whose monotonous 
 gameplay doesn't quite live up to the quality of the presentation and underlying concept. Don't 
 you dare let that stop you from taking the plunge if the concept intrigues you, though.  

          The next time you think you're having a bad day, just think of agent Ethan Thomas here. 
     

  If you're familiar with the Xbox 360 version of the game, you'll find a virtually identical game 
 in Condemned for the PC. There are some very slight cosmetic differences in a couple of spots (you're 
 no longer finding Xbox 360s hidden away, and there's a different effect when you die) , the default 
 mouse-and-keyboard controls work just fine, and this version is less expensive. Other than that, 
 this is the same fairly brief-but-engaging single-player action game as what Xbox 360 owners got 
 in late 2005.  

  Condemned is about FBI agent Ethan Thomas, a sullen man who's part of the Serial Crimes Unit, so 
 it's little wonder he isn't more cheerful. The game begins with agent Thomas on a routine assignment: 
 Someone's been brutally murdered in a bad part of town, and he's there with the police to figure 
 out what happened and to clean up any remaining mess. Without spoiling anything, let's just say 
 that things don't quite go according to plan. Thomas winds up implicated in some serious crimes, 
 but not before he has a run-in with some sort of a madman who spares his life -- just barely. But 
 why? Bent on finding the truth, his assailant, and his missing pistol, Thomas goes off on his own, 
 with nothing but a cell phone, a Taser-style stun gun, and his forensic tools to aid him. The only 
 other person he can depend on, save himself, seems to be a colleague of his who's willing to stay 
 in touch by phone, helping Thomas to analyze evidence so he can slowly connect the dots that lead 
 to some disturbing discoveries. The dark, engrossing story of Condemned starts out strong and has 
 its moments along the way, but unfortunately, it doesn't take center stage during what's mostly 
 a straight-up action game with an intriguing premise. As Thomas begins to question his own sanity 
 when faced with unbelievable evidence, the narrative purposely takes some incoherent turns, causing 
 you to wonder if there's any hope of a satisfying resolution.  

  It's too bad the story hadn't been more developed. As it stands, answers to some of the most important 
 questions raised by the game (for example, what the hell is wrong with everybody?) are relegated 
 to loading screens in between chapters rather than to contextual exposition. So instead, what Condemned 
 boils down to is cautiously exploring dark, dilapidated buildings -- they're condemned, get it? -- while 
 confronting and ruthlessly beating down violent thugs bent on smashing your face in. Except it's 
 not quite as great as that makes it sound, because the dark, dilapidated buildings and, somehow, 
 even the ruthless beatings start to get old some time before the eight or nine hours it takes to 
 finish the game. And optionally collecting bird carcasses and metal pieces hidden throughout each 
 level (don't ask) doesn't add much intrigue. You'll keep waiting for Condemned to throw you a major 
 curveball, since it feels like that sort of game. And it sure comes close, but it never quite goes 
 beyond a threat, merely teasing you with potential while inundating you with repetition.  

  Condemned is kind of like a first-person shooter, except instead of shooting, there's mostly just 
 a lot of pure, bloody brawling. For some strange reason, there's no real bare-handed combat, but 
 improvised weapons are everywhere. You've got everything from metal pipes to nail-covered two-by-fours 
 to fire axes to sledgehammers to signposts. Each weapon is rated differently for speed, range, 
 power, and defense, though the differences can be pretty subtle. So it'll often come down to a 
 subjective choice: How does that metal conduit strike you? How about that nice concrete-crusted 
 rebar over there? Take your pick and hang on to it, because you can only carry one weapon at a 
 time.  

          Words won't adequately prepare you for how awesome the fighting looks in this game.    

  You'll get the impression that the vast majority of effort that went into this game was invested 
 in the interaction between you and your deranged enemies. There's some striking artificial intelligence 
 at work, combined with some amazingly frightening lifelike animations that will make you wince 
 as if in pain or in anticipation of it. Your foes cannot be reasoned with, as they're lunatics 
 with a thirst for blood who'll rush out at you from the shadows, flailing anything they can get 
 their hands on while trying to kill you. They'll scream obscenities and smash things in freakish 
 anger. They'll lie in ambush, and they'll gladly hurt one another -- as well as you -- just as long 
 as somebody gets hurt. And they won't just stand there and take it as you lash out at them with 
 weapons of your own. As they recoil in pain from your attacks, they'll lurch forward for their 
 next strikes, as if guided by momentum and adrenaline. The best thing to be said about Condemned 
 is that it captures hand-to-hand combat with intense, lifelike brutality like no other game before 
 it.     

  The problem with Condemned is that it can be safely described in generalities, since there aren't 
 enough specific moments that stick out. The nerve-racking, unpredictable behavior of your enemies 
 will have you on your toes, holding your breath for several hours. But eventually, the bad guys 
 seem to run out of new tricks. Similarly, you have a few tricks of your own: The right mouse button 
 makes you block, while the left button makes you attack. There's no combo system, so agent Thomas 
 is mostly limited to slow, powerful strikes. Meanwhile, enemies' attacks can be very damaging (as 
 well they should be, judging by how painful they look) , so you'll find it's foolish to slug it 
 out with them. Instead, you'll find yourself stepping in for the strike when your opponent leaves 
 himself open, and you'll find yourself stepping back or blocking when he attacks. At least blocking 
 is an active process, meaning you need to time your blocks to deflect the enemy's attack -- but watch 
 out, since he'll sometimes throw fake swings at you. That's pretty much what the action boils down 
 to. Sometimes enemies will be staggered to their knees, near death, at which point you may execute 
 some sort of finishing move just by pressing one of four number keys. These moves look great (especially 
 the head-butt and the knock-out punch) , but they're only for show, reinforcing that Condemned's 
 spectacular appearance is rather superficial.  

          As great as the combat seems at first, Condemned definitely could have used some more depth. 
     

  You've got that stun gun, and you can also kick those fools if you like. The stun gun feels pretty 
 overpowered, though it's necessary later on in the game when you're dealing with more than just 
 one or two enemies at a time. It's easy to aim, and it immobilizes the unfortunate target, giving 
 you a free shot as well as a chance to rip his weapon from his grip. After each use, the stun gun 
 automatically recharges its battery for your next shot. And, yes, there are some conventional firearms 
 in Condemned, but the gunplay isn't particularly satisfying, and it's quite scarce. The weapon 
 models for guns don't look nearly as realistic or detailed as the game's much broader assortment 
 of makeshift melee weapons. Any guns you find will never have more than a few rounds of ammunition 
 in them, so you'll need to make these shots count and then throw the weapon away in favor of something 
 a little more solid. Your enemies have no fear of guns (or seemingly anything) , and since all the 
 action takes place in very close quarters, the long-range advantage you'd expect from a pistol 
 or rifle is made nearly irrelevant.  

  Since it's going for chills and creepy atmosphere, Condemned doesn't just stoop to throwing enemies 
 at you around every corner. That's the good news. But the bad news is that this means you'll often 
 walk through long stretches of terribly dark, dreary corridors without much of anything happening. 
 The level design in Condemned is pretty disappointing overall, since it's chock-full of grimy, 
 depressing locales that definitely get the "grimy, depressing" part down pat but fail to come up 
 with much of interest for you to do or look at. Sometimes you need to find a fire axe or a sledgehammer 
 to bash through a locked door (inexplicably, only the fire axe breaks down wooden doors, as the 
 sledge is only for padlocks) . But these types of cases are just too common.  

  It all starts to blend together after a while, no thanks to the repetition of textures and lack 
 of any distinguishing reference points in most areas, as well as the thick darkness that permeates 
 most of the game. Unless you chicken out and crank up the brightness on your screen above where 
 you'd normally have it, you'll find that many sequences of Condemned are nearly pitch black, save 
 for your weak little flashlight's reassuring glow. All that said, it probably won't be long before 
 you find yourself wishing you had some kind of a map to help guide you through each area, since 
 you don't. It's fairly easy to get lost, disoriented, and then frustrated as you stumble around 
 looking for the one door you're supposed to open or the one little corner concealing the next hallway. 

          Besides braining crazy freaks, you'll get to sniff out hidden clues using some high-tech 
 gadgets.     

  Occasionally you get to stop to gather some forensic evidence, which helps break up the action 
 a little, though there's really not much to this process. Your "instincts," which come in the form 
 of an onscreen prompt, will indicate to you when you're supposed to ready one of your handy gadgets 
 instead of that club you've been cracking skulls with. For the most part, you can't use your forensic 
 tools unless a mission-critical objective is nearby. Once you've got your equipment on the ready 
 (you automatically bring out the right item for the job) , it's just a matter of slowly walking 
 around until you find what you're looking for. Certainly it's a cool effect, seeing trails of violence 
 materialize under a black light and so forth. These bits also tie in to the plot, so they're more 
 than welcomed, but there's just not much challenge involved since the game does almost all the 
 work. You end up feeling about as actively involved in the investigation as you would be just sitting 
 there soaking up an episode of  CSI . Luckily, some of the later evidence-gathering sequences are 
 more interesting since they take place in more-dangerous areas, so you might have to quickly swap 
 that digital camera for a two-by-four if you run into bad company.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (165 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: oblivionwolf142
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to waste your time hear. If you are frightened easily and cant stomach much blood 
 and guts then Condemned is not for you. If you are into that sort of thing than you may just enjoy 
 this game as much as I did. The graphics are amazing in this game; I swear it feels like you are 
 in a horror movie! It is realistic! The abundance of ammunition for weapons is very little if any 
 can be found at all. You mostly have to rely on melee weapons to survive. The story to this game 
 is very interesting and if you are smart you will be quick to catch on to what is really going 
 on in Metro city. All in all it will scare you and thrill you to the point where you may be felling 
 the affects of game play even after shutting the game off. Condemned is a must have for anyone 
 who likes investigative type horror games. Trust me this game will scare you, and amaze you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weedman1985
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  "Condemned is a horror first person shooter with an emphasis on melee combat".
  To tell the truth, when i first bought the game i had little faith in that title. "Another stapling 
 out of old themes with new titles" I thought. I guess i was wrong.
  
  Condemned offers a creepy, disturbing adventure that well earns the horror title. Sega has done 
 a great job at making the player feel constantly uncomfortable with dark environments and horrifying 
 scenes that will scare even the toughest and manly men out there. The thing that makes this game 
 surprisingly scary is the fact that the game takes place in a "normal" (In massive inverted commas) 
 city where for some unknown reason the crime rating has gone anomalously high, and its up to Ethan 
 Tomas ( an FBI agent ) to investigate a series of unusual murders. The plot twists and turns with 
 some of the more memorable plot developments in gaming history. The combination of forensic investigation 
 and the gritty environments, combined with melee combat that was implemented so realistically, 
 gives the full feeling of realism in contrast to the declining state of mind of Ethan Tomas, thus 
 increasing the feeling of horror to the point when I almost began to doubt my own sanity.
  
  Unlike most horror games these days, Condemned has everything a true horror game should have 
 - Atmosphere, subtlety and pacing. The mere anticipation of enemy's waiting around every corner 
 while slowly pacing down a poorly lighted corridor, or hearing running footsteps behind you, only 
 to turn around in fear to find that there was nothing there....
  The soundtrack was an eerie, at times metallic, and monotonous, that served to enhance the sensation 
 of fear.
  Its just a shame that the combat wasn't as thrilling as i anticipated.
  The emphasis on melee was indeed an interesting experiment, but the variety of attacks was unfortunately 
 slim. Nevertheless, the combat was solid and satisfying even though it lacked a bit of fine tuning. 
 Its a shame because this game could have been so much better. There is of course a problem that 
 the game is too short, and since it only has a single player mode, I couldn't help but feel a bit 
 unsatisfied.
  
  Overall though, this game is solid, fun, scary and it provides the much needed horror theme that 
 many games these days cannot fully grasp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Vicious and deeply satisfying melee combat; plenty of scares; it ends before the melee 
 combat gets old; clever level design.
  
  The Bad: It promises way more than it delivers in story and atmosphere; collecting items for achievements 
 is silly.
  
  Condemned is a third person action game that puts you in the shoes of a police officer investigating 
 a series of brutal murders. You start up the game being taken to a crime scene by one of your fellow 
 officers. It's in an abandoned building, in a damp and dark room, reeking of urine and decay. The 
 atmosphere is tense and the setting couldn't have been more sinister.
  
  Its worth to take your time and look around because these first 15 minutes are the best the game 
 will offer. It's here that you learn to interact with your forensic tools in search for clues leading 
 to the murder and its here that once the lights go out, you don't know what to expect. 
  
  That's not to say that the game will go downhill and eventually suck, it's just that those first 
 moments promises more than the game delivers. The first crime scene is gross and bone chilling 
 but it's the one and only capable of sending shivers down one's spine. The game also suggests some 
 sort of supernatural influence on the murders and in the city itself as the lowlife - scumbags, 
 good-for-nothing, street mugs - have suddenly gone berserk and started riots across town. Birds 
 are also dying from an unnatural brain disorder and their bodies can be seen anywhere in town. 
 So, it's up to you to uncover how are those events connected.
  
  It's a perfect start but the game doesn't deliver all it promises. The plot is not well developed 
 and even though you do follow the steps of someone trying to uncover the truth behind the incidents, 
 nothing is really explained. You follow the track of a killer through clues found by means of your 
 forensic tools, its a nice feature but it does nothing more than providing an excuse for you to 
 go from one place to another, killing the lowlife in your way.
  
  The main focus swifts quickly into a series of frantic, brutal, intense, and deeply satisfying 
 melee combats. Condemned allows the player to hold a single weapon. So you either carry your shotgun, 
 a pistol or a baseball bat. Firearms ammo is ridiculously limited and once you fire all the rounds, 
 you have to find another weapon. Melee weapons are plenty and throughout the several abandoned 
 (read scumbag infested) buildings and underground tunnels you explore, there are several options 
 for improvising a melee weapon - 4 kinds of pipes, wooden shafts, shovels, fire axes, wooden signs, 
 table legs, sledgehammers and all sorts of blunt weapons can be used, not to mention ripped from 
 walls or furniture. 
  
  Weapons have stats that can be compared to each other but you basically have the choice of a slow 
 but damage heavy weapon such as the sledgehammer or a lighter but less impacting weapon like a 
 wooden sign. Its more a matter of style than anything else. What makes the combat so special is 
 that the enemies will not just come to you and swing, they'll launch themselves at you, once they 
 block your attacks, they'll viciously swing their bodies or jump at you to fight back. The combat 
 animations create an atmosphere of an intense melee combat as the attacks will denote an uncontrolled 
 rage and fury. It's really neat.
  
  Aside from crushing skulls, melee weapons also serve as the main "keys" in the game. There are 
 doors and locks that can only be broken by using specific weapons. So, instead of looking for a 
 red or blue key/card to go past a door, one has to find a fire axe and tear it down, padlocks can 
 be broken with sledgehammers and so on. It's a nice feature that makes the whole game more real 
 and gritty.
  
  Even though the game has some really nice level design, it kept an odd feature from its XBOX heritage. 
 Throughout the game, there are metal plates and corpses of birds to be collected. For some odd 
 reason, achievements are rewarded at the end of each chapter. An odd and useless feature in the 
 PC.
  
  It's easy to recommend Condemned. Even though it did not live up to its full atmosphere and story 
 telling potential, it certainly delivered a memorable experience, with plenty of thrills and an 
 above average violent combat system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamui_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  Hands down Condemed is the scariest game i have ever played! Its what Doom 3 tried to be but couldn't. 
 It's a hybrid of CSI and Silent Hill. You play as a FBI agent hunting a serial killer to clear 
 your name, its a roller coaster of on the edge of your seat, nail biting fear. Its more of a first 
 person survival horror than its is a shooter. Guns appear in the game (and you're glad when they 
 do) but its moslty hand-to-hand combat. You grab pipes out of the wall, arms off of mannequins, 
 2X4s, and any thing to bludgeon the pyschos and killers after you. You feel utterly fragile in 
 the game, you're not a soldier with huge guns or anything like that. You're a regular guy stumbling 
 through an underworld of pyscho killers! Enemies will hide behind corners waiting to ambush you, 
 they can even fight amongst each other! Of which you will be most thankful for! You experience 
 flashbacks to the eyes of the killer giving you insight of how to examine a crime scene. You then 
 pull out your gadgets to take pictures and DNA samples, and send them to the lab. I love this game, 
 and i wish the sequel was available for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RYPER
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  The Horror game genre went through some serious changes, starting with F. E. A. R. bringing you closer 
 to the action using FPS gameplay. But Condemned: Criminal Origins brings it to the next level by 
 using excellent sound design and awesome graphics and special effects.
  
  The Good Stuff:
  
  *Some scary moments that make you ALT+F4 the game.
  *Collecting evidence 
 is a well-deserved break from killing and running away.
  *You get immersed in the game from the start.
  *First Person melee combat is freaking good, for 
 a few hours.
  
  The Bad Stuff:
  
  *First Person melee combat is freaking good, for a few hours.
  *Story is disappointing.
  *Bad 
 level design forces you to retrace your steps way too often.
  *Some sound quirks coming from the enemy. (screams suddenly interrupted and words mixed with screams) 
 
  *Does not rise to its full potential so you always expect more as you play. 
  
  So, if you are looking for a freaky and atmospheric experience and some crazy fights as well as 
 some police work/puzzles, Condemned: Criminal Origins is a game you should definitely play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabiocs
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Bueno este juego es uno de los mejores que jugue en mi vida, y ademas fue el que mas miedo me causo. 
 Su jugabilidad es algo demasiado intuitiva por la ayuda a veces, pero de todas formas a la hora 
 de disparar y pelear cara a cara con los personajes es muy entretenido, y siempre bajo una atmosfera 
 de terror y suspenso. Tiene una variedad muy grande de armas, si bien hay pocas escopetas, pistolas, 
 este fps se concentra mas en pelear cuerpo a cuerpo con palos, hachas, tuberias, y todo tipo de 
 objetos que el personaje a medida del juego los utiliza como arma para su defensa propia.
  Sus graficos son muy lindos, nada de otro mundo, pero estan acordes al juego y le dan ese toque 
 de misterio. 
  Supongo que con un home 5.1 ese juego debe ser mucho mas emocionante, pero asi y todo con auriculares 
 o un buen equipo 2.0/2.1 se puede sentir la tension de caminar por lugares sumamente oscuros y 
 personajes que te atacan en la oscuridad.
  Lo recomiendo a todos aquellos que busquen un juego que les haga saltar del susto (traten jugarlo 
 con luz apagada y volumen alto) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stalepretzels
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is so flippin' awesome: I could go on for pages describing the awesome-ness, 
 but I'm tired, so just believe me. If you like scary games, fun games, and just downright cool 
 games, GET CONDEMNED CRIMINAL ORIGINS! You will not be disappointed. The game is fun, scary, and 
 action packed. It also has an incredible story, which is something that is rare nowadays (with 
 the exception of Bioshock and few others) .
  
  The environments are pretty sweet too, and the villain, is so.... villainous!!! The weapons are awesome. 
 You get to bash zombie dudes with a DOOR. Then you get to tase them with a super taser... So awesome...
 
  
  
  My one and only complaint is that it is too short. All of the levels in Condemned are obviously 
 crafted with love, but there just aren't enough. That's it. That's all the badness I can squeeze 
 out of this Condemned.
  Play this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funktrane
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Masterful brutal street style combat tactics, fitting for the atomosphere it creates. The school 
 level is the most creepy, the abandoned department store ranks a close second. The tension of having 
 to chase down suspects, gather evidence to prove your innocence, and elude the FEDS, can become 
 overwhelming to the gamer, which is exactly what you want, to feel CONDEMNED! They even make your 
 partner disappear, and even get captured at one point, making it all the more frightening and nerve 
 bending to move forward to see what's next. Brainpower is needed along with the right weapon selection, 
 although you have a vast amount to choose from, some (such as a pipe) can be inappropiate against 
 a bigger foe with a machinegun! Choose carefully...... Also pay attention to vital clues that might 
 help in the investigation as to who the real serial killer is.. you will encounter quite a few 
 in your quest towards the truth. The end is very surprising!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  CSI meets Call of Cthulhu? not really this guy dont get dizzy and sick when killing anyone, and 
 maybe I could enjoy doing lots more of CSI rather than being hit in the back every time a pull 
 outer thing than my weapon.
  
  Call of cthulhu was a great game, it was stressful enough for me, but you can look your way around 
 even in the dark, but here every ten minutes in the game I really really have to get out and do 
 something else. I hate being in absolute darkness with a stick in my hand expecting something to 
 fall from the ceiling and hit me with an axe, and you just can watch a single light point in front 
 while being ganged by three guys NO WAY!
  
  If it wasn't for the save feature that let me save every minute every step I never finished the 
 game. It was also motivating to hear the nice acting dialog from Greg Grunberg also known as Matt 
 Parkman in Heroes, and also that hes also a police in Heroes (or he was) .
  
  I was a little lost with the history but it was great, maybe a couple of holes here and there but 
 still solid, maybe the holes could close in the sequel. I guess maybe some of this thing are likely 
 fixed there but guess I have to wait till it gets to the pc and maybe that aint gonna happen.
 
  
  So if you play games but don't get immersive into then you can play it no problem but if you really 
 feel like being there like me well take a deep breath or your gonna start swearing to the game 
 in every turn (like I did) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornbredx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I've played alot of games over the past 20 years. Everything from Pong to Mass Effect. Some games 
 stand out, some games define their genre, others let you down. I cant say this game outshines the 
 best adventure games I've played (such as longest journey, monkey Island series, or even Penumbra) 
 but it definitely has some unique ideas to impress upon you and helps beg the question "Is melee 
 only for fantasy games?" I've not played many games in general where they dont have a heavy reliance 
 on firearms unless its a fantasy game or some form of MMO. This game, if nothing else, was refreshing 
 in that while it has firearms they can only be used sparingly and only when you can find them (which 
 is honestly on normal anyway, often enough) . 
  
  Graphics: One of the best parts of the game. I like the graphics, and I'm sure there are those 
 that dont. Although there's always bound to be someone to disagree with anything and thats fine 
 but in this game I liked the graphics. I dont play for graphics, but its really cool when you play 
 a unique game such as this and find it has pretty graphics to boot. One thing (of a few) that I 
 agree with gamespot on this game was the fact that it didnt take very many liberties to push the 
 graphics engine even though it proved it could do so. Only a few times did they do such things 
 as sun light piercing the darkness outside and coming in through the windows, dust particles noticably 
 in the air, and other beautiful details a dank and dirty atmosphere can provide. Sadly they must 
 have felt it would have been contrived to rely on these things as I said they only did it a few 
 times and mainly you dont see to much artisitic lightning in this which was a small let down. I 
 did want to see more from it because I knew the engine could handle it (based on how great the 
 Enemies look) . The enemies look great however, and admittedly to me the last 2 maps you play on 
 are equally impressive. Although I think that may have a little to do with the fire involved which 
 gave it that beautiful dirty artistic look I was speaking of earlier. None the less the game is 
 pretty- it just didnt feel like they did enough to reach its full potential. The NPCs are very 
 well detailed (my favorite being the Fireman looking dudes, followed closely by the guys with all 
 kinds of misc bottles and such on them... its very awesome how detailed they were, must see to 
 believe type thing here) . Its an artisticly great looking game that could've gone farther but its 
 still great where its at in my humble opinoin. The variety of enemies is also something to be mentioned 
 here.
  
  Sound: Just as good, if not close to better. Attacks feel powerful. I have a huge gripe i'll put 
 here (as it pertains highly to sound followed closely by texturing or something) . Why does every 
 wall you hit that is unbreakable sound like its made out of concrete? Even wooden doors, metal 
 gates, glass bullet proof windows, and ceramic panels all sound like concrete chipping when hit 
 if its not supposed to break. Why is that? That bugged me alot and on top of that it chips and 
 dust falls as if your hitting concrete. And if you hit a wood door (for instance) with a metal 
 locker door it makes an impressive sound of concrete (or possibly dirt) chipping and falling through 
 it. Good sound effect but... um... out of place. Thats my biggest gripe though with the sound. 
 I liked how bad guys grunted curses at you in combat as if they were in fits of rage or short of 
 breath (you swinging a weapon made equally brilliant noises as well) and to me anyway it wasnt 
 to much or over the top, and while not particularly varied you dont really get bothered by it. 
 The only shame is they didnt have more to banter at you but in turn one could say it was enough 
 and theres no need to push it. Honest. I dont particularly remember music to much other than on 
 the main menu so I'm not going to critique it other than to say it didnt stick out, but served 
 its purpose in a low quality way. I do however remember alot of effect ambience (such as when enemies 
 sneak up behind you to run to a place to hide, and you can hear movement and breathing and such) 
 very well played.
  
  Combat/Gimmicks: This games gimick is two fold. First you have the more obvious gimmick which is 
 the melee oriented combat which while not the only option in fighting is more often the best only 
 because guns are in general short enough supply to make you not want to use them for too long (I 
 often would expend the last round on a gun and just toss it for a pipe or fire axe when at the 
 end of a clip) as they cant be reloaded and its actually very realistic in that you dont have a 
 gun thats technically yours after a certain point in the game. No spoilers here though just know 
 both gun play and melee is an option here and both are generally good choices but be rdy to go 
 melee at any time as its always an option while bullets are in all honesty in short supply. Then 
 there's the Tazer which is great after about the middle of the game (although you always have it 
 I didnt use it at all until about then) as it stuns enemies. This is merely supposed to be useful 
 in disarming enemies I guess (as the game tells you to use it for that) but I didnt see that as 
 anymore then wasting time as theres tons of other weapons for them to get and the tazer has a reuse 
 time on it so might as well just get used to the next part which is melee. Melee is unfortunately 
 not anything new or exciting. It is click to hit, and while all weapons appear to have some sort 
 of stat guns feels almost as powerful as they should but most melee weapons feel weaker then they 
 should (although if taking a shotgun blast to the face and continuing to come at someone makes 
 the shotgun powerful then I missed ... something) . Anyway the biggest downside to all the weapons 
 is they shamefully feel underpowered and I can only say that the story saying its because something 
 is driving everything (including birds) crazy is a bit weak and I'll add that I dont care how crazy 
 you are, a fire axe to the face one time will take you down. Nuff said. Its fun the way it is but 
 entirely gimmicky in that they wanted you to use it but not get through their short game to fast.
 
  That leaves us with Gimmicks. The real gimmick for this game was the seriously great idea for 
 actually doing detective work amongst all the crazy bullet drought, melee infested combat. While 
 gamespot thought this was super clever of them and that they should have done it more, I think 
 they did it enough and if they had done it more I'd have been annoyed and given up. I honestly 
 did not like the way the detective tools worked. Either they were to easy (pull it out and shoot 
 such as the DNA sampler) or to annoyingly hard (trying to get the right position to take pictures 
 of finger prints such as the camera) . Seriously though there was a little detective work in all 
 that, I cant say there wasn't, as often you do have to search for the actual clues but it was all 
 context sensitive so technically you always knew if you were on the right track with it that just 
 made it feel less then it could have been. If I had to do that stuff (such as walk through a demented 
 house follow clues I can only see with a black light while switching back and forth to kill... 
 something) as a job, I'd quit and get another job. I'm sure it was as accurate as they could make 
 it without being unfun, but I didnt like it and while I was happy to have it in as it was clever 
 and fresh- I was also happy they didnt do it more then they did.
  
  AI: I thought it was suitable for this game. It wasnt brilliant but neither were the NPCs technically. 
 This story surmises something is driving people (and birds) mad so it made sense to me that they 
 would all be rediculously angry and rampaging. On top of that your searching for serial killers 
 which are equally deranged and not what you'd call brilliant tacticians so I found it to be adequate. 
 I personally loved how they would find a wall (you could watch them do it if you were quick) and 
 hide behind it getting ready to jump out at you. They always get away with it, sadly, even if you 
 know they're there and if I was quicker with the blocks I probably could've been better at not 
 getting caught by it but anyway I thought it was a nice touch that made the AI stand out to me.
 
  
  Overall Gameplay/"Fun Factor": The story is lame, the ending felt out of place and rediculous, 
 but overall the actual gameplay is fun and in a really sick way the story was fitting so I cant 
 say it wasnt worth the effort to play through it (which wasnt to hard or to easy, was just fine 
 for my book) . I say if you like gaming enough to try something new give this one a try. Although 
 you shouldnt do it because I tell you to, either you like a game or you dont you should read this 
 to decide if its worth that and nothing more. =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Once upon a night, in a creepy deserted dark building...
  
  
  So do you like dark, deserted places? With all those objects & walls falling apart? With blood 
 spilled all over & strange noises coming from all directions? Did you ever dream to beat up someone 
 to death with a water pipe or a desktop? Did you ever dream to rip apart somebody's jaw with your 
 bare hands? Did you enjoy F. E. A. R? If you answer "Hell yeah" to most of those questions, than it 
 means Condemned-Criminal Origins is the perfect game for you. Let me explain...
  
  Story:9/10
  
  You're special agent Ethan Thomas, FBI. You are sent to investigate a crime scene, 
 along with two other police officers. It soon becomes apparent that the Match Maker is again responsable 
 for this "nicely arranged" murder. He always kills young women, lays them down on the floor, surrounded 
 by male manequins with their faces torn off. Some hoods stuble on you, kill the two cops with your 
 own gun, then trow you off a window. Now, when the forensic teams show up they identify your gun 
 & that results in you being wanted by the cops & the feds. Nice... only that a computer specialist, 
 Rosa ,will decide to help you in your pursuit of the serial killer while guiding you as best she 
 can to avoid the law enforcers. A british guy, apparantly helping you for no reason, gives you some 
 leads to follow, which further on prove quite precise. As you investigate, you will keep posted 
 regarding a strange paranormal event that occurs at the same time. Entire flocks of birds fall 
 down dead while hitting certain areas of the city. Later on the hoods go mad, so that police officers 
 are sent to deal with them. After an extended exposure to those parts of the city, perfectly healthy 
 people, the cops also go nuts. Something strange is happening, & you also start having strange 
 & creepy visions which leave you wandering if you're not going crazy yourself. When you finally 
 find the Matchmaker... dead, you realise that there is another killer, the Serial Killer X, who 
 killed only other serial killers in the exact way they'd kill their own victims. So you'll pursue 
 SKX, until you'll realise that he is but a small pawn in the game. I won't say more... just that 
 Monolith screwed it up a bit at the end.
  
  Graphics:9/10
  
  If you played FEAR, you'll know what to expect from Condemned's graphical style. The are made with 
 the same engine & have a lot of common things & looks. I'd say that the textures in FEAR were a 
 bit more detailed, but Condemned compensates with its creepier, more spectacular shadow/light show. 
 It's really creepy & not recommanded to go trough the whole game without your flashlight, because 
 most of the time you won't see a thing in the darkness. The flashlight's light fascicle reflects 
 accordingly, throws light on the close-by objects while only makes the far away objects barely 
 visible. It also creates the spectacular shadows arond you, which hugely contribute to the game's 
 atmosphere... because, as I said before, the biggest part of the game will be played in complete 
 darkness. Another thing which the producers focuse on is the blood: how it spills, how it pours 
 & the fact that it's a liquid substance were seriously taken into consideration. Also, it is very 
 exciting to see how the blood spills on your weapon, be it a hammer, an axe or a paper cutter. 
 The environment and the surroundings have also got a lot of attention from Monolith's team. As 
 I said in the intoductory part of the review, Condemned isn't taking place in the clean (but nevertheless 
 scary) office buildings where the action in FEAR was localised. Criminal Origins is placed in a 
 small town, and you'll find yourself only in the deserted & most creepy parts of the city. An almost 
 abandoned train station, a deserted school, a devastated library, a long-closed manequin store, 
 a creepy barn house... it's all there. The thing all these locations have in common is that they 
 were once industrial, cultural, economic centres, but now they're all falling apart. The train 
 station has the abandoned trains laying in ruin, the school has its emty classrooms, corridors, 
 the library has its bookshelves, & the barn... the barn has everything a creepy lonely deserted 
 barn would have. Now if you introduce mad, grotesque people in these quite common places, your 
 fear level will cerainly increase. So that's what I'm trying to tell you... wandering in all these 
 deserted locations, perfecly designed, gives you the feeling of an abysal anxiety... something 
 which seems a common place, but in fact it's not.
  
  Sound:10/10
  
  Now the sound might easily be the best element of Condemned Criminal Origins. The music is simply 
 perfect... creepy, hair-raising ; & it fits perfectly in those deserted places you wander trough. It 
 contributes a lot to the game's atmosphere, it's a key factor that really gives you the sensation 
 that you're there, in the middle of the action. Now thw voice acting is ... let me explain. Both 
 Ethan & Rosa's voices are a bit too indiferent, don't exacly seem to be experiencing the thrills 
 which the game's action shows us. They're not bad but not too bright either. But as if the producers 
 wanted to compensate that flaw, the enemy voice acting... that accent spoke almolst with horrifying 
 ,mad joy, is really really scary. At moments you'll thing that hearing those madman talking is 
 the scariest thing in the world. The smallest sound in a oasis of quiet will make you jump on the 
 edge on your seat, hit escape, & try to recollect your nerves. And if that isn't a positive thing 
 in a horror game, I don't know what is. The sound effects are also high-quality ... the weapon hits, 
 the shots sound incredibly realistic... everything is gratly done & greatly recorded. All hail 
 Monolith, once again!
  
  Gameplay:8/10
  
  I told you in the previous paragraphs about the story, about the locations where the action takes 
 place & about the game's atmosphere, so now I'll speak about what you'll need to do in order to 
 progress in the game. You'll have to beat everyone up to death. The end. Well, you'll get to use 
 from a huge variety of melee weapons, mostly improvized (fire axe, jackhammer, meat cleaver, harpoon, 
 pipe, paper cutter, desktop, a plank with bolts, manequin arm, cloathes drier piece ... basically 
 everyting that looks & can be used as a weapon) , & of course, some fire arms (pistol, revolver, 
 pump-actioned shotgun, sawed-off shotgun, sub machine gun ... things like those) . Now the melee 
 weapons have some indicators, the most important being damage , speed & block. A big fire axe obviously 
 does more damage & blocks more efficiently than a small pipe, which will istead be easier to hanlde 
 & faster in attacks. Now nobody will stop you if you want to smash a guy's head by hitting him 
 in the face with the shotgun. I always wanted to do that. Because Condemned wants to be a very 
 brutal game, when you'll stun your enamies you can either finish 'em off by hitting them in the 
 head with your weapon or by applying one of the four finishers you have at your disposal. They're 
 cool, they're brutal, but they might get repetitive after a time. Now the enemies aren't very different 
 from each other but you'll never get bord of fighting them. Plus that you'll encounter a couple 
 of grotesque humans which crawl, jump on walls & eat human meat... very similar to the snorks in 
 Stalker-Shadow of Chernobyl.
  The rest of them are the ususal human enemies: some will wield fire arms, but most of them use melee 
 weapons. The AI is quite good... for instance if you kick their weapon out of their hand they'll 
 run & get another one, even if that means grabbing a pipe from the wall. Or if they see you, but 
 you don't see them, they'll hide against a wall in your path & suddenly surprise you by a hard 
 & unexpected blow. The puzzles resume to finding a fire axe to break a door or a hammer to break 
 a chain with a lock on it. Oh, and finding the medpacks of course, which you'll need in order to 
 survive. You can also try to find the dead birds & metal pieces scattered toughout the levels, 
 if you want to get some achievments. But beware, some are really well hidden. At crime scenes or 
 when you find evidence you'll have to use your forensic tools. Photograph some evidence, scan for 
 fingerprits... things like those, which you'll execute manually, & that's a really cool feature.
 
  
  Conclusion:9/10
  
  Condemned Criminal Origins is a really good game. A different kind of FEAR, consisting in brutal 
 melee fights & some very scary & disturbing scenes, Condemned is a must-have for horror/thriller 
 fans, for crime investigation fans or for the ones who loved FEAR, & would like the idea of a more 
 brutal FEAR with melee weapons. So go ahead, close the drapes, turn off the lights & start playing 
 Condemned Criminal Origins. You won't regret it, I'll tell you that!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  A friend told me Condemned; Criminal Origins was f***ed up. Well I bought the game two and a half 
 years later and he was correct.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a great survival horror game that focuses more on melee than shooting. 
 Instead of games like Resident Evil and FEAR where you are arms to the teeth and at least have 
 couple dozen cartridges and hundreds of bullets, a gun will probably not be full and you only have 
 1 clip. The melee fight feels that you have weight behind it and it isn't a point and click thing 
 like in half-life with the crowbar.
  
  The atmosphere is very good. The levels are dark and gritty. The graphics are great, and the sound 
 is amazing too. If the game could be summed up in one word it would be disturbing. They never say 
 why the bums are violent, but it adds to the mystery. The homeless people are grotesque and awful 
 and want to kill you. I don't like bums and this game further reinforced my prejudices. The finishing 
 moves are awesome, but the only problem is you can only do it when you're at the fatality stage. 
 Head butting and punching the homeless people in the face were the best moves.
  
  This game has some great elements yet it has its flaws. There isn't bad guys crawling everywhere 
 so it is easy to get lost since some of the levels get repetitive. The investigation tools are 
 mainly a point and click thing so it takes away from the pacing. Another problem was needing a 
 axe, crowbar, sledgehammer, or shovel to access a door to progress through a level but you had 
 to take a detour where there was a psycho crazy homeless junkie that had that weapon.
  
  It is an awesome game and if you haven't played it and you want a good scare get this game. It 
 was only $9.99 at Gamestop. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  the game is unique diffirent from what you v seen and scary, ok lets make some things clear
  
  1 i love fps, with guns
  2 however this is a FAIR survival horor game, UNLIKE the res seriers 
 you are not defend less if you run out of ammo
  3 you got one weapon with limited ammo you cant pick up ammo and guns are hard to find
  4 the 
 game relies in meele, NO its not perfect but itd not difficult you got a taser to stun you enemies 
 kick theh hit them and finish them 
  5 the tools are auto so there is no hl2 searching of what to do next!
  
  now the game is an 
 fbi agent that accused for murder in a city that the crime rate has reach phycho levels adn birds 
 are found falling everywhere so get yourself fammiliar with paranoramal and x-files thing sound 
 enough you look for evidence and you use tools to collect them dont worryi s auto the game itself 
 mostly realy in scary adventure brutal fighting paranoraml settiing has low requirements and first 
 next gen graphs great story but the ending as usual doesnt explain much there are plenty of levels 
 its long immersive inique and has a lot of action ai is ok and you can try diffirent kick-ass tricks 
 the only thing letme down in this hellscaary experiance is tha if you disarm someone has the bad 
 habbit of grabing you and hiting you with his head and you got to shaje the mouse to make him leave 
 you but he grabs you again thatts the only flaw so dont bother disarm him so you are inside a pool 
 and enemies are coming grab the machinegun on the left not one up infront you ,the gaem has many 
 thriler movie stuff like finding a corpse and a moment later its falling down from a rooftop window, 
 jsut like a movie, voice actiong is ok sound is great IT HAS THE BEST ATMOSPERE EVER and 8.7 will 
 be the rating its not repeative FEAR is reapeative for fighting the same enemies and the same areas 
 and the same shooting, the guys who made it desrve a medal in entairntining perfectness design, 
 however, 
  
  SAME TO SEGA FOR NOT RELEASING THE SEQUEL FOR PC AND RELEASING THIS FOR PS3 WHERE THERE WAS NOT 
 CONDEMEND 1 FOR PS3
  
  trust me guys its amazing i completed it 5 times must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, i must say this is one of the scariest games i've ever played. i'd place it at #3 behind 
 stalker and Penumbra, but those games were wack. this game has some of the best, or worst, depending 
 on how you look at it, combat i've ever seen. you find any object lying around, 2x4's, aces, pipes, 
 and just beat the sh! t out of everyone. it feels amazing to do so. when you make contact with the 
 head, a cloud of teeth and blood will fly from their mouths. after youve hit them a few times, 
 they fall to their knees, wobbling, and you are given a choice of different ways to kill the person. 
 
  the story is good, as youd expect by a game from monolith, the company that brought us fear. the 
 graphics are decent, although the textures arent that great. it's relativley short, but not too 
 short. it all comes together well, with some of the most intense fights i've ever had in a game. 
 i'd reccomend it to anyone, although i warn you of the grotesque brutality that is rampant in this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supergodzilla1
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  This gory gem caught my eye as I left F. E. A. R. behind this year as it came to me bragging about 
 it's melee combat and creepy enviroments. Looking back at F. E. A. R. I can see the two share the 
 dark hallways but don't share the techniques in making you senselessly paranoid, in a good way. 
 Where F. E. A. R. shocks you with hallucinations, Condemned downright scares you with your vulnerability 
 of being a human being and the rather unpredictable homeless stalking you. 
  
  As I stormed through the paranoia inducing levels I found myself colliding headfirst into the somewhat 
 common 'find this tool' or 'find this switch' gameplay. Even though I couldn't put my finger on 
 this developement atfirst I figured it would easily match up with Doom 3, an equally scary game 
 if not scripted the whole way like a roller coaster. I gave up on attempting to argue with these 
 sentient doors and proceeded to chase down the nearest homeless bum who wielded a fire axe or a 
 sledgehammer with a hateful vengance.
  
  Let's stop fussing at one minor flaw and let's talk about the sexy violence. The combat is well 
 rounded out. You've got many things to think about when picking up a melee weapon off the wall, 
 shelves, floor, or even another enemy. Each weapon has it's own stats of speed, range, power, a 
 block which in turn affects how you beat down or defend from enemies. Of course I found myself 
 grabbing up the fire axe to have the guilty glee of being Jack Torrance from 'The Shining'.
  
  The game is very realistic outright. You'll be beating people's teeth out with 2x4's, you'll 
 watch them shout out in pain and halt thier attack when you shoot them with a gun, and you will 
 be able to observe the bloody mess and corpses that remain after your passing. Mabye I don't feel 
 enough guilt from beating down the crazed drugged up psychotic homeless as I should. But I should 
 probably thank Bioshock's Splicers for that.
  
  It's a game worth buying and playing in the dark. There's no doubt in that.
  One other problem 
 I could list about this game? The game's story ends very quickly and has you run out of your house 
 for the sequel armed with a piece of lead pipe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thandor_DX
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game, the graphics, shadows and detail are just amazing.
  I literally jump out of my seat sometimes and even hesitate to look around a corner just incase 
 a lunatic pops out and starts chasing you.
  Terrific gameplay and very clever AI makes this game even more realistic and ejoyable. The supernatural 
 content also makes you wonder "wtf just happend?"
  
  Its a survival game like no other, you really need to think if you should use your firearm or use 
 a pipe or crowbar youve picked up through the game.
  Various weapons have a damage meter telling you what is practicly better.
  Of course a pistol 
 is easily going to beat a shotgun in range but would nowere near compare to a shotgun at close 
 range.
  
  Summing it up: Very scarey and intruiging game, Will keep you on your toes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofthunder48
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  After having played F. E. A. R. I thought that no game would be as scary, but it turned out to be 
 wrong.
  Condemned Is a first person shooter from developer monilith in which you play as an investigator 
 who is charged with the murders of his two oficcer companions.
  The game is amaizingly well ambiented, i mean you reach a point when if you have your lights turn 
 off and the only sound you hear comes from the game it's quite scary. 
  Having progressed whithin the game you will find more than mone scary and tensee situation . Also 
 what makes the game even more gory and bloddy is it''s own brutal combat . It's basic first person 
 hand-to-hand and shootin' combat but it's so simple and well implemented that it feels amainzing
 
  Graphics in condemmed are not absolutely top nuch but it hasn't have anything to be jelaous of 
 today's games. The game sound isn't bad also , it's got terific voice acting and like i said an 
 incredible atmosphere.
  Finally playing condemned is just quite fun , and scary so if you like first person in general 
 i'm pretty sure you'll enjoy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro_tech9
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  condemned has a good ring to it. the first time my sister talked about it i wanted it. it is infact 
 all that i thought it was... i went from playing it for the first 20 minutes to being to much of 
 a chicken to continue because I was so used to killing slow moving zombies. this game has opened 
 my eyes to a new terror that I couldnt handle for the first time. of course i eventually over came 
 my fear or I wouldnt be wrtiting my review. for all you people intrested in wandering the dark 
 with violent drug addicts, this is the game for you.
  
  the things I found good about this game were the following:
  
  dark surroundings force you 
 to keep your eyes peeled for enemies
  melee based combat forces you to get up close to you enemy
  cool finishing moves
  AI is absolutly 
 amazing (when played at highest dificulty)
  Lots of diffrent melee weapons or tool weapons
  forensic science tools are amazing
  okay storyline
  constant challenge (depends of difficulty)
 
  flickering flashlight (adds the fear of your flashlight going out)
  requires strategic blocking methods
  
  these are the bad things i found for this game
  
 
  short
  not enough gun related combat
  storyline changes abruptly
  forensic tool required area doesn't always work or is too difficult to find what you are looking 
 for.
  minimal amounts of ammunition
  you can only have one weapon at a time (requires you to pile in a sometimes inconveinent spot)
 
  
  this game has goods in bads but if you like silent hill, resident evil, play this game.
  
  
  sometimes to dark
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  No intro this time, so just read on.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  - The game consists of melee combat and minor puzzles. Most puzzles don't take that much skill 
 to solve, and it's usually just "follow this trail" or "go there, fetch crowbar/axe/hammer/shovel 
 and get back". So this isn't anything like, for example, Monkey Island. But then the melee part. 
 Most developers are afraid of doing 1st person melee, because melee combat games are stereotypically 
 anime games and/or j-rpgs. But Condemned, it's 1st person, and the main feature is melee combat. 
 It's actually done very well. All the strikes feel powerful whether it's you striking someone or 
 getting hit. There are basically just three different strikes for a weapon, but there's enough 
 weapon variety to keep it interesting. The game also includes firearms, and they're your basic 
 pistol, shotgun etc. All of the firearms you'll find have very few ammo, but they deal a lot of 
 damage if used right. I personally finished the game without firing a single shot, so firearms 
 aren't mandatory at all. You'll be better off with melee weapons.
  
  Controls: 6/10
  - Mostly they work fine, but where's jump and crouch? I mean come on, even Quake 1 had them. They 
 should be included in every modern game. Period.
  
  Atmosphere: 9/10
  - This game is much more atmospheric than it's "brother", F. E. A. R. Mainly because you don't ever 
 get to be Duke Nukem. You are constantly under threat, and not by some weird supernatural little 
 girl, but by common criminals. Although the game has a supernatural twist, most of the time it 
 feels much more realistic than F. E. A. R. The game is scary as hell, much more so than F. E. A. R. Taking 
 the assault rifles away from you is gonna make you feel scared. REEEAALLY SCARED. Play this alone 
 at night, please.
  
  Graphics: 4/10 (would be 7, but I will lower the score due to the problem described below)
  - 
 Graphics are decent, and lighting looks great. Basic stuff really, but the FX are cool. Oh, and 
 there's one thing that REALLY annoys me. If you don't have a widescreen monitor, there is going 
 to be a lot of empty, black, unused space above and below the screen. What's up with that? That's 
 annoying and dumb. Not everyone has a widescreen monitor you know? This is not a movie FFS, there 
 was no need to force us letterbox mode. It would've probably taken like 10 minutes to make it look 
 alright on non-widescreen monitors. Argh. Stupid console ports...
  
  Sound: 10/10
  - The game sounds absolutely perfect. The sound effects are so... I can't even describe then without 
 repeating myself. They *are* perfect. Ambient sounds are... well, perfect too. A good example of 
 a game that should've gotten 10 from the sound, instead of these "next-gen" games. Pfft.
  
  Physics: 5/10
  - They are average. Ragdoll and Havok. Not much to say.
  
  Replay value: 4/10
 
  - The game has some replay value, due to the fact that melee combat is so fun... But it's not 
 going to be scary the second time, which is a problem that 99% of horror games suffer from. They 
 are too scripted. Too predictable. It's a shame.
  
  Value for money: 8/10
  - It's really cheap now, especially since the sequel was released just a while back. I highly recommend 
 purchasing it if you find it.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - It stutters a bit, but that's only if you want to play it on max settings. It can work on old 
 computers too but then it looks like... well, let's just say that it will look bad. I've had no 
 crashes or bugs or anything.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Nah.
  
 
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Horror fans. People who like 1st person melee combat.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an 
 average) : 7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Total_mischief
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is one of the best games of the genre I have played. A thrilling story with intense combat 
 against scary addicts and freaks while you make your way through dark alleys, abandoned buildings, 
 subway stations and sewers.
  
  The goods: The melee combat is just fantastic, even if you sometimes get your hands on a sub-machine 
 gun or a sawed-off shotgun, it's always more entertaining to pick up the shovel, bring them down 
 to their knees and finish them off with a headbutt. - The dark and gruesome atmosphere of the game 
 are just perfect to keep you on your toes and make you scared like hell when one of those addicts 
 come right at you - Even though you find against humans.... you have the feeling you are fighting 
 some monsters coming right out of hell in the way they act and assault you, wich is pretty awesome.
 
  
  The bads: The only real bad point I have seen in this game is the time it can take to find out 
 all the birds and metal pieces, and the lack of multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Condemned - Criminal Origins
  
  A good rental.
  
  This game is best played at night, with no lights on and the sound cranked up a notch. Don't increase 
 the brightness to maximize the experience.
  
  What's to like:
  - Good sound effects
  - Good suspense
  - Good animations
  
  What you may not like:
  - Short game ( 6-8 hours 
 )
  - Shallow combat mechanics
  - Weak enemy AI
  - Weak voice acting
  - Weak story
  - Weak ending
  - Linear levels
  - Disruptive "Quick Saving"
  - No replay value
  - Good 
 amount of violence, blood and gore
  - Unconvincing game settings 
  - Ugly character models
  - Graphical glitches on an 8800GTX
  
  
  Story
  
  You play 
 as an FBI agent who is called to a murder scene. On location, things don't go so well and you end 
 up pursuing a suspect.
  
  The whole game is about following the suspect, gathering clues along the way, and getting rid of 
 the few crazy people inhabiting the city. By the end of this 8-hour man hunt marathon, your sanity 
 will be put to the test.
  
  
  Game 
  
  This is a survival game with an intense atmosphere. The creepiness of the levels and the well thought 
 sounds will keep you glued to your chair. Some areas are really dark too. Even to the point of 
 having no clue of what lies right in front of you. 
  
  Most of Condemned: Criminal Origins (C: CO) is done in First Person View in a very realistic way. 
 For instance, if you need to duck under a police yellow tape, your eyes will actually move toward 
 the floor (you will get to see your shoes!) then slowly make your way up on the other side. 
  
  Though it does help in putting you in the shoes (!) of the protagonist, the fact that the cutscenes 
 are done in third person view completely defeats whatever purpose the first person view was trying 
 to accomplish -- you no longer feel like being the Agent, but more someone that controls him from 
 time to time.
  
  
  Combat
  
  Enemies in C: CO are, for the most part, thugs. Crazy thugs. Their AI can be resumed to:
  
  
 1) Get a weapon
  2) Rush at you
  
  Forget about dialoguing or common sense here (look, I got a shotgun, maybe you should think twice 
 before charging me with that stick?) , nothing can stop them until you brutally dispose of them.
 
  
  Whether it is a gun (pistol, shotgun, smg, rifle) or a melee object, you can only have 1 weapon 
 on you at any time. Though, this is a bit awkward considering you start off the story with a pistol 
 on you already, and logically a holster to put it in, so why not use that inventory space? Anyway.
 
  
  The melee weapons found in Condemned are all around you: gas pipes, 2x4s, shovels and the like. 
 Each weapon has statistics associated with it: Damage, Speed, Reach and Block. Blocking is done 
 by timing it with your opponent's swing. If you are successful, your enemy may get disoriented 
 for a second giving you a better chance in landing a hit.
  
  If you don't have any weapons, your character can always kick or use his taser. The taser temporarily 
 disables an enemy for a few seconds leaving him wide open for a vicious attack or having his weapon 
 stolen. In combination with a weapon, this means you are pretty much invincible.
  
  A normal fight usually goes like this:
  
  - Enemy rushes toward you like a madman
  - You 
 tase him before he gets his first swing on you
  - Then you hit him repeatedly with your melee weapon until he stops moving
  
  Fights are rarely 
 a challenge in Condemned, but they sure are exciting.
  
  
  Finishing moves
  
  If you severely hurt your enemy, he (or she) will get on his knees, dazed for a few seconds. At 
 that moment, you will have the chance to end their misery with 1 of the 4 finishing moves. You 
 can slam them on the ground, punch them, twist their neck or inflict a head butt. Though they are 
 cool and very satisfying to use the first few times you use them, you may end up just "swinging" 
 your weapon another time at them as it is just faster and safer to do so.
  
  
  Investigation
  
  To help you gather the evidence, you have a few tools at your disposal. You 
 won't need to think about when and where to use them. Your friendly CSI-Like agent will contact 
 you and tell you when to use them. This is done with a special key. The same key is used for all 
 your tools. The way it works is incredibly simple
  
  1) Press the Tool key when told to do so
  2) Press the Tool Key again when the evidence is well 
 framed
  3) Discuss about it over the phone with the CSI-Agent
  4) Move on
  
  As you can see, you won't need to do much thinking to resolve this "investigation".
  
  
  
 Graphics
  
  Even though this game was made in 2005 and that the system used to do this review can run Crysis 
 with a high frame rate at close-to-maximum settings, C: OC graphics engine still manages to bring 
 the framerate to its knees. On this system, C: OC graphics engine completely goes haywire after 
 10-15 minutes of play. Fortunately, restarting the game is very quick, but remained an annoyance.
 
  
  The graphics are very clay-like. The characters (facial) and pretty much every texture is lacking 
 detail and just doesn't look real. Despite the numerous graphic effects applied on them, they still 
 look washed out with an overly reflection. This would be fine on a wet floor but not as much on 
 normal skin. There is also the same glitch found in F. E. A. R. where the objects have a white outline 
 in certain situations.
  
  Oh, and not to mention the actual character models are for the most part, pretty ugly.
  
  
 
  Leave your common sense out of the door please
  
  Condemned really tries to make the adventure realistic in a somehow real world. This comes with 
 the side effect of questioning some aspects of its world setting. Other than the pistol irony aforementioned 
 or maybe the fact that your enemies can't see when they got nearly no chance of survival, it looks 
 like the entire world seems to stop and wait for you to come by. Remember the final scene of the 
 Devil's Advocate when Reeves crosses the deserted street in NY? Well, it's about the same, it will 
 leave you thinking: "Where is everyone"?
  
  If you really are an Agent and are sent to this section of the city, assuming then *everyone* knows 
 it is populated by psychopaths, why were you sent there alone? Even so, why is it, when you ask 
 for backup, that no one comes (until much much later) ?
  
  There's more!
  
  You will go through some events that should have killed you, and yet, you will survive. Then how 
 come a simple guy can head butt you to death?
  
  You will get your hands regularly on guns. How come you can't take the ammunition off of them and 
 put them in your bag for later use? I mean, the baddies can reload their weapons, why can't we?
 
  
  You are always in contact with a CSI agent, and yet, you don't request for any help or anything. 
 Furthermore, the voice actor is completely relaxed and borderline, bored. Then why is it that he 
 jumps at every flashback he gets? If he was really scared, he'd want to get out of there as soon 
 as possible or at least try to get some help, despite the circumstances.
  
  At the end of the game, you will have to make a decision (the only time you will be asked to) . 
 How come the ending is the same no matter which path you take?
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Thanks to the good ambient music, the creepy sound effects, and its overall atmosphere Condemned: 
 Criminal Origins will certainly give you a few chills. On the other hand, its short length, its 
 incoherent elements and its low replay value definitely makes C: CO a rental, one that deserves 
 to be played nevertheless.
  
  
  - 6.8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: braindead_hero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  With condemned 2 hitting Xbox360 and PS3 soon I decided to pick up a copy of the original, and 
 as I don't own and Xbox360, I opted for the PC version of this game. Condemned is a First Person 
 Survival horror. I can't really call this a FPS due to the few guns in the game, there are some 
 but thats not what this game is really about, so I'm going to go with calling this a
  First Person Bludgeoner or FPB. Origionally a launch title for Xbox360, COndemned put you in the 
 shoes of Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent who is trying to track down a serial killer. This allows for 
 some brilliantly atmospheric scenes and alot of scares along the way.
  
  GRAPHICS 7/10
  
  Well as this was a launch title for Xbox360 and has been adapted for PC from there, the graphics 
 are not a fully 'next gen' (or should I say current gen now) experience. You find youself running 
 down a lot of darkened hallways but there are a lot of very nice looking areas. There's a mix of 
 really good inventive areas connected together by a series of bland darkened passages. The game 
 does create a very good mood though, it definately draws you in to the dark world of condemned. 
 Although it could look better it definately fits the game.
  
  STORY 7/10
  
  As previously mentioned this game sees you playing as an FBI agent who gets accused of a rather 
 serious crime, to clear your name you must track down a serial killer in the wrong part of town. 
 The story is told fairly well with a lot of cut scenes scattered throughout but they do seem to 
 leave some fairly vital questions unanswered, such as whats with all the dead birds? 
  and why are all these odd looking fellows trying to knock seven shades of **** into me? These are 
 hinted at during loading screens but never really truly explained.
  
  LONGEVITY 6/10
  
  Well there is a decent lengthed storyline which is definately enough to get you to the end of the 
 game, but apart from that there are some achievements such as collection tasks to get you to try 
 to replay the game but only the most committed of people will feel compelled to go back to these. 
 It can keep you going but a lack of multiplayer is definately an issue in this game.
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
  
  This game seems very focused on gameplay. There are a nice amount of actions 
 you can do with a great control system. Also this game creates an excellent mood which any horror 
 fans will definately enjoy and at some part will really make you jump. This is not for the faint 
 of heart but if you can take it, I highly recommen this. There is a truly brilliant combat model 
 which easily makes up for anything else wrong with the game. The fighting is done incredibly well, 
 I have not seen a game which does fighting in this manner, as in First Person view using meelee 
 weapons, pull it off so well. You can use pretty much anything thats not nailed down as a weapon 
 and use them in a very satisfying way. The controls are pretty much flawless 
  and the atmosphere and mood is one of the best I've ever seen in any game.
  
  FUN 8/10
  
 
  If you enjoy being scared this is a really fun game. There are parts of this game that will make 
 you jump out of your seat and just the general creppiness of the game makes it an overall fun experience. 
 Fighting is really well done and the scares will really make you enjoy this game, as long as your 
 a fan of horror films. The idea of crawling through darkened hallway after darkened hallway can 
 become boring after a while but is held up by the brilliant fighting mechanic.
  
  OVERALL 7.6/10
  
  This is defiately a mature game for a mature audience and if you enjoy horror 
 films or just feel like scaring yourself silly then I definately recomend this game and I am definately 
 getting Condemned 2 once I have finished with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your a FBI agent. You have been framed for murder by a serial killer. named the "match maker" 
 hunt him down throught varios enviroments.
  
  Missions: Walk, run and kill throught diffrent creepy enviroments. Find evidence
  
  Controls: Standard 
 FPS controls.
  
  Features: Awesome melee combat. Creppy game.
  
  A. I.: Smart at times. They want to kill you and can do it.
  
  Loading Times: inbetween diffrent 
 chapters. 15 seconds or so.
  
  Graphics: ok graphics could be alot better!! Enviroments are detailed and so are weapons but the 
 people look like blocks.
  
  Audio: Great and creepy. Creepy music starts to play before something scary happens.
  
  Multiplayer: None
 
  
  Requirements: PC or 360. 
  
  The Good: A all around good FPS with amaziing melle combat and good story.
  
  The Bad: Graphics, not 
 alot of weapons
  
  The Ugly: Charcters.
  
  Replay Ability: little/none. beat the game and get all the birds and your done.
  
  The Bottom 
 Line: A good FPS that leaves you wanting more and will most likely exicite you for the next one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mickeymick113
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Usually I truly dislike FPS games, because they normally make me feel very nauseous, so imagine 
 my disappointment when I bought this game, started playing it, and discovered it to be an FPS. 
 However, since I did manage to spend money on the game, I decided to give it a shot. Again, I was 
 surprised...20 minutes later, I was able to still keep playing the game without any nausea. There 
 has only been one other FPS that I was able to play through which is: James Bond 007: Nightfire. 
 Now, I do not know if this makes me a weak game player or not, but I felt pretty good that I did 
 not need a walk-through guide in order to get through this game. It is true that, there are two 
 endings to choose from that results in the same exact outcome, but other than that, I thought that 
 the game was interesting for a couple of reasons: Great storyline; Terrific graphics; and Easy-to-use 
 controls. It's a good feeling when one can find an action/adventure game, rather horror or not, 
 that is gamepad compatible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glennwinton
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  In 2005, Condemned: Criminal Origins bashed it's way onto 360's, and then, a year later, it was 
 ported to the PC. but before i get to the whole "which version to get" and the "whats different" 
 parts, i'll talk about the game for a bit.
  
  Condemned is like law and order on a crack induced nightmare, to sum it up in a sentence. the game 
 is part action adventure, part investigator sim, and all parts horror. This is a trully creapy 
 game, more so than most movies, and, in fact, has a better story than most movies as well.
  
  Condemned follows Ethan Thomas, a member of the Serial Crimes Unit, on a "routine" day investigating 
 another murder from a serial killer, Ethan Thomas finds himself framed for a crime he didn't commit, 
 and has to not only prove his own innocence, but also find the real killer in the process.
  
  To do this basically means following leads with the help of a friend in the forensics department, 
 there's just one problem, all over town the homeless and others are going... crazy, and killing 
 pretty much everything they can find, and once more you're only armed with whatever you can find, 
 and this rarely means a gun of any kind.
  
  Most of the fighting will be done face to face, in close quarters combat. One great thing is that 
 the combat is VERY good looking, feels just right, and feels more realistic than ANYTHING on the 
 market today.
  much of the hand to hand combat's good look/ feel is due to the animation, which looks very fluid 
 and realistic. it's also due in no small part to the AI.
  in the game, the enemy's will do many, many things, most of them are unpredictable, sometimes they 
 will lunge at you, run to find a weapon, or just run away. They will also attack eachother, a trait 
 that you will want to exploit later in the game.
  
  when you're not fighting, you will be investigating crime scenes, seaching for clues, or answers, 
 or whatever. the game doesn't give you a choice when to use the investigatory tools, but instead 
 tells you when to use them, which means you won't be looking everywhere for the random doohickey, 
 when it does tell you to investigate you will be using a plethora of tools, ones with UV lights 
 to see things like blood, taking pictures, and collecting DNA samples. it's a nice diversion and 
 helps immerse you in the experience, and it also will be where most of the story progression will 
 be held.
  
  And during all of this the game will constantly throw creepy moments and genuinely scary moments 
 throughout the game. even the regular fighting can be scary (and is always creepy) when your enemy 
 runs away, you don't know where he is, but you know hes somewhere, so when he finally jumps out 
 at you when you least expect it is truly scary. overall if you enjoy horror games, there really 
 isn't many games like condemned.
  
  Now for the differences between the two versions, for one, if you have a game that supports the 
 game at full power, the game will look better than the 360 version, but the system requirements 
 are varied enough to allow people with a much weaker system to fully experience the game.
  also, the 360's in the original game are gone, replaced with TV's (or not, i've never played the 
 360 version so for all i know there were TV's in the original as well...) the game also lacks the 
 360 achievements, but it has it's own set of achievements in game.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is kinda short, and a bit on the hard side (infact, theres a part late in 
 the game i've found nearly impossible on the normal level) and theres not much reason to go back 
 after you've beaten it, even with the dead birds and TV's to find...
  
  Overall, if you're in need for a scare, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  CONDEMNED: CRIMINAL ORIGINS.
  
  
  As FBI agent Ethan Thomas you are about to have a very bad day. While investigating a grizzly murder, 
 conducted by a notorious serial killer, Thomas is framed for the killing of two police officers. 
 He must track down the ruthless murderer, clear his name and maintain his sanity. His only real 
 ally is Rosa, a forensic expert, who keeps in contact with him via his cell phone. 
  
  This has got to be one of the most brutal and unforgiving games this seasoned gamer has ever played. 
 I don't mean in terms difficult though. Rather I'm referring to Condemned's signature melee combat 
 system, which makes up the core of the game play. 
  
  Within the environments of Condemned it is possible to pick up everything from pipes, planks of 
 wood, crowbars to shovels and use these to defend yourself against the likes of hobos and armed 
 thugs. All this is viewed from a FPS perspective and as such you really feel every single blow 
 and bone crunching attack. 
  
  The A. I. is often unpredictable, with opponents dashing off around corners in hope of ambushing 
 you and being as interactive with the environment as the player. They too will pick up weapons 
 and swap them around. 
  
  The atmosphere in each chapter is created through some stellar audio. The ambient sound effects 
 are tremendous, with players hearing every detailed footstep of themselves and their adversaries. 
 The sense of haunt carried throughout the levels is indeed impressive. As are the visuals, concocting 
 detailed and gritty environments, not to mention some stellar animation. When struck or taking 
 an air swing, your opponents move and shift with some strikingly lifelike animations. Though the 
 rag doll effects are in need of some serious tweaking. The way bodies slump; with legs falling 
 in all awkward positions would make even a hardened gymnast proud. 
  
  The game play is comprised of a fierce combat system but little else. There is hardly any variety 
 in the game play at all. Much of it feels terribly contrived. When not beating opponents to death 
 with crowbars much of the game revolves around finding a particular tool to open a door. Forget 
 multiple pathways and options people, you have to find the fire axe to get through the locked door! 
 It feels like a step backwards to the bad old days of key searching. 
  
  Two words come to mind in the summary of the level design: snooze inducing. Every stage feels the 
 same, not because you're doing the same thing but just the look. Every environment is a rundown 
 slum infested with all kinds of psychos and murders. You'll travel from abandoned subways and apartments 
 (which we've all seen before) to a shopping mall and rundown school. 
  
  By the end of the campaign you'll be glad you don't have to beat one more hobo to death. The game 
 is sickeningly violent, aggravated and definitely not for the squeamish. There really isn't an 
 ounce of subtlety in any of the levels. A game like Thief: Deadly Shadows was subtle in its delivery 
 of fear. It could effectively scare the daylights out of players without any contact from opponents 
 at all. The thought that someone or something was lurking in the shadows was simply terrifying 
 at times. Condemned rarely uses this technique. Rather it relies on throwing hideous, foulmouthed 
 opponents at you. That's not to say the game isn't chilling. In all fairness there are a few standout 
 moments that had this cynic jumping out of his seat. The apple orchid and a locker incident (you'll 
 see) remain a standout. 
  
  I'm also annoyed at the simplicity applied to the mechanics of the game. The use of onscreen indicators 
 is quite questionable and really detracts from the immersion of the game. So rather than letting 
 the player jump through the gap in the floor pressing a button and watching the animation is supposed 
 to be more fun? I think not. The use of forensic tools is also a bit iffy. While seemingly different 
 and cool at first the game doesn't really capitalise on it. Opponents will never rush up behind 
 you while your vulnerably examining away or anything. On screen indicators make an appearance every 
 single time a tool is to be used so the game has a terrible scripted nature about it. 
  
  Think the story will lift Condemned from the rot? Sadly no. The story is fairly abysmal. The delivery 
 of the dialogue is fairly awful but really the problem is that the story sorely lacks an interesting 
 protagonist. We know so little about Ethan Thomas and there is such a pitiful build up to the main 
 complication that there is really no reason to care about him at all. 
  
  You could argue that this is a game after all and not a movie, but really after the masterful stories 
 of the Max Payne series there is little excuse for a lack of characterisation in games. There are 
 twists and turns, supposed shocks but it never really feels terribly satisfying. There is minimal 
 replay to the game given the linear nature. There are unlockable rewards found by the collection 
 of, wait for it, bird carcasses and metal, but really unless you're dieing to see some design sketches, 
 it probably isn't worth it. 
  
  Condemned is a game that reeks of potential. It has some terrific technical feats such as stunning 
 audio and an amazing look, not to mention a unique combat system but really for its repetitive 
 nature, grotesque violence, boring design and lackluster story it should most likely be overlooked. 
 What a shame. 
  
  
  For: + Some stunning audio and visuals. 
  
  + Brutal combat system. 
  
  Against: 
  
  - Repetitive 
  - Poor story and voice acting 
 
  - Sickening violence. 
  
  Verdict: 
  Far from the perfect crime, Condemned: Criminal Origins has so much potential but comes across 
 as a poor mans version of F. E. A. R. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal origins is a game by monolith that came about a couple months after FEAR was 
 released. its got good graphics, decent voice acting, a intriguing mystery story, and innovative 
 gameplay, so what went wrong? well ill tell you. it is a very creepy game, creepier than fear, 
 but the game play doesn't hold up the game the way it should. it consists mainly of picking up 
 random melee weapons and bashing the hell out of baddies. this is good and innovative even with 
 the gun sequences, but it really doesn't have enough premise to last a whole game. its good, but 
 not great. a fun try though.
  another thing: the ending has two endings, and unfortunately they are both the same outcome, which 
 is REALLY lame. i thought the ending would be better.
  Review by Tuna 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in 'Condemned' is pretty much limited to a 1st person fighting game but the great 
 story and the creepy effects in the game make this one heck of a ride. There are guns but are rarely 
 found. There are so many places bad guys can pop out you will always be on your toes. Sometimes 
 beating down bad guys can get repetitive but when stuff happens like a guy breaking through a door 
 with an axe when you were just about to open it, the game feels worth any tediousness you might 
 deal with. Controls are really solid for a 1st person game. You really get the sense you are beating 
 someone senseless. There is also a CSI element to the game where you get to search for clues. The 
 graphics are amazing and each level has such a super creepy atmosphere with different maniacs prowling 
 around. The story has quite a few twists and turns and you may even come to doubt your own character's 
 sanity. This is a must play and a good pickup for any horror fan. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo for this game and liked it a lot. It has a very chilling atmosphere, and I liked 
 the serial killer story line. The retail game overall is worth a look if you are into first-person 
 shooters and the horror genre. But after finishing the game (about 10-12 hours) , I was left with 
 the impression that Condemned could have been so much more if more thought had gone into the story 
 line.
  
  Gameplay: The story line is somewhat trite. You're an FBI agent who is framed for killing two cops, 
 and you have to figure out the mystery while the FBI and the real killer are stalking you. Nothing 
 special there. The game is genuinely creepy with dimly lit environments, good use of sound effects, 
 and a number of grotesque opponents. However, after a while, you'll get very use to fighting the 
 same 8-10 character models and crawling through the same shabby buildings and subway tunnels. The 
 big problem with the game is that it lacks tension. There is little rhyme or reason to your investigation 
 except for the fact that there's a serial killer on the loose. You do get the feel for being a 
 crime investigator, since you use forensic tools and have a virtual laboratory at your disposal. 
 But it all seems forced after a while as the game guides you through a linear story line and in 
 many instances tells you exactly what to do next. There are a few cheap scares, but the game is 
 more creepy and foreboding than outright scary. Unfortunately, the game leaves a number of unanswered 
 questions -- as if it were setting up a sequel, and I found the ending unsatisfying.
  
  To its credit, Condemned does get a number of things right. The melee combat is well done and frenetic. 
 Most of the fighting in the game is done with axes, sledgehammers, pipes, and other hand-held items. 
 You can block, dodge, do combos, and finishing moves. The firearms, while powerful, are much less 
 interesting since they are almost always low on ammo. Thankfully, there are no jumping sequences 
 in this game and really no puzzles. The straightforward nature of the gameplay is both its strength 
 and weakness, but you can adjust the difficulty level to increase the game's challenge.
  
  Graphics: A pretty good looking games. Character models and animations are convincing, and environments 
 are very detailed though repetitive after a while. Lighting effects are especially well done. Sound: 
 There is very good use of sound effects to make the game creepy. Creaking floors, growls, footsteps, 
 weapon impacts, etc. are all convincing. Voice acting is passable, and I actually liked the theme 
 song that plays when the main menu is open. The developers seem to understand that its not the 
 visuals but the sounds that make a game creepy (good visuals, of course, help) .
  
  Technical issues: I think the game may have crashed once, but otherwise it was very stable. The 
 manual is decent, and the opening sequence of the game serves as a tutorial. The controls are typical 
 for a first-person shooter.
  
  Replayability/Value: There is no reason to replay this game given its linearity. The outcome will 
 always be the same, and there are no sub-plots or additional missions to unlock. If you like the 
 FPS or horror genre, the game is worth a look. But be sure to get it at a discount.
  
  Pros:
  +creepy and atmosphere
  +convincing sound effects
  +good graphics
  +dynamic melee 
 combat
  
  Cons:
  -repetitive gameplay
  -lackluster ending and some unanswered questions
  -missed opportunities in the scares department 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a little brother of F. E. A. R. produced by monolith team. In fear you faced super soldiers 
 and dealt with different fire armes but in condemned there is no super soldier. In condemned you 
 will encounter savages and serial killers. Don't play this game if you hate blood and gore. In 
 this game you can use different things as your weapon. For example axe, hammer, pipe, stick and 
 many other things, but it will not be very cool because it will bore you after some time. i think 
 the only thing that kept me to finish this game was its story. Story of the game is a real story 
 but unfortunately will leave you many unanswered questions, so you can continue it in Condemned 
 2 blood shots. this game may be ranked medium but it worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougsan
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  If you like very, very easy games with no challenges at all this might be a game for you. I like 
 the premise and the story (a bit) and I very much liked the characters (for the most part) . But 
 the game is too easy. I guess they added the dead birds as a way to add a little challenge and 
 when that didn't work they added the pieces of metal. For those who haven't played the game, you 
 unlock junk by collecting dead birds (VERY easy to find) and pieces of metal (not so easy to find) . 
 The game is not in anyway impacted by your finding any of the birds or peieces of metal so why 
 are they in the game? To motivate you to look in all the corners of all the dark areas. This adds 
 to the time it takes to complete the game. It does not add to the story or the play of the game 
 in any positive way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grihn
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a great addition to the FPS genere, though it plays much differently 
 than your typical shooter. Run and gun is thrown out the window with Condemned, replaced by the 
 necessity for stealth and quick wit.
  
  Throughout the game, you are usually going to be low on ammo for the few guns the game features. 
 But the guns weren't the focus. It's the ability to turn nearly every pice of the surrounding environment 
 into a weapon. Combined with a suspensful and immersive story and beautiful graphics and sound, 
 Condemned: Criminal Origins shimmers in the dark.
  
  If you are only interested in your typical run and gun shooters like Half Life and Quake, then 
 it's probably best you avoid Condemned. But if you are looking to try something both new and extremely 
 well executed, then Criminal Origins may be a great game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, before anything, this game has little to do with either Silent Hill or CSI, I just said that 
 because it is creepy like Silent Hill (the main character even has a pocket flashlight) and has 
 forensics like CSI.
  
  The game starts out with Agent Thomas, an FBI agent who has a certain knack for solving crimes. 
 On a routine investigation, Agent Thomas and a few other officers are investigating the murder 
 of a woman. The scene is cut short as someone starts messing screwing with the lights and the other 
 officers split up with you to go find him. Things go wrong, and a killer gets a hold of your gun 
 (Agent Thomas' gun) and kills the other officers. Of course, you are blamed and have to go forth 
 and clear your name. This games story is a winner, as it revolves around a serial killer killing 
 other serial killers, and Agent Thomas having to hunt them down before they are killed. It is much 
 deeper than that, and the story is doesn't tell too much about the academic that is making people 
 crazy and attacking on sight, but it is still strong in its own right.
  
  One of the strongest things with Condemned: Criminal Origins is the strong atmosphere. Creepy, 
 rundown places are in every stage. The graphics are a little underwhelming, unfortunately, as some 
 textures are flat, whereas some are very nicely detailed. The games characters are also a little 
 underwhelming, such as Agent Thomas, as he can look a little dull, but some of the other enemies 
 are nicely detailed. This doesn't matter much as you will be worrying about keeping your ass alive 
 rather than admiring the scenery. The atmosphere really saves it, though. Dusty, rusty, dark and 
 cold corridors are everywhere, and it makes turning the corner heart pounding every time.
  
  The gameplay is a little mixed bag, as well. Thomas moves a little sluggishly, but it works 
 with the whole survival horror theme. He can spring very short distances, and it takes him a little 
 while to catch his breath after that. The combat is where things are great. Melee combat is the 
 star of the game, as characters fight you with lots of energy, and it keeps you on your toes. They 
 are very unruly, and if you get a clean hit on them, chances are they will spin around and catch 
 you if you don't block really quickly or high tail it off. The hits are also spectacular, as every 
 blow looks and feels real. If you get hit, your vision blurs and Thomas will keel over, and when 
 you hit an enemy, they move with the swing and get knocked over realistically. The weapons also 
 keep things interesting, as firearms are few and far in between. The majority of the weapons are 
 environment weapons, such as wooden planks, some with rusty nails and some with screws, or rebars 
 with and without cement on the bottom. You can find these weapons in the ground or in the walls 
 or lying about. Weapons are classified in 4 catagories: reach, strength, block and speed. Unfortunately, 
 Thomas can only carry 1 weapon. This is a bit unrealistic, as Thomas has a slew of forensic materials, 
 but can't stick a pistol in his pocket to carry a crowbar. If Thomas comes across another weapon, 
 you can tell if its better by a tab that comes up in the top right that will tell you if it is 
 +,-, or = to it in the catagories. Sometimes you will come across a gun of sorts. There are shotguns, 
 double barreled shotguns, pistols, revolvers, rifles and SMG's. You cannot carry extra ammo with 
 them, so if you should make your shots count. Like said earlier, if you have a shotgun and need 
 a crowbar to proceed, you have to drop the shotgun in order to pickup the crowbar. This kind of 
 sucks as you usually have to choose between 2 good weapons. Since Agent Thomas is also a cop, he 
 has a taser. This is useful to taser an enemy and you can run up while they are stunned and hit 
 them or steal their weapon. Later, Thomas also gets an upgrade to his taser that makes enemies 
 fall over.
  
  Sound is also good in the game, as Agent Thomas is voiced over nicely. It is not perfect, but it 
 works out ok. The enemies sound fierce and mean, as they will curse you when they get hit and grunt 
 loudly when attacked. They also have a few choice words, so that adds to the fact that this game 
 is not for kids. Gun shots are weak sounding, but the sound of a crowbar smacking into someones 
 head is nicely gory sounding. Other voices, such as by Rose, Thomas' secret help from inside the 
 FBI, is decently done. There is no multiplayer to speak of, but it is not necessary as the game 
 has a strong single player, although the melee combat would be fun online. This game is great and 
 the story is compelling, and should definetly not be missed by any one who is a fan of survival 
 horrors. Creepy to the last minute, this game is fun and the next installment should be even better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkSIDEechoes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Call Of Cthulhu, Penumbra: Overture, Dark Messiah, Doom 3... all great FPS' that make you feel like 
 you are character you're playing. Condemned: Criminal Origins is another one of those games. Take 
 the creepiness from Doom 3, jumpiness from F. E. A. R., and melee combat from Penumbra (almost) and 
 you have Condemned.
  
  Since Condemned is built on the F. E. A. R. engine, anyone who has played both can tell you that they 
 have some similarities especially with the events that make you jump... such as a light busting, 
 a cabinet moving, etc. Unfortunately, the graphics are more clunky than F. E. A. R., but still offers 
 aesthetically-pleasing visuals. With Anti-aliasing x16, even sometimes on x8 makes some textures 
 turn black, mostly glass and sometimes causes the shadows to look weird on character' faces.
  
  It's also pretty violent, and the enemy voices are cool, too... a lot of chatter. The psychos 
 re-assure you they ARE crazy. Also, a good amount of swearing, whether you want it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoY0360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most atmospheric and scary games I've ever played in my life! hand to hand combat 
 has never been so fun and sickening. It's the sound effects and graphics that pull you in and dont 
 let go.
  Play it through headphones and you will understand just how terryfyingly good the sound quality 
 is in this game. Ok so I've said a bit about the graphics (which are amazing) and sound now on 
 to the gameplay.
  
  Hand to hand combat works suprisingly well fluid and simple to get your head around. Left trigger 
 if timed correctly produces a stunning effect block while mashing the right trigger lets you bludgeon 
 any psychopath that so happens to come running screaming in your direction.
  
  The story is satisfying and well executed with two different endings depending on how you finnish 
 it. And the multiple ways of doing levels will make you think which is nice. With a whole load 
 of achievments to find and unlock it's a game well worth playing again.
  
  So to sum up it up its dark, sadistic, psychpath bashing fun that will wisper your name to come 
 hit it again. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBurton
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  The weakest PC-game ever produced by Monolith, and to my knowledge- unless I missed one, I've played 
 (and enjoyed) all of their previous games.
  
  Also, this is the first Monolith production that not only did I not much care for, but I could 
 not force myself through to the game's end. I think I at least made it 2/3rd's of the way through 
 it before I quit and un-installed, which is something I rarely do with any game unless it's pretty 
 bad or boring. The Punisher was the last game to evoke such a reaction, and that was a couple of 
 years and several dozens of games ago.
  
  I must completely disagree with Gamespot about the keyboard and mouse being suitable for this game... 
 IMO, you better have a gamepad or be quite flexible with creating new key-bindings, solely set 
 for this game, for the various melee attacks which you'll be using, as there's not much gun play 
 here. I no longer own a pc gamepad (i prefer to play my gamepad-style games on Consoles) and never 
 could get comfortable with a new set of alphabetical bindings. No way was I going to proceed using 
 the default numeric melee controls. That game-design idea just sucked!
  
  Speaking of game-design, ACK!! If you thought FEAR suffered from bland, uninspired, or repetitive 
 level design, try this game- and by comparison, FEAR will seem like a LevelLord Masterwork of Level 
 Design! Yep, this is that bad.
  
  Condemned reminded me of a re-imagining of sorts of the game Manhunt, and it falls short in every 
 regard. It just feels rushed and unfinished too. The whole CSI-tools element of the game seemed 
 like a gimmick which only slowed the overall game-play, as it's poorly supported by the story. 
 Another game gimmick is that you can only carry one weapon at a time, (you have room in your pockets 
 for CSI tools, but only one weapon?!) so this forces you to use whatever you can find in the environment 
 as a combat weapon. It was fun for a while, but become boring after a short time. Simply put, it's 
 a poor port of a Console game that needed more tweaks prior to the PC version's release. Perhaps 
 that's just me, and I'm being far too critical.
  
  If the idea of cheap scares, an incomplete story, whacking people with pipes, re-bar, 2X4's, and 
 other varieties of hand-to-hand combat (over and over and over again) sounds like too much fun 
 to pass up, and you have a gamepad, go for it!
  
  I'll take Manhunt's gameplay over Condemned: Criminal Origins' any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  Condemened: Criminal Origins. Have you heard of it? Likely not. Which is fine. It only costs $10 
 shipped anywhere you look and boy, does it equate to a solid game.
  
  Condemned puts you in place of a forensic dude name Thomas, who goes around finding clues while 
 laying pipe to some undead foes.
  
  Scarey? Yes. Frightening. This game just hits the spot. It has superb gameplay that is quite different. 
 Don't expect alot of guns. You will fire no more than 75 rounds through the entire game. Most of 
 the game is pickup up meelee weapons, and making the best of them.
  
  Replay value is good. You can always replay again to find all the birds and metal scraps.
  
 
  During combat, you will learn how to block properly as well, because this is a must. The story 
 is superb. The ending was very open, so don't be suprised if you see a sequel.
  
  If you enjoyed games such as Doom 3, you must get Condemned. It brings something very new to the 
 table, there is no other game like it.
  
  You will not regret Condemend: Criminal Origins. PROS:
  Excellant Story
  Innovative gameplay
 
  Excellant graphics
  High Scare Level
  Low Cost
  
  NEGS:
  Graphical engine could have been optimized better.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins takes every 
 thing a gamer wants: A vibrant story, excellant gamplay, and all in a cheap, solid package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Matty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  This is a brilliant game.... A game u have to play in a dark room with some good surround speakers 
 and a good computer.... This game freaks everyone out. Me and my friends agree on that. Some very 
 good shock effects ! and sometimes it's extremly disgusting tho. Like the game play it's really 
 good. Would be nice if u could use weapons like knifes and stuff where u can cut u enemy to little 
 pieces :P One of the best things about this game is when u have taken down a very hard enemy u'll 
 be able to use the finishings move which rock.... and after it the good feeling u get when u stand 
 on his or hers dead body. Kind of scary tho... The graphic is excelent and very creepy when u running 
 round dark place with the spooky flashlight and your shadow which often gives u a shock :P Brilliant 
 game could be nice tho with a multiplayer part :P Outstanding game which I only can recommend everyone 
 to play .... If u dare! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is not that woot . It packs great graphics, great sounds (let's say so) , atmosphere 
 and good gameplay.
  As said, you are an Agent seeking out a serial killer, which in the end of the game is a strange 
 fact that will twist the plot that was the one you thought it was.
  The gameplay mechanics are good. I mean that, because there are noticeable faults. The blocking 
 mechanics are good-great, it is issued to be in the way it is, just clicking once will make the 
 character block a hit with strenght, like trying to make the oponent move get loose. And for someone 
 like me who got acquainted with slamming during a game, which I mean holding down the mouse button 
 will charge up a more powerful blow, is not existent on this game, altough not a major problem, 
 but the overall few of the gameplay could've been better, specially with the movement speed of 
 your character with looks like a cranky old geezer.
  But do not stop to play it just because of this. If you can get the game in what-have-you, enjoy 
 it as you might be playing it again, with a good atmosphere game, great graphics and sounds which 
 are very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsefacex
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This game does deliver. Sure, some may say the game is too short, but I have no problem with it. 
 People should really remember this game is a prequel. It's even stated as a prequel on the game's 
 website.
  
  Just take a look in a novel at the library with a prequel in it. Is the prequel supposed to be 
 as long as the actual novel? Of course not, it's just an introduction to what to look forward to. 
 I swear, too many people complain. Stop nit-picking about every little thing.
  
  Just be glad the game is really scary with scenes which are similar to those of FEAR. With those 
 black and white, static moments of hysteria and hallucinations, it sure is pretty freaky. Also, 
 the combat system is pretty interesting. I find it to be quite innovative. Sure some may say it's 
 dull, but I think people need to STOP playing games on easy and normal difficulty settings.
  
  Honestly, my ONLY real problem with the game is how SLOW this guy, Ethan, runs. I swear, he 
 must be morbidly obese, since he's so slow. Even while holding down the sprint button (shift) he 
 barely goes any faster than his walking speed. On top of that, Ethan can't even sprint for more 
 than a few seconds, and it takes him SO LONG to catch his breath. I think somebody needs to lay 
 of the sweets.
  
  Other than that, the game is a great mix of Silent Hill's creepy atmosphere, FEAR's intense gameplay 
 (I think so) , and CSI-like crime solving. I really enjoyed the game. I know Condemned 2 is gonna 
 be real good. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  You can play as an FBI agent investigating serial killers in Condemned: Criminal Origins. Condemned: 
 Criminal Origins is an atmospheric thriller in which you need to employ both fighting and crime-solving 
 skills to stay alive. Next-generation lighting effects and physics create spooky environments in 
 which to explore and solve crimes. Condemned: Criminal Origins also features a detailed story that 
 will lead you through the game's single-player mode. You are FBI agent Ethan Thomas, whose pursuit 
 of relentless serial killers leads him through detailed urban environments filled with terrifyingly 
 real sociopaths who lurk on the periphery of humanity. Gruesome weapons can be fashioned by clever 
 players from the environment: paper-cutter handles, wooden planks and lead pipes ripped from walls 
 can all be used to attack opponents. But watch your step, as enemies don't merely run at you; they 
 find an appropriately powerful weapon to attack with and then hide in the shadows, waiting for 
 an open opportunity to strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  This game isn't for everyone. It is super violent, creepy, and everything that entails those things. 
 . The fighting can be quite fun as long as you stay calm and don't take too many chances. If you 
 use a gun that you find you only get the ammo that it came with, after that you can use it as a 
 weak club. The melle weapons are my favorite but most of them are too crappy to consider using. 
 Uhhh, the game has alot of secret things to find, 3 metal pieces and around 6 dead birds are hidden 
 throughout each lvl and are pretty difficult to find. They unlock things such as concept art and 
 wireframe recordings. The main things to look forward to in this game is the interesting story 
 and the creepy atmosphere. This game kinda reminds me of a fps version of The Suffering. Overall 
 its a decent game for 20 bucks or under. the end :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlackbeard
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  After playing Monolith's F. E. A. R I knew I had to get this game. This game, essentially, is all 
 about smacking weird, drugged, mutated hobos. Did I mention these guys are also very scary? They 
 are. The combat is innovative, the game plays out like an FPS but most of it is melee (you use 
 bat, sledgehammers, things like that) since ammo is extremely sparse. You whack, smack, and block 
 your way all the way last level and is it fun or what. The game does get a bit repetitive because 
 if you've seen one blood stained room you've seen them all. There's some really fantastic lighting 
 in this game (particularly noticeable in the library ) and I can definately say this game looks 
 better than FEAR (and requires more GPU muscle too!) . The game get really weird near the end (hint, 
 you'll be fighting deranged nunchuck zombies like... things...) . It's a short game but it'll stick 
 with you, the ending cutscene is so bloody I can't even describe it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddog2575
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very fun, addictive, and really scary game mad by the masters monolith productions. 
 It may be slow when walking but once you get into the action it gets scary and you need really 
 good timing. Because your going to want to block and you need to get it at the right moment. The 
 graphics are really good and the sound is amazing. you will here a lot of creeks and moans when 
 playing so get used to it. The game play is original and very entertaining, personally i like slow 
 but scary action. But now the problems, It would be an even greater game if they added a Co-op 
 online/split screen mode. And it will lag in the middle of a cut scene even on the 360 one. Overall 
 this is one of the most original and scariest games i've ever played. A Buyer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 28, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  There are two games of recent memory that have affected my psyche this much, F. E. A. R., and Condemned. 
 Ironicly they are both developed by Monolith. At points Condemned literally creeped me out and 
 put me on edge to the extent that it was stressing me out some times. This was not totally because 
 I was scared by what was happening, but because I was thinking about what would happen. I was worried 
 about what the game had stashed behind the next corner, in the next room, and under the cardboard 
 boxes and in the book shelves. The quote from Aliens, they're coming out of the fu***** walls 
 ! entered my mind more than once. To be clear, this isn't a negative issue with the game, I give 
 credit to any game that can either scare me or just creep me out because it doesn't happen often. 
 The creepy atmosphere combined with the almost awesome story, the great graphics, and the unique 
 gameplay make for a good game.
  
  The story behind Condemned is laid out in a way that I truly wanted to find out the answers. Little 
 tidbits are given to you at the loading screens, and the cut scenes are very well done. There's 
 a few of them that take place live such as when you get the crap beaten out of you in first person 
 and thrown out of a window. Furthermore the game finds very good ways to creep you out and catch 
 you off guard. Also some things don't make sense like in the first level you start with one clip 
 of ammo. What FBI agent, or law enforcement agent in general carries only a single clip of ammo. 
 Without spoiling anything I can also say that there are some plot points that don't really make 
 sense, not to mention that some plot lines are never wrapped up, but even if they had a sequel 
 in mind they could of given us more info by the end. I think after fighting through this intense 
 game we earned it.
  
  Condemned offers some of the most unique gameplay to first person shooters. This is mostly because 
 there is very little shooting in the game. The majority of weapons you use are melee weapons such 
 as crowbars, axes, 2x4s, pipes, and so on. There is a very ground and pound feel to it. Theres 
 a certain rush to be had from bashing a guys skull in with a pipe. If you can beat your opponents 
 down enough that they are on their knees but not dead, there are three special kill animations 
 you can perform for your viewing pleasure. These include head butting, snapping the neck, and just 
 plain smashing the guys face off of the ground. Another cool feature is that certain melee weapons 
 can break after extended use and also you can stain your weapon with other peoples blood from the 
 beatings. The different weapons definetly had distinct feelings. I could tell the difference in 
 using an axe, a pipe, and even the guns were distinct enough that it they never seemed generic. 
 However by about the seventh of ten chapters in the game the gameplay caught up to itself. Theres 
 only so much of the same thing you can do before it starts to get stale. It gets worse in the ninth 
 chapter where the combat is pretty much switched out for riddles. Running around a damn house with 
 a UV light trying to find hidden messages was very annoying. Especially because the hidden entrance 
 I knew they had to point to was obvious, but of course it wouldn't open until I found the messages 
 and my character figured out what took me five minutes. Maybe I should join the FBI. One of my 
 problems is that as you continue to go insane you start to see things, but somehow these figmants 
 of your imagination can inflict actual damage on you. I also didn't like how certain enemies could 
 wield two weapons while I couldn't, and also how certain enemies could perform special maneuvers 
 with weapons that I couldn't. It was like fighting martial artists who happened to be crack-heads 
 or physcos. Their accuracy was also odd since they could pick me off from 30 feet with a shotgun. 
 There is this one level that takes place in the country, and yet there is almost a unlimited amount 
 of physcos to fight. This place looked as though there should of been 2 hicks playing banjos and 
 yet there were enough crazy people that you would of thought the rage virus had hit.
  
  Graphicaly Condemned is a treat. The lighting and shadows are great albiet not as good as FEAR, 
 and the fire was extremely well done. I should also mention the roads which are almost as good 
 as Battlefield 2 in that category. I noticed no clipping errors and the game never crashed on me 
 once. The only blemmish on the graphics is that the facial models of the people could of been better. 
 Far Cry and FEAR seemed to do better at this. Also some character models were a bit overused. I 
 will also mention that I maxed out Codemned at a resolution of 1680*1050 with 4x AA, and 16x AF.
 
  
  The sound was almost perfect. The voice acting was well done and the weapon noises were distinct, 
 I just wish there was more background music. Sometimes it can be overused in games, but except 
 the main menus I don't recall Condemned having any.
  
  Unfortunatley after you have finished the single player campaign, there isn't really any reason 
 to play it again. There is no multiplayer, no map editor, and no bonus levels. The three diffculty 
 levels are fairly similar and you won't find a significantly different experience at the harder 
 levels. The one point where you get to choose your path leads to the same conclusion so it's not 
 much of a choice. The achievements you get don't amount to anything so you don't need to go back 
 to get them all. All that is left is the combat, anytime you want to have some good melee combat 
 I would throw this in, but that's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to feel how it's like to get thrown out of a three-story window? Ever wondered what 
 it's like to headbutt someone in the face? What it sounds like to ram a locker door to someone's 
 gut? Well, Condemned: Criminal Origins answers all those questions, and a little more. Condemned 
 has an interesting narrative, visceral combat and a great presentation; too bad it's marred by 
 questionable design choices and repetition.
  
  You assume the role of Ethan Thomas -- a man who's part of the Serial Crimes Unit. When your initial 
 investigation begins, you're soon thrown into a situation that leaves you as a framed suspect. 
 Throughout the game, you'll take Ethan through various, seedy and condemned (ho ho!) as you try 
 to hunt down the real suspect that can clear your name. It's an interesting premise, but it never 
 fully delivers. Questions brought up are never fully explained and when the plot seems like it's 
 about to finally reach a satisfying conclusion, it shamelessly cops out and ends with you with 
 a big question mark over your head.
  
  As you try to chase down your suspect, you'll do a lot of beating and finding evidence to piece 
 together this mess. The melee combat is fun, but simple. You use one button to attack and another 
 to block to combat the crazed and psychotic that you'll encounter throughout the game. By timing 
 your blocks you leave the enemy vulnerable for attack. There's also a tiny bit of gunplay but ammo 
 is relatively scarce so you'll have to depend on your handy metal pipe of yours. But you don't 
 have to do any of this. Throughout almost the entire game, you've got a handy taser that can easily 
 disable any enemy for a short time. And once you recieve the super taser, the game becomes a cakewalk. 
 Even if you opt not to use your problem solver, you can easily win any battle by serving up the 
 first strike. They'll get stuck in an animation cycle which'll allow you to beat them to a pulp 
 as they go through the varied I got hit and it hurts animations over and over again. The combat 
 is definitely fun, but you're never required to block or really think in any of it.
  
  The investigation portions serve mostly to move the story but it holds your hand too much to become 
 a real gameplay mechanic. The game always tells you when to use your tools. Even more, the game 
 picks the tools automatically for you. While it's understanable -- trying to find the right tool 
 could've resulted in a ton of frustration -- but it does suck all the reward and satisfaction you 
 could've potentially felt.
  
  The level design also presents an issue. Inexplicably, some doors can only be opened by certain 
 weapons. You can hop over certain obstacles but you can't step over a table blocking your way. 
 You can open some doors but you can open others, you can duck under certain passages but you can't 
 duck under others. These frustrating and illogical design choices pop up over and over again. How 
 come I need a fireaxe to break this door down? I've got a shotgun right here on my hands, dammit!
 
  
  The gameplay's overly simplistic and tedious but the great presentation helps the game stand up. 
 Visually, it's an impressive sight -- the light and shadows do a fantastic job to create a moody 
 atmosphere and the textures are sharp. The game does a great job at creating a gritty world and 
 just a gritty world. The game is constantly dark with various shades of grey as its main color 
 pallette. It's easy on the eyes but you'll soon wish the developers mixed things up a little.
 
  
  The audio is the game's strongest component. Almost everything sounds incredibly authentic. The 
 simple act of stepping on glass to something like smashing a 4x4 over someone's face leaves you 
 wincing from the sound while being impressed by it at the same time. It's as if the developers 
 recorded themselves while smashing stuff over their heads, it sounds that good. The voice acting, 
 while used sparsely, is great whenever it appears. The cast puts on a great performance and the 
 enemy mutterings sound great but they repeat often. Other than that little dent, the audio goes 
 a long way in making what Condemned is trying to be -- a brutal and unforgiving world.
  
  The game ends before it suffocates and dies from repetition, which is around 7-9 hours. The extras 
 open up some artwork but it's not much of an incentive to go back and find the hidden extras. Also, 
 a multiplayer component would've been great but nothing like that is here, unfortunately. All in 
 all, Condemned offers a fun, albeit brief experience that you should try if you want to know how 
 it feels to take a suckerpunch to the face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leoxmayhem
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  I got to play the 360 version of Condemned for the first time last night. I was at a friends who 
 had just bought it. I think it was one of the best, thrilling, adrenaline pumping gaming experiences 
 ever (And I've played Clock Tower and The Suffering alone in the dark countless nights) . If we 
 weren't jumping out of our seats when a psychotic con jumped out from somewhere, swinging a lead 
 pipe at our face, we were cheering and screamy bloody battle cries as we smashed objects on to 
 our enemies. The ragdoll system is quite nice. A blow to the faced caused a believable reaction 
 from NPCs. Graphic were amazing, I didn't really notice any flaws. Controls are easy. I highly 
 recommend everyone to try this spine tingler. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  The developers on Condemned have concentrated their efforts on the intense atmosphere and environment. 
 Every level you play on Condemned is either dark or dark or dark or dark. They are all dark and 
 gloomy - and your only friend in this game is your trustworthy flashlight. Yes, like I said the 
 flashlight is your best tool and throughout the game it will reveal hidden health boxes, enemies, 
 clues and way out!!!. The one thing that is different in Condemned than any other horror games 
 is the use of forensic devices such as UV light, Cameras, Evidence collection tools - it is used 
 primarily to uncover the hidden blood, chemicals and clues in this game. Following these clues 
 will lead you to your next body or objective. It is one hell of a scary game. Try playing this 
 at 2 in the morning and prepare to scream. Walking down the ghastly cryptic sewers with a plank 
 and 100s of psychos in dark tunnels waiting to kill you. They jump out of no where and will often 
 take you by surprise. The A. I. is impressive in this game and rather than chasing after you, they 
 will hide and hit you by surprise. There are limited amount guns in this game because the main 
 focus is to use weapons in your surroundings - like pipes, planks, axes etc. whatever you can find 
 it is your weapon. The surrounding is interesting and will leave you wanting more. Play it. and 
 love it. Not for the light hearted - and definitely not for children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edito24
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is one of the best horror FPS game out there.
  
  People say the combat system repetitive and simple, I disagree. You have to take into account various 
 factors: type of weapon you choose, its speed, reach and damage. If you have a gun, you have to 
 take into account the amount of ammo, and range.
  
  Also you have to take into account what type of enemy there is and what weapon your enemy has because 
 you dont want to rush in with a short pipe when a big fat hideous criminal has a shot gun ready 
 to shoot. Maybe taser him first then hit him a few times then evade, and then reapply! Yes indeed 
 there is some strategy. You have a taser to stun, steal their weapon and perform one of the 4 finishing 
 moves (my personal favorite is the breaking of the neck.) . Dont forget you also have a kick. If 
 you learn quick enough you can do combos for example I like to stun them, walk up and kick them 
 (they usually fall to their knees) and then my finishing move BREAK!!! Another cool thing about 
 this game is that in some situations that seem impossible to pass  you can just to maneuver around 
 and try and make the enemies kill each other. And yes they will fight each other (ruthless thugs!) . 
 One thing that really annoyed me was that the game recycles character models; even different coloured 
 shirts for enemies would have made a difference. The story is good but it leaves out a lot of information. 
 It does leave an opening for a sequel, and I hope if it does come out, that it will explain why 
 Ethan Thomas is the way he is.
  
  Condemned should get some extra credit for the outstanding audio. The sound of someones footsteps 
 from running behind you heightens your nerves, and sound of your enemy coughing as they wait for 
 you round the corner. The enemies will even shout out profanities at you and each other.
  
  Overall this is a must have, replay value is not very high but the games style should make you 
 want to finish the game in every difficulty setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  I think it's a good game and good experience to play it. Look like FEAR (the same engine) but it's 
 more easy and not so scary for a horror game. Good gameplay, still... more metal pipes easy to open 
 and take ... danger of flood or after-damp, maybe? :) When i stop to play about 2 hours and i go 
 to bathroom feel like more pipes pull down... :) Don't try to make this at home or any hallway 
 you found...
  
  Good game and more intense brutality for fans who agreed with this. If you get angry and play this 
 game maybe is not a good thing.
  
  Graphics are good but not so amazing and the story it's something like never know what happend 
 but you are the guy who run for life to survive and kill everything what move and hit you. Great 
 tools to collect evidence, great atmosphere sometimes and almost frightening... still, more repetitive 
 and boring sometimes with all hallway after hallway.
  
  If you want to beat someone with a pipe or sledge hummer play this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heborress
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, F. E. A. R was superb, and definitely scary, but Condemned: Criminal Origins was 
 way scarier at times.
  
  In this game you play as FBI agent Ethan Thomas, the game starts when Ethan arrives at a crime 
 scene along with a fellow agent, after investigating the scene, it is almost clear that this is 
 the work of the notorious serial killer The Matchmaker , and the story evolves from there.
  I don't think i want to tell more about the story, because i don't want to spoil anything.
  But 
 i can say that i thought the story was GREAT most parts of the game, but it got a little confusing 
 after a while, so i had to play it twice to understand it completely.
  
  Visually, this game looks great. The environments are really well made, and sometimes they are 
 very frightening.
  The sound is almost the best part of the game. You hear voices whispering around, doors opening 
 and closing, footsteps and other really creepy noises, so i recommend that you turn up the volume 
 on your speakers (or headset) . The gameplay are a bit different from other FPS games. Instead of 
 shooting, you often have to use axes, boards, locker doors, crowbars etc.
  The few times you actually have a gun (or rifle) , you don't have much ammo, so use it wisely.
 
  It takes sometime to get used to this, but when you get the hang of it, the fighting gets really 
 intense.
  The game also gets pretty brutal at times, so if you don't like games like that, you probably wont 
 enjoy this game.
  And if you don't like scary games... then avoid this game at all cost :p
  (This game contains scenes or even whole levels were i was constantly scared and almost wanted 
 to stop playing. And it also gave me some of the greatest scares i have ever experienced in a videogame.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaabnaze83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  If you watch CSI and like Seven (movie date 90s) , Condemned: Criminal origins is your game. Is 
 a excellent combine of suspense and investigation game-playing.
  
  The tools for find evidences made the game a great tittle, but the graphics are poor compared with 
 F. E. A. R., the game-play is little similar to The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape to Butcher Bay and 
 the sound is awesome and the best of this game.
  
  The use of 16:9 screen rate is one of the problems, if you monitor only support 4:3 screen rate 
 the game look like a movie film. The game maybe is short and easy to finish, but you don't doubted 
 to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok ive tryed fear and i didn't like it. but this game is AWESOME! You take the persona of Ethan 
 Thomas; a federal agent who after a normal day at work, gets accused of murdering two fellow cops 
 and now he must find the man who framed him. Gameplay is well done. since you are a CSI you need 
 to find evidence to help clear your name. along the way you must fight hobos, addicts, and other 
 freaks with anything you can find at your disposal. Graphics are good for launch title standards 
 but still they are well done! Sound is important to keeping your enemys in your sight because they 
 WILL sneak up and make sure you are dead. ever corner is filled with spookyness so watch your step. 
 Voice acting is well done and it combined with the emmerse first person actions will think that 
 you ARE Thomas. the only disipointing part is that its short and replay value is slim to nill. 
 Fear eat your heart out cause this game is what your should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I was constantly thinking WOW these controls suck and WOW they still have 360 and live features 
 in :\ Woulda thought they coulda atleast made a effort but i guess not.
  
  During my time playing through the game i just got bored, ok it was fun at first but then it was 
 like FEAR the same coridoors and the same NPCs fighting and just got very boring. It's a nice change 
 to have a melee FPS but DMM&amp; M done it sooo much better and less repetitive.
  
  It's also very short and only took me 4 hours to complete and after only 4 hours it's weird to 
 be bored lol.
  
  Anyways the graphics and sound are pretty nice but abit dull..
  
  I bought it for &pound;5 though so not a bad buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelsoldier666
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game in the beginning, but i got used to it, the secrets only unluck images and stuff 
 that are completely useless to me, The difficulty of the game was also too easy even in hard for 
 me, The game Has Fairly a great ammount of graphics but that doesnt make it a good game, It reminds 
 me of Dark messiah, but that game made me go to the end, this one didnt, i only finished till chapter 
 5, i got bored, perhaps if this had a rpg system included it would make the game a little better, 
 right now I hope theres a sequel for this which will fix all mistakes in this one like for example 
 the map making rush, Still proves to have some reallistic fighting, but still lacks in it, And i think 
 the game price costs too much for the game, but thats only my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqwishybon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty: Just Right
  It's easy on easy, and hard on hard! There were some parts where I felt the AI needed help, for 
 example, they liked to hide behind corners and wait to ambush you; however, they didn't hide very 
 well. Either they left a part of their weapon sticking out or you could see them hide around the 
 corner. Other times it seemed that the game was hard simply because you had 30 guys coming at you. 
 Which works, but isn't very original and shows a lack of Learning Curve: 0 to 30 Minutes
  It took me about half an hour to figure out what I was doing. I didn't look at the instructions 
 either, its pretty self explanatory, theres little tips that pretty much tell you when to use stuff 
 and where.
  
  Time Spent: 10 to 20 Hours
  I didn't play much because the game is only about 6-8 hours! I beat it on normal in one day yesterday, 
 It kinda sucked!
  
  Classification: Too short
  This is too short and that sucks, a lot. The game just kinda ends and you don't really understand 
 what happened. But I guess that's how thrillers work...
  
  Overall it was fun and pretty. I thought it was fine if it's $20 but anything more is just stupid 
 cause its so short! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Youll be playing as Ethan Thomas, a member of Serial Crimes Unit. Youll start out on a routine 
 mission getting used to your equipment, but very soon youll find yourself framed for murder and 
 tracking a dangerous serial killer, and to make things more interesting something seems to be making 
 people act insane and homicidal. And since bullets are scarce you will end up using unconventional 
 weapons like 24 with nails or fire axe throughout the game.
  
  Condemned is actually a port of an older x360 game, and it clearly shows to old-school PC gamers 
 at least, you cant jump nor crouch and the game wont stress your brains much as its basically 
 a tunnel run from the start to the end. I personally was a bit disappointed when the start of the 
 game implied that you would also be examining the crime scenes with the many high-tech gadgets 
 that your character comes equipped with. But instead you will only press a button in pre-determined 
 spot to activate some CSI tool and then continue beating the oncoming hobos. Condemneds other 
 weak points are inherited from FEAR; the surroundings are grey, bland and unfortunately repetitive. 
 Still youll be fighting hobos from subway tunnels to old school, burned down library and a supermarket, 
 too bad that all these environments remind each other so strongly that you feel like youre running 
 through a one never ending map. Story seems fairly interesting in the start, but is just not carried 
 out that well. Hunting a psycho-killer does provide for a great atmosphere, but cut scenes are 
 quite rare and not very interesting, in general the story just doesnt seem to go anywhere.
  
  But the games main point is in combat, and that is where Condemned really shines. The combat 
 looks amazing, and not only is the animation best Ive ever seen, but lighting effects and other 
 details look impressing as well. The moves during combat are just beautiful to watch. Despite Condemned 
 being a port it runs quite smoothly, one pro for a game consisting mostly of melee combat is that 
 you wont need as high framerate as in FEAR for e. g. and hence you can crank up the settings a 
 bit. Luckily the combat doesnt only look good, but it feels good too. Youll be fending off crazy 
 hobos and thugs with your taser and any other weapon that you can get your hands on, from submachine 
 guns and shotguns to rebars. Enemies are quite smart, they might ambush you, they like to hide 
 behind a post or a corner, and crack your skull if you fail to block the strike or kill them before 
 they get the chance to hit you. Seeing a shadow disappearing into a hallway filled with different 
 obstacles is bound to give you some thrilling gaming moments, as you wont know where the enemy 
 will strike. And when the enemy comes out of his hiding place and starts running at you screaming 
 and waving the axe in his hands, youll understand what this game is all about. But since the game 
 is so heavily concentrated on combat, there would had been room for improvements, some extra moves 
 besides the basic swings and blocks would had made it last longer, luckily the game itself isnt 
 that long so with luck you wont get utterly bored to it before the end. The sounds are very impressive, 
 voice acting is nearly perfect, and controls, despite some console style solutions do their job. 
 Graphics, well, like I already said, just beautiful. So on the technical side Condemned scores 
 well, there arent much bugs to worry about and it runs decently on a bit older machines too. Multiplayer 
 could had been nice especially in a short game like this, but I guess you cant have everything.
 
  
  Condemned offers some great melee combat with nice visuals, but unfortunately its not enough to 
 carry through the whole game. The combat despite looking good could had used some special moves 
 or something, as it is now youre bound to get bored of it before the game is over. Gameplay in 
 other aspects lacks depth also. Add some repetitive surroundings and a bland story and youll get 
 an average game. And thats exactly what Condemned is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogatasha
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  Have you ever been so scared that even thou you are over 16 years old you wanted to go under your 
 bed and attack every thing insite. Well i wanted to do this. When i started playing Condemned. 
 This game freaks me out...
  The vibe that you get from it is so depresing, and at the same time intriguing that you want to 
 cary on. When you play the game it looks like you are in a world of your own. But after every attack 
 you start feeling threthened by everything.... I'm now paranoid.... I can even walk normaly after 
 dark... This s**t is getting to my brain. The noise, the cracking, the atmosphere that this game 
 creats can be recreated anywhere else. The shadows are still chasing me... So thats why i want 
 this game to have more strict control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amathyne
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Too be positive, it does a decent job of creating an instantly creepy atmosphere, and I was hooked 
 for awhile. But after the five millionth drug-crazed bum attacked me, I got bored. There isn't 
 much to do, because all the investigative stuff is done for you. It tells you what to do, and when 
 you need to do it. All you really do is wander around dark hallways fighting junkies. Yawn. It's 
 a pity, because this is yet another game that I really felt could have been great if they had put 
 a little more work into it. I really liked the wierd, creepy touches (like the dead birds and stuff) 
 but it wasn't enough to stifle my yawns after a couple of sessions with it. I usually agree with 
 gamespot reviews, but this one I strongly feel they way over-rated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Condemned offers the player creepy atmosphere, decent story and a revolutionary hand to hand combat 
 system which makes the game one of the scariest games I've played in the last few months.
  
  You play as Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent assigned to the special crime unit in order to track 
 down a serial killer on the loose. as you investigate the crime scene you soon find yourself on 
 a wild chase after an unknown new killer, and he's got your gun.
  
  Along the many hallways in various soon to be demolished buildings you encounter your enemies as 
 well as you weapons; you can literally take apart the building in a desperate attempt to find something 
 you help you protect yourself from the many psychos the games throws at you.
  Most of the time the enemies in the game seem a little bit out of place, for they have no real 
 role in the game except offering you something to clobber while you search for the next clue in 
 your investigation. As the game goes on, your enemies will become more and more inhuman in there 
 appearance, maybe because of the deteriorating state of Thomas sanity, or maybe just to spice thing 
 up.
  
  Back to the combat. While in the game, you'll be able to use many many objects as a weapon; ranging 
 from a 2x4 with nails to a fire axe and even a mannequin's arm. Some of the weapons (like the fire 
 axe) are needed in order to reach certain areas or secret places.
  As for fire-arms, there are a few in the game, but they are rare and a bit hard to use. you'll 
 have only several shots in each weapon before you'll be forces to use it as a club, or simply find 
 a better melee weapon.
  
  As I said before, most of the background in Condemned is made out of hallways. and mostly boring 
 hallways. The graphic itself is pretty good and some of the enemies models are down right disturbing, 
 though, unfortunately, the environment is not as destructive as it should be.
  
  In conclusion, Condemned: Criminal origins is an original game with quite a few scares in it. The 
 story is not the best story I've seen in a horror game, but if you like jumping out of your sit 
 everytime you hear someone shouts at the distance or want to beat something senseless, just hold 
 on to your sledge hummer and be ready to bust some heads! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royzentner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Condemned - Criminal Origins is a scary game. Very scary! It's not just the weird visions you'll 
 experience or enemies jumping you from every corner, but also the surroundings will scare the crap 
 out of you if you're playing alone in a dark room. Filthy allies, abandoned subway platforms and 
 dark rooms are only few of the places you'll have to pass by to complete this game. In a city with 
 a strange rise in crime, where drug addicts and homeless people filled with rage roam the midnight 
 hours streets, you'll find it hard to survive.
  You play a homicide detective whose reputation for busting bad guys stands before him everywhere 
 he goes. Your name: Ethan Thomas. On your way to another crime scene you get seperated from the 
 other cops and without revealing important details you'll soon be finding yourself running from 
 the cops and chasing a serial-killer to clear your name.
  You're all alone, following the trail of clues, fighting enemies using anything you find on the 
 streets like steel pipes or 2x4s. Carrying only what you got in your hands and the cool CSI tools 
 in your backpack, you get the help of a fellow officer that believes you're innocent through your 
 cellphone. Fortunately, she works in the crime lab so she can help you with any clues you find 
 like fingerprints etc.
  This game has an amazing story, that will keep you on edge all the time. The graphics are pretty 
 awesome and character animations (especially in fights) are pretty impressive, and combined with 
 the horryfing sound your experience will be really special. Speaking of which, the voice acting 
 is one of the best I've heard lately. Some people will say this game is too short but I think it's 
 just right. If they put more chapters in it, it would just be repetitive. The good side about this 
 10-chapter-long game is that every chapter is uniqely original and the connection between the chapters 
 is pretty satisfying. You won't ask yourself How the heck did I get here? .
  
  The visions, oh yeah, you're in for a treat here. Having extraordinary intuition and a bit of a 
 sixth sense, you'll see now and then visions related to crimes and sometimes related to your charcter's 
 paranoia. The good thing about them is that they are part of the gameplay and not as cutscenes 
 (kinda like the dreams in Max Payne) . Having those visions as a sixth sense instead of  
 (like in F. E. A. R.) is way cool in my opinion. It adds to the game's suspense as well as making 
 the game harder.
  All in all, I absolutely recommend this game to all fans of FPS games. I just have to tell you 
 - this one isn't for the faint of heart! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twoedge123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  First off, I really didn't like this game when I first started playing it. Sure the graphics were 
 mind blowing but the game had a slow, clunky feeling, whereI felt like I was wandering around lost 
 most of the time. I wasn't used to walking around like a real person, I was used to playing most 
 FPS where your characted runs around like he's jacked up on Red Balls. I played through two levels 
 and put the game down. Well, last weekend I picked the game back up and I am so glad I did!! If 
 you have a graphics card that can handle most or all of the eye candy turned up, then you're in 
 for a real treat. Never have I seen a game create scum in such a real way. The dirt and filth feels 
 alive in the game. These are some of the most impressive graphics I have ever seen. FEAR was amazing 
 looking but this game ads a grime to the polish and it pays off in spades.
  
  Soundwise the game is spot on. Music is queued up when it should, and it creates an atmosphere 
 that is actually quite unsettling. I was very impressed by this.
  
  Gameplay is where the game falls a bit short. Your character walks a bit to slow and it can feel 
 painful to run around a level trying to find everything while walking with the speed of someone 
 carrying 200lbs on his back. I appreciated the sense of realness this added but it had to negative 
 of an impact on enjoyment. The melee aspect of the game is very cool actually. There are only a 
 few spots in the game where I felt it didn't work so hot but they in no way detracted from the 
 fun. Story is actually decent for a game like this. I don't want to ruin it but I'll say it's better 
 than average. Do you like to jump out of your seat while playing a game? What about getting freaked 
 out several times a level and never seeing it coming? This game has it all! I have NEVER been so 
 jumpy playing a game or watching a movie before (ok well the movie The Descent made me jump several 
 times) . There are so many memorable scenes where I can remember how I actually yelled the game 
 scared me so much. Sure most of it is bad guys jumping out at you or the random 2x4 hitting you 
 out of nowhere, but boy does that put you on edge. I highly recommend people play this game. Just 
 try to get through the first few levels and then you'll settle right into the mechanics of the 
 gameplay. Plus, that's when all the creepy shocks and atmosphere hits you like a freight train 
 and keeps on running.
  
  -Jordan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Condemned Criminal Origins is a first person survival horror game, you take on the role of Ethan 
 Thomas a FBI agent whos attempting to track down several serial killers. However during an investigation 
 at a crime scene he is attacked and framed for killing two other police officers with his own gun, 
 and goes on the run trying to find the real killer, thus clearing himself.
  The story sounds ok up to this point but It seemed very odd that our Ethan couldnt just give himself 
 up and explain the situation instead of being pursued, and not to give much of the story away, 
 things get very strange with a report on ethan and then the story goes mad right near the end.
 
  To make matters even worse for Ethan, the city is going through a unexplained crime wave with 
 assaults and murders skyrocketing.
  
  The games presentation is outstanding, the environments look extremely good, and the way the lighting 
 changes to the story - only what i can describe as visions is superbly done aswell.
  The character models also look very well done, although during the cut scenes sometimes Ethan himself 
 looks abit odd.
  
  The sound in Condemned is likewise, very well done, the music whislt not outstanding does fit the 
 atmosphere and mood of the game and the sound and voice acting is sufficient aswell.
  
  Gameplay wise, Condemned is a quite fun, the two main things you'll do in condemend is investigate 
 areas for clues which kinda feels inconsequential and just tacked on as you go around a level, 
 and the other is beat people to death. The combat is very brutal and bloody, especially if your 
 using melee weapons which can be pretty much anything in the envrionment which you would expect 
 to hurt, be it a locker door, conduit pipe to a fireaxe and the odd firearm. You have a tazer gun 
 which is useful to stun enemies and you also possess a few standard attacks and can kick aswell, 
 dodging and blocking is of paramount importance in Condemned which means you'll want a decent PC 
 so theres no slow down otherwise you'll get annihilated in combat which makes up ALOT of the game.
 
  As i said, it makes up alot which leads onto a negative point in condemend, whilst the fighting 
 is good theres not much else you do but investigate areas for clues (a tooltip comes up telling 
 you to investigate) picking up secret objects to unlock achievements - these being dead/dying birds, 
 lumps of metal and tv 's that are turned on and fight.
  
  The enimies in Condemned are surprisingly varied considering there all human, or are they? from 
 normal sort of looking people, to big juggernaughts, cannibals and skinnies. They all seem to display 
 there own personalities , like the normal types will hide behind corners, the juggernaughts will 
 charge then retreat, cannibals with scamper on floor and try get behind you etc. Inevitably unless 
 they have a gun they're going to have to get close to hurt you so you can just wait for them to 
 come to you, but I would also say the AI is acceptable in Condemned.
  
  The game itself will last probably anywhere between twelve and 20 hours whcih seems to be just 
 above the average length of a game these days (which is pitiful initself) depending on how much 
 sleuthing you do for those extra achievements.
  
  So the game does get repetitive after a while, but the story teases you along after getting past 
 the first few rather boring levels in the metro, underground and subway coupled with the superb 
 presentation makes Condemned a worthwhile experience, especially coupled with the discount price 
 you can get it for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digi_matrix
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  All the videos leading up to its release promised great combat and genuine scares. What they didn't 
 show was the plot. Boy, am I glad they didn't because it's a breath of fresh air.
  
  STORY: I'll spare you the details of the main character Ethan Thomas but basically he's a cop who 
 looks chunkier than most and has a tendency to have visions. This is not fully explained but it 
 won't be bugging your mind too much. You're on the case of the Matchmaker who leaves mannequins 
 with scars on them. After that, the bad guy takes your gun away and uses it to shoot two officers 
 you were working with. You're now implicated of murder, so are on the run but do get help from 
 a female colleague (chubby herself) and a weird guy who knows things about you and your psych profile. 
 The story is very strong and feels like a murder mystery movie and borrows heavily from Se7en to 
 give one of the biggest scares in gaming history. Things get crazier and the end is a huge cliffhanger. 
 You'll be scratching your head and then end up with the realisation that it was going to happen 
 since day one, so might as well not scratch below the surface.
  The story is great, and is very engaging. You want to find out what's up with the Matchmaker and 
 who's that crazy chain-jaw ninja nunchuk guy that pops in randomly. There are some big twists towards 
 the end which you wouldn't expect in a game. It makes the game feel more like a film, and so for 
 a horror game, that's a great achievement.
  
  Combat: This is the one aspect everyone should play this right now. The enemies are some of the 
 finest, most unpredictable people you'll face off with. Their animations are just superb, there 
 are many instances where you think you're not fighting a piece of 3D code but an actual enemy that 
 is intelligent and human himself. Since the game is all about survival horror in its truest form, 
 and you never have a gun (you do, but they won't do jack with 2 bullets) , so you're left with a 
 handy taser gun and a flashlight. This is the most original take on the first-person genre in which 
 you pick up weapons from the environment. You literally grab a pipe from a wall, or a conduit, 
 or even a locker door! The first time you fight with a crazy hobo thug with a pipe, it's invigorating. 
 The combat feels organic, and the animations are impeccable. The best thing about combat is you 
 have to time your blocks. This leads to real skill and it's very satisfying to get that perfect 
 block, have the hobo swagger back from the impact, then whack him over the head in one brutal go. 
 There is the taser gun which you can use to make an enemy stay far away from you, or if you're 
 smart use it before going for a one-hit kill with a sledgehammer. It lasts for a short time, enough 
 for you to There are no words to describe how awesome the fighting feels. Especially when you get 
 hit in the face and you get that red shiner across the screen as you die, in slow-motion. It's 
 like a bad hangover.
  
  AI: The most logical aspect to go over after combat is AI. The enemy AI is very diverse, and will 
 give you a lot of surprises for the 1st few hours. As soon as you notice that enemies are hiding 
 and only come out when you're very near, you'll be taken back and try to adjust your mindset around 
 this game. Once you've mastered timing your blocks, and using the right weapons, it feels very 
 satisfying after defeating a thug. There are different thugs throughout the levels, about 8 or 
 less. Each has their own characteristics: thin, crawling emo-esque guys walk up a wall, jump off 
 and attack you quickly; the hobo is almost pathetic, relying on trying to get the best weapon in 
 the area and are easy to subdue; big dudes with angry faces really go all out for you and know 
 how to fake hits disturbingly well, mutated women are ugly and easy enough for you to show off 
 your chauvinist views, and guys with pickaxes are to be avoided. The bosses are few and far between, 
 and with people like the butcher who gives such a very scary first impression, you want more. The 
 battles are more rinse-and-repeat but damn if it doesn't feel satisfying to maim a 20-stone, fat 
 as hell school lunchlady. After you beat the pulp of a baddie enough, you can get right up and 
 close to their gruesome and highly detailed faces by going for a fatality. These opportunities 
 are not to be missed and there are enough options for you to salvage over. If there's a guy who 
 gave you a bad time, twist his neck for an excruciating and awesome sound effect. Shove a guy if 
 you want them over in a second, and your character huffing obscenities. This fatality mechanic 
 is first awesome if you want to see the detail on the face of the scar-ridden baddie, and second 
 to really give everything you got in your gaming anger. If you're ever sad/bored after a day of 
 work, play this game and let out our anger!
  Sometimes enemies have fights with other enemies, and these are entertaining to watch but then 
 you're left fighting the toughest guy by yourself! Don't get too close and see the brilliant AI 
 at work. WEAPONS: For a game with no guns, you'd be surprised with the variety of melee weapons. 
 There are pipes, conduits, sledgehammers, locker doors, 2x4 pieces of wood with nails, and a 2x4 
 ON FIRE! Each weapon has their advantages and disadvantages. Understanding each one's property 
 is crucial at certain parts where if you're fighting a big guy, you want a faster weapon. The all-around 
 weapon to acquire is the conduit and the most powerful is the sledgehammer. The slowest weapon 
 is the locker door and this obstructs 3/4th of your screen, so use wisely. SOUND: It's immersive 
 and atmospheric. The main reason why this game is so scary is the sounds. If a baddie is hiding 
 behind a pillar, waiting for you, and when he pops out screaming to hammer you over the head with 
 a pipe, there's no measure to how greatly this moment is heightened with sound. Guns sound awesome, 
 and they're a luxury in this game. Bones crunch, you can hear enemies screaming in the distance, 
 pickaxe a door to break it down, lights go out. The game is very atmospheric, it gives another 
 level of depth alongside the immersive combat. There are some scenes that are only scary with the 
 sound and so the game excels in this area. Everything sounds clear and so you know if a guy has 
 gotten a shotgun and is trying to blast you from the back.
  
  LEVEL DESIGN: Where F. E. A. R., another game made from the same compnay, was heavily criticised for, 
 this game does a way better job. Each place is real and explorable to a certain extent if you don't 
 want to get beaten to a pulp around every corner. Some levels like the house near the end of the 
 game make you feel very claustrophobic, as you run up stairs and see enemies in the garden smashing 
 through windows to get to you. The school is very eerie and as you see an arm hanging from a basketball 
 net, which is crucial to the story of one guy, you know you're in for something. Each level is 
 unique and even the very dark sewers have their own charm which are the trains. Moments like hanging 
 onto a train while hobos jump near you makes for an adrenaline-packed chase, or when you get into 
 a garbage bin ride and you try to knock off other joyriders. Level design, in other words, is excellent.
 
  
  The graphics are worth mentioning but they're only icing. Enemies are highly detailed but give 
 a strange rectangle appearance, environments are gritty, lighting is goddamn stunning, and there's 
 a smooth framerate. This all adds to the experience. The game is seriously an experience in a controllable 
 film with an actual plot that is not deep but definitely engrossing. However, this does mean the 
 game is slightly short. You can complete it within 10 hours, took me 8 hours and that's after collecting 
 some dead birds. The collecting is more a tacked-on novelty and doesn't become anything unless 
 if you have this on a 360 for achievement points. But it's nice to know that with all the pollution, 
 there are birds dying and decaying. To conclude, let me recommend this game highly if you want 
 a superb rental. Once you finish the game, there is no incentive to go back. But if you get this 
 game really cheap, keep it to show off to others how scary a game can be. There are no words to 
 describe the highly original and organic combat experience or the atmosphere which is only matched 
 by the Silent Hill games. Buy this now, you won't regret it but definitely a rental if this is 
 still retail price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inoperativeRS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  First the bad: Condemned is a game you play through once and then leave. It doesn't help that the 
 game is really short either. However, the 8-10 hours the game lasts are so fantastic you'll easily 
 be able to forget all the bad points about the game.
  
  Condemned tells the story about FBI agent Ethan Thomas, and even if the game starts of like an 
 X files episode it actually turns even grittier during the following hours of gameplay. The combat 
 system, which is the backbone of the gameplay, is as genious as it is innovative; never before 
 has first person melee combat felt and worked this well. While it may seem simple at first, there 
 is an unprecedented level of depth: the first thing you'll notice is how different the weapons 
 work. Although some of them feel ike they're totally useless in the beginning, you'll often find 
 yourself using them in the middle or end of the game, as different enemies are easier to take down 
 using different weapons. That's not nearly everything though. The system of a block and an attack 
 button seems simple, and in a worst case scenario the combat could have been pretty much like oblivion 
 without stats. That's not the case, though, as blocking actually requires skill and very good timing, 
 and your enemies usually are every bit as good as yourself at it. The fighting itself is a fantastic 
 experience, as every fight in the game is equally suspense and thrilling. The fact that you go 
 down in 2-4 hits (depending on the weapon) on the hardest difficulty (which is the difficulty you 
 should play on) and the simply brilliant AI forces the player to be careful, and more importantly, 
 think. It's actually possible to play through Condemned without getting hit a single time (except 
 the hits you take in scripted sequences) , but obviously that's not something you're going to accomplish 
 without some mad melee fighting skills, perfect timing and just lots of overall knowledge of the 
 game.
  
  The graphics are downright amazing, and easily outshine FEAR's, even if both games run on the same 
 engine. The most important cause to this is the slow pace of the game, which means the game is 
 fully playable at framerates under 30 per second. The lightning detail and overall look of the 
 game are not only spectacular to look at, but also fit the creepy and aerie mood of the game perfectly. 
 The only thing that could have used some more work is the detail on peoples faces; especially the 
 main character looks quite ugly compared to the rest of the game.
  
  The sound is, like the graphics, really great and is probably the one factor that provides the 
 most to the mood of the game. The music is minimalistic yet still suspenseful and you often don't 
 even realise it's there. The sounds of all the weapons (melee and ranged) are pretty darn impressive, 
 as every weapon sounds a bit different and always just right . This greatly improves the feel of 
 the fights as you really can hear for example your 2*4 crack his nose and hear the pain he feels 
 as he screams out in agony.
  
  As any game that tells a story about serial killers and FBI agents (that fight each others with 
 lead pipes) , Condemned is a gory game. However, instead of the over the top gore one can find in 
 other horror games like FEAR and Doom 3, Condemned never really uses gore too much. You'll never 
 see more blood than would be usual at a crime scene, and even if the latter parts of the game turn 
 quite gross, lets just say it's all justified by the fact it really makes sense when you finally 
 come to the end of the story and get the explanations.
  
  And the plot is what really the one feature that defines this game. Not the combat system, the 
 slow pace or the fact the game is scary as hell. As I said, the game begins like an X files episode, 
 but it eventually turns into an even darker and more twisted story that IMO defines the darker 
 tones of the human mind better than most games that have even tried to work on this hard subject 
 have done before, with the exception being the legendary black isle games (more exactly, planescape: 
 torment) . While I've heard people commenting on the end thinking it's wierd and not understandable, 
 it's actually quite clear and one of the better endings I've seen in recent times (it all depends 
 on how you view the events in the end of the game, though. There's at least two ways to interpret 
 the things that happen, and both make an equal amount of sense) .
  
  So there it is, my review of what is one of the most underrated games of recent time (a claim many, 
 if not most of the people that have played the game support) . It's the scariest game I've played, 
 without using nearly as many cheap tricks as other similar games, and has hands down one of the 
 best combat systems ever made in an fps.
  
  As for platform choice, I would suggest getting the 360 version if possible, as the controls seem 
 to work better on a gamepad, and the simple fact rumble actually enchances the whole experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  about 8 hours, good rental. Graphics pretty good, nice lighting effects, but some textures when 
 you get to close get pretty blurry. gamplay - It is cool, and when it starts to get old, it varies 
 it up with different weapons and tactics. Some of the battles are pretty hard, Play it on hard 
 though, not easy. The last boss is very cool. This game has some nice gore. Sometimes you see pieces 
 of flesh fly off the persons head when you bash it with a crow bar. Sound - nothing really stands 
 out in my mind. Story - The story is okay, but not all that engaging. It does not keep you wanting 
 to play. But it does the job well enough. I give the story a B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_J
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Aftere playing this game I can truly say I've actually been scared properly in a game. I played 
 FEAR, doom3 and quite a few other games which were supposedly terrifying and hardly jumped all 
 the way through them but this game was well presented and actually gave me a few proper scares. 
 The graphics are fairly impressive and there are some great looking lighting effects, however there 
 are some re-used and overused textures just as there were in FEAR. The enemies all look pretty 
 good and there's a fair bit of vareity and planty of new enemies are introduced as the story progresses. 
 The melee weapons, which are the star of the show in this game all look great and the blood decals 
 on them are a nice added effect. Gameplay is great for the most part although it does get fairly 
 monotonous when you have to fight a similar enemy many times in the one level. The weapons make 
 up for this though as there are a large vareity and most of them handle differently and add an 
 interesting strategic flavour to the combat, do I use a piece of steel pipe or a fire axe to dispach 
 the enemy? The AI in the game is also very important because enemies, for the most part, seem to 
 be pretty smart, they will attack in groups and even try to sneak round behind you. Sometimes they 
 can make you look very stupid when it seems like they have dissapeared and they sneak round behind 
 you and kill you. It can be very unnerving when they run away and you can hear their shreiks and 
 shouts in the distance. The sound, apart from the constant noise of the enemies is fairly standard 
 and easily forgettable although the voive acting can be pretty good at times. Overall, this game 
 is impressive looking and has some great fighting but gets fairly tedious after playing for a while. 
 On a side not, the end section in the game is worth mention, I won't ruin it for you but it's incredible 
 violent and cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McSqueaky
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  The game's gorgeous lighting effects shining on the intricate levels makes Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins a true work of art. The gripping and original story unfolds as you guide the protagonist 
 of the game, Ethan Thomas. Agent Thomas is a discharged FBI agent who has been wrongfully accused 
 of the murder of two federal agents. You must fight for the truth and to survive through ten action-packed 
 levels.
  The audio in the game, ranging from the heavy breathing of your adversary to the theatrical dialogue, 
 will pull you right into the shoes of Agent Thomas.
  When you aren't being ruthlessly pounded by thugs, addicts, and other grumpy fellows, you are solving 
 the crime that you have been unfairly accused of. Use your forensic tools to collect evidence left 
 behind by careless criminals.
  You will be left breathless during some of the many theatrical scenes that are so insane, they're 
 downright terrifying. The level design is more than just good design, it's artistic. If your computer 
 can handle it, enabling more detailed lighting will give you a sense of realism that is almost 
 frightening in its own sense. The game produces a nice, crisp image, and the long, theatrical in-game 
 cinematics will make your jaw drop
  
  What are you waiting for? Buy Condemned: Criminal Origins, pop it in your disk drive, and PLAY. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Alright you know how everyone was so excited about this game. No your right pretty much no one 
 even heard of this game. Well I was really dissapointed.
  
  The Good: The Graphics are very realistic, Seeming like you are playing a 360 game. The Sound is 
 terrifying from moaning of bums attacking you from out of no where. The game is so scary you may 
 need to change your underwear throughout the game.
  
  The Bad: The gameplay gets so repetative. You barely get any new weapons. If you hate horror games 
 dont get this. When i was playing it it took me a month to start playing again because i knew something 
 would pop out. If you dont have a really nice computer dont bother, I mean it works in all but, 
 the game is so slow and there are glitches if you have a Average Computer.
  
  I mean Condemned has its moments but, it gets very repetative. If you have a 360 or a state of 
 the art computer get this game. Thus I give Condemned a 8.4 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is quite a piece of work. The GameSpot review pretty much nails it on the head but I 
 probably wouldn't put as much emphasis on level design,
  
  Even FEAR, which was very creepy, didn't have me walking as carefully as I was through this - simply 
 put, it's corridor after corridor of terror, not boredom, as you don't really have the time to 
 notice that every level is the same bleak, abandoned building style before your next creepy out-of-body 
 experience or physical hallucination, and they just get more intense as time goes on.
  
  This is a very unique game, more so than most games. What other FPS takes the gamble of essentially 
 asking you not to use a gun at any time? The focus on melee combat - and the brilliant animation 
 of it - is why I chose innovative as the classification. Every move has to be timed just right, 
 and it's quite a challenge to take down enemies packing heat when you've just got a bit of wood 
 and a taser (although the taser pretty much takes down anyone if you remember you have it) .
  
  One thing that troubles me is the arbitrary nature of the extras in the game - 6 birds and 
 3 pieces of metal to collect in every level. Er, why? The birds are kind of explained in game (though 
 not why you're collecting them) but the metal? Doesn't make much sense, although it sort of ties 
 in with the final boss. I think they'd have been better off using a No One Lives Forever/FEAR style 
 of collecting evidence - picking up visible clues rather than the computer telling you when to 
 turn on your tools. Especially frustrating is in the penultimate cutscene, where your partner Rosa 
 expresses disappointment that you didn't find enough evidence. It almost suggests that it's a rating 
 cutscene, that you could go back and play it again and get a better cutscene, but the game does 
 all the evidence gathering for you so what was the point of this?
  
  Ultimately, a flawed but very unique creation. Monolith are possibly the greatest game developers 
 around and this is just another triumph in their enormous list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 16, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Few games will make you jump from the chair like this one. Superficially the game can be described 
 as a first person melee fighting game with some easy puzzles - but the disturbing atmosphere in 
 the game will definately draw you in and make it more of a first person horror experience, than 
 anything else.
  
  There are a lot of factors the contribute to the overall feel of the game. Firstly, we have the 
 graphics. Walking around in dark, condemned building with little more than a flashlight as a lightsource, 
 is one thing. But the claustrophobic level designs of these buildings combined with some twisted 
 art direction of both the interior 'decorations', and the enemies you'll face, gives Condemned 
 its own unique feel.
  
  But the sound is probably the most scary part of the game. From the muffled footsteps of ... people 
 on other floors, to the crunching sound of metal-against-flesh in the melee fights - the sounds 
 are clearly defined and as much part of the game as the fights and the story.
  
  The game has a few problems, though. The crime story of the game, twisted as it is, loses some 
 of its nerve at the end of the game - the puzzle factor of the game could easily have been much 
 deeper (which would've made the game a gem) , and the graphics has a few faults.
  More notably the textures on the 'hero' as well as other main characters - the faces are rather 
 unclear and the bump mapping effect has been exaggerated a bit. Which is a bit odd, as nearly all 
 the foes are better done.
  
  Some may find the combat a bit repetive, as well, some may find it a bit short (though I personally 
 thought the games length to be spot on) - and lastly the game requires a fast DirectX9 accellerator 
 (or better) as well as a good soundcard for the full experience. But then you're set for an experience 
 beyond most other combat games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 14, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This review is being written the 2nd time i played through the game after having played it for 
 about 6 months. The game is pretty much a dark horror themed game where you mainly use melee weapons 
 to fight off crazed homeless people and serial killers. The games story is actually pretty good 
 and the cut scenes are effective and features some pretty good voice acting as well. Besides for 
 fighting the game also lets you use forensic tools to gather evidence which is a fun diversion. 
 The gameplay can be somewhat repetitive since most of the enemies can be tasered stunning them 
 then knocking them upside the head with one of the various weapons scattered throughout the levels. 
 The weapons are 2x4s with nails in them, metal pipes, sledgehammers, fireaxes and more. They also 
 have some firearms but for the most part you will be using melee since ammo is very scarce. One 
 thing that is cool if you knock the enemy down and they are still consious they get on there knees 
 and you can do one of four finishing moves. Headbutt, Snap there neck, Punch and one other which 
 i cant remember. There are alot of very cool scripted events in the game but after playing it once 
 you know pretty much what to expect. One thing is they have bonus objectives like collecting birds 
 and pieces of metal but i was never able to find all of it on a single level. Since i got the new 
 Geforce 7900 videocard I was able to put everything on maximum detail and the game does look great 
 and is very atmospheric. The game had no slowdown or choppiness at all the whole time through. 
 One other thing this game uses the same engine fear runs on and looks a little similar except the 
 game is played in widescreen. overall this is a game definatley worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is surprisingly awesome. Its an action horror game, feels like a mix of fear and silent 
 hill with its own uniqueness. Only thing I dont like is the blurred graphics look, its a little 
 hard on the eyes, other then that the game is really fun and has an odd realness feel about it. 
 A lot of action and pretty spooky, made me jump a few times. Most of the time you're walkin around 
 with a melee weapon since ammo is very hard to find. You can get weapons from walls with pipes, 
 boards from broken stuff basically every room has a melee weapon available. Good game definatly 
 worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after playing the rather impressive demo that I couldnt stop playing again through 
 ang through. So was it worth it? I can say with extreme confidence... yes. When you first start 
 this game, you arent so much scared as... creeped out. Your HEAR monsters in the shadows, and you 
 KNOW they are there, but they never show. The first half of this game does a great job of building 
 up what awaits you in the second half. Sure, you fight junkies with lead pipes and shoot crackheads 
 with the very limited weapons provided, but the highest feeling you get from this is simply tense. 
 I'm not saying this is unenjoyable; the melee fighting is meaty and makes you feel like a hard, 
 hard man. But it's when you start to hit the later levels that you realise this game is truly terrifying. 
 Now, some of you may call me a baby and reckon you wont be affected by this game in that way, but 
 I promise any1 out there that playing this game on a hard difficulty, in the dark with the sound 
 way up will give you the heebee jeebee's. I personally found myself sweating towards the latter 
 levels because of how tense and freaky this game is. There are so many countless moments that I 
 can remember from this game that had me creeped out, such as the basement level where you are forced 
 to unequip your weapon so that you can examine evidence, and you jsut know that there is something 
 waiting to jump at you. And the final level... well I wont ruin anything, but not only is it hard, 
 but it also left me emotionally drained :P Anyways, I cant think of much wrong with this game, 
 other than its pretty short and repetitive, but the atmosphere and story will msot definetely draw 
 you in and keep you in till the very end.
  
  The Good - Genuinly scary and tense - Very nice graphics - Brutal
  
  The Bad - Pretty short 
 - No multiplayer - Some levels look a little boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christhor
Rating: 2.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The game started to remind me of a mix between king pin &amp; blade runner, but allot more boring. 
 The only time you can use your tools is when prompted. Slow moving and endless drab walls. After 
 playing Just Cause this game seems to be from the early 90's. I don't know why this game has such 
 a high score. I played the game for about 20 mins the was happy to un-install. I found the controls 
 frustrating and impossible to change. I don't know what the designers of this game were trying 
 to do ??
  Did they ever test the game ?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renier8
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  These days, most of the new games grow old really quick by me. I am privileged to work in the game 
 industry and I get to try almost all of them. Most goes into my cupboard after only a couple of 
 hours. So when I did my first 10 hours of Condemned, I knew I had a winner.
  
  Creepy, scary, submersive story line. Exciting combat system. Some nice violent fighting scenes, 
 that really adds to the realism of the setting. The story quickly pulls you in, and soon you are 
 yelling things like : stay down freak ! at your monitor. I agree somewhat with the reviewer of 
 repetitiveness in the combat system, but the winding road of the plot, makes you overlook this 
 easily.
  
  Condemned offers a great adventure game, adding some nice combat and interesting weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sangoanuta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  There are two ways of playing Criminal Origins, with Fullscreen FX, and without FSFX.
  
  Or better, getting scared the hell out of you a*ses or not.
  
  Criminal Origins can get you 
 jumping out of your chairs with these creepy immersive horror scenes you get into, that colors 
 fade away and your vision become bright and grainy.
  
  Criminal Origins can be mistaken by a FPS, but it's just a Horror and Mystery game with a first 
 person view.
  
  There are a few holes in the plot where you asked yourself what really has happened, but the whole 
 intense toe-to-toe fighting gets you really into the game.
  
  Not the best story ever, but really creepy.
  Immersive, you will play afraid of what's gonna 
 be in the next turning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necriumforadrea
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  Put it this way: It's a must play. Condemned: Criminal Origins puts you in the place of a detective 
 who tracks down serial killers and evidence using weapons and forensic tools, meanwhile, questioning 
 his own sanity. The game beautifully displays the events in a realistic fashion. This game isn't 
 about monsters trying to kill you... it's about people trying to kill you-which is alot scarier 
 when you come to understand that these psycotic crazies do whatever it takes just to harm you, 
 even if it involves harming themselves.
  Even if you're not all that into mystery and detective-esq games, if you enjoyed games such as 
 Fear or Doom3 then you're in for a wild ride here. This game has it's own style. To sum it up, 
 try to imagine the feeling you get when watching a horror film - no imagine that for at leat 10 
 straight hours of gameplay... it's pretty crazy stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mufaa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  After playing Condemned: Criminal Origins I was left wondering why this game wasnt as talked about 
 as other Monolith games such as last year's hit horror action game F. E. A. R. Especially when you 
 have played a much superior product. This game is a notch or three above F. E. A. R, a much competent 
 game which manages to entertain every minute of those ten hours you will be putting into this game. 
 I, for one, think that this game just beats the crap out of F. E. A. R. Not only there is more variety 
 in the gameplay, its enemies, but the whole environment is so perfectly set up that it manages 
 to scare you even if you are standing in one place.
  
  You are Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent specialising in hunting down serial killers. You are brought 
 into a crime scene with two brutally murdered bodies. As the investigation progresses, were you 
 contact the forensic specialist Rosa over the phone, transferring photos and print samples to her 
 with your high-tec forensic tools, you soon find out that The Matchmaker, a serial killer on Ethan 
 Thomas's list, was the one who committed this crime. Just then your fellow FBI agent hears a noise 
 and you are sent off to investigate the place with nothing but your trusty low-on-ammo pistol, 
 a flashlight, a taser gun and quite literally a prayer on the lips. As you get closer to the criminal, 
 you are ripped off from your pistol, the agents get killed with your gun and their blood is on 
 your head. Then the chase begins as you get pulled into this twisted crime story where everything 
 is not what it had seemed before.
  
  What catches your attention immediately after you are put into action is the mood. Its not the 
 graphics or the sound, its the mood the game sets. Its dark, cold and you are always alert, your 
 heart pounding against your chest moving around a dark corridor unaware of what lies ahead. There 
 is always a level of uncertainty in this game. You sometimes expect something to happen but it 
 doesnt and then in a spilt second when you think you are safe you are getting chopped away angrily 
 by a bunch of inhuman crack addicts, who more or less looks like zombies with great agility, lustily 
 vying for your blood and every bit of it.
  
  What makes this 'mood' more engaging is the graphics. The perfect rendition of lighting and shadows 
 gives your surrounding a more near realistic feel to it. There were moments were I was just left 
 spell bounded by the sheer rendering of those amazing textures dipped in perfect shadows, all I 
 could think was 'Wow'. And for the fact that the physics engine possibly makes every little thing 
 movable makes for an unmatchable experience. You can kick around a ball which just came out of 
 nowhere or move the chair by giving it a little push. Of course, not everything is movable as some 
 areas are meant to block your way and this is not Half Life 2 were your adorable gravity gun can 
 give some help.
  No doubt the graphics are excellent but there were areas with low fuzzy textures and flickering 
 shadows which becomes more and more noticeable further in the game. The character models left much 
 to be desired. The motion capture technology has been certainly put into good use giving the characters 
 very realistic movements. But the textures and design were average and low in quality. The baddies 
 dont look horrifying at all which I am sure makes a lower impact on the senses somewhere.
  
  The graphics are then matched with excellent sound. It will immediately remind you of F. E. A. R. 
 Everything has a sound. I played the game through Zalman's 5.1 Headphones and the experience was 
 mind blowing. I would jump around fanatically on a sound of a tumbling bucket only to find out 
 that it was me who kicked it in the first place. Then the rustling and rumbling of cabinets and 
 shelfs, that occasional cough or the 'You are Dead' spoken by some invisible being behind you makes 
 you spin around in shock and terror. The voice acting is top notch too just like the rest of the 
 incredible sound. There was no hint of boredom or clueless ness in the actor&amp;#8217; s voice 
 (unlike Prey) and the actors have done a good job sounding their part.
  
  As you move around the addicts filled levels you equip yourself with the best possible weapon you 
 can find. The game is more melee inclined so you will be hard pressed to find machines guns and 
 ammo cartages lying around in every nook and corner of the game. Your weapons are what you would 
 actually use to keep yourself alive if you were in the same situation as the main protagonist. 
 You would use the pipes, the 2x4 wood planks, cutters, desks, sign boards, axe, and hammers etc 
 which are lying around you. No denying that you occasionally find a pistol or a shotgun or maybe 
 even a sub machine but there are usually low on ammo and there are literally no ammo packs that 
 you will find. You can also use your taser gun which can electrify your enemy and give you a 2-3 
 second head start in kicking their butts. Really helps in a crowd.
  
  The combat system is pretty basic and nothing you havent seen before. You get to swing around your 
 weapon or use it to block. You can also kick around which doesnt do much good. What it actually 
 offers is a realistic feel to the melee combat system. It forces you to use some tactics before 
 you land that blow on your foe. It's as if you yourself are fighting. You stumble backwards when 
 you get slammed by a hammer or you feel it when that axe has cut through the skin. The system makes 
 it more challenging by allowing you to carry just one weapon at a time. Every weapon has its advantages 
 and disadvantages. Some are slow but with better damage and block rate and some quicker with better 
 reach but doesnt do as much as damage as the other weapon. The choice is in your hands.
  
  The A. I is brilliant. If they think that you might empower them they run away and await you in 
 corner ready to pounce on you. The physics comes into full use here were the enemies react to every 
 blow, stumble backwards, groans with pain catching their body and then sling that hammer right 
 on to your face with anger. They also run away to find a better more powerful weapon if their current 
 weapon is damaged. You also have your special moves assigned on your number buttons where you get 
 to kick, slam, and break neck them to death. Of course this is not a Tekken so you dont have a 
 combination of buttons to perform those special moves neither do you get to do them all the time.
 
  
  What sores out is the blocking mechanism. The fact that you cannot block all the time, like in 
 Oblivion, makes the game a tad bit unfair only because you would need a good hand-eye coordination 
 to get a successful block and even then sometimes the block get penetrated by an attack and more 
 so because your enemies has a 100% block rate. They even can instantly hit back after being banged 
 by a huge hammer which is not possible for you as a player. You tend to stumble all the time. But 
 I guess this was a deliberate attempt to make the game a little more challenging?
  
  Monolith has also added some CSI elements to the game. You have your set of forensic tools which 
 you use to gather forensic evidence of the killers and their victims. You would be collecting hand 
 or foot prints, taking blood or other organic samples or just use your gas meter to locate that 
 dead body you have been looking for. This is simply to move the story forward as your collected 
 evidences are transferred to Rosa where its being processed and decoded giving out various story 
 tit-bits. The system automatically gives you an indication that some evidence can be found in this 
 area and then goes ahead and selects the correct tool for you. You just have to press a key and 
 enjoy the show. The player has no real interaction other than aiming the tools in the right direction. 
 This is a real disappointment as this could have been implemented more properly giving the player 
 some scope to perform some real tests.
  
  There is no multiplayer support and I can see why.
  
  This is one of the best first person 
 shooters I have ever played. If you have liked F. E. A. R or are a fan of the horror genre this game 
 is worth the buck. The mood is so strong through the game and the story so engagingly presented 
 almost giving it a movie like feel with its excellent cut scenes. I had zero expectations from 
 this game and even more after watching the mediocre opening credits but as I got more engaged in 
 this game I was completely blown away.
  
  PROS:
  -Story presentation
  -Excellent shadows and lighting
  -Great environmental sounds and voice acting
  -Atmosphere
 
  -AI
  
  CONS:
  -The little bugs in the combat system and AI
  -The game can be quite hardware intensive
  -Flickering shadows
  -Forensic tools system was 
 a disappointment
  -You cannot switch off your lights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  From start to finish, Condemned: Criminal Origins is utterly brilliant. The graphics are superb, 
 the story is as intricate as you could wish, the gameplay is innovative and its actually scary, 
 unlike most of the so called survival horror games released of late.
  
  Part of the reason for the fear factor in Condemned is the darkness of the environments and the 
 oh so creepy sounds in the backgrounds. Shadows glide past you on walls, items fall of shelves 
 as you brush past them and clang on the floor. The level of tension is tremendous because every 
 second you are anticipating that some crazed lunatic is going to jump out from behind something 
 and lunge at you with a lead pipe.
  
  This leads on to the combat which is extremely violent and very well animated. There are conventional 
 weapons such as pistols and shotguns but they tend to be very low on ammo, forcing you to resort 
 to ripping pipes from walls and grabbing whatever else you can find. The 1st person melee combat 
 is tremendous and definitely not for the squeamish. Hitting dudes in the face should never be this 
 much fun. The fact that the game is in first person also heightens the tension further as it creates 
 a sense that it really is YOU stumbling around in the dark searching for serial killers.
  
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is an awesome game that anyone for loves horror titles should play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 5, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I play pc games. Mostly Fps, Horror and puzzle finding games. This had all of it. you get to kill 
 fellow humans if you want to call them human. Crazed street people. I never really understood what 
 drove them crazy but then it wasnt until the very end that i figured out anything about the game. 
 You are given tools as in blacklight blood finding tools cameras, cell phone. You are framed for 
 murder which is a hassle since your a cop. There is no lack of weapons. Anything lying around is 
 a weapon and your encourgaed to change it often for points. Didnt understand finding dead birds 
 or peaces of metal but oh well. Everytime you unearthed something or moved to next scene it showed 
 your points but nothing seemed to happen with them. never saw an upgrade for them. Same weapons 
 Same equipment. Your main goal is your hunting a serial killer who kills serial killers in the 
 manor they kill there victums. It was an interesting game that i kept expecting something More 
 to happen around the next corner which never did. Needed more/ More bodies killed buy the serial 
 killer, had blood but no bodies. it lacked something. I could play it again at a higher level but 
 no point as i know exactly whats going to happen. A shame it was so short and they didnt do it 
 to much justice at the end. They should have left him in the dinner drinking coffee. instead they 
 messed up the end. not going to tell it yd have to play it to see what i mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  The first time i've tried the demo.. I was like WOAH!! This game is really unique!! A good hand 
 combat mechanic was used.. it's like real..
  
  U see.... this game is good in presenting the demo.. but if u get the full game.. it's not something 
 u would expected it to be..
  
  Firslty... I have to admit that the graphics are really really nice!! The sound and atmosphere are 
 well done.. it gives you the creepy sound that always chills up your spine..
  
  But the bad thing is.. the environments are designed something like F. E. A. R, the walls, the boxes, craates 
 etc.. are almost similar to F. E. A. R
  The cutscenes are nice though..
  
  One thing that is really lacking in this game is the storyline.. you won't understand the story 
 even if you've completed it twice.. the first part of the game is good.. but the ending part spoils 
 the whole storyline..
  
  And for those who've played the demo and intend to buy this game.. just to let you know that this 
 game is not all human A. I , there are monsters mix in it too..
  
  And another thing that i'm not happy about is the length of this game.. it's very very short.. about 
 8 hours of gameplay or so.. and it gives you the repetitive feel like you know.. the level design 
 isnt that good.. and sometimes you might wanna consider where you're goin, coz u may get lost at 
 times..
  
  Overall.. this game is OK... it's not that good.. or that bad.. what good is the sound, graphics, and 
 the hand to hand combat..
  
  Oh one more thing i wanna add.. you can't carry more than a weapon at the same time.. and guns arent 
 your best choice in this game.. so if u like to fight using hands and steel deadly solid weapons.. this 
 game is for you.. but if you're the type that wants both storyline and gameplay.. i dont recommend 
 this for you.. the story is really complicated.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is Very good game. When i got this game i thought it would be just another bloody shooter 
 with more melee fighting than others. Suprisingly this game is different. Best thing in this game 
 is atmosphere of being alone with small chances to survive. This atmosphere has the same level 
 through whole game. Other thing is, how player exterminates enemies. Fighting with gas-pipe or 
 sledgehammer more realistic than in other similar games. Reacyion of enemies is very good too. 
 I really enjoyed playing Condemned. Sounds ann graphics awesome esspecialy sounds. It really helps 
 to build this atmospere. Try it on your own :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: behony
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  for those of you who played F. E. A. R. this one is similar but totally different. if you are expecting 
 a shooter game this is not one. it is more like a horror movie sim. you are an F. B. I. agent C. S. I 
 who is after a serial killer. basically you beat people with pipes, sledgehammers and fire axes 
 in order to kill a bunch of vagrants hopped up on PCP. the environments are creepier then FEAR. 
 i compare it to FEAR only because it is monoliths next horror movie game. some say the environments 
 get a bit repetitive, in a way its true but its not bad enough to make it baring. the mele combat 
 is cool but the controls seem a bit slow to respond. this game certainly deserves a better score 
 then 8.0 like i said its not a F. P. S. like FEAR its a C. S. I. horror sim
  try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 22, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  there are good points as well ass bad ones
  
  can't say anything about the amazing graphics and light methods, just that you should try it on 
 a high end VGA card
  
  the places are creepy and scary at a point and the dark makes it even more bad for you
  
  the 
 lake of weapons make it a bit challenging though it could be irritating sometime and the story 
 gets a bit fogy at the end you can't help feeling any thing but tension when you play the game 
 for the first time but though the places where you play changes the general aspect remains the 
 same and you don't really know if you are after serial killers or ghosts the drama for me was that 
 I never really understood the character nature
  i think the story could have been much better considering the thrill, but that's just me.
  
 
  anyhow the Game is Quite A Different Experience That You Should Try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Graphics : This game has very good graphics, nothing to complain about there.
  
  Sound : The sound of hitting someone with a metal pipe in the face, or the sound of a crawler creeping 
 up behind you... from a to z, the sounds in this game are AWESOME... The voice acting is superb 
 aswell... nothgin to complain about.
  
  Gameplay : Now this is where the pros and cons some into play.
  
  When you first start off, 
 you have a 9mm beretta, and it takes about 1-2 shots to kill off an enemy. But when you loose your 
 gun... you start giving an incredible value to weapons.
  It is very satisfying when you succeed in hitting in the face with a metal pipe, and see a few 
 of his teeth flying in the air, and him falling to the ground. The game just makes you fell good 
 about it.
  The first 5 to 7 lvls, the game were scary. But then it started loosing its scary factor, and the 
 game turned more into a regular fps... It was still fun to hit people in the face though :)
  
  There are some scary sequences, and some disturbing (walking in the school showers with blood 
 everywhere) . The game makes you feel uncomfortable in clostrophobic environnements, which is EXACTLY 
 what its supposed to do.
  
  Here comes the biggest con : IT GETS REPETITIVE. After awhile, you dont get scared at all anymore, 
 and you just run trough the level, killing guys.
  
  One of the major pros of this game is the story. Very well written, mysterious, and most of all 
 interesting. (i. e. What is the path to righteousness? Why didnt the guy kill you? Who is Vanhorn? 
 Why does the main character keep imagining the same guy killing him? Why is the city becoming aggressive? 
 What is your gift? What do all those visions mean?.. etc... etc) of course, the game doesnt end in 
 a cliffhanger style.
  
  Replay value : Not the type of game you would want to play twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the scariest ive tried, very creepy environments and with the in your face 
 things that happen, scared the crap out of me a few times, the part where the Bum bashes you down 
 the escalator was creepy.
  
  Good stuff : + Fans of scary intense action will love it, because its just very creepy and only 
 armed with a few bullets once in a while and 90% with a melee weapon makes the adrenaline pump 
 a little
  
  + You get tools to investigate certain things of the game, like take pictures, dust for prints, 
 scan liquids, follow blood trails and whatnot, this is a very easy part though as it shows you 
 when to ready your tools and what to do.
  
  + Like the famous F. E. A. R it lets you see your own body when you look down, which i think should 
 be in most new fps games, adds much more realism to it.
  
  + Creepy surroundings and enemies, scary moments where they jump out of places you thought might 
 be safe, and parts where you cant avoid getting knocked down because its like a small cut scene 
 where you get knocked over.
  
  + Many Melee weapons to use
  
  + Good Creepy sound to go along with everything, makes you jump on few occasions.
  
  + Pretty 
 Good graphic and design
  
  + Not bad story, and cut scenes
  
  The Bad: - The guy you play look weird
  
  - Imo the weapons were lame as it was mostly blunt 
 objects, and the Bullet based weapons are too small part of it all ( though i know that was the 
 plan)
  got boring to only bash enemies all the time
  
  - Level design can make you easily get lost at times
  
  - Story is a bit odd, with a bad ending, 
 and kinda short
  
  - The Guy you play seems very calm during all situations ( the part where the guy in the locker 
 without a arm grabs him after mistaken for dead, when you are taking a closeup picture of him) , 
 he speaks very calm, any person would have been scared in that situation. and when you get your 
 fingers cut off he sounds relaxed, this is just my opinion, might not apply to anyone else, guess 
 what i mean is, acting could be better.
  
  Good game, if you like the Scary Crime solving type, and close up combat with Sick twisted individuals 
 and psychotic murderers, all a good mix for a horror Genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lesner87
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 25, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Condemned criminal origins is a beuatiful First person action game. Its spooky look makes it different 
 from other First person games. The game has a good story line with amazing graphics! in short:
  
  Graphics: The graphics are simply awesome!! they not only are good looking but also go with the 
 theme of the game. Its hard to describe such beautiful graphics.. Once some thing is about to happen 
 the colour changes, screen becomes blury... and so on. There are many other cool graphical enhancements 
 in this game. The criminals shine in the light, the things are interactive and the real fun starts 
 once you get a gun! Each chapter/part has its own graphical theme esp. the last part.. The graphics 
 are sure to impress and entertain a gamer.
  
  Sound: The sound is so-so but it really goes with the game.. Its creeps you out once you hear criminals 
 breathing in dark corners the music is slow and scary. You can barely hear the criminals approach 
 you and all of a sudden once you turn around and see them so close to you....... you know what wil 
 happen! however the sound isnt bad and suites to the game.
  
  Gameplay: with a good sound and good graphics you also get a very good gameplay. The story line is 
 very simple, you are blamed for the murder of your fellow officers and you would have to find and 
 investigate about the real murderer which leads to another serial killer and so on.
  The gameplay is different from other first person game. You play as a detective using your detective 
 tool kit to find different clues. This helps you to solve mystries and find answers, but as you solve 
 these clues there is also alot of combat with it!
  there isnt much shooting in this game. Most of the time you have to select from a variety of melee 
 weapons including pipes, wood pieces, locker doors, sledge hamers, axes and many more! The good thing 
 about this is that all of these weapons have different specifications which include damage, block, speed 
 and so-on. You always have your secondary weapon with you which is used to stun your enemies for 
 a while, however the fighting style is kind of hard .You would have to block and atack at proper 
 times but once you start playing the game you get used to it!
  
  Conclusion: the game is good and worth your time, FPS lovers shouldnt miss this one but the people 
 who do not like fps games may pass, but its still worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crxhf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  The game is a great FPS up close and personal. Graphics are amazing and very detailed. Action up 
 close FPS action. Scary enviroments and knowing that there are places like this in the world. Great 
 sound effects. Great gamplay. Only reason why I didn't give this a 10 is because mid way into the 
 game it gets kinda slow. But the flashbacks or cut scenes make it stay alive somewhat. Its got 
 a very great story. 
  
  Enemy encounters and when they hide behind walls and knowing that every turn must not be overlooked 
 and constantly having to watch your back and listening for someone sneaking up behind you is always 
 a great feeling of making it come real. This game I can defenitly come back and play again because 
 there are areas that are unexplored in the game and when finding birds and metal peices. Optional 
 doors to be taken and different routes in some areas of the game give this a good replay value 
 in my opnion. 
  
  Overall definitely worth the price and game play is awsome and differnent from most FPS and the 
 up close action with fighting is great. These are the best features in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  A strange mix of the exceptional and mundane, Condemned demonstrates many of the major flaws of 
 the modern first person shooter. It's too easy, too short, far too linear, combat far too repetetive, 
 and even a bit dull, simplistic "puzzles" that you're led through by the nose, but it looks marvellous. 
 Add to that a story which doesn't answer half the questions it initially posed, and this should 
 be a turkey; but somehow, it isn't. Firstly, the presentation is exceptional, great music, wonderful 
 design, a creepiness that makes Doom 3 seem like Super Mario Bros, play it with the light off and 
 you will get scared. While the combat is overly simplistic, it is satisfyingly visceral; snapping 
 necks is particularly fun! The level of violence is very high, but It's part of the game, and nothing 
 you won't see in a horror movie or read in a Thomas Harris novel; it's nice to be treated like 
 an adult in a clearly adult game for once.
  
  There's also subtle little presentation ideas that add to the menace - the foes slowly get more 
 grotesque as you proceed; in the early game, you get pangs of guilt because these are clearly ordinary 
 people, like the woman who says "Dear God, no." in between lunging at you with an axe. It's this 
 touch of empathy that turns the horror up a notch. the way firearms are nigh on useless due to 
 ammo restrictions helps turn FPS convention on it's head, a good melee weapon is FAAAR preferrable 
 most of the time. AI is pretty good, but misses the gold star of F. E. A. R. by being too predictable, 
 there's too small an arsenal of tricks, usually an enemy will hide behind a corner/pillar ready 
 to jump out at you; cool, but predictable after a while.
  
  By the time the game ends, about 8 hours later, you'll be none the wiser as to what went on, in 
 a way that screams "Sequel coming!", however, to it's credit, that's not an unpleasant prospect. 
 If some of the gameplay issues are addressed, then I, for one, will definitely be interested in 
 the continuation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a very interesting game, with some nice fighting abilities.
  The game looks nice but requires a good computer.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Nice gameplay
  +Fighting 
 capabilities
  +Lots of variety between weapons
  +Some smart enemies
  +Nice first impression
  -Very very repetitive game
  -All of the areas look almost the same
 
  
  Graphics:
  +Looks great
  +Characters and weapons look realistic
  -Not much variety between the levels
  -Requires a good computer with the latest drivers
  
 
  Sounds:
  +Best of all
  +Sounds are very realistic
  +Very good atmosphere sounds
  +Average voice acting
  -Not a lot of freaky music
  
  Value:
  +Decent singleplayer campaign
 
  -Boring story
  -No multiplayer
  
  Tilt:
  +Great first impression
  +Nice cutscenes and movies
  +Good controls WASD and all the stuff
  -The CSI tools aren't all 
 that great and hard to get used to them
  
  Condemned is a unique game, because it's a game where you use a lot of melee weapons to fight.
 
  Nice game cya all
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: londo2001
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  The idea behind the game is nothing new but still makes a nice change from the usual run of the 
 mill FPS games out today.
  And as good as it may seem when you first start playing it soon becomes repetitive.
  The character 
 animations are good but the textures and AI are poor, movement is very limited you cant duck or 
 jump which in this day and ages is stupid to say the least.
  I found the game spooky in places but not scary. The crime scene investigation part of the game 
 is prompted and every point so there is no real feel that you are actually investigating anything 
 you just get told to activate the crime tool it doesnt even let you select which tool it just 
 automatically places the correct one in your hand. This part of the game should have been much 
 more open and free so you could feel you were solving the crime instead of just following orders.
 
  As for weapons there is a good and unusual choice but the fact that you can only carry one at 
 a time is ridiculous! your a policeman for gods sake who could realistically holster his gun and 
 pick up a shovel or pipe? There seems to be vast amounts of health pack scattered everywhere but 
 so far no ammunition for any of the guns. 
  
  Overall impressions of the game are very disappointing, this could have been so much more and if 
 it had been developed on the Half-Life 2 Source engine it would have been fantastic.... Close but 
 defiantly no cigar.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of Monolith's games, as I've always loved every one they've put out. I've 
 seen F. E. A. R.... can't say too much for it. Fortunately, Monolith redeemed themselves with Condemned: 
 Criminal Origins. 
  
  I'll start with the general gameplay. I'm seeing a lot of people complain about how repetitive 
 this game is, and I see their point. Now, the combat is repetitive, but to me, busting someone 
 in the jaw with a pipe and watching them spit out their teeth never did get old. C: CO isn't one 
 of those games that's going to warm up to you and give you everything you want out of it. No, it's 
 going to give you an unsettling, hostile environment, and ask you to adapt and survive. Chewing 
 up 7 dozen Nazis with an MG42 in Call of Duty 2 was fun, but don't expect any treats like that 
 here. That is to say, the game wasn't made around the player; you're in an abandoned department 
 store, the level resembles a department store. You're in a subway; there aren't many things to 
 hide behind in a subway, and there isn't much in that sense here. Are rows of books in a library 
 a good place for an ambush? Is a subway an unfavoral environment to run into an army of lunatics? 
 Oh, absolutely, C: CO makes it feel that way, too. I don't know if this is what they're calling 
 bad level design, but it seems more that the game wants you to actually feel like your being attacked 
 in these strategically unfavorable environments. Let's face it, the open, roomy atmosphere of a 
 subway platform favors the group of sociopaths charging your position.
  
  There are apparations like in F. E. A. R., though not nearly as many, but unlike F. E. A. R., you don't 
 have a big assault rifle or whatever to hide behind, all you have is maybe a conduit ripped out 
 of a wall. That's right kids! No "Penetrator" for you! That leaves the player feeling more vulnerable, 
 in the "here I am seeing something I can't explain and only having a piece of hardware to defend 
 myself with" sense.
  
  The graphics are good, if you have the hardware to support it. It's true, they don't look so hot 
 on the lower settings, but we seem to forget that's the whole 'visual quality for performance' 
 trade off. On the higher settings, they're great. The sound is also good, from the gunshots to 
 the satisfying CRUNCH you hear when you snap some crackhead's neck.
  
  There's games you play because they're fun, and then there's games you play because they're thrilling. 
 This is one of the latter. It's going to thrill you, get your adrenaline going, and keep you in 
 suspense in the eerie atmosphere it throws you head first into, and sometimes out the window.
 
  
  If you're the type of person who can really immerse yourself in a game, and actually 'be' the player, 
 then I would recommend C: CO. If you're looking for something that's going to just treat you left 
 and right, then I'd have to say that this, or any of Monolith's games for that matter, just ain't 
 your thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angle180
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely amazing.. I have seen a few good horror movies that really did the trick but I never 
 thought I would be someday able to play the lead roll in one.
  
  Te atmosphere, combined with some amazing graphics, crystal-clear sounds and a hell of a game-play 
 make Condemned a completely outstanding and original experience in the recently rising genre of 
 Horror-games. 
  
  The storyline is maybe a bit too dry and yes, there are unanswered questions here and there but 
 the uniquely horrifying feeling you get from just playing the game makes up for any and all minor 
 errors one might find when actually starting to think about it. 
  
  In the end, unless you're too young for this or just panicly hate FPPS's (First-Person Psycho S***) 
 I can see no reason why you shouldn't go and get yourself a copy of this piece of original and 
 indeed ingenious work . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alliedally
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  While not as scary as many reviewers here led me to believe, I thoroughly have enjoyed Condemned: 
 CO for its creepiness and smooth gameplay (I am on the last level) .
  
  I purchased the game because I like first-person shooters and wanted to challenge myself to a real 
 scare-fest. 
  
  With my heart racing, I started the game and became immersed in the dark mood. Running through 
 dilapidated buildings with freaks trying to kill you all around, I could tell from the start that 
 my character, a cop on the run from the law and these freaks, was in for a long, scary journey.
 
  
  I was relieved when I found that I was able to kill off these creeps without much of a struggle; 
 from what I read I feared I would be blindsided at every corner. That was not the case.
  
  With ample use of the "quick save" function I have been able to meticulously go through each level 
 without the frustration of having to start again at the last saved checkpoint (though the checkpoints 
 aren't that far apart to begin with) . 
  
  The environment is creepy enough (the graphics are realistic) but the evildoers take on a certain 
 sameness as the levels wear on. I wasn't afraid of confrontations as I moved deeper into the game.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong -- there are some spine-tingling moments, particularly in the last level (where 
 I am) at the farm, when you go into the basement and the sickos attack (and blindside) you from 
 every corner. 
  
  The storyline -- the cop seeks the serial killer or killers responsible for bizarre murders while 
 saving his own soul -- runs smoothly with an interesting sidelight -- the use of investigative tools 
 to solve clues left by the suspect (s) in various locations (the game alerts you to use your investigative 
 tools; it's rather simplistic but interesting just the same) .
  
  Since I haven't finished, I can't provide a critique of the climax. I have read that it is a bit 
 of a letdown or is somewhat anti-climatic. 
  
  But that's OK -- I have had loads of fun, creepy that is, getting to this point.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noxsiem
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a game that truly immerses the player in a sick, twisted yet life-like 
 world that literally makes the player reluctant to continue through the game. Despite a few minor 
 game-play issues, Condemned is a definite must have for a true Survival-Horror or FPS gamers collection. 
 
  
  Whats Hot:
  ----------------
  
  :: Highly Immersing World :: 
  
  With the combination of diseased environments, bone shaking sound effects and a solid hand-to-hand 
 combat system, Condemned: Criminal Origins is guaranteed to keep the player at the edge of his 
 seat.
  
  :: Detailed Models and Environments ::
  
  The textures and pixel shading effects manifests dark and repulsive enemies and twisted environments. 
 From the glossiness on the edge of the pipe to the rotting flesh on the faces of the enemies, the 
 game makes great use of graphical effects.
  
  :: Great Sound Effects :: 
  
  From the breathing of your enemies as they lie in wait for you around the corner to the piercing 
 sound of broken glass, as your opponents fumble to find you, Condemned implements an almost perfect 
 concept of musical immersion.
  
  :: Hand-To-Hand Combat :: 
  
  There is nothing spectacular about the hand-to-hand combat, other than the fact that it is incredibly 
 accurate and solid. The system has proved itself worthy of replacing pistol oriented combat. The 
 A. I. will execute a number of realistic techniques such as faking a blow, charging or even countering. 
 This makes for a very solid and effective combat system.
  
  :: Excellent A. I :: 
  
  The A. I of your enemies will definitely surprise you, by executing a number of techniques such 
 as taking effective cover and firing positions and even faking you before they strike a blow. The 
 expressions and gestures of your opponents are nothing short of stellar.
  
  Whats Not:
  ----------------
  
  :: Slightly Repetitive Game-play :: 
  
  Like many other great titles, 
 a good fighting system and game-play dynamics that does not evolve as you go through the game is 
 bound to be repetitive, no matter how good it may be.
  
  :: (Game Progression) :: 
  
  Opening Doors: The level of realness that the game presents contradicts itself in the system for 
 opening doors. The system is basically that certain objects will open certain doors. For example, 
 a sledgehammer will open a partially broken door. The problem with this is that it is overly linear. 
 In other words, a solid blow from a rusted pipe should be able to have the same effect on the door 
 as an axe or sledgehammer. Although this may seem as a minor issue, it takes away from the level 
 realism that the game presents early on.
  
  In all Condemned: Criminal Origins is an action-packed, highly immersing, spine shivering title, 
 that is a definite must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 16, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game for me is kinda of a guilty pleasure, the game has not too much to offer, but what is 
 offered does give is a gritty dark world, with the only choice of weapon you have is the type of 
 weapon you run around with.
  
  The game utilized the same Monolith engine that brought us FEAR, but the differnces between the 
 aformentioned and Condemned is the quite vast, the game is litterally darker, meaning view distance 
 is considerably lessened to the point of internal room lighting, or your characters flashlight. 
 
  
  The weapons offered are everywhere, if it is laying about or on the walls you are pretty much assured 
 that it can be used as a weapon. Firearms in this game are a luxury, its not like any other game 
 where you can pick up more ammo at will, you will run out of amunition, and you will have to drop 
 your weapon.
  
  The main complaint is how linear this game is, you really don't have any puzzles you are pulled 
 around by the nose, and the idea of puzzles aren't puzzles at all, but just filler. So the main 
 objective is to kill or be killed on a jouney that isn't at all scary.
  
  Overall I like this game, but it is one of those games you will see me playing out in a public 
 setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unfinish3d
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  Storyline in a nutshell - Condemned: Criminal Origins puts you in the role of an FBI detective 
 who's just been framed for the murder of his partner and a police officer by the suspect of the 
 case they were investigating. Your goal is to prove your innocence while evading capture, and find 
 out what the bloody fark is going on as you investigate a grisly string of murders.
  
  Graphics - 9 - My computer can't run this so well (800x600 on moderate settings, though I'm upgrading 
 my video card next week) , but regardless it still looks good. People with high-end PCs will have 
 plenty of eye-candy to drool over, I'm sure.
  
  Sound - 8 - Nothing spectacular, but everything works. Some good ambiance to add to the game's 
 atmosphere, though.
  
  Value - 7 - Despite the game's strong points, it has a few weaknesses as well. I feel the game 
 holds your hand too much while you're investigating the crime scenes, but that's not a huge deal. 
 What gets me is the combat. It seems a little glitchy, and gets tiresome after a while. Some people 
 seem to enjoy it, so it could just be me.
  
  Bottom line is, if you're looking for a first-person action game that's not another shooter, this 
 is a good bet if you've got the hardware. My current rig is MSI k8t Neo mobo; Radeon 9800se 128mb; 
 1ghz ddr400 ram, Athlon64 3000+, and I feel I'm barely scraping by. If you don't feel your computer 
 is close to this, you'd probably be wasting your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikky36
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I really was looking forward to a Postal 2 hackfest of blood and gore galore. Even though the melee 
 in this game is satisfing with all the apporiate "squishes" and "crunches," I just don't feel like 
 I'm really mashing the enemies with a shovel, pipe, sledgehammer, or anything else for that matter. 
 It feels fake. There should be meaty bits if you hack with a fire axe or extreme facial distortion 
 as your sledgehammer does some talking. At E3, Sega made it seem as if those things would be true, 
 once again overhype. 
  
  What the game does do right is the fact that harder difficulties do make it realistic in a "hit 
 for a hit" way in the damage system. Same health as the enimies and same amount of damage done 
 to you as them is always a great thing. Also, the combat system is what you like to see out of 
 a melee game, with simple block and counter with an occasional boot up the booty. This is also 
 a downside, because once you have it mastered, the gameplay stagnates. 
  
  Which brings me to the only thing that really makes it worth it: the story. The story is what drives 
 you to play. Very good to see in a game now. But with the boredom of gameplay, and the enimies 
 prescripted makes it hurt. A little randomization would have been nice. The bird collecting is 
 fun however, and it fits into the game, but the achievements don't intergrate like the 360's does 
 unfortunatly. 
  
  Overall, its fun once, but no more, and its strong point is the story and the fact of a melee approch, 
 which is refreshing from the masses of FPS crap thats been flowing out of companies lately 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a brand new game from Monolith. In the game you play as an FBI name 
 Ethan Thomas who specializes in serial killers. The game opens with you investigating the murder 
 of one of the serial killers you have been after. Unfortunately, things dont go as planned and 
 you are quickly on the run from the police, determined to prove your innocence.
  
  The games main draw is its intense visceral hand to hand combat. The game features mostly hand 
 to hand weapons like metal pipes, 2x4s with nails sticking out of the end, sledgehammers and fire 
 axes. While there are guns in the game, they are very rare and only have a few shots in them. The 
 combat is pretty simple to learn since you can only block or attack, but fighting requires a good 
 sense of timing to properly block blows and attack back with your own. The fighting itself is great. 
 It really feels like you are laying into people and it looks extremely brutal. Unfortunately, there 
 is not much depth when it comes to the combat and it gets stale towards the end of the game.
  
  Weapons in the game are classified by range, speed, power, and defense, though it is a bit 
 difficult to tell the difference between some of them. Picking the best weapon can be somewhat 
 of a guessing game as the game only tells you if a weapons power, defense, speed or range is greater 
 or less then the current weapon you have. It also does not mention how much the difference is between 
 the two weapons. You can also only carry one weapon at a time. You also have a stun gun which you 
 can use to stun opponents and grab their weapon while they are stunned. After you fire it, its 
 battery automatically recharges after a few seconds. The stun gun becomes an invaluable weapon 
 later in the game when you are facing off against multiple opponents.
  
  Every once in a while there will be a break in the action while you investigate some of the crime 
 scenes. You will walk into an area and be prompted by your instincts to take out a forensic tool 
 and look for clues. The correct tool automatically comes out, so all you really have to do is look 
 around the environment for the clue you are supposed to find. While it is simple, it can be pretty 
 cool at times. Most of the plot is discovered from these sequences, so they are definitely interesting 
 even if it is extremely easy.
  
  Most of the gameplay takes place in very run-down environments. From a subway station to a library, 
 every environment in the game looks like it has been neglected for years and is falling apart. 
 All of the environments are extremely dark and do a good job of giving off a sense of fear. Unfortunately, 
 none of the environments are very interesting to explore and there is not much you can do while 
 you walk around them. Occasionally you will wander into a door that you need to cut your way through 
 with a fire axe, or fence with a padlock that you need to smash off with a sledgehammer, but that 
 is pretty much it. Also, it is extremely easy to get lost in many of the levels since everything 
 looks pretty much the same because of extremely repetitive use of textures. When you get lost there 
 is no map to help you find your way, so you will find yourself wandering around until you stumble 
 across the door you need to open.
  
  Graphically the game looks extremely good. The lighting effects in the game are absolutely great 
 to look at and the environments are extremely detailed. The characters look realistic and animate 
 beautifully. The fighting animations of the enemies in the game are especially good. Enemies will 
 stumble backwards when you hit them with a heavy object or come running at you, swinging wildly 
 in the air. All of the animation looks fluid and very realistic.
  
  The AI in the game is also pretty impressive. The enemies are extremely aggressive, though they 
 do occasionally hide so that they can catch you off guard. Sometimes they charge at you while screaming 
 some pretty nasty stuff or hide and wait to ambush you. They will also attack each other, which 
 can be fun to watch. Enemies will see weapons in the environment and pick them up if they dont 
 have one. The AI does a good job of keeping the fights brutal and intense. One problem with the 
 AI is that after the first few hours, the AI becomes pretty predictable. They have a few cool tricks 
 at their disposal, but after an hour or so you have already seen them all.
  
  The sound in the game is pretty average. There isnt much music except for some ambient stuff here 
 and there, but the sound effects are excellent. Every smash with a weapon sounds disgustingly realistic. 
 The voice acting is also pretty convincing.
  
  The biggest disappointment in the game would have to be the storyline. To sum it up, its awful. 
 A lot of the real important stuff, such as why everyone is going crazy, is boorishly explained 
 during loading screens instead of in the game. The ending is also pretty anticlimactic and underwhelming.
 
  
  But still, Condemned: Criminal Origins is a pretty fun game to play. It does a great job delivering 
 a good looking first-person melee combat game. Its just the more you play it, the more you will 
 wish it had a deeper plot and a more robust combat system to keep it much more interesting. So 
 if you are looking for some fun melee combat and dont mind its short length and underwhelming 
 plot then go ahead and pick up Condemned.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 16, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Coming out April 11th of 2005, Condemned: Criminal Origins (C: CO) , originally released on the Xbox360 
 hasnt lost any of its good looks and fun gameplay across a decent storyline with great sound effects 
 thatll have you jumping off your chair a few times every minute. Mix in some amazing melee combat 
 and the freedom to find a weapon almost anywhere. C: CO will give any player some strong hours of 
 gameplay.
  
  You play as Ethan Thomas, an FBI agent who is investigating a string of murders across the games 
 many levels. From the first crime scene that youre presented with, youll soon realize that the 
 killer youre working with is pretty damn sick and twisted. As you progress through the levels, 
 youll find out that Serial Killer X, the man youre chasing after, is finding all of these other 
 serial killers on the loose and killing them how they would kill their own victims. Some of these 
 different serial killers are into some pretty sick stuff too. One dead serial killer youll come 
 across has been put into somewhat of a pose with a mannequin after hes been strangled. Another 
 serial killer victim youll come across has been tortured to the point where he wants to kill himself. 
 The developers really took their time with setting up the stage for each of the levels giving them 
 a lot of atmosphere and attention to detail with dealing with all aspects of the crimes. From the 
 beginning of the game though, youll lose the help of the FBI agency except for one friend of yours 
 because Serial Killer X killed two officers with your gun and now youre being framed for those 
 murders. So, not only are you trying to find a crazed lunatic, but youre also trying to avoid 
 the police and FBI. The storyline progresses and does somewhat of a full circle as your realize 
 just who you are in the game.
  
  As an investigator, youll be using tools around the different crime scenes to help you solve puzzles 
 and gain clues in trying to find Serial Killer X. Youre not really given complete control of these 
 tools though; whenever you come across a spot where the tools would be useful, a message will come 
 upon the screen to take out one of your tools and when you push the keyboard button to take out 
 the tool, itll pick the right one for you. While not giving you a lot of freedom in this aspect, 
 the computer choosing your tool really helps, and speeds the crime scenes along, especially when 
 youre hearing funny noises in the background. What you do have complete control over though are 
 your weapons. Of course, being an FBI Agent, youll begin the game with a gun, but you definitely 
 have limited ammunition and there are quite a few enemies around the different levels. When you 
 first start the game, youll hear and read reports of birds randomly going crazy and killing themselves 
 and alongside of those reports, youll come to find out that a lot of people are becoming insane 
 and are acting as if theyre on drugs around town and these are the junkies that youll be coming 
 across quite a bit. So, after the first few junkies, youll be out of ammo and youll have to find 
 a different weapon, but what do you use? The developers really gave this game some realism when 
 they decided to make the environments interactive and what I mean by that is when you come across 
 a pipe on the wall, you can rip it out and use it as a weapon. You see that two by four with nails 
 in it from the near construction of that building, its all yours. How about that paper cutter 
 blade? Pick it up. There are literally multitudes of weapons throughout each level and its your 
 choice on which one you want to use. Keep in mind that some are more powerful than others, and 
 some can be swung faster and more often, the choice is yours how you want to play. Youll also 
 be given a stun gun in the beginning which you can use to back the junkies off of you in a pinch.
 
  
  And melee is what this entire game is about. Theres basically two buttons you need to worry about 
 in this game, your right and left mouse buttons. One is to swing, the other to block and after 
 taking a couple sledge hammer hits to the side, youll soon come to figure out when to block. There 
 will be a couple guns spread throughout the different levels, but youll mainly be dealing with 
 melee weapons and this is where the game shines. Unlike any other game to date, the developers 
 really hit melee combat on the nail (pun intended) when they made C: CO. The combat is very realistic, 
 and it just looks amazing too. Depending on where you aim at your victim, the physics will make 
 your enemy truly feel the blunt of the hit and after smashing your nail infested two by four against 
 the side of someones face, itll be stained with blood until it just falls apart from the repeated 
 blows you deal. I cant say enough about the fun that can be had with the different weapons and 
 combinations that you can go through with the melee combat system, but this is also part of the 
 games fault too. Basically being all melee combat, some players may get bored with this style 
 of game play and to each his own in this respect. If you see yourself getting bored with repeated 
 hours of melee combat, you might want to pass on this title, but you owe it to yourself to at least 
 check out how fun it can be.
  
  The graphics in this game look great. Being first released on the Xbox360 and now on the pc, it 
 doesnt look like it lost anything in the translation. The environments look extremely detailed, 
 although some may get frustrated with all the darkness and shadows in the game, but be rest assured, 
 that Ethan Thomas doesnt suffer from space marine syndrome. He can hold a weapon and a flashlight 
 at the same time. All of the character models look fantastic and during the combat, youll really 
 appreciate just how great the graphics are when youre swinging your firemans axe at enemies 
 heads. As the game progresses, youll be roaming through city streets, subways, abandoned schools 
 and libraries and across apple fields; theres just a lot of variety with the different environments 
 in this game. 
  
  Another great aspect of this game is the sound. This is a game you play with the lights off and 
 the speakers turned way up, but thats only if you want to jump out of your seat for the next ten 
 or so hours. Knowing that you have to rely on health packs found throughout the games levels, 
 youll find yourself taking your time when traveling through the different hallways and alleys 
 when trying to find more clues. No matter where youre at, youll be hearing some strange noise 
 thatll make you second guess yourself. The voice acting within the game is done well to the point 
 that it really gets you into the storyline and all that is happening in every level. Theres just 
 not enough to say about the sound. The noises and sounds will get to you sooner or later.
  
  In the end, the game doesnt have much in the way of replay value. There are certain items 
 and trinkets you can collect throughout the different levels to unlock some extras like concept 
 art, but other than that, theres really no reason to go through the game again except for a harder 
 difficulty. The game really shines in the graphics and sound department and thats where the developers 
 deserve a lot of credit because they offered a great atmospheric experience from the beginning 
 till end and provided a decent story along the way. While the gameplay itself may get stale along 
 the way, the different environments themselves will be why the player keeps progressing through 
 the games multiple levels.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 15, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  Condemned: CO is the first FPS i have played for ages. the last FPS i played was Half Life 1 (the 
 original Half Life) . and i must say i am not that impressed by it.
  first off, its not A FPS (First Person Shooter) , its a FPH (First Person Hacker) . you spend most 
 of your time in the game beating the crap out of your enemies with melee weapons. so if you're 
 into shooting people, you're in the wrong game thread.
  anyway, moving on, the good points of the game.
  its graphic are pretty sweet, you do see alot 
 of the items details and stuff. like blood on the weapon where you hit your enemies. etc. but there 
 are occasional times when you can squeeze between objects and never get out. the sound is excellent. 
 very crisp very directed. you can tell where in the game it is coming from.
  now the bad. the gameplay is only so-so. very repeatitive, very mindless, its an easy game on all 
 levels, dont expect anything fancy or tough. and for a survival horror game, its not at all scary. 
 you will feel some chills at some points but on a whole, its pretty pathetic. either that or i'm 
 not easily scared.
  and furthermore, the extras are not worth the effort getting. its only additional stuff like sketches 
 and making of videos. dont even bother.
  all in all i will say that if you can get it cheap, like i did, second hand, you can give it a 
 go. if not, its not worth the whole package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doug1975
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  This was a great game. I could'nt stop playing. It was a little short and I wish there would have 
 been more answers at the end. Maybe there will be a sequel. The fighting with boards, pipes, etc. 
 was a blast. Reminded me of Fear. We need more of these 1st person horror games. The look was great 
 too because it was dark. The ending may have been a little easy for some, but I hate when a final 
 battle is so hard that you can't finish the game.
  Why do these reviews have to have 100 words. That is stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_rza_47
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R 
 but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R 
 but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R 
 but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R 
 but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R 
 but it's not boring
  It's a great game, similar to F. E. A. R but it's not boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XtremeGoku
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game really disappointed me. I couldn't wait to get it from reading all the reviews. I started 
 to play and after about 30 minutes i started to get bored. Right from the start i noticed there 
 was no ducking or any jumping which made it much worse.
  
  Your guy moves like an idiot. Also, apparently you can carry around an entire lab of investigation 
 tools but cant even hold more then 1 weapon at the same time. The fighting is always the same and 
 gets really boring, and you barely ever get to use a gun. If your looking for a game with pretty 
 graphics but has the most boring game-play this is the game for you. If your looking for a game 
 with good graphics AND game-play check out doom 3, FEAR, or counter strike source.
  
  In conclusion, save your money and time... i seriously wasted my money and even worse i wasted my 
 TIME... please! don't waste yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The Good : A stuninf FPS game in a hand to hand combat gameplay were guns almost never exists in 
 the enviroments that you get to play in them , all scary , all calm , all action . A nicce Story 
 Line were you get to play as an FBI agent who is framed for the death of two officers . You get 
 to follow serial killers & save them from a CRAZY Serial killer who wants to kill them , in your 
 way you discover new things about yourself & about the streets & the people that live in them . 
 The Graphics are as great as the Sounds .
  
  The Bad : Not borig , but kind of a slow gameplay that gets you on your nerves with this game , 
 & the enviroments aren't interactive with you , like other games ( for ex. when you hit the wall 
 you dont see the effect of the hit on the wall , like a small hole or a trace that tells it was 
 hitten by something ) . Only few kinds of weapons rearly to be found since sometimes you need to 
 go way way back to get an axe in order to open a door . 
  
  Personally , you dont have to get this game , go & borrow it form a freind , but if you personlly 
 want to test it by yourself & dont want to wait for freinds then go buy it , it is worth the money 
 . Cool Game & it can be playable no matter what other says , you wont get bored , but you'll get 
 nervous at some levels . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoopdebejesus
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Its been a long time since I played a game thats given me so much pleasure on so many levels. 
 I would class this genre as horror since it has very creepy environments, sounds and enemy characters. 
 Its almost a shooter but not quite. 
  
  Walking in the dark with a flashlight isnt anything new, (to video games) but forcing you to go 
 hand-to-hand with smart AI enemy is. In Condemned, you cant sit back with your chain-gun and confidently 
 shoot up anything that moves. Youll learn to sweat every time you hear a bump in the dark, crazed 
 breathing and coughing, or feet running to flank you or get a good hiding spot where youll pass 
 by.
  
  What youll love:
  
   Its a mix of shooter, hand-to-hand combat, mystery/adventure story, with horror and crime solving 
 to boot. 
   Good graphics and physics (uses the F. E. A. R engine) .
   Good voice acting, great ambient music, and sound effects.
   Controls are mostly standard 
 and easy to learn.
   Awesome art to create creepy environment, with lots of detail.
   Hand-to-hand combat feels real. If you die, its because you did something stupid, like forget 
 to block, or faced too many enemy when your health was low.
   Playing with forensic tools to gather evidence at crime scenes (impatient types might not like 
 this break in the action) .
  
  What I didnt like:
   Not being able to crouch, jump or lean around corners, and having to press the action button 
 to crawl under and over things.
   Not being about to turn off the pop-up action messages, (example: when you want to open a door 
 is it really necessary to have a message pop up telling you to press the action key?) . 
   Lots of locked doors you cant open. 
  
  Want a classic shooter? This isnt the game for 
 you. Looking for something new, that can suck you into the action with a story, very creepy buildings, 
 fun hand-to-hand, and crafty enemy? Dont miss this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Like Halo, Condemned: Criminal Origins tries to do something new with the FPS Genre and it succeeds 
 to a large degree. Instead of just shooting, it focuses on improvised melee combat and this results 
 in real, life-like, desperate fights for survival. The story deals with you, Ethan Thomas, who 
 works for the FBI's Serial Crimes Unit. While chasing after a serial killer, you're framed for 
 the murder of 2 police officers, forcing you to go through the worst scum the city has to offer 
 to clear your name. Graphics are absolutely stunning though the environments could be more varied. 
 You'll see that Monolith really ran with the whole "rundown, condemned" buildings look, but sometimes 
 it results in some similar looking environments that might frustrate you a little when you're forced 
 to backtrack (especially true during the Library level) . There are some unique locales such as 
 the department store, the Metro Station and the surrounding subway tunnels. All of them feature 
 dark, dirty area, giving you chills down your spine since you'll never know what might jump out. 
 Sound is the best feature here, and with surround sound you'll feel like its really happening all 
 around you. When hitting enemies with lead pipes, you'll distinctly hear the skull cracks and the 
 blood droplets splatter all over the floor. Now that's some really well-done sound. The A. I. is 
 good, though not as advanced as Monolith's last game, F. E. A. R. With a weapon, they'll fight you 
 to the death, but if you manage to disarm them, they'll quickly run away, grab a new weapon and 
 try to beat you to death again. This leads into the new gameplay mechanic of melee combat. Basically, 
 anything in the environment is fair game. You can grab lead pipes, crowbars, locker doors, mannequin 
 arms and others and use them to beat your foes to death. The enemy also knows how to dodge and 
 feint very well so if you block at the wrong time, you'll face a heavy thwack to the head with 
 a lead pipe. My favorite weapon turned out to be the paper cutter, which looks like a makeshift 
 ax. =D It's not without some flaws though. The story could have been more developed and kind of 
 falls apart at the end but that's okay, since it leaves us wanting more and the melee combat does 
 get somewhat repetitive at the end. There's also Achievements in the game, brought over from the 
 Xbox 360 version so if you want, you can replay the game to get the unlockables which reveal more 
 of the plot. Overall, if you're tired of playing Doom 3 or Quake 4, try this game, you won't be 
 disappointed. And the scare factor is cranked up to the maximum so be ready to bring your diapers 
 with you. And your mommy. Better yet, play this at midnight for the ultimate experience. Hey, whatever 
 doesn't kill you makes you stronger!
  
  *Revised review to reflect my current review standards.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Comdemned is a single player Adventure/Shooter that takes place in the very near future in a Nowhereville. 
 The game is beautifully disigned and sounds amazing. The voice acting is good. The level disign 
 is great. The overall delivery may be a little off, but the game makes up for it with old fashioned 
 head busting.
  
  The game offers a whole new type of combat style. The "Anything Is A Weapon" style of play. You 
 need a weapon? look on the ground. Use a 2x4, a wrench, a pipe, an axe, etc. Guns are available, 
 but most player perfer to bust heads with a good old crowbar. 
  
  The music in the game fits the theme well. Scary. The games sound is very good in the way that 
 every object sounds different each time you use it. The weapon in your hand will never make the 
 same sound twice. 
  
  The graphics... are.... AWESOME! A game this beautiful does not come around very often. So gamers 
 everywhere can bash skulls in some of the best enviornments around on any platform available. The 
 charicvtors have faces, and they will show experssions such as fear, happieness (when they hit 
 you) and sadness and regret (when you hit them) . 
  
  The game is scary. Scary like any movie ever was, things will jump out at you, stairs will creak, 
 demonic images will appear that will haunt your sleep forever. Thats what a scary game is sopposed 
 to do. 
  
  In summary, this game is enteratining until its end. Which would come faster to players if only 
 they were not too scared to play it in the dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zion_7
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  I've been a gamer for all my life, and I look for the best and brightest. Most of those games are 
 sleeper hits, which get very little credit., A. k. a, The Movies, Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy, The 
 Sims. 
  
  In my opinion, the underdog has it all most times, and Condemned: Criminal orgins is just that. 
 This game, aside from all the heart pumping, Silence of the lambs ambient feel, contributes the 
 BEST fighting style I have ever seen in all of my gaming years. 
  
  The way your weapon hits the deranged, wacko, junkies who roam this abandoned run down city, is 
 so life-like, I cringe everytime I wack the teeth right out of their mouths which fall to the ground 
 using actual physics, followed by spurts of blood. The fighting sytem is simple yet uber gratifying. 
 You swing with one mouse button and block with the next, thats it! Your blocks must be timed which 
 adds marvelous suspense, and frustration too. You can see five to seven guys all on one screen 
 and actually watch them duke it out like a movie!
  
  Aside from the fighting, the graphics are better that FEAR's, in that their visual effect are extemely 
 stylized, you feel like your in the Sequel to hannibal! This game can get scary, which may be a 
 turn off to the more sensitive players out there, but it's not as scary as resident evil games 
 or DOOM 3.
  
  If you want a great game that is in Par with Half-life 2, FEAR, COD2, Condemned is just that game, 
 some just dont agree.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiedhasan
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 29, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  At first i expected da game 2 be a blast. But it was a total letdown. Combat skill, surrounding, 
 actions, melee combat, creepy, quite lengthy......... eveythin is just fine........ but same thin 
 2 do ova and ova again..... gets u bored after a few levls. Guys come out of no where and start 
 combat and this keeps on repeating. Only cool thin is da forenic investigation..... but ths game 
 is not worthy, If u like 2 do the same thing, dat is beatin up da bad gys wit same face ova and 
 ova again with 2 to 3 strong blows, then dis game is 4 u.......... otherwise u can 4get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 20, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game reminds me of Call of Cthulu: Dark corners of the Earth because of the scary factor but 
 C: CO has a different kind of scare. The scare would be a fast and in-your face boo! making the 
 player feel like they are actually in the game in Thomas' (Main Character) shoes. The Graphics 
 are great even on a not top of the notch PC. Gameplay lasts around 7-10 hours depending on the 
 player and the pace you like to go in the game. C: CO's weapons are plentiful with over 15 of them 
 cleverly common such as a steam pipe or a locker door. There are guns in C: CO but you are limited 
 to what is in the clip so there in no reloading and you want to conserve your ammo as much as possible. 
 Though short, C: CO is a good, scary game with an indepth story line that keeps the player wanting 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 20, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Before getting this game I played the demo about 4 times through, enjoying every moment of it and 
 lying the atmospheric (yet repetitive) level design. I think being repetitive didn't hurt the game 
 too much, though I did spend some of the levels wishing I could do to a different drab, depressing 
 and freaky area.
  
  That combat system is really simple. I wish it had more to it, and I wish you could duck and jump 
 like in first person shooters, but yet again I think this aspect of the game adds to the atmosphere 
 of the game.
  
  The graphics aren't as good at all as its counterpart F. E. A. R., but you won't be looking too much 
 at anything beautiful that you'd WANT to scrutinize so why does it matter?
  
  The sound in this game is amazing, just like in F. E. A. R. Monolith's sound technicians are masters, 
 apparently.
  
  This game was also the scariest game I've ever played. It was by far a lot scarier than F. E. A. R., 
 which was paranormal and less likely to happen. This game deals with violent crack addicts and 
 just straight out crazy people grabbing pipes off walls and trying to kill you. This game is a 
 lot like the movies Se7en and Saw (the former being used as inspiration for the game by the devs) .
 
  
  This game is a great experience for any first person shooter addict, because it REALLY makes you 
 appreciate having a gun in your hand for when you get back to your Counter-Strikes and Battlefield 
 2's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4mek
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a 10 out 10 for two reasons;
  
  1. The game comes on a DVD and installation is easy just put the DVD in and let it load no multiple 
 CD (stupid) like some other games.
  
  2. My operating system is Windows XP X64 edition and this games runs with full sound (sound FX 
 and voice, unlike FEAR) and at high resolution without ANY problems.
  
  Throughout the game you are asked to do certain tasks as part of the story line. These task remind 
 me of the CSI shows which I enjoy. The controls of the game are very simple and remind me a Xbox 
 type controls. When you need to interact with the environment a hand will appear and all you do 
 is press the "use" key to make it happen. This is also true for climbing ladders, jumping and crawling 
 under things. No special buttons to remember just follow the hand and press one button. 
  
  You have a flashlight and taser throught the game. Unlike other games the flashlight has unlimited 
 battery life and stays on. The taser regenerates and you can shock and steal weapons from the bad 
 guys. The bad guys are somewhat intelligent but relatively easy to kill. The only anoyance is there 
 is too few guns in the game and no ammo and you have to relie on what you can find as a weapon 
 from a fire axe, sledge hammer, shovel, pipe etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 17, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Condemned is a game with a great and surprising storyline that delivers on almost all points. Unfortunately 
 the game doesn't live up to its full potential, and the game could have been a bit longer. I think 
 that the people who didn't like the ending didn't quite get it. It's not about what actually happened, 
 but the psychology behind it, and in some way the ending does say something about yourself (gamer) 
 as well about the sometimes thin line between (extreme) criminals and regular people.
  The game might have been scarier though, this together with some other slight flaws keeps the game 
 from being truly fantastic.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay consists of multiple parts. Unfortunately the lacking in this is general movement, 
 you can't jump at will nor can you crouch. Instead you have to use the use button to crawl through 
 windows and even to jump down holes. Would this system be used to ADD to normal free movement the 
 gameplay would be a hard 10.
  The fighting though is simply amazing, it's fast paced and is easier more fun and looks better 
 than that of, say, Oblivion. It has firearms but they are used scarecely, which is a good thing 
 as the melee combat is so much more fun. You can collect items everywhere and use them as a weapon. 
 Besides the 5 (plus more unlockable) firearms there is a set of 4 melee weapons used to break through 
 doors or open locks (which looks amazing BTW) and a variety of other melee weapons, anything of 
 2x4's to lockerdoors. Each weapon has it's advantages and disatvantages which are very accurate 
 to what you would expect.
  The AI is also amazing, the enemies can also get weapons from the enviroment or discard their own 
 to pick up a more powerfull one. They hide behind corners, they also block. On hard these guys 
 are truly a tough challenge.
  There's also some Crime Scene Investigation work, but this is fairly easy, allthough later on you 
 will also be attacked while doing this and it breaks up the combat nicely.
  Finishing moves, though scarce, are very, very cool, just control yourself from shouting out "Take 
 that you ****er" when you use nr 4.
  All in all amazing, too bad general movement is so limited.
  
  Graphics:
  The game has F. E. A. R. 
 written all over it, not just in the amazing AI, and the designers didn't try to hide it either. 
 Infact they even put in some hommages to F. E. A. R. in the game (The Cheesy Poofs bag is an easy 
 one, but there are many more) .
  Personally I didn't really think the design in either game really gets boring, it's just realistic 
 and also very detailed. The game itself pushes the engine to the maximum and it looks extremely 
 nice, at a low cost for your machine. I ran it at the same settings as F. E. A. R. with the resolution 
 at 1280 instead of 1024.
  If you have to sacrifice your framerate a bit for 2* FSAA, it's worth it, the engine does suffer 
 a bit from aliasing but the FSAA does a great job at hiding this.
  Dynamic lights are also awesome and now also work with your flashlight (which doesn't run out) . 
 Turning it on may degrade perfomance, but does it ever look good.
  The game is fairly dark, at some places it's completely dark and the game does a nice job pushing 
 the engine to it's limits here as well. Soft shadows make the game look good beyond belief, but 
 demand a heavy, heavy toll.
  Some larger areas do decrease performance though, but not as bad as in games like Oblivion.
  
 The game pushes the engine to the maximum, it looks stunning.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is simply superb as well. There's nothing to be said about it really, everything is completely 
 realistic about the sounds, from the voice acting to walking up stairs (though not in sync with 
 your legs there (yes you see your legs, that amazing engine remember?) ) but locking on to stairs 
 would be almost impossible and make it impossible to move sideways on stairs, no game has yet done 
 this.
  Too bad the sound phased out a bit which reduces it by one point, but I only had 1 of the 3 "special 
 option" for sound and maybe they will patch this.
  
  Value:
  The game is a bit too short for such an amazingly fun game. There's nothing more to it. Perfectionists 
 can try to unlock all achievement awards to get all the special weapons but itt would be a bit 
 boring, searching every inch of the levels.
  But you get a great, complete and original game for your money.
  
  Tilt:
  My tilt rating 
 is mostly comprised of the amazing combat. The game might have been made a bit scarier though, 
 there was only one sequence which did a good job to really freak me out for a couple of secs. But 
 for me the game wasn't really as scary, sadly enough it's gonna be even less scary if I play through 
 it a second time. (Which I will, amazing combat remember?)
  Most of the scares just didn't deliver for me, though all scenes were cool. Cool, just not that 
 scary
  I didn't think it got repetetive, otherwise I wouldn't wish for the game to be longer. But it seems 
 no game has yet delivered the true horror experience some of us are looking for.
  At least the game isn't as "cheap" as Doom 3, as "take it or leave it" as F. E. A. R., or as impossible 
 to get my goddamn hands on as Call of Cthulhu.
  
  Difficulty:
  It seems the game overestimates the time it takes to learn the game, as in the beginning the enemies 
 are a lot easier than later on. There are some cool boss battles that are pretty hard that require 
 saving and loading. (Normal difficulty)
  
  Learning Curve:
  Unlike you might expect the only thing you need to learn is blocking, and even this is learned 
 pretty quick and wether it works really depends on your weapon. It's great that it's so intuitive. 
 Though special moves might take longer to learn. (move left + fire/ move backwards + fire) .
  
  Time Spent Playing:
  Not quite completely sure actually, though closer to 10 than 20.
  
 
  Cassification: The game is innovative, though a bit lacking it puts in some cool new things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MF_2
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 14, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  My friend comes over and says i got this game from wal mart and its amazing. I install it on my 
 computer and start playing it. This game is so realistic. The graphics are amazing. The game is 
 very well developed. The game is scary in an original way unlike DOOM3's shock theater. 
  
  The game puts you in the eyes of a FBI agent. You walk most of the game. In real life its very 
 hard to keep a constant sprint of 10mph for hours.
  
  The story is very good. This game was a good one and i recommened you buy it. No multiplayer sadly. 
 But great single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackCanopus
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 14, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  The greatest challenge, when trying to make a genre-bending game, is to sustain the original flavor, 
 while trying to add something fresh and new. Sometimes it works, sometimes it does not; and it 
 mostly depends on how much of a change the developer is going to make. Change it a bit, and the 
 game will be interesting. Change it too much and you get an innovative, but boring and broken game. 
 Few developers are capable of changing a game to the maximum extent, and yet appeal to the original 
 audience of the genre. For many years, Monolith has been the master of doing so (have you ever 
 played Gruntz, Sanity: Aiken's Artifact, Tron 2.0, No One Lives Forever or FEAR?) .
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is an innovative, ultra-realistic FPS, which captures the very soul 
 of first-person shooters and pours it into a completely different kind of game. There are some 
 limitations to the game-play, which may be annoying for hardcore shooter fans, but the overall 
 experience is engaging and fun.
  From the aspect of game-play, Condemned is one of the most realistic gaming experiences ever created; 
 mostly because of its realistic controls, natural feel and good interactions with the environment 
 (we will talk about its state of the art graphics and impressive -yet not perfect- sound system 
 later) . Along with the game's spectacular physics, nearly every action, and interaction with the 
 environment, is a mimic of the real world. The way you walk, or descend a stairway, or break a 
 door, and many other things (which you will be doing a lot) are both powered by the game's physics 
 engine and fine-tuned scripts (which unlike may other games, add a good amount of variety to the 
 game-play and yet do not sacrifice its freedom) .
  But true innovation is in the game's combat system. Monolith has altered the classic FPS game-play 
 so much; it does not feel like a traditional FPS anymore. In fact, this is not your everyday run-and-gun 
 game. While you will be able to use guns, it is rather hard to find them. Instead, you will be 
 using your trusty taser and every melee weapon which you can get your hands on. The taser is a 
 good ranged weapon, but it takes a long time to recharge. So, you are limited to melee weapons 
 most of the time. From a pipe to a billboard, nearly every thin or long object is usable as a weapon. 
 Condemned has a very satisfying melee combat system: the most realistic melee combat system I have 
 ever seen. Every weapon has its own advantages and setbacks. Some of them (like sledge-hammers) 
 hurt the most, while the others are faster, or easy to defend against incoming melee attacks. For 
 example, a billboard is good weapon when you are trying to defend yourself, but it ruins the view 
 and makes you practically blind. 
  You decide which weapon to use most of the time. But in some cases, you will have to use a certain 
 weapon - as a piece of the puzzle- to gain access to certain areas of the game. For example, you 
 must use an axe to break down wooden doors.
  Melee fights are extremely natural; and naturally, violent. Every blow you take, hurts a lot (don't 
 ask) and every blow you land hurts a lot too. Blood sprays on the walls, and the enemies' screams 
 (and obviously yours) , while attacking or taking damage are natural and frightening (this is no 
 game for kids, and some adults as well!) . A good blow to the head can crush your enemy. It is when 
 you must go on and do the dirty coup-de-grace, either with your strong kicks, your weapon or one 
 of your finishing moves. Sometimes the enemy grabs you, and hits you with his head. Thanks to masterfully 
 performed motion capture, combat (just like the cut-scenes) is extremely detailed, realistic and 
 natural.
  Maybe the most annoying feature of the games is its sprint system. You usually walk, and your walking 
 speed is less than traditional FPS games (which is a natural thing in the real world) . But when 
 you sprint, your stamina drops, and as it drops, your speed decreases, until the time you can not 
 run anymore. Your stamina bar depletes fast, and charges slowly. For classic FPS gamers, it is 
 a nightmare.
  Another flaw is the lack of multiplayer, which would be great in this game. It would be plain fun 
 to bash your friends with a sledge-hammer (I am thinking about it right now...!) and it would be 
 even better if that option was available in PC version. But for some unknown reason, there is just 
 NO multiplayer in a game that craves it.
  Sadly, doing the same difficult things for many times is both exhausting (even more exhausting 
 than FEAR) and boring. The only thing that rescues the game from being boring is its short game-play 
 and great adventure elements.
  The game features some of the most interesting adventure features and gadgets seen (and not seen) 
 in movies like "Seven". In most cases, your instincts will tell you when to look, and where to 
 look for evidence, and it does so by using full-screen special effects (anyone who has played FEAR 
 is familiar with this effect. It was used in slow-motion scenes) . You will have to use those tools 
 to detect organic material, finger prints, decaying bodies or other clues. After discovering a 
 clue, you should take a picture and send it to police labs to analyze. Some of these scenes are 
 amongst the best moments of the game, and these are the parts that never get boring or repetitive.
 
  Some of the realism of this game is because of its superb graphics engine. Since Condemned uses 
 the same engine as FEAR, most in-game places look familiar. Condemned has better character models 
 than FEAR, but some models are still odd and un-natural (for example Nathan's blood covered face, 
 near the very end of the game) . Special effects and textures are the same as FEAR and the only 
 major difference in graphics system is in the cut-scenes. In cut-scenes, Condemned is a cinematic 
 experience you have never seen before. Heavy use of shaders, full-screen effects and HDR effect, 
 creates the most cinematic in-engine cut-scenes ever seen. They could have been even better, if 
 it was not because of the poor character models and intense lighting in some areas. But it does 
 not make any difference, because the game's very natural motion-capture, facial effects and art-direction 
 (with good use of music and sound effects) creates truly movie-like scenes. And believe me or not, 
 they are much better than traditional detective movies you see here and there.
  There is also a problem with non-HD screens. Condemned is an X-Box360 game, so it was designed 
 for HD screens. On non-HD screen, two black bars will appear at the top and bottom of the screen. 
 It means that you will always have the feeling of watching a cut-scene, which is a very, very big 
 problem for PC users.
  Sound system in Condemned is both odd and natural. First, some character voices -especially those 
 from behind door- are strange, like they are coming from under water or something. Second, sound 
 effects are so natural, they are frightening. Listening to the sound of foot-steps on another floor 
 is a thrilling feeling, especially when you can exactly identify where the voice is coming from. 
 And thanks to great character voice acting, and impressive combat voice-overs and sound-effects 
 (both characters and impact effects sound incredibly natural) Condemned features one of the best 
 -although flawed- sound systems ever seen in a video game.
  Besides all of that, the strangest thing about Condemned is its superb, and superbly dumb story 
 (Don't worry, I am not going to spoil the story) . The story starts very strong, and keeps the pace 
 until the end of the game. It is something about serial-killers and un-natural beings and ominous 
 events all over the city. But in the end, the game slips, or it seems so. The story ends unfinished, 
 leaving the player unsatisfied. You never understand the meaning of the things you saw during those 
 terrible hours; and in fact, Condemned has one of the dumbest, most meaningless endings I have 
 ever seen. It appears that the developers are planning for a sequel, but would it justify ruining 
 the game's potentially exceptional story?
  The game uses 3rd person cut-scenes to tell the story. This kind of story-telling is not a good 
 way for a first-person game, mostly because how it decreases the realism of the game. Realistic 
 FPS games like Half-Life 2 (and Monolith's very own FEAR, in some extent) bypass cut-scenes, and 
 utilize the player's point of view to tell him (or her) what is going on. This game is an exception 
 however. Maybe the developers wanted to tell the story from another point of view, or just wanted 
 to trade the realism of the game for a more cinematic experience. And let me confess, the cinematic 
 feel of the game is not a bad thing at all.
  Condemned starts explosive and immersive, plays well, and ends unsatisfying and dumb. It could 
 have been a perfect game, if it was not for its little flaws. But those little flaws, altogether, 
 crack the face of the game. However, if you want a good, innovative and truly realistic game, and 
 if you are not afraid of a little scare, Condemned is the definite title to pick.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 11, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  If the designers got anything right with this game, it's the atmosphere. It's a creepy game, and 
 at least through the first few hours, you'll find yourself proceeding cautiously. The atmosphere 
 really does pull you in.
  
  Unfortunately, the game quickly becomes tedious. What works well for the first part of the game 
 gets old by the middle and painful by the end. The game throws all its good stuff at you in the 
 first two to three hours of gameplay. From then on out, it's actually quite boring.
  
  Which is too bad, because the game does show some promise. The game suceeds far better than most 
 thriller/shooters in providing the trappings of a thriller, mostly by borrowing ideas from recent 
 thriller movies. Well, by stealing them, actually. None of the ideas are new (most have long become 
 cliche in cinema) but since they're new-ish in the video game world, we're supposed to cut them 
 a break. But I won't.
  
  By the middle of the game, the designers seem to have completely lost whatever direction they had. 
 The game becomes a maze, nearly impossible to navigate. Perhaps the designers meant this as some 
 sort of metaphor within the game's story. Whatever the intention, the game becomes painful.
  
  The hand-to-hand fighting is interesting, but again becomes tedious. Like the amazing hand-to-hand 
 fighting in the Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay, it only goes so far. Riddick had 
 the benefit of additional gameplay mechanics such as stealth, as well as great weapons. Condemned 
 has none of that. The designers tried to add in such additional gameplay with the "gathering evidence" 
 mechanic, but like with the recent CSI games released, it's really just busywork. There's no challenge 
 in it. It doesn't even qualify as a minigame, just as a few extra keystrokes. The result is that 
 you feel like the game is playing you, rather than the other way around.
  
  Graphically, the game is fine. Nothing special, but effective at what it needs to do, although 
 parts of teh game are excessively dark. Lighting remains a problem for many games. Level designers 
 have not yet perfected the use of volumetric lighting. As with effects such as light bloom, sometimes 
 it is overdone. Lighting is central in this game, and yet it feels like the designers came up with 
 the game to show off their mediocre skills with lighting. It works, but it isn't anything to write 
 home about.
  
  Voice acting was average for FPS games, which means it sucked. Dialogue was, as it often is in 
 such games, overwrought and overwritten, as someone would write in a 10th grade comp class. It 
 gets the job done, but it certainly isn't pretty. Other sound effects were decent, but the score 
 was, well, a bit boring.
  
  The story was what you would expect from a bad TV movie. Entertaining if there's nothing else on, 
 but not something you'd choose to watch. And so I find it difficult to recommend the game. On the 
 other hand, there are far worse games out there. Some, who aren't bothered by bad writing and storytelling 
 will find the game entertaining. But let's not pretend this is a good game. It's not. It's thoroughly 
 mediocre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcadem
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 11, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  Hot on the trail of the man who framed him for the murder of two police officers, Ethan Thomas 
 is just about to have one hell of a bad day as he has to bash his way through a city gone mad in 
 search for the killer. The game here in question is Condemned: Criminal Origins, originally a launch 
 title for the Xbox 360 it has now found it's way over to the PC and for all intents and purposes, 
 it's exactly the same game as before so if you played the 360 version, move along, nothing new 
 to see here.
  On the other hand, if you have never played Condemned before and your PC is up to snuff, this is 
 your chance to experience one of the most intense and brutal action game ever made.
  Condemned starts of with you investigating a murder, accompanied by two other police officers. 
 While trying to track down the killer your gun gets stolen and is then used to kill the other two 
 officers although Ethan is spared. Now Ethan has to escape from the law, and try to find out the 
 truth about what exactly the killers agenda is. The plot is interesting and keeps you going but 
 unfortunately never really takes off, and you'll be left with quite a few questions unanswered.
 
  On his quest, Ethan stays in touch with his colleague, Rosa back at the station, via cell phone. 
 She agrees to help him piece all this together and offers help by analysing any evidence Ethan 
 finds. In order to make sense of all this madness Ethan has to make good use of some forensic tools, 
 gathering forensic evidence which he then sends back to Rosa for analysis. The way this works in 
 game is that you'll be prompted at a specific location to equip a forensic tool and Ethan automatically 
 whips out the correct one for the job. Then it's a matter of finding the evidence and snapping 
 a photo or getting a sample of it. It's all really simple and maybe not as interactive as you might 
 have hoped for but it is a very nice way to further the plot and break up the action.
  Speaking of which, the melee action in this game is without a doubt the most fearsome and the most 
 realistic ever witnessed in a videogame. Though Ethan will find some guns from time to time, these 
 are pretty rare and have extremely limited ammo, you will quickly ditch that shotgun for a 2x4, 
 a rusty rebar or any other improvised weapon from the environment as these will prove to be your 
 mainstays. And the combat looks and sounds REAL. Take a lead pipe and hit it as hard as you can 
 on some rabid hobo's face and he will flinch in pain as blood and teeth shoot out his mouth and 
 you hear every bone crunch with alarming detail. 
  The enemies consist entirely of normal people gone absolutely crazy for some reason and these guys 
 are PISSED, they ooze pure fury and want nothing more then to rip you or any other hapless fool 
 who crosses their path to shreds. Seriously, these guys will shout obscenities at you, they'll 
 throw chairs at you, wait in ambush and lunge at you, suffice to say these guys will shock and 
 scare you with their insane behaviour. Hit one with your 2x4 and he'll reel back in pain, scream 
 and maybe spit out some blood and then savagely hit you with all he's got, enpowered by pure anger. 
 They'll try to psyche you out by taking fake swings at you, they'll hit you while recoiling from 
 an attack. It really has to be seen to be believed.
  But what really sells the game and makes it as atmospheric as it is, is the absolutely amazing 
 sound which lets you hear every single bone shatter under your sledgehammer. In this game, when 
 you hit someone in the face with a lead pipe, you HEAR it and it sounds REAL, when you snap an 
 enemies neck, you can here the crunch so loud it'll make you cringe. The sound effects in this 
 game are absolutely fantastic and really need to be heard to be believed.
  The graphics aren't sloppy either, with some great character models (although everyone seems to 
 be made of plastic) and fantastic enemy animation. Unfortunately the environments, while detailed 
 are quite boring to look at since they pretty much all consist of long abandoned buildings with 
 alot of winding hallways. You'll need a pretty good machine to be able to appreciate all the eye 
 candy, although you'll be fine on a mid range machine without sacrificing to much detail.
  And that brings us to the game's weak points, namely it's level design. It consists of alot of 
 identical looking hallways and since you don't have a map or anything to guide you it's very easy 
 to get lost and end up backtracking trying to figure out where to go. While the melee combat is 
 absolutely worth the price of admission all by itself, you should know that after a few hours you'll 
 have seen all the tricks the enemies have at their disposal and the combat might prove to become 
 a bit repetitive by the end, which you should reach in around 10 hours, give or take.
  In conclusion, Condemned is just oozing with potential and I hope some of that potential will be 
 realised come Condemned 2, but even though it might not be everything you'd hope for, Condemned 
 is a tense and brutal action game that is absolutely worth checking out if you are the least bit 
 interested in the subject matter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leandro29
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins, a new game from some of same folks behind 2005s action hit F. E. A. R., 
 tells the story of a seasoned FBI investigator plunged into a frightful conundrum when the serial 
 murderers he is charged with hunting down are suddenly murdered themselves.
  
  Playing as agent Ethan Thomas, you must try to track down the elusive murderer responsible for 
 eliminating the list of depraved serial killers your character has been tasked to track down. Along 
 the way Agent Thomas finds himself an integral player in the events leading to a final showdown 
 against the forces behind this slaughter of the not-so-innocents. 
  
  You start the game investigating a rather twisted crime scene where a young girl has been murdered. 
 Occupying this perverse scene are a strange assortment of mutilated mannequins, all arranged in 
 various poses around a dinner table where the victim is seated. 
  
  This is quite an appropriate introduction to the depraved goings on that players can expect to 
 find in Condemned. Unfolding out like a cross between Se7en and elaborate CSI episode, only with 
 more blood and a lot less devotion to proper police tactics, Condemned hurls players into a rundown, 
 dilapidated world filled with drugged, mutated, and violently xenophobic freaks that seem to squat 
 in droves inside just about every building into which Agent Thomas pursues his prey. 
  
  The one thing you find out early is that routine gunplay is not the standard for Condemneds combat. 
 Your character starts out with a loaded .45, but after plugging a few murderous junkies out for 
 blood, you will find that your weapons ammo runs out rather quickly, forcing Agent Thomas to go 
 a less traveled route. 
  
  All around you in pretty much every level you play are weapons. Things like steam pipes, 2x4s with 
 nails hammered through them, fire axes, or even the door off of a foot locker can and do become 
 deadly weapons of attack and defense in Agent Thomas hands. Need a weapon in a pinch? Well, just 
 pull off a section of a nearby electrical conduit and slam your attackers upside their heads with 
 it. Run out of ammo? Well just flip that burner over and use the butt to deliver the smack down. 
 Need to get through that dilapidated door? Why not pick up a fire axe and bash it down? 
  
  Weapon improvisation is the order of the day in Condemned, and is a tactic both Agent Thomas and 
 his attackers utilize to deadly effect. Each weapon has certain strengths and weaknesses. For instance, 
 axes and sledgehammers will do plenty of damage, but are slow to use, leaving Agent Thomas exposed 
 to enemies wielding something smaller and faster, like a piece of iron rebar. Be careful of which 
 tools you use, because when enemies come at you with these improvised tools, they pull no punches. 
 Crazed and usually fairly tough, they can pack a mean punch when behind a piece of pipe and will 
 bash your head in if you fail to either get out of the way or block their attacks. 
  
  Blocking is pulled off by clicking the right mouse button at the right moment and requires a bit 
 of practice and some good timing. Block too early or too late and Agent Thomas will be reeling. 
 Hit the sweet spot and successfully and block an attack and you can perform a quick counter attack. 
 Fight well enough and enemies will sometimes lose their weapons, forcing them to go scurrying about 
 looking for another. Other times they will simply retreat from you, seeking shelter behind a nearby 
 column, waiting for you to come their way again. 
  
  Occasionally your enemies will go down in a daze. When this happens players can select one of 4 
 different means of dispatching their would be dispatcher from a menu that pops up when this option 
 is available. These attacks are nasty little moves like neck brakes, head butts, or a severe blow 
 to the head; all of which will send enemies to the ground with a spray of blood and a wicked thud. 
 Do not take too long to choose from these 4 options, though, as this dazed enemy state does not 
 last forever. 
  
  If a gun or pipe is not readily available, Agent Thomas also comes equipped with a handy taser 
 gun that will take down a junkie quite effectively. The only draw back to this weapon is its slow 
 recharge rate, making it appropriate in situations involving only single or sporadic attackers. 
 
  
  Amidst all this random killing, Condemned routinely reminds you that you are, in fact, playing 
 an FBI agent who, technically, is supposed to be seeking out clues to crimes. To facilitate that 
 role, Agent Thomas has an array of crime scene investigation tools for uncovering hidden evidence 
 left by the elusive killer he is chasing. 
  
  Inside this crime scene tool box you will find a couple different scanners which use infrared light 
 to find blood splatter or fingerprint evidence. There is also a DNA sampler which is fairly self-explanatory, 
 as well as a camera to collect a visual record of the evidence you find. To process all these various 
 pieces of evidence, Agent Thomas utilizes the facilities of Rosa, an FBI lab worker who helps Agent 
 Thomas connect the dots and make sense of the evidence he finds in the field. 
  
  All of these game play elements combine to make for an interesting and unique experience, at least 
 initially. One fairly soon finds themselves bogged down in a routine with Condemned that can best 
 be described as: block, hit, block, hit, scan wall, block, hit, block, hit, shoot, block, hit, 
 block hit, find axe, block, hit, block, hit health pack, block, hit, block, hit, etc, etc, etc. 
 Apart from the occasional scripted scene or heart stopping scare, the game play element in Condemned 
 grows cold, fast. While certainly never boring, you do eventually begin to long for a change of 
 pace, like maybe a gun with more than 5 bullets in it or perhaps a room not smeared with human 
 waste. Sadly, you never really get that. 
  
  The various environments in Condemned can also lean toward tedium after a couple hours. They almost 
 always consist of rubble-spewn rooms interconnected in strange, maze-like fashions, requiring one 
 to wonder about within looking for a breakable door and then the axe that can break said door, 
 before advancing to the next level. Every place you go is one long abandoned building or another, 
 crawling with rats or dead birds, the later of which you must collect in sufficient numbers to 
 unlock a collection of rather humdrum extra content in the games main menu. 
  
  There are a handful of different levels here and there, such as one that takes place inside a well 
 designed subway station, or another that has you stalking around inside a creepy farmhouse. These 
 levels do mix things up to a point, but are still fairly similar to the rest of the game and thus 
 not really reprieves from the standard level design seen in most of the game. 
  
  Graphics in Condemned are amazing. That is no surprise, considering it uses the same game engine 
 as last years incredible action shooter F. E. A. R. In fact, the two games are quite similar to each 
 other in more ways than one. As you progress through the game you will find these games share the 
 same kind of grainy and blurred flashback scenes, as well as similar ghost effects where entities 
 randomly appear and then disappear in a cloud of ash and smoke. 
  
  It is in the finer details that Condemneds look is most impressive. The realism imbued in everything 
 from a piece of garbage to a vast subway station is quite satisfying. Weapons are also heavily 
 detailed and change their appearance in accordance with their use. For instance, a pipe will become 
 smeared with blood once used against a baddy, and a rifle butt will break into splinters and fall 
 apart if used too much. 
  
  Exceptions to this graphical superiority are certain character models. While most enemies you face 
 are well detailed and imbued with believable motion capture movement, the detail on Agent Thomas 
 and his cohorts are not as good. They have a stretched out and blurry look to them, giving them 
 an appearance akin to an unfinished ventriloquist dummy. Though this defect is certainly not a 
 deal breaker, it does make one raise an eyebrow, especially during most cutscenes. 
  
  All this detail does not come without a price. Just like with F. E. A. R., Condemned is a bit of a 
 system hog and will require a stout rig with plenty of bells and whistles to achieve a playable 
 framerate under optimum graphical settings. Even some mid-range settings are rather demanding, 
 so plan accordingly. 
  
  Sound is another integral and well done feature of Condemned. While the score is mostly just barely 
 noticeable ambient music, there is an array of quality sound effects throughout the game. You will 
 hear things like the insignificant creaks and squeaks from animals and nearby structures, the hum 
 of your investigation tools while in use, and the inevitable and chilling sounds of snapping bones, 
 pipe clanging against skull, or the squish of bullets piercing some random junkies sternum. All 
 that, combined with great voice acting across the board make Condemneds sound and sound effects 
 nothing but a quality affair. 
  
  No multiplayer to speak of in Condemned, which is a bit of a letdown. Taking on another player 
 or group of players in an all out street fight with nothing but pipes or locker doors would be 
 something to witness. Alas. 
  
  Overall, Condemned is a game with many quality elements bogged down by a few cut corners. A well 
 set up storyline at the beginning of the game seems to fall apart somewhere toward the end, as 
 do many of the relationships between the games characters, many of which never really get started 
 at all. Those factors, along with the lack of variety to the game play and the need for more varied 
 environments, are what make Condemned: Criminal Origins a pretty good game, instead of a truly 
 exceptional one. 
  
  Thanks for read 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Good scary games seem to be few and far between. Thats why Condemned: Criminal Origins is so exhilarating. 
 The game is brutal, violent, intense, and scary. This is the scariest PC game that I have played 
 in a long time, perhaps since System Shock 2. I thought that Condemned was scarier than F. E. A. R., 
 although I didnt find the gameplay to be as much fun. Its very unique, and the story is pretty 
 good too. If youre looking for a great combination of terror and cathartic violence, you should 
 play Condemned. 
  
  Condemned follows the System Shock formula in one big way: it creates scares by putting you into 
 dark areas with mostly melee weapons and not many firearms. Guns are pretty powerful if you can 
 find them, but ammunition is limited. Thus, you have to rely on pipes, two-by-fours, crowbars, 
 and other makeshift melee weapons. One enemy is always enough to kill you, so you have to constantly 
 be on your toes, listening intently for the footsteps or heavy breathing of a crazy hobo.
  
  Truly truly puts the survival in Survival horror. Battles are brutal one-on-one fracases 
 with crazed wild-eyed nut cases. This is the best melee combat that I have ever experienced. Its 
 not very complex or deep, but its incredibly exciting. Fights feel like an intense its either 
 you or me battle for survival, where you savagely beat the other guys brains out before he can 
 beat yours. This is why the game is so scary. Any one guy can come along at any time and if he 
 surprises you, he can take your life. The fact that its in first person makes it even more immersive 
 and scary. Every other survival horror game should learn something from Condemned. The game also 
 has a few Doom 3-esque cheap scare moments that will have you jumping out of your chair, since 
 they are totally unpredictable and used sparingly. 
  
  Level design is pretty simple, and it does get somewhat repetitive. The entire game takes place 
 in dilapidated and/or abandoned areas like run-down buildings or subways. Its dark almost everywhere 
 you go, so youll need your flashlight most of the time. You crawl through room one-by-one, capturing 
 evidence. The game is about the atmosphere and mechanics though, and not the level design. 
  
  Graphically, Condemned looks terrific. The game has all of the latest and greatest eye candy 
 features, but it also just looks real sharp and has good models and textures. The best part of 
 the graphics is how your enemies move and attack you with crazed looks in their eyes. The screen 
 occasionally gets this washed out black-and-white look that signals when youre having some kind 
 of insanity moment. If there are any complaints about the graphics, its that they need more variety 
 and a wider color palette besides grey and black. Also, theres just the fact that Oblivion looks 
 so beautiful that merely great games like Condemned arent as impressive as they were six months 
 ago.
  
  Sound-wise, this game is awesome. It has a low-key eerie soundtrack that plays throughout the games 
 creepy areas, and then kicks into high gear with loud screeching music that chills your spine during 
 some of the more intense action scenes. The sounds of some crazy guy breathing heavily as he hides 
 behind a pillar waiting for you are scary as hell. The grunts, screams, and sounds of weapons connecting 
 with flesh in battle make them the brutal fights that they are supposed to be. Every sound will 
 have you nervously checking the corners of each dark room. This is the best audio that I have experienced 
 since Thief: Deadly Shadows. 
  
  Condemned has been criticized for being too repetitive, but I didnt find it to be that way. It 
 is fairly short, but I found that I never really got bored with any of the levels. The game does 
 a good job of introducing slightly different enemies and getting progressively harder by giving 
 the enemies better weapons. Enemies start to show up two or three at a time, and they start to 
 use more and more firearms. There are some superb action sequences, and some of the levels have 
 awesome climaxes, especially the last two. 
  
  I finished the game in about 10 hours, and I went pretty slow. It's not very replayable, and it's 
 not a great value, but at least the game isn't too expensive. You might be able to finish it in 
 less, but its all really quality stuff. The story didnt wrap up all that well at the end, but 
 I cant complain at all about the gameplay. I highly recommend this game. This is a fantastic survival 
 horror game whose only real fault is that theres not enough of it. But at least its intense and 
 scary for as long as it lasts, and its not that expensive. If you have any interest at all in 
 this genre, then you have to own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parentez
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  i was pretty darn pissed of when ive finished last level , after 1st level you get this feeling 
 that you will be detective solving case of some psycho killer , well detective thing is just some 
 kind of stop-over-action , afterall this game is just survival thriller/horror , linear ,simple 
 to finish. there are good sides of that game , graphics on maxed out details is just awsome , scarry 
 locations and heavy thriler mood , little tip for you all in last scene of game you have a choice 
 to made -  either way you choose its the same ending for each choice (dont understand it at all) 
 . well lets make some recap ,awsome graphics , good gameplay, plot .. well it could be better it 
 felt like someone lost in some point of makeing it , GAME IS GOOD - COULD BE EXCELENT. play it 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crater
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 4, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Unbelievably overrated, unbelievably contrived. The whole game engine is awkward and practically 
 on rails... you move like molasses, and can't crouch or even jump (!) unless the game allows it at 
 certain points (I know FPS veterans won't believe that one - try the demo and see) . A nice big 
 jump backward there. You can also carry around an FBI lab's worth of analysis equipment (through 
 devastated, poverty-stricken slums, no less) but you can't pick up health packs or hold more than 
 one weapon at a time. The whole game is also FILLED with the same kind of tired scare & "unreality" 
 nonsense that F. E. A. R. already overdid... endless jump-scares from the dark, distant enemies who 
 you can just glimpse but do nothing about as they scurry around a corner, meaningless "craziness" 
 (like having reality shift on you for no reason, being suddenly surrounded by mannequins with no 
 explanation, boring/confusing levels, etc.) and so on.
  
  And what is probably the biggest disappointment in the game, considering the build-up: Condemned 
 has an absolutely AWFUL game story... one of the worst in recent memory. Why? Because no questions 
 are even answered at the end! Why does the protagonist pick up birds and metal pieces to begin 
 with? Why has the whole world seemingly gone homicidally insane? Why are the birds dying? Why does 
 reality shift so often for the protagonist and what does it mean? Is he insane? Why about his so-called 
 special abilities that the authorities are so interested in? Who/What is the final enemy? Etc.! 
 Basically NONE of the story's most basic questions are answered... the game just opens up pandoras 
 boxes of intruiging plot elements, then just... ends, with no plausible explanation for any of it 
 and very few loose ends tied. At least F. E. A. R. tied up its plotlines reasonably well, and made 
 sense of all the madness the player experiences on the way to the end.
  
  And let's not even mention the god-awful game performance (which isn't worth it, if the game's 
 visuals are anything to go by since most of it is in the dark) . Sound-wise, the effects are very 
 good but there's very little music to speak of, thus that's a big negative in my book... music is 
 critical to the enjoyment of a game and its mood. 
  
  At the end of the day, this doesn't feel so much like a game. More like just a really long tech 
 and hand-combat demo. The "story" is incoherent and ultimately meaningless, seemingly made up as 
 the developers went along, just to fit plot gaps to the game's designed "missions". The only reason 
 this game is at all worthwhile in any way, is because the hand-to-hand combat is indeed exceptionally 
 well implemented... revolutionary in fact. But other than that, this is an unbelievably overrated 
 one-trick pony, except the developers forgot that that one trick has already been played out to 
 death, and better, by the likes of F. E. A. R. and Doom 3. Save your money and time... I really regret 
 wasting both of mine on this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caps86
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 4, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok well when i first started playing this game i thought that i was playing a game similar, to 
 Manhunt but this game is better.. that not saying much since Manhunt is a flop... You start off checking 
 out a murder scene which led to this long track down of some killer... These druggies and zombie 
 like ppl just keep coming out of no where which becomes routine after playing the first 2 chapters.. 
 another down fall is that you only hold one weapon at a time and you cant hold ammo... plot of the 
 game is fake and overall i would say that the graphics are the best thing about this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyril_ryser
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 4, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  CONDEMNED was really a game of which I hoped it would come to the PC when I first saw the X360 
 gameplay scenes. Why? Because I REALLY liked Manhunt and play Monolith games for ages, so this 
 was why I hoped that this two aspects will emerge in this game pushing it to "the game made for 
 me".
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Really, really aggressive and unbelievable intense gaming experience. CONDEMNED mixes up well-known 
 genres and adds some freshly, undepleted elements as well: Just like  
 and crime scene investigation. Your enemies are quiet fuuked up psychotic fellas who live in the 
 "maggot infested dumbs", doing their time murdering each other. Whenever you encounter one of these 
 hoody- or tramp-style folks, they engage in a furios manner by grabbing anything that can be used 
 as a weapon (just like you do) to beat the shiat out of you while they improvise, using their high-end 
 AI.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Awsome. Every effort has been made to drag you right into these creepy and terrifying scenery: 
 Trash all over the place, dark lighting contrasted by lerky real-time shadowing and rounded up 
 with a decent bloom effect (optional) . Hand-to-hand combat is crafted with amazingly real combat 
 animations and squeezy detail, just like enemies spitting their teeth out, after beeing hit by 
 your ripped-off papercutter-blade. There are also 4 finishing moves: neck breaking, slam, headbash 
 and a ultra-violant straight-in-the-face-smash with your bare hands. Hitting and getting hit is 
 supremely simulated by some bloody screen scattering and every visual effect is implemented just 
 to push the atmosphere to "I think i just shiat myself"-levels.
  
  SOUND:
  The music raises the bar for this genre: Understriking each moment you struggle trough this nightmare 
 with heart-pounding, absolutely creepy "music" or noises. The sound effects when your weapons connect 
 are just so realistic that it's disturbing you actually like it. Anyway, The sound can get glitchy 
 whith old drivers or unsupported onboard cards.
  
  ALL-IN-ALL:
  If you prefer fighting in videogames and if you CAN seperate a game from real-life and don't count 
 yourself to the faint of heart or the cowardly, then get this jewel, turn up your sound, your graphics 
 and just enjoy this uforgettable (but short) ride into a world of pure darkness and violance.
 
  
  MINOR-MINUS-POINTS:
  - short pleasure
  - hardware-hog
  - some brutal-scenes are a bit over the top (even for me :D
  - repetitive level design and lack 
 of environmental diversity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waelmgomma
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  the most horror games i saw i thought that doom is the most horror one but it is more than doom 
 in fear but when u want to play it just close light in the room and live in it as u inside it , 
 the graphics is amazing but the sound need more , and the game play is very nice in its style , 
 finally i think it is worth to play and worth to live it .
  the game difficulty is meduim and some times go hard but i think we can go on it to more and more 
 .......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: De3emon
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Condemned is a fun game overall and it didn't have too many flaws on my computer making it a very 
 fun game overall.
  
  The fighting was kept fun through the whole game unlike the gamespot review but there are most 
 likely few people that can enjoy it for that long, although it is awesomely fun and never gets 
 unchallenging (if that's a word) even if you figure it out and I find myself to be very good at 
 most fps games.
  
  The gamespot review also tells us that the hallways are very repetitave and hard to find your way 
 through but I had absolutely no problem at all, as long as you move forwards in the level while 
 just checking rooms on the way you are good (another hint is that "F" turns on the flashlight) . 
 As for the repetative hallways, thats only if you play one level or chapter. All the chapters happen 
 in different freaky places you would find in horror movies, like a hospital type area or even a 
 really creapy house.
  
  Now for the beatiful graphics. If im not mistaken this uses the F. E. A. R. graphics engine but it 
 seems to be a little upgraded or changed to run better than FEAR, there is also a very, very good 
 use of the effects, mostly the full screen ones. For example when you are in an area where there 
 is evidence everything will go a little harper and blurrier (if that makes sence) , and when you 
 are scared it will make a similar effect and you will start breathing hard making the game overall 
 very scary.
  
  This game is the most perfect game I have found to play in the dark while you are alone weather 
 you have good headphones or 5.1 surround (which I think was awesome but I used headphones anyways) 
 but when I had freinds over they didn't seem to enjoy it as much as they proboly would have alone.
 
  
  The sum it all up, awesome game, scary / creepy, good use of the elements in the game and overall 
 very fun while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 1, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  As some other reviewers have already stated, the combat tends to get tedious towards the latter 
 half of the game. On the highest difficulty setting, melee combat can be very trying, as blocking 
 requires exact timing of the enemies' blows and often they'll fake you out, completely nullifying 
 your blocking attempt. It makes for challenging AI and also frustration when you die in three or 
 four hits. I had to resort to using the taser almost constantly to keep the game moving, at which 
 point I was doing the same thing over and over... taser, run up, whack him with a high damage weapon 
 before he recovers. Medkits were either placed too far apart or too close together with more than 
 you would ever need to use. Of course, you can't carry more than one weapon at a time, even two 
 small objects like a pipe and a pistol, because that would ruin the balance. Nor can you transfer 
 ammo from one weapon to another, ie. shotgun shells from one shotgun to another. Your range of 
 movement is limited and you're mostly confined to a narrow path, where enemies will usually open 
 up new exits for you by breaking down doors/moving objects. Weapons don't carry over from previous 
 missions, so that nice submachine gun with a full clip that you had, well it must've fallen out 
 of your back pocket along the way. I can understand how this would kill the balance, but one has 
 to suspend disbelief a bit here.
  
  The game has lots of gritty/dark/nasty atmosphere. The use of different tools to open different 
 doors/locks (sledgehammers, fire axes, crowbars, shovels) provides some change-up from the combat. 
 The game is short in terms of hours, but by the time I got to the end, I had already had my fill 
 of meat-mashing. The plot? You're chasing some guy through apartment buildings, subways, department 
 stores, and farmhouses, wasting all sorts of crazy-assed human mutants along the way. In the end, 
 you kill the boss, and still have no idea what it's all about.
  
  If you really like first person melee set in dark/moody atmospheres with tons of senseless slaughter, 
 this game may be for you, and it pulls it off fairly well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niko_uy
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  All said. It's different, a good start for another concept of first person melee.
  I think this will set up a milestone, and start from here developing this kind of games.
  Regarding 
 the game: After a couple of fights, you'll start to believe it's pretty much the same. Honestly, 
 it gets a little bit boring.
  You don't have much to investigate, the game is very linear. The thing is, since they placed almost 
 the same things (desks, chairs, etc.) in every room you sometimes get a little bit lost.
  It is a good game to play for a couple of hours.... fun in the beginning, boring 3~5 hours later. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunishedOne
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Condemned delivers as the best horror game you will ever see or find. I've had my share of horror 
 games, such as playing Silent Hill 1 when it first came out, finishing RE4 when it first came out, 
 owning both The Suffering and Ties that Bind, as well as nearly finishing F. E. A. R.. Sure, you may 
 say that I haven't played enough horror to justify what I'm saying, but, what I'm saying is through 
 11 years of game experience.
  
  Condmened pits you as FBI CSI Ethan Thomas, and in the very beginning of the game, you're called 
 to go into a crime scene to investigate a murder of one of the (fictional) city's newest Serial 
 killers, The Match-Maker.
  
  However, one of the officers on the scene smells the smoke of a cigarette, and leaves the scene 
 to investigate. You go along with him. The power then shuts off, and he orders you to get them 
 back on, and he says that The Match-Maker is still inside the building. The other officer calls 
 in for backup, and checks the next room for you.
  
  When you get control back of your character, you start off with a regular Colt 1911 .45, with 7 
 rounds (Ammo may vary from difficulty setting) . Think this is a standard FPS? Oh no it isn't.
 
  
  This "FPS" is melee-based. Meaning, think an RPG in first-person, but the melee is based on pure 
 skill, rather than gear or level or stats. 
  
  Through out the game, you go through a Department Store, a School, a Metro Station, an Apple Orchard, 
 an Apartment Complex, and even the very City Streets. There's more as well, but I can't remember 
 them. Each of these levels has a numerous amount of mental insane criminals, and they are not easy 
 to kill.
  
  While there is firearms use in Condemned, it's very little. You have a choice of a Colt .45, a 
 Pump-Action Shotgun, a Sawed-Off Shotgun, a Semi-automatic rifle (Judging from it's appearance, 
 it looked like a M1 Carbine) , a SMG (Grease-Gun) , and a Revolver. Each weapon can kill very efficient, 
 and I found the Grease Gun to be the best.
  
  The melee weapons are numerous, and some are recycled, but some are level specific. For example, 
 in the School and Metro Station, you could pry off a Locker Door and use it as a weapon. The Locker 
 Door had great damage, was a bit slow, and great blocking attributes. Throughout most of the levels, 
 you can pick up a 2x4 with Nails/Bolts, a Small Pipe, a Large Pipe, a Gas Pipe, a Rebar (Think 
 of it as a stick of metal that's rusted) , a shovel, a Fire Axe, a Desk Top (In the School only) , 
 and much more.
  
  The actual game itself as a whole has a very nice presentation with it's gloomy atmosphere. 
 
  
  I suggest that you wait until this drops down to $25, because the length isn't worth it at $40. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerG2300
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The fighting is awesome on every hit you can feel the nails on the board smash into the 
 crazy guy's face. the levels and very detailed and contain allot of stuff to smash, and pic up 
 to use. the ending was great i dont know what else to say other then this was a great game
  The Bad: they say that the enviroment is "fully interactive" but it is not, I cant pick up shards 
 of glass and use em as a weapon, or even be able to use body parts as a weapon. the only stuff 
 you could use was stuf alreayd pre-set to be used and you could tell cuz if you see a part of a 
 pipe and it looks like it has 3x as many pollys as the rest they u could probably use that. The 
 graphics where so so but seem a bit rushed at times.. I just wish they gave a multiplayer or somthing 
 that would be great
  
  
  well maybe some of these things will be added later who knows 
::::::

::::::
UserName: befo72
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Well here is a unique spin on the FPS genre: melee weapons are much more satisfying than firearms. 
 Thumping a deranged drug addict over the head with a 2x4 with nails sticking out of it is the order 
 of the day. My impressions follow:
  
  Graphics: Excellent for the most part. Dark, gritty, and detailed.
  Sound/music: Not a lot of 
 music in the game, but sound design is outstanding overall.
  Gameplay: Hmm... tough call. At first, it is so fun and unique, but the combat never really evolves 
 in the game. Same basic types of weapons throughout, and linear to a fault. Sometimes, such as 
 the abandoned house at the orchard, you have several different pathways to choose from, but this 
 is the exception rather than the rule. Pretty good overall.
  Value/replayability: Next to none, unless you consider hunting for bonus items (that are never 
 explained sufficiently by the way) fun. Yippee.
  
  As to the game's length, I found it about right. It IS a short game, but I was not disappointed 
 when the end came; I had had all the fun I was going to get out of this game by then. Also, the 
 ending is quite unsatisfactory in that, while you will probably figure out what is going on by 
 then, it is not explained well at all.
  
  Overall, a unique FPS with some cool features, but I got very tired of the monotonous gameplay 
 before the ending came. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonte187
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Basically this game was just run a round and kill enemy's nothing more than that and thats what 
 you want if you like FPS games, so in this order the game fulfill its purpose. But the interesting 
 difference was the weapons using mostly a blunt weapon does have a charm. First i thought it would 
 be dull just carry one weapon but this is really one of the games strongest feature.
  The graphic is ok and have some real nice details but still i think its sterile and dull. 
  The 
 biggest drawback is the game time i completed the game on 8 hours, if you pay pretty much money 
 for a game you expect to get more.
  I think the FPS genre should evolve on this matter making longer games with variation and more 
 interesting stories.
  The story had some creepy elements and unlike most games of the genre the story was more integrated 
 to the usual game play.
  I think the sound best i ever heard for some time good voice-acting and nice effects, couldn't 
 get enough of that pipe ramming someones head.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisfles666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  To start off with the story...
  
  You play as an FBI agent called Ethan Thomas, on one night you're investigating a gruesome murder 
 with 2 police officers. First you learn how to use you're investigation tools. After you investigate 
 the body, one of the police officers smells cigarette smoke. He follows the smell and comes to realize 
 there's a other person in the building. As you move further, the suspect manages to steal you're 
 gun and later on shooting the 2 police officers with you're gun while they where trying to save 
 you out of the hands of the suspect.
  Because they where shot with you're gun, you are now the murder suspect for shooting 2 police officers 
 and this is how the game begins...
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are amazingly good. And also they run very smooth on all daily pc's. The lightening 
 and shadows are nicely done and the creepy black and white effects keep you scared at all times. Also 
 the effects when you hit someone with a melee weapon are very gore. The only thing that bothers 
 me a little are the repetitive level designs in the beginning.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is simply terrific. You hear you're own heart pumping when you hear someone screaming 
 a little further and weapon sound effects are also nicely done. When you hit someone with a sledgehammer 
 you can hear the bones snapping, and it sounds very disturbing... in a good way.
  
  Gameplay:
  The melee combat's are one of the game's best features. It feels so real when you are 
 hitting someone with a wooden plank or a small pipe, you can almost feel there suffering: P
  Some people may find the slow walking a bit annoying but that's just how you have to play the game. The 
 "CSI" kind a like investigations are nice as a little bonus but don't at much value to the game. The 
 replay value is not very big although you can collect Birds and Metal pieces along the way too 
 keep you busy.
  
  Conclusion:
  Condemned: Criminal Origins is a good game but not perfect. It's a little bit on the short side and 
 has little replay value. But beside of that it's a very nice game for al horror and melee fight 
 fans. The melee combat's are challenging and the game is really, really, really scary! And it's a new 
 genre of gaming cause ive never played a game like this before. So overall it's definitely worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiskadoro73
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 27, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  This is a pretty decent game. By no means a classic, and I think some other reviewers' expectations 
 have been a little too high. Taken at its basic level, the close-contact melee fighting is intense 
 and challenging, requiring good timing. The game is very visceral, it's like you can almost feel 
 every hit. And my, is it scary! I consider myself not easily shocked, but this game made me jump 
 out of my chair... these thugs just leap out of nowhere, and they're REAL close! I don't think 
 the story is particularly inspiring, and the interface is a little clunky (but hey, your hero at 
 least gets to keep his flashlight on all the time!) , but if judged wholly as a damn good, frightening, 
 close-combat FPS, Condemned scores pretty highly. Graphically, the game is intense. I have a good 
 set-up but have to turn down some of the features to get the game running smoothly. Very atmospheric 
 game engine with shadows and light, also impressive is the sounds and clunks as the thugs near 
 your position. Recommended for sure, just don't try and read into it too much - enjoy it for what 
 it is - a BRAWL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munkybut
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Why do we need a tool to find what smells? Why do we need a tool to show us where the guy grabbed 
 somones wrist? WHY DO WE NEED A TOOL TO SEE THAT A BLOODY HANDPRINT ONLY HAS 4 FINGERS!?
  
  Isn't he supposed to be an FBI agent?
  
  This game would have been so much more fullfilling 
 if they gave the main character a brain. I mean, if you walked into a crime scene and he said "Hmm... it 
 smells like photography fluid", instead of "I'd better reach for my tool which lets me zap anything 
 over the phone to some nameless woman who figures out the plot for my dumbass tool".
  
  GRAPHICS: Really quite good.
  SOUND: Good.
  GAMEPLAY: It's really cool that you can only pickup 
 weapons and use the ammo in them.
  STORY: Story? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catchneyez
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  One thing I keep seeing on the reviews is that it gets boring after about the 3rd level. I urge 
 you! Keep playing. The game gets so intense toward the end. I've played pretty much every "scary" 
 game made, and this one gets my vote as the scariest. It's feels so real... I actually dreamt I 
 was in this game after playing for a few hours and laying down for a nap. Graphics are some of 
 the best available on the market today. Sound detail is stunning to say the least (5.1 surround 
 sound is a must) . I can't wait till I get time to sit down and play through the game again. Yea, 
 it was that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampyreVayne
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 25, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  While this game looks beautiful, I found the gameplay to be quite boring. Most of your time is 
 spent walking through a labyrinth of unopenable doors and small metal shelves blocking your path. 
 The game was advertised as having a fully interactive environment but the only thing you can interact 
 with are the weapons. Most doors don't open and only the fireaxe can open certain doors even though 
 you're holding a sledge hammer. The fighting is cool for a few minutes but gets very repetitive 
 after a little while. The story could have been interesting but it didn't turn out that way. I 
 was really looking forward to this game but it just didn't deliver in any aspect except graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PirateMonkey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  Eh. Serial Killers. Rusty Blades. Nails in wood. Fire axes and Sledgehammers and so on and so forth. 
 This game shud be Hannibal Lecters favourite without a doubt, with its melee attacks and Skull 
 bashings but great as it is i found something lacking. In short Condemned is fantastic idea with 
 superb looks and feel, a great story but it's very very linear. Long periods of meandering about 
 make the game occasionally quite boring and frustrating. But on the whole i loved it. These Monolith 
 guys know how to make a game look exceptional and with a high powered card you can smell the sewers 
 it's that real looking. Top notch work guys. Looking forward to a sequel. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allenbenton
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  This game is god-awful. Cool story, cool graphics, but the gameplay is terrible. Blocking is very 
 difficult to get used to. Weapons just get repetitive and lame. The fight scenes start out fun 
 but fade very quickly. Example: Fight a few "violent" drug addicts, run out of bullets, (no ammo) , 
 take their pipe, run into about 10 medkits you don't need after 2, run into about 7 or 8 violent 
 drug addicts, get messed up along the way, (no medkits in sight and you can't turn back to get 
 the others you didn't need) . When you have some crowbar there will be an enemy with a gun shooting 
 the crap out of you, very much unable the even the score. I hate how you can't carry a gun and 
 a melee weapon. (What no pockets?) You can't crouch under anything unless a command allows you. 
 What a waste of money. I want to like this game. I really tried. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guisea
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game has exceeded my expectations I loved playing F. E. A. R and this one from Monolith 
 does'nt disappoint either. Awesome atmospheric feeling throughout the game also bringing some new 
 weapons and actions into the FPS Genre. All in all this game is well worth the money spent it has 
 so far given me countless hours of entertainment and I'm sure to have plenty more instore, just 
 loving it also late nights with all lights off and headphones on really gives you ther whole feeling 
 the developers were going for I'm sure. Each to their own but this is my opinion and this game 
 ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Don't believe what you hear. This game is scarier than FEAR. FEAR was a better game overall. But 
 in the scare factor - condemned wins hands down.
  
  The thing about condemned is that the scares aren't psychological. This works for some games, and 
 doesn't work for others. For example, FEAR is a psychological horror - it works. If it was any 
 different it wouldn't feel right. Condemned is more 'in-your-face', and it wouldn't work any other 
 way. You'll sometimes feel like running away from your computer as a crazed maniac sprints at you 
 from a dark corner with a 2x4 intent on smashing your head into the ground. Well, I did anyway 
 ;)
  
  The combat in condemned is, (for want of a better word) phenomenal. The whole game is pretty much 
 85% hand-to-hand combat. You have to block and dodge and all the usual stuff that is expected. 
 But when you see a bad guy rip a pipe off a wall, run at you screaming, leap into the air (great 
 animations of course) , and knock you to the ground by hitting in you the face with it - you realise 
 how much work was put into the fight scenes, and you'll really appreciate it. You need to play 
 it really to understand how good it is. Download the demo and check it out if you havent already!
 
  
  Its not just your enemys who can rip stuff off the walls either. You too can pull pipes off walls, 
 rip off locker doors, grab wooden planks... etc. A LOT of objects in the world can be used to creatively 
 kill someone. Once you knock someone to the ground, sometimes they will try to get back up again 
 - in which case you can finish them off in a number of different ways. You can break someones neck, 
 ram someones head against the ground, head butt them, or punch them.
  
  Condemned is not without its flaws though. Is does get repetitive towards the end of the game. 
 You'll start to feel like the EXACT same fight took place several levels before. And there's only 
 one different bad guy for each class. For example, there is only one type of butcher, only one 
 type of male crawler, only one type of big burned dude with an axe. Which means you'll seem to 
 kill the same person over and over during a level. Also, as advanced and realistic as the fighting 
 is, you run out of new moves to find once you've been playing for a few hours. So you'll probably 
 end up just using your favourite move to kill someone over and over. Which almost makes it a good 
 thing that this game is only about 8 hours long.
  
  Condemned uses the F. E. A. R. engine, but it doesnt look as good simply because the areas arent as 
 interesting as in F. E. A. R, so it doesnt get enough chances to show off many of F. E. A. R's awesome 
 visual effects. It still looks great in its own right though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cipher021
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  I really did love this game, one of the best of the year. But the play time is absurdly short, 
 I think maybe 8 hours, at the very most. I think I ended up playing much less than that actually 
 from beginning to end. It's fine for a game to be revolutionary like this game is, but if I'm about 
 to pay $40-$50 for a game, I want to play it for more than a day. That is just unnacceptable for 
 that price.
  Just keep that in mind before you buy it. Be prepared for amazing presentation and the best sound 
 design in a video game hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kengteen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  great graphics, great concept, from the makers of F. E. A. R this game just stands out from all the 
 typical FPS out there just as F. E. A. R was
  
  warning, if you got a weak heart, avoid this game, the bad dudes in this game WILL gave you nasty 
 shocks throughout. 
  
  its like watching a horror movie, you know there are going to be scares yet you want to keep on 
 going....
  
  decide to play this game during daytime.... thats how scary this game is.
  
  not sure why gamespot give it such low marks... just because there is no multi-player feature 
 doesnt make this a bad game...
  
  its definitely not repetitve.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins is one of those great games that almost no one will know about until 
 they hear about it from a friend or a relative. It delivers such a great experience that it needs 
 to be much more commercialized and brought out there.
  That great experience simply comes from a mixture of actual first person fighting scenes and straight 
 out creepy environments. You won't encounter any monsters or weird such things, reality is the 
 basis here and it delivers just as much as other zombie filled games would, if not even more.
 
  In the game just about anything that you see throughout the levels can be picked up and used as 
 a weapon, and by that i mean ANYTHING. A pipe on the wall can be jerked out and used just like 
 a baseball bat on someones skuil. A locker door can be taken out and be used just as easly. In 
 the same way a wooden plank, a fire axe, a sledge hammer, and many more can be used.
  Firearms are much more scarse, yet maybe even less fun to use. Throughout the game you'll problably 
 use the few firearms only 40% of the time. It's much better to zap someone with your taser and 
 then go bash him with your nailed plank.
  The experience was just great, I recommend this completly. Great story, great graphics (works perfectly 
 on slow computers and still delivers nice views) and great gameplay. It's certainly a must have.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CristiS
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  If you like scary horror games you will love Condemned: Criminal Origins. The game is able to create 
 an unique horror atmosphere and it may make you jump out of your seat a few times. 
  
  There are a few disturbing scenes along the game but they are a part of this great atmosphere and 
 the game would not have the same feeling with out them. For example you find a guy's lips at a 
 certain point. And during the loading screen you can see a real picture of a dissected bird. Some 
 may call it sick but that's what horror is all about.
  
  The graphics and especially the sound help the game a lot. Most of the game will be played in very 
 dark areas and you will always have to keep your flashlight on.
  
  First person melee combat. It's nice because it's new. (i never encountered any similar combat) 
 After a couple of fights you will get used to the block - attack technique. I would best compare 
 it with a ping-pong game. 
  
  A very nice feature is that there are secret collectibles scattered around the levels and special 
 game objectives (finish the game using melee only weapons, find all clues etc.) This features give 
 the game a medium level of reiplayability.
  
  Conclusion. I was really captivated by the game and i enjoyed playing it a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  When the term "first person shooter" is mentioned, most people think of blasting away hordes of 
 aliens with an assault rifle or something. I suppose you could call "Condemned: Criminal Origins" 
 somewhat of an "fps", but the game is more of a survival horror, in first-person perspective. In 
 this game, you come across very few firearms, and even less ammunition. More often than not, you 
 find yourself picking up items such as pipes, 2x4's, sledgehammers, and crowbars, to name a few. 
 But I'm getting ahead of myself.
  In the game, you play the role of FBI agent Ethan Thomas. Your job is to investigate a huge crime-wave 
 increasing all over the city. It's your job to understand why this is happening, and to gather 
 forensic evidence for the lab. 
  Early on in the story, you are taken to a crime scene where a young woman was brutally murdered. 
 You quickly realize this is the work of a serial killer. While you and your team are checking the 
 area, you are sent to clear the rest of the building for suspects. It isnt long before you start 
 discovering deranged maniacs all over the place, that are bent on tearing you to pieces. You fight 
 your way through several of these psychos, only to be attacked and have your pistol stolen.... By 
 an escaped convict, no less. With YOUR gun, he frames you and kills the rest of your team. Now 
 it's up to you to fight for your life, prove your innocence in the crime, and find out what's turning 
 these normal people into mindless killers.
  That being said, you need to find your own weapons to protect yourself. And they tend to be plentiful. 
 See a loose wooden board in the wall? Rip it out and use it. Or if all else fails, pull out a lead 
 pipe and bash some heads in.
  This is where the game gets really disturbing. The violence. Now, I love a game with lots of gore 
 and whatnot, but I was actually surprised to see how brutal this game gets. For example, you can 
 be in an alley fighting with someone, and take a sledgehammer to their head, and watch them spit 
 blood all over the wall. It's definetly not a game for the squeamish. The artificial intelligence 
 is also interesting. Enemies block, gang up on you, and evade attack. But they're all different 
 as well. Some may just go into a blind rush and run at you, swinging whatever they can get their 
 grubby hands on. Others will keep their distance, and swing at you when you leave yourself open. 
 And even more interesting, sometimes, they may just start beating the crap out of eachother. 
 
  The next thing I have to comment on is the visuals. The effects are quite good, with great blooming, 
 volumetric lighting, very good textures, and more. However, all these pretty things come at a cost. 
 You will need a pretty fast machine to get the most out of the graphics without any slowdown.
 
  Next up is the audio. There isn't alot of music to speak of, but the ambience is very creepy, 
 and the sound of things like gunshots and shattering glass are very sharp and crisp. What really 
 gets me is the sound of bones crunching when you take a pipe to the side of an enemie's skull.
 
  The only bad things I have to say about the game is that once you've played for a few hours, it 
 all gets very repetitive, and the environments, while realistic and nice looking, get old pretty 
 quickly. And once you've played through it, there isn't much reason to go back again, except for 
 the sake of some unlock-ables, like concept art. But the game is still pretty enjoyable for those 
 looking for something a bit different. I recommend playing the game with the lights out, and the 
 sound way up. 
  The game isn't perfect, but it isn't terrible either. If you can stomach the violence, and have 
 a decent enough PC to run it, by all means, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawn_Patrol
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I had heard this and that about this game from other people, all of the feedback was positive. 
 But hearing other's views (good or bad) doesn't effect my own judgement on a game, and it didn't 
 effect my judgement on this one either. I like it, does it deserve the hype I heard about it? maybe 
 a little.
  
  The level design was pretty good. It really suited the style of game it is. I mean the levels were 
 not out of place of anything. I especially loved the Apple Farm level, it was set in the countryside. 
 I love FPS games that have levels in the countryside. Be it horror games or action or whatever.
 
  
  Some areas were really claustrophobic. This I loved, as it added to the dark tense atmosphere the 
 game had. I kept thinking someone or something was going to creep up behind me unawares. I have 
 a sort of phobia of that happening in the dark anyway, dont laugh, it's not funny lol. Because 
 of this slight phobia I have that made the game even more tense for me at times, down in abandoned 
 train tunnels... well not really abandoned as such. I shall say no more on that, dont want to spoil 
 the fun. 
  The dark atmosphere is the best atmosphere you could have in any game. Well... I think so anyway 
 :) . I absolutely love horror games and games with a horror theme running through them, as well 
 as other themes like mystery and maybe action as well. Even although at times you speak to a woman 
 on the phone, you actually do this pretty regular. The atmosphere of the game makes you feel as 
 if you are alone with no one to help you.
  
  The storyline is pretty good as well. A serial killer killing serial killers in the same manner 
 they kill their victims. Only you have to find him before your time runs out, as you are a wanted 
 man due to being framed for the murder of two cops during the investigation.
  
  **Ending Spoiler Below**
  
  I shall be interested in any more games this developer brings to 
 us in this sort of style. Maybe even a Condemned 2? it doesn't need to follow the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadappadon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  this game is ace. wen ppl say that its revolutnry its not cus land of the dead had the exact same 
 melle system. play land of the dead road to fiddlers green and u will no wot i mean. it is still 
 gud tho. graphics r excellent. it runs on my 3 year old rig of a machine. its realy gripping and 
 tense. the only problem is the free roam aspect could be a little wider cus its like travelling 
 through a set course all the way through the game. i hope there is a sequel cus id buy it. annyway 
 if u r lookin for a pick up and play game and not a crap rpg game this is the 1 4 u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  Very nice game i was looking for since it gone gold on xbox .
  After F. E. A. R. one more best seller of FPS , i just play few lvls and i dont know is it be better 
 then FEAR but this part of game i played is much better then FEAR. Very good realistic bots (NPC's) 
 , they throw furniture on you they talk (bad language ususal; y) they pick up weapons (pipes from 
 walls...)
  Enemy turn off light and attack you from behind scary and can you make paranoid after the playing.
 
  they are constantly moving and surprising you a lot form behind and whemn they attack you and 
 punch yyou camera is moving around and you dont know what is hapening (very exciting parts) , sunlight 
 form windows and like in dreams part of the mix with reality , many unpredictible scenes and events 
 will scare you to death , i am just at the begining and i hope this will lastr forever .
  Plus is that music is not there and you can feel the presence of enemis in your bomes.
  Very 
 nice game amazing graphics and demanding of hardware is following the look (just right) no like 
 FEAR (is very demanding and not that beatufill)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSboy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty cool and i like it very much because it is something different from all the 
 other first person shooters. The graphics are pretty cool and the sound effects are so good and 
 you can hear every sound that is around you.
  
  As for the game play ,believe me you will feel so satisfied when you kick with your axe or whatever 
 is around you those guys in the face!! Oh my God is so satisfying. Of course its a little bit boring 
 because of the same things you do in tha game but its okay.
  
  I highly recommend this game for playing it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matconnor
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Condemned: Criminal Origins has earned a place in my Top 10 Games of all time, after recently finishing 
 it. A masterfully developed and excecuted FPS / Horror / Adventure gem from the people at Monolith, 
 it was an edge-of-my -seat grabber throughout almost the entire game.
  
  The graphics, if you have the pc rig to take advantage of them, are incredibly detailed &amp; realistic, 
 right up there with such recent graphical standouts as Half Life 2, Doom 3 &amp; Far Cry. The shadow 
 &amp; lighting effects are superbly handled, as are attention to detail throughout the different 
 levels. You actually feel as if you are Ethan Thomas of the FBI, tracking down crazed seial killers 
 through some of the grittiest, squalid, blighted &amp; generally creepy looking environments ever 
 created for a video game. The overall effect achieved is one of IMMERSION... something all games 
 nowadays try to create, but very few realistically accomplish to the degree CCO has.
  
  I was continually amazed while playing this game. It seems a lot of lackluster or less than glowing 
 comments have been written about the gameplay, voice-acting, pacing &amp; length. After playing 
 through the entire game (took me about 15 hours, more or less, while on Normal mode) I can only 
 say it is well worth the time if you are any sort of fan of this type of game. CCO contains elements 
 from a number of my favorite games from recent years: The Suffering, Chronicles of Riddick, and 
 the Max Payne games come most immediately to mind. It has however, it's own unique style and atmosphere, 
 coupled with some of the most down &amp; dirty melee brawling ever presented in any game. Numerous 
 weapons lay about for the grabbing in every level, some of which will deal out considerably more 
 damage than others. Get the game, &amp; see for yourself which ones are your favorites. I liked 
 just about all of them at one point or another, &amp; was always dropping &amp; picking up new 
 tools to defeat my enemies with.
  
  If you like maddog virtual fighting &amp; great creepy atmosphere tied together with great graphics 
 &amp; outstanding sound, get this game... you won't be sorry. Oh, &amp; give my regards to the Lunch 
 Lady ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  humm, monolith... the makers of fear, well the game is really new in its gameplay style.
  
  i mean brand new, they should get that copy right thing on their inventions .. anyways lets get 
 to the details, gamespot here wrote a way too long just to tell you that this game sucks in a very 
 polite way, well it doesnt or else i wouldn't be talking about it and playing it 24/7.
  
  the game's story is really realy hard to get, i mean in the first couple of hours, nothing is obvious 
 other than you can only hold one weapon at a time and each one is soo unique.
  
  you use a varity or weapons, alot of them actually. but mostly are melee weapons even when you 
 pick up a gun or a shotgun you only got one round or bullets once empty theres no way in hell you 
 can reload it, instead you use the gun itself as the weapon as you hit with it in a very realistic 
 way.
  
  the game looks so nice, considering it uses the same engine Fear used to have, instead of all the 
 shooting and dodging bullets you actually face your close encounters this time and block -- mostly 
 you fail doing that -- their attacks.
  
  so you start the level, you pick up any weapon you find around, a small pipe, a 2X4 or even a drawer, 
 you go along the hallways. you meet some sick people attacking you, block this one, use your tasser 
 to disable this one, hit this one, kick this one and your done, dont remember by now you lost more 
 than 50% of your health so sprint to the midic box watch your stamina bar you cant run for so long 
 you know..
  
  cool now you got a shot gun press R to check how many shots you got left, go in this room, use 
 your infinite flash light to see, __ that reminds me of doom by the way__, a box pops out in the 
 bottom left of your screen asking you to use you tools... pretty obvious dont you think...
  
  Buy the game its worth it.
  
  by the way, the game is some time terrifying... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denbak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Who of us can honestly say that he never was in a situation where someone really annoyed him and 
 he just wanted to take the nearest thing and just beat the hell out of him? what no one? (well 
 if you say you never wanted to do this to anyone then yuor either not human or really bad liars..) 
 
  
  Well the game pretty much gives you the possibilty to grab the nearest thing and beat someone up. This 
 is actually the main point of the game and it does it really good (well maybe not the main point 
 theres the greaphics the overall gameplay well youll see...)
  
  You play a normal everyday detective/forensic dude named something Thomas which dosent have the 
 best luck (or is it really luck? well when youll play youll get what i mean) anyways the city he 
 lives in has latelly had tons of creepy twisted murders and other crime waves. and this is where 
 are friendlly thomas gets in, he invastigates a murder scene which you actually invastigate ... 
 its pretty simple dont worry the game will walk you through these parts of the game ... after fighting 
 some creppy criminals while cahsing who seems to be the bad guy he steals your gun kills your partners 
 and let you live... then you are framed for their death and you start invastigatnig whats really 
 going on in that city.
  
  the gamplay is great all the fighting are cool ... you basiclly use melee weapons their some guns 
 but they will run out of ammo quick which is good cause the melee fighting is just better you can 
 block attack and kick so can your enemies which will have few more tricks up their sleeves you 
 really get the smacking things in someones face in the game which is really great (thats kind of 
 what i was going on and on in in the start...)
  
  graphics-great really great coll effects and it really creats creepy and sometimes scary athmosphire.
 
  
  well the story is cool and from what i understood it didnt really end 
  
  the campign is a bit short but reallt cool and good ...
  
  well thats it ... to summ it up 
 -buy it rent it i dont care but this is something you wanna play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigjames11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Very rarely do I ever say to myself "Gee, I wish I could bludgeon some homeless crackheads to death 
 with a wooden plank instead of a fire axe." This game however, changed my tune. There was an amazing 
 shock value to the violence, which was high throughout the campaign. This game provides more than 
 just a solid beating, it also makes you jump out of your chair numerous times. Remember how you 
 felt when the little girl ran you down in F. E. A. R.? Well the scares just keep on coming in this 
 one. Glimpses of bad guys and attacks from behind keep your heart pounding from the first minute 
 and never stop from there. The graphic quality was very well done, including the cut scene movies. 
 Gameplay is fresh with a mix of first person battle with a touch of CSI crime solving. 
  
  The most amazing part of this game though is the sound. Very rarely does the music itself really 
 creep you out, but this one does the trick. A satisfying crunching sound comes from smacking someone 
 upside the head with different objects. The footsteps and wind add to the intensity factor making 
 you constantly check your back just in case.
  
  Overall this game was a quality play. My only complaint about it would be that it was a little 
 short, finishing in about 8-10 hours if you explore everything. The difficulty levels are set just 
 right as normal difficulty will allow some easy battles as well as some deaths. I highly recommend 
 this to anyone interested in a solid fighting and eary gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammertime1976
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  its been awile since ive played a game where i was acually weiry of whats around the corner or 
 behinde the next door. The people responsible for making "Condemend" really really impressed me 
 with the suspence factor as well as the spooky enviorment. Although there were quite a few resctrictions 
 that i would have like to have control of for example like not being able to jump off a deck reither 
 then being forced to go all the way around to the designated stairway. other the then the restrictions 
 I really enjoyed this game, i just hope more games are made with this realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Whats not to love than beating up sociopaths while playing a game? The games moody atmosphere and 
 its run-down locals add a tense surrounding to the game and has you looking around the corner everytime. 
 Pretty much, the combat is decent and the finishing moves are pretty cool. There is only one problem 
 with the finishing moves, they all are executed the same way. If you snap someone's neck, Agent 
 Ethan Thomas has no variety in his executions and therefore, kills them the same way. At least 
 there are 3 other moves and give you a great way to rid someone. It gets hard at first when going 
 against one weirdo but when you go against two, you'll be dying quite a bit. It takes time to get 
 used to going against three or four people but try and get them to hit each other so they start 
 to fight and kick back and watch the show! One big problem I saw in the game, is that it reverts 
 to the bodies disappearing. I thought we got rid of this in games these days. Thats why F. E. A. R. 
 is a great game because it keeps the madness you left but still the limbs disappear. But we are 
 not talking about F. E. A. R. Like I was saying though, we are killing people, not ghosts. This can 
 make it hard as you keep searching where you have been or not have been. The enviroment isn't really 
 all that interactive, sure you can take a lead pipe off the wall but I want to use like a piece 
 of sharp glass. There isn't a way to be stealthy, so pretty much you're the one being hunted. The 
 combat and visuals are good, but it still needs room for improvement. It did though leave a great 
 impression on me and I will definetely pick up the sequel if one ever develops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muriel_01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm still stuck in Level 5 and I'm so scared now that I'm unable to continue. I've played 
 a LOT of Games - from old Unreal to HL2, Doom 3, Quake 4 and Fear (all of them uncut) - but this 
 Game is so creepy... I've lost my nerves. 
  
  The Developers created a dark and chilling atmosphere so unique... I never experienced such kind 
 of personal panic whilst playing a horrorgame before. 
  This game is so intense... no music... you can hear every cough and snort of your enemies... listen 
 to scraping footsteps surrounding you... 
  But the worst things are those flashbacks and beginning hallucinations. 
  Whilst playing the 
 "mall" level with all those damaged mannequins standing around I jumped several times when the 
 "puppets" came to live and began attacking you. 
  Nothing is scary about mannequins running around and wielding pipes in your direction. But those 
 terribly distorted faces... I got gooseskin all over my body. 
  And the moment that hallucination occured... with all those mannequins surrounding you out of nowhere... 
 and the terrible background sounds... I freaked completely out. :)
  
  This may sound so harmless, but watching all those things happening ... the player feels really 
 lonely and threatened. Thats the spirit of Condemned - making you feeling really disturbed, haunted 
 and frightened. I never played a game like this one and I think I never will. If a sequel will 
 be made I'm definetely not going to buy. Because I'm scared to death already. 
  I would like to finish this one, but people in forums are saying the game is getting much worse 
 and a lot more desturbing. I'm already unable to finish the game at this early point - I'm already 
 having nightmares about Condemed and freaky creatures hunting me down. Jeez... this game is a "masterpiece" 
 but it's quite too intense for the weak of heart... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DV2THEFOX
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  After been playing the game like a non stop player, i found this really awesome coz some times it 
 scares the poopoo out of ya body.. played this on PC, yeah, and on HARD.. but when it's about the fight, it 
 gets HARD..
  
  fighting with hand 2 hand weapons might get you frustrated.. sometimes when you want to block an 
 attack you think the block will be successful.. wrong..!!
  
  They'll attack you even if your weapon is being raised up ater 0.5 secs... i mean, you must CALCULATE 
 the moment the enemy has to move his arm n ass to attack you..
  
  and if you're looking for guns or other fire weapons, there are, but with really low ammo and no 
 clips to reload.. you must find a new gun.. it sucks..
  
  and some other times there'll be so many enemies they'll kill you in seconds if you just keep on 
 attacking..
  
  about the game's lenght.. like 9 or 10 episodes are SHORT... i finished the game in less than 10 
 hours without a pause.. maybe 6 or 7..
  
  Replay value is negative.. you would not want to start again to find the secret objects.. extras 
 sucks... and no, there are no 2nd ending no matter what you've read on internet..
  
  if you like games like FEAR, give it a try, but lemme tell you, becareful.. don't waste ya money.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jntshumaker
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Felt very promising at the beginning, nice little forensic tools and analysis devices, interesting 
 combat system, and quite dark (story and game play) . That said... it's just those things repeated, 
 over and over and over again.
  
  The weapon system and gauging the right tool, comparing it to your current one (i. e. is this metal 
 sign stronger than my lead pipe?) is somewhat engaging however loses it's appeal by about the 3rd 
 level seeing as how its the same weapons over and over again... maybe one added here and there.
 
  
  The battle system is quite straight forward... swing, block, stun... becomes only partially interesting 
 when fighting more than 2 enemies (which i have yet to run into more than 3, not to mention they 
 fight one another if left alone)
  
  Level design definitely leaves something to the imagination... trite in one word, down a hall, get 
 an axe, break a door, repeat.
  
  Story... chase a convict, watch him kill the same thugs trying to chop your own head off, get secret 
 messages from dark figure/shady guy. (somewhat trite also, IMO)
  
  Sound, its up there, sounds good, clangs of pipes on jaws and such. Axes into doors.
  
  One 
 of my favorite things however would definitely have to be the camera, angle and shots. (for instance, 
 in one scene you are running around and come up on a door, you see a guy ,just a glimpse, (this 
 happens often) and then you continue along your path only to have that same guy reoccur in quite...."shocking" 
 manner.) 
  
  So the game has good shock value... (remember the dogs jumping through the windows in Res. Evil 
 1?... I reacted the same way both times)
  
  Overall the game gets an 8 for the attempt at BRUTAL hand-to-hand combat and succeeds quite well, 
 but given the pitfalls of trite level design and repetitive game play it just cant be given a higher 
 score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary56
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game must be the best horror game i have playd in many years! It delivers great Gameplay, 
 there ain't alot of guns, so for the Far cry and CoD 2 fans etc, you better start learn to swing 
 a pipe fast!
  
  The figthing is almost all the time melee and that is what makes the game so fun and addictive. 
 Forexample when you go 1 on 1 with a crazy drug addict you will find out how cool it exactly is 
 to smash up some ones face :P !
  There is guns but you will only find forexample a colt 45 with 6 bullets there ain't no mags, so 
 you have to take time and aim.
  
  The graphics is some of the best i'v seen like you see blood on your melee weapon when you hit 
 someone with it and the bullet holes are really awsome. Ligthing and shadow is superb but taht 
 is from your flashligth lol that's right there ain't any ligth so you have to use your flashligth 
 thrug the hole game!!
  
  The sound omg it is so good, the scary music makes the game scary if there wasen't music in the 
 game then you would be laugthing instead of almost getting a heart attack!
  
  So this game has great gameplay, graphics and sound overall the game is worth buying i liked it 
 so much that i only took 1 break because it become to scary! That is the first game that made me 
 do taht!. It's hard on the hard difficulty but not annoying hard you will be able to get thougth 
 the game. So i hope that this review was helpfull and will make you buy this amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  What we have here is an immersive tale about an accused cop on the run, searching for a serial 
 killer, and battling the homeless and drug addicts who, for some reason, have had some sort of 
 psychotic breakdown somehow connected with an unusual number of dead birds in the area.
  
  "Condemned" is as real as it gets in video gaming. In order to survive, you'll need to tear off 
 pipes, nailboards, signs, planks, fire axes, and other run-of-the-mill objects and put them to 
 good use. Pistols, shotguns, and machine guns are very scarce, and when you do come across them, 
 you shoot one round and that's it. Forget about eighty reloads.
  
  Created by the masterminds at Monolith, who brought us such great games as "F. E. A. R.," "Tron 2.0," 
 and "No One Lives Forever," they have once again created a new twist to the first-person shooter 
 genre, making it into a first-person brawler.
  
  And they have created something scarier than "Doom 3" and 'F. E. A. R." combined. There are times 
 when I have to quit the game because of its disturbing content and the constant anticipation of 
 ghouls popping out at you, causing palms to sweat and teeth to shiver. This is the perfect game 
 to play at night with the lights turned off -- that is, if you enjoy having nightmares.
  
  If you thought the AI in "F. E. A. R." was the most amazing thing you've ever seen in video gaming, 
 prepare to be shocked by "Condemned." The artificial characters here might as well be members of 
 Mensa. They will shut off the lights, block your path by knocking down shelves, and basically anything 
 that makes your hunt more difficult.
  
  Created with the "F. E. A. R." graphics engine, "Condemned" doesn't disappoint in terms of its visual 
 style. This game uses the "F. E. A. R." engine to simulate a different kind of experience. "Condemned" 
 is a film-noir (or game-noir, if you will) that makes even the brightest, happiest, sunniest day 
 seem like pitch black. The atmosphere is always dark, and thus, always creepy.
  
  "Condemned" is not for the faint of heart, and certainly not for the children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zurikp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo after watching a gameplay video and was absolutely shocked at the game play 
 experience. I thought I was downloading another first person shooter game but was taken back by 
 what an amazing job the deveopers of this game changed the way you interact in a FPS style game. 
 No more than 30 seconds into the game I was dropped-jawed and awaiting for my next move. I have 
 never seen a game quite like this before. It game me the instant scence that I was in the game 
 and was unraveling a homicide right before my eyes. I was a bit dissapointed that I could not jump, 
 however the games AI and the detail of your crime scene tools plus the flashback-like cut scenes 
 kept me playing in hope to catch the killer and dig deeper into this game. This one is not for 
 the squirmish as within the first minute of the game I found myself examaning a dead corpse with 
 investigation tools, shooting drugged up punks screaming every four letter word in the book and 
 also hacking away at bodys with nail studded two by fours and metal pipes.
  
  This game deserves a 9 out of 10 for excellent game play, imaginative use of objects and devices 
 as weapons, adanced AI characters and a total immersive storyline.
  
  I will definately be buying this to go next to my HalfLife 2, FEAR, Call of Duty 2 and Quake 4 
 Collection.
  
  It's well worth it. I want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixelpimp
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Finally a true horror adventure game that's in fist person perspective. This game really makes 
 you feel like a detective. It borrows many elements from the horror genre and it's very much inspired 
 by films such as Se7en - But it's done in a such a polished and refined way that it is probably 
 the most original horror game to date.
  
  The sound, the atmosphere and the ease of control makes it deserve more than a mere 8.4 score that 
 most game sites have been giving it. Most adventure games are awkward and frustrating - this however 
 is light years ahead of anything before.
  
  Granted it does have its flaws and some things could have been handled better, but no game is perfect, 
 and when you get the guys who were responsible for excellent titles such as F. E. A. R then you know 
 you're in for one creepy hell of a game!
  
  For anyone who likes their games, dark, brutal, gritty and completely twisted - this one's a must! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krayman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Well the name explains everything!!
  
  Maybe this game is a bit of a struggle but still it is very good built and it's a cool Idea from 
 the makers.
  
  The whole game is build by "what happends next" and you get suprised of the enemies attacking u 
 from all their heart... the try to run away from u and hide then suprise u... Incredible AI that's 
 what I call it!!... the graphics are good but still feels like an console game this one... but we 
 pc gamers gotta have a chance and try console games too... this game aint that hard but u get scared 
 to get killed with the attacks u get hit by and that is awsome feeling that let u not play the 
 game for a while and then play it again... first I thougt I would be a agent and I am but I get 
 hunted by the police of an accident that they think I killed my partners during the first missions 
 and that was kinda sad actually... but still the storyline is quite good... and the sound is so good 
 that u get so scared and nearly get a heart attack... I think the only thing that was bad in it 
 is that u fight mostley with pipes and axes and such of things... I wanted guns to shoot their head 
 off... but it was too much pipes in this game...
  
  If u like horror games this game is for u it is the best horror game ever made so u will like it... buy 
 it and try it. its worth it!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
