-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conflict: Vietnam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/conflictvietnam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 13, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 6.1, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 221 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: Pivotal Games
Genre: Historic Shooter
Date:     Oct 5, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A solidly average game whose few original ideas are compromised by screwy controls, some pacing 
 problems, and a punishing save-game system. 

  Conflict: Vietnam is the best of the recent spate of Vietnam War-themed shooters. Unfortunately, 
 it earns that distinction primarily because of how bad the competition has been. It's a solidly 
 average game whose few original ideas are compromised by screwy controls, some pacing problems, 
 and a punishing save-game system.  

           You can upgrade each character's skills between levels.     

  Like every other recent 
 Vietnam War game, you play a raw recruit, learning the ropes from your potty-mouthed fellow soldiers. 
 In an interesting twist, you also play the potty-mouthed fellow soldiers. The game is actually 
 a squad-based third-person shooter. You take control of four grunts, each with a specialty: a medic, 
 a heavy gunner, an assault weapons expert, and a sniper. You directly control one team member at 
 a time, but you're free to switch between them at will. When you're not directly controlling a 
 character, that character will move and shoot autonomously, though you can issue several general 
 orders such as hold fire, fire at will, stand ground, and follow.  

  You can also give specific orders to a teammate. Through a series of button presses, you can remotely 
 order characters to embark on various tasks. Generally speaking, these fall into four categories: 
 go here, pick this up, attack this target, and heal this person. In theory, it's a nice idea, but 
 it's largely unnecessary, as it generally takes less time, effort, and button presses to just switch 
 to that character and perform the action yourself. The extraneous controls are a little aggravating, 
 because other squad-control options that would have actually been useful are simply missing. For 
 instance, it would have been nice to be able to order the squad to grab ammunition on its own, 
 rather than constantly having to switch between members and having to do it manually.  

  The first-person iron sights mode is relatively useless as well. The aiming interface is blurry 
 and overlaid with a gun-sight graphic that obscures a large part of the screen. In almost all cases, 
 it's easier just to aim in the third-person mode. This is especially true on the Xbox and PS2 versions, 
 where the default auto-aiming feature homes in on enemies across a wide arc, often before you even 
 notice them.  

  When you're not controlling them, your teammates are generally smart enough to fire on anyone who's 
 shooting at them. That's about the extent of their intellect, however. They won't look for cover 
 (in fact, they'll barely move) , and they pretty much refuse to run from incoming grenades. Unlike 
 most of the other recent Vietnam War games, cover doesn't play a big part in Conflict: Vietnam. 
 Or rather, cover is replaced by lying prone, which makes you much harder to hit. The battles are 
 generally a matter of having everyone go prone, and, if there's enough time, will include moving 
 one guy to the rear or off to the side so that the entire squad isn't wiped out if a grenade comes 
 rolling in. When a character's health reaches zero, he becomes incapacitated, and there's roughly 
 a two-minute window during which any other character with a med kit can heal him. If he's not healed 
 in time, he dies and you fail the mission. Once you become acclimated to the rhythm of the game -- the 
 combination of squad positioning and healing under fire -- the combat system becomes much more manageable 
 and occasionally satisfying.  

  The game features 14 long missions, covering a wide variety of tasks. There are a bunch of straightforward 
  levels, but these are punctuated by a couple of decent on-rails 
 levels. The squad mechanic adds some complexity to the typical on-rail mission, as you're forced 
 to constantly switch between four mounted guns, each with its own viewing angle on the action. 
 At certain points during various levels, you'll also take control of a couple of different vehicles, 
 including a jeep and a tank. At the end of each level you're awarded points for your performance. 
 These points can then be used to boost any of nine different skills for each character. The tangible 
 effects of these skill boosts are subtle, however. The Xbox version supports a four player, split-screen 
 cooperative mode through the single-player campaign; the PS2 supports two players; and the PC, 
 unfortunately, has no multiplayer at all.  

  The biggest problem with the missions is the stingy save system. The game saves automatically at 
 the beginning of each level. After that, you're granted only two saves per mission to use at your 
 discretion. Given the length and relative difficulty of the game -- and the frequency with which 
 your entire squad will be wiped out by an incoming RPG --that's at least four or five saves too 
 few. Unless you're willing to split your squad into two manually controlled groups (so that one 
 can heal the other) and painstakingly creep through the long levels, you'll definitely be replaying 
 large sections of various missions.  

           The iron sights aiming feature is kind of clunky and useless.     

  Visually, the 
 game is pretty much par for the Vietnam course. Texture detail is sacrificed for dense jungle geometry, 
 but it does a good enough job of making you feel as if you're creeping through the underbrush. 
 Since no Vietnam game is complete without a few licensed period songs, Conflict Vietnam includes 
 recognizable tunes from the Rolling Stones, Jefferson Airplane, Martha and the Vandellas, and Canned 
 Heat. Surprisingly, both the cutscenes and the voice acting are pretty well done and, in a first 
 for the Vietnam War genre, not especially embarrassing.  

  Not especially embarrassing is a pretty good description of Conflict: Vietnam in general. While 
 not exactly a ringing endorsement, it at least places its head and shoulders above its competition. 
 Meanwhile, we're still waiting for the definitive Vietnam War shooter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Priest_R47
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  I don't know about you consoles owners owning this game, but I brought it in PC and the controls 
 where hard.
  
  The game has great graphics in cutscenes, but in the gameplay, it ugly.
  
  The gameplays are simply amazing, and upgrading the soldiers where great. The game has some 
 improved-weapons and it's how that should be.
  
  Direct 9X suits the game and made the graphics in the cutscenes the best to date.
  
  The sounds 
 were okay, but need a litle more improvement.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  I don't recommend 
 this to anyone but still, a great game for people who likes Call of Duty or Metal Gear Solid or 
 Medal of Honor would try this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EddieDavis
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  First of all, do NOT play this game without enabling the infinite saves cheat. However, once you 
 do, you're in for a great time. The expansive and varied missions present just the right degree 
 of challenge, although on the normal difficulty setting, that doesn't mean it's easy going by a 
 long shot! I found it quite satisfying to eventually figure out how to get through a mission that 
 starts off with your whole squad being blown to kingdom come. Oh it happens a few times at least, 
 and it's initially frustrating, but you get through it. If it weren't for a cumbersome inventory 
 control system, it would have been a bit more fun, but you learn to deal with that, too. Hey, at 
 least your squad's AI and pathfinding are pretty good, as well as the voiceacting. Graphically 
 it's nothing spectacular, but the environments are large, although fairly linear, and filled with 
 goodies and baddies. The score builds mood effectively, and adds to the sense that anything could 
 be around the next corner. Anyway, aside from the minor design flaws (reassigning keyboard controls 
 was a kick in the nuts) , this game was a tense and rewarding action piece, well worth the investment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumpt
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  Wow, so now it's my turn to review this game, almost two years after the last one. I almost feel 
 the weight of responsability :)
  
  It's hard to describe the feelings you go through when playing this game. I enjoyed a lot the other 
 two previous games from the series, so I was really looking forward to play this one, despite all 
 the negative criticism. However, it disappointed me. I must confess I didn't like it at first. 
 In fact, it felt kind of boring and "glitchy". Let's see the reasons:
  
  In the first place, the camera. Well, it's very similar to the first games. However, when you run, 
 it has the incredibly annoying tendency to tremble a lot. It hurts the eye. At least mine did. 
 I have the feeling that the programmers had the intention to make the camera behave that way, because 
 it really makes the action more realistic if your field of vision trembles a bit when you run; 
 the thing is the camera effect is exagerated. You know what happens when you make love over the 
 laundry machine? Well, that's the closest I can find to describe the trembling.
  
  Now, the menus. Well, both inventory and order menus suck. And they suck hard. In the previous 
 games, you had to assign a key to summon the inventory menu, and then you used another key (or 
 the mouse wheel) to cycle through it. In this game, that's history. Now, you have to assign necessarily 
 TWO keys, one for the "next" and other for the "previous" item, because there's no longer the "summon" 
 option. And that means one key wasted. In a tactical type game, one key can make all the difference, 
 because you have the liberty to do lots of stuff, like selecting weapons, team members and throwing 
 grenades; having to assign two keys to cycle through the inventory is just a plain waste of keyboard. 
 The order menu isn't so bad as the inventory menu, but once again you're forced to waste keys unnecessarily. 
 In the previous games, when you wanted the whole squad to follow you, you just had to make a combination 
 of keys. ALT+F, for instance. Which means you could use the single press of "F" for something else. 
 Now, that's history too. You have no longer a combination option, instead you have to choose a 
 single key for that action. Another waste of keyboard. 
  
  Well, the things I've just described are basically what pisses me off. Now, the good things.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Amazing, that's the best word I can find. They really make grow on you the jungle feel. There were 
 times I found myself crouching and staying low when exploring the jungle, because I was affraid 
 of alerting any vietcongs, or crumbling through a very well hidden booby trap. Awesome, really. 
 However, it's a pity they sacrificed the overall playability to have such amazing graphics...
 
  
  Sound:
  Great! And the songs are awesome too! I especially recall one mission in which you go down the 
 river on a boat shooting vietcongs and listening to 60's radio music. Oh man, that was really cool.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  If we put aside the camera thingy I didn't enjoy that much, it's okay. The characters move very 
 smoothly, and it's especially very nice when you move lying prone.
  
  This game may not add anything new to the genre, but these Conflict series are the very first games 
 I play of tactical war games, and I've enjoyed them a lot. The story is very immersive, you have 
 to interact with lots of surprising characters that appear throughout the missions. It's not only 
 shooting and accomplishing military objectives, believe me.
  
  In the overall, I'd say it's great. However, I wouldn't recommend to buy it - rent it first. In 
 my personal experience, as I've explained, I didn't like the game when I started playing it, it 
 just caught me now, because I've insisted on playing it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 17, 2004 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Thankfully, I wait now for reviews from gamespot before I buy a game (unless it's something like 
 GTA San Andreas, or an FF game, etc) so I played this game at a friend's house. There is very little 
 to say about this game, because it's not TERRIBLE... it's just that it would have been a decent 
 game many many years ago. I don't think there is a single original element here. If you've played 
 any FPS's or 3rd person action games in the last three years, you'll be struck by the fact that 
 Conflict seems fundamentally ignorant of developments in those genre's. When did the vietnam war 
 genre become the new "value crap" genre? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
