-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conflict Zone
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/conflictzone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.4
Critic Score: 6.9, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 51 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: MASA Group
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Conflict Zone isn't a completely terrible real-time strategy game, but there's nothing about it 
 that will scream for you to play it. 

 Conflict Zone is a modern-day military real-time strategy game that has a unique resource system. 
 It also touts its advanced artificial intelligence. The enemy is supposed to react to your actions 
 in different ways every time, and you can have computer-controlled commanders help you in battles. 
 It all sounds great in theory, but in practice, you'll find the AI only sporadically makes intelligent 
 moves. Conflict Zone has a number of other problems, too. When the first wave of frustration passes, 
 you'll realize that Conflict Zone is a subpar RTS game whose few good ideas just don't add up. 
           Conflict Zone's very slow pacing makes it tedious.    

  Conflict Zone is the stage for a war between the International Corps for Peace (ICP) , a peacekeeping 
 force like NATO, and GHOST, a secret self-serving group of nations. You can choose to play as either 
 side in both the campaign and skirmish missions. Both sides are presented fairly well in the campaign 
 missions, and the story is told through mildly amusing cutscenes. But while the ICP and GHOST are 
 ideologically different, they are almost identical in terms of units and structures. The ICP scenarios 
 are mostly peacekeeping missions in which you have to rescue civilians and then eliminate GHOST 
 forces. These get so repetitive that, before each mission, you'll start to feel as if you're getting 
 ready to go to work again on Monday morning after the weekend. The GHOST missions are a bit better 
 because less emphasis is placed on rescuing civilians. It sounds boring that both sides have the 
 same units, and it is. When playing a skirmish map, you might as well flip a coin because it basically 
 doesn't matter which side you're on. Actually, that's not entirely true -- the ICP and GHOST take 
 slightly different approaches with regard to civilians and the media.   

  The resource model in Conflict Zone is interesting and unique. One of your resources is "popularity." 
 It determines what level of units and technology you possess at any given moment. It's supposed 
 to represent the trust that your leaders have in you, so a higher popularity means that they'll 
 let you have bombers and submarines. The media directly influences your popularity by observing 
 the actions you make in the game.   

  Popularity is the biggest differentiating factor between the ICP and GHOST. The ICP is able to 
 increase popularity to high levels quickly simply by rescuing civilians and taking them to a refugee 
 camp in their base. The downside to this is that the ICP also loses popularity quite easily. First, 
 people generally don't like long wars, so the ICP's popularity slowly decreases over time. Next, 
 if your forces suffer humiliating losses, the people back home aren't going to like you. Lastly, 
 lots of civilian deaths at your hand will bring down your popularity big-time. A few civilian deaths 
 are acceptable, though. But you're still going to have to avoid many battles near towns, because 
 explosives have area-effect damage that can cause civilian casualties easily. And town buildings 
 resupply civilians, so you don't want those destroyed.   

  Raising the GHOST's popularity takes more work than raising the ICP's popularity. Instead of a 
 refugee camp, you have an enlistment camp. When you bring civilians there, they are converted to 
 a random infantry unit on your side. This will raise your popularity to 50 percent, but no higher. 
 As a mercenary general, you have to impress the GHOST leaders with favorable footage of successful 
 battles. You can recruit cameramen to follow your troops. But if you're routed in combat, expect 
 popularity to drop.           Problems with unit balance and AI make it difficult to recommend. 
    

  The main resources you get are command points. While the popularity resource is interesting, the 
 command point system is frustrating. It seems to take forever to gain enough command points to 
 build a decent-sized force. Granted, some waiting is involved in just about all RTS games, but 
 Conflict Zone takes this to extremes. You can increase the rate of command point acquisition through 
 rescuing civilians, but most of the time, they're behind enemy lines. And there are not many structures 
 in the game, so building your base won't take much time at all. Therefore, you're going to just 
 sit there twiddling your thumbs until you have collected enough command points to build troops. 
 It's perfectly viable to get up and brew a cup of coffee or watch TV for a while and then come 
 back to the game. The computer will rarely attack your base with a threatening force, so you don't 
 have to worry about that. The command point system gets even worse in skirmish mode. All the combatants 
 will get command points at a relatively equal rate, so there's no way to disrupt an opponent's 
 economy. This means that there will be a lot of stalemates unless someone makes a really bad mistake. 
   

  The gameplay doesn't make up for the poor resource model. You're supposed to be able to make diversionary 
 strikes at enemy forces, causing the enemy to reinforce that area and leave another area largely 
 undefended. This works only once in a while, so you're back to the basic RTS ideal of winning by 
 squatting in your base until you have enough troops to completely overwhelm the enemy positions. 
 Infantry are largely useless because they die so quickly and move slow compared with vehicles. 
 Since explosions will kill an infantryman instantly and infantry usually clump together, one tank 
 shell or bazooka shot will send bodies flying. It leaves you to wonder why you can build a medic 
 to heal injured troops, since troops never seem to survive more than a single hit.    

 Vehicles are much more useful because they take more of a beating before being destroyed; plus, 
 you can repair them. Your main attack force is almost always going to be tanks and antiair defenses. 
 Initially, the only infantry unit you'll ever want to build is the bazooka because it can fire 
 at enemy aircraft, but even it soon outlives its usefulness since you'll gain antiair vehicles. 
 So you'll learn to ignore infantry altogether. You're told that marines are good for sweeping towns 
 because they won't accidentally kill civilians with splash damage, but in practice, you're better 
 off just using vehicles -- not caring if a few civilians die and not caring if you lose some popularity 
 points. As long as you have enough to build tanks, you're fine.           The ICP and GHOST share 
 exactly the same units for the most part.    

  The unit artificial intelligence is decent at best. Since units can't absorb much damage in Conflict 
 Zone, there's no reason to concentrate fire on a single unit. The game does a good job with having 
 units spread their fire on enemy groups. Your units will also fire while moving, which is a stress 
 reliever in RTS games. On the other hand, unit pathfinding has some issues. Your units will eventually 
 get to any point on the map, but they don't get there efficiently, much to your detriment. The 
 biggest obstacles are bridges and ramps leading to elevation changes. Your groups can't seem to 
 tackle these without getting slaughtered. The scale shows that five infantry and a couple of tanks 
 can easily cross abreast of each other, yet they all insist on going single-file through these 
 locations. Anyone can see the obvious choke points that result. There also aren't any formations 
 to protect weaker units such as artillery and antiair troops. A group won't move at the rate of 
 the slowest member. If your advancing tank column runs ahead and gets taken out, then you're going 
 to have to retreat everything else that lagged behind. This is yet another reason why infantry 
 are more trouble than they're worth. Some skirmish maps also place bases in areas where your army 
 simply refuses to go. It appears to be impossible to win these scenarios with armies, so the last 
 person to quit is the victor.   

  Conflict Zone includes up to four AI-controlled battle commanders per side that can assist you 
 in combat. You can have them handle a variety of tasks such as improving your base, attacking or 
 defending a position, and concentrating on rescuing civilians. The latter is probably the only 
 option that's really useful. Rescuing civilians is a tedious task, and if someone else is willing 
 to do it for you, more power to them. You can share resources with commanders and give them units 
 to control on their own. But sharing command points means that you'll have to wait even longer 
 to build a force. Now, you can do errands while they build up your base and a bunch of units. But 
 by then, what's the point of playing the game in the first place? The commanders do have their 
 fair share of problems. Sometimes they will refuse to build anything and just sit there collecting 
 money. Perhaps it's a testament to the advanced AI in the game -- as in the movie  War Games , perhaps 
 the computer is simply realizing that it's a part of a fruitless game.   

  The games' 3D graphics are utilitarian: They do the job but aren't anything to write home about. 
 Unit models are bland, but they hold up well when you're zoomed in close. Yet another problem with 
 infantry is that they are quite small when you're zoomed out, which is the view that a typical 
 strategy gamer has to use to get a full scope of the battlefield. It's so bad that you can't even 
 tell the difference between a cow and an enemy marine without floating your mouse over it first. 
           Conflict Zone's distinctive resource model can't save the game.    

  On the other hand, Conflict Zone's interface is nonobtrusive and works well enough. When you select 
 a group of units, you're told the types and number you have selected on the left-hand side of the 
 screen. You have a minimap in the top right-hand corner that expands when you float your mouse 
 pointer over it. The only other main interface feature is the build menu in the bottom left. It's 
 real easy to cycle through and build anything you want. You don't even have to select a factory-type 
 building to buy units. The camera is done fairly well, but you can only use the mouse at the edge 
 of the screen to adjust the perspective. There are other strategy games that let you hold down 
 the buttons and move the mouse to rotate and elevate the camera -- it's too bad that this wasn't 
 implemented.   

  Conflict Zone isn't a completely terrible game, but there's nothing about it that will scream for 
 you to play it. Most mainstream strategy gamers will most likely find it painful to play. Besides, 
 this is a great time for strategy games, so Conflict Zone's fierce competition makes it even less 
 recommendable. And if Conflict Zone's AI even gives up, then perhaps it's trying to tell you something. 
 Hard-core strategy gamers might find something to like in the game's unusual resource system. But 
 not even that and the game's cheap price of $19.99 justifies a purchase. You can easily pick up 
 older games that look and play better than Conflict Zone.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
