-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conflict: Desert Storm II - Back to Baghdad
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/conflictds2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  7, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.7, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 252 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gotham Games
Developer: Pivotal Games
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Oct 8, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're really into squad-based military action games, Desert Storm II might be worth a look, 
 despite the unfortunate absence of any multiplayer features. 

  2002's Conflict: Desert Storm gave players squad-based tactical action with a tie-in to modern 
 military history. As you'd gather from the name, the game was set in the Middle East during the 
 early 1990s' Operation: Desert Storm -- the famed military action against Saddam Hussein's invasion 
 of Kuwait. Its current-events context notwithstanding, the first Conflict game just wasn't very 
 good. Scarcely a year later, we've received a direct sequel titled Conflict: Desert Storm II - 
 Back to Baghdad. The hasty release of a follow-up was no doubt spurred by the political and military 
 events of the last year. However, the new Conflict is quite an improvement over the extremely shaky 
 first game. The PC version doesn't add anything significant to the mix, and, in fact, it's missing 
 the console versions' cooperative play mode (and any multiplayer options) . At least the PC version 
 is easier to play, thanks to the wider array of control options offered by the keyboard and mouse. 

          Conflict: Desert Storm II again places you in the thick of the 1991 campaign against Saddam 
 Hussein's regime.     

  Though there's been a more recent conflict in Iraq, and military action in the region is, in fact, 
 ongoing, Conflict: Desert Storm II again places you in the thick of the 1991 campaign against Saddam 
 Hussein's regime. There's not a whole lot of story to speak of in the game. You get a linear progression 
 of 10 missions, each of which has its own setting and unique mission objectives and some of which 
 are revealed in-game as you progress. You command a squad of four specialists in each mission, 
 and, at the beginning of a new game, you can choose either American Delta Force or British SAS 
 personnel. Your selection here slightly affects stats, appearance, and voice acting. Each of your 
 team members is equipped with a weapon that gives him a unique function. There's the assault rifle-wielding 
 team leader, the sniper, the demolitions expert, and the heavy machine gunner. The team members 
 do have actual names and unique appearances, so you've got at least a little more attachment to 
 them than if they were just faceless drones.  

  The core squad and combat mechanics in Desert Storm II are a little awkward at the outset, but 
 with some practice you can get fairly proficient at playing the game. You can quickly cycle through 
 your four teammates by hitting the first four number keys. Each of the four (whichever one is active) 
 squad members can issue individual or group orders to the others. This can be done by holding down 
 a key to enter command mode and then firing off orders with various other keys. You can tell your 
 teammates to hold position or form up behind you, hit the dirt, advance on the enemy and fire at 
 will, and so on. As long as you keep tabs on your teammates' health and actively switch between 
 them regularly, you can progress through the game's missions without worrying too much about suffering 
 casualties. Leaving three of your buddies in the care of the game's squad AI isn't always the best 
 idea, though at least they'll be proactive about fighting enemies. They'll fire at their enemies 
 but will often get themselves killed in the process. Of course, you can issue orders to bring them 
 back behind cover, but that can be difficult when you're in the middle of a firefight and are worrying 
 about saving your own skin. Overall, it would have been nice if the teammate AI was a little more 
 adaptive when left to its own devices.  

  The actual fighting in Conflict: Desert Storm II is somewhat hit-and-miss, though less so than 
 it was in the console versions of the game. That's understandably due to the fact that you can 
 play the PC game with the mouse and keyboard, which is the perpetual favorite configuration of 
 the first- and third-person action fan. Overall, controlling your soldiers, issuing orders, shooting 
 at enemies, and so on all feel a little bit smoother and more responsive since you've got so many 
 keys to map to each function. For instance, it's much quicker and easier here to cycle through 
 your squad than on the Xbox or PS2. The console games' auto-aim function is gone since you've got 
 the more-precise mouse control at your disposal, though strangely enough, the mouse aim in Conflict: 
 Desert Storm II on the PC is a little bit swimmy and hard to get a handle on. This can be frustrating, 
 but for the most part, the combat is reasonably well balanced and entertaining. You can also engage 
 in vehicular combat with a jeep or tank in some missions, which breaks up the flow of things a 
 little. The vehicles feel a little awkward and can be slow to respond to your controls, though. 

          The backgrounds are fairly devoid of detail, and the enemy character models look pretty 
 simple.     

  Graphically, Conflict: Desert Storm II gets the job done but does it in a no-frills sort of way. 
 The backgrounds are fairly devoid of detail, and the enemy character models look pretty simple. 
 Your own squad models, however, are decent-looking. As you'd expect, this PC version of the game 
 looks better than its console counterparts, but since the PC also has much higher visual standards 
 these days, that's not saying a whole lot. The audio portion of the game is dominated by a lot 
 of yelling, gunfire, and explosions, though all of these are rendered pretty well. The PC version 
 of Desert Storm II also features Dolby Digital audio for those gamers whose PCs are equipped with 
 the appropriate sound card and speaker setup. The music tends to fade into the background, though, 
 since you're intent on finishing your missions. Finally, as in last year's game, the voice acting 
 for the training mode's drill instructor is a poor attempt at sounding like  Full Metal Jacket 
 's tough-as-nails drill instructor, and it comes across as pretty awful.  

  In the final analysis, Conflict: Desert Storm II - Back to Baghdad isn't without problems, but 
 it's not the worst squad-based game you'll ever play, and it's decidedly improved over its predecessor. 
 If the game does float your boat, there's unfortunately not a lot of replay value. Unlike the console 
 versions, this version can't even be replayed in cooperative mode, which is a real shame. Despite 
 this omission, if you're really into squad-based military action games, Desert Storm II might be 
 worth a look to tide you over until something else comes along.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Wotansspawn88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  I've owned a copy of CDSII for a couple of years now, and along with the original I have played 
 through it countless times.
  
  That's not to say it doesn't have its flaws. You cannot allow your characters to die (I used to 
 do this when I wanted a replacement) and you cannot customise the weaponry and specialisation of 
 your squad members. I personally prefer to use my squad as a squad, rather than individuals who 
 are all way too specialised.
  
  On the plus side the focus of this game is on strategy rather than just shooting things to pieces. 
 The missions are diverse and challenging and it is enjoyable to virtually anyone. 
  
  If you could customize your characters and their equipment and skills then this thing could have 
 been a lot better, especially if combined with a more cohesive and involving story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wigster666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Conflict desert storm 2 is a intense squad based shooter. This game has all the scenarios faced 
 by modern day special forces such as being attacked by tanks, helicopters and night time fighting. 
 The missions are at just the right level of difficulty for most players not too hard and not too 
 easy. The graphics were good for there day and are still bearable these days. The story line is 
 well thought out, with a mixture of missions and all your squads skills will be needed at soem 
 point. The only downside i can seem to find is that there is no multiplayer (it would be amazing 
 with multiplayer) . i have played the ps2 version aswell, it is great fun playing cooperative with 
 one of your friends. if you want to have a squad based shooter with an excellent story line buy 
 this game, it can be picked up so cheap aswell nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot Isn't allways right. This may have been the 1st shooter I ever completed so I aproached 
 the genre with a fresh mind. Im glad of this because If I hadn't, I would have neglected this game 
 and not realize how well designed it is. I don't think gamespot ever credited SCI for their brilliantly 
 designed and diverse levels of this game. It also did something that only older games usualy do, 
 It is sometimes hard to the point that singal levels take days to complete. Maybe it was because 
 of my lack of shooter expierience or time I got on the old family computer, but I think that nowadays 
 games don't hold you off from completing a level and make It so hard that to get past It makes 
 you feel so good, as well as the feeling of reaching the next level. Also, with only 10 levels, 
 there is less chance of getting de ja vu later in the game because the developers finished the 
 game before becomin low on ideas, allthough one of those charge through the sandstorm in the middle 
 of the desert missions could be cool and back then It wouldn't remind me off MOHAA Breakthrough. 
 Overall, I think people can enjoy this game alot more than those other 6.3 scoring games. That 
 score was a shame I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  My initial impression of Conflict Desert Storm II: Back to Baghdad could be summed up in a single 
 word: crap. But after a few hours I realized that I was too hasty in my initial distaste for Gotham 
 Games third-/first-person shooter. Underneath its tarnished exterior is a game thats surprisingly 
 engaging and intense.
  
  Conflict Desert Storm II takes place during the first war in Iraq in 1991. Youre presented with 
 10 missions that range from protecting Black Hawk helicopters to escorting troops through a hostile 
 city. At the start of the game you pick whether to play as the SAS or Delta Force. (The only real 
 difference between the two choices is whether your team members have English accents.) Whichever 
 side you select, you assume leadership of a four-man fireteam consisting of a rifleman, sniper, 
 support gunner, and scout.
  
  Your loadout reads like the standard checklist in any military shooter, complete with M16s, SAWs, 
 and sniper rifle. Youll also get access to RPGs, grenades, and any weapons your enemies drop.
 
  
  As I said before, CDS II has immediately noticeable flaws. The biggest one is its interface. Games 
 like Ghost Recon got us used to intuitive point-and-click interfaces for commanding our troops, 
 but CDS II forces you to memorize a series of keystrokes that all require you to first hold down 
 the Alt key. This system is clunky to say the least, and its a constant hassle to get your boys 
 to do what you need them to do in the middle of a firefight.
  
  Also, the music sounds like its straight out of a Chuck Norris flick. The sound effects are bland, 
 the voice actors sound like junior-high-school kids playing war, and none of the weapons seems 
 to have any punch. Yet more grief: your saves are limited, and if just one of your soldiers dies, 
 you fail the current mission.
  
  We normally ban phrases like If you can work past these flaws, but CDS II has a genuinely rewarding 
 payoff to the struggles. The missions are very intense, and just moving through hostile city streets 
 delivers some pitched gun battles where getting from one point to another is a tactical challenge 
 in itself.
  
  One touch that really ratchets up the tension is how death is handled. If one of your boys takes 
 too many hits, he becomes incapacitated but doesnt die. Instead, he has a second life bar that 
 slowly goes down. You can bring him back from the brink with a medpack, but if you dont get to 
 him in time, hell bleed to death. Some of the most sweat-inducing moments come from running through 
 blistering enemy fire to get to your buddy and heal him. Also, the ability to drive vehicles and 
 call in air strikes is just pretty damn cool.
  
  Its a low-polish game, but I ended up enjoying Conflict Desert Storm II. If you love games depicting 
 modern urban combat, its worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorro
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  They really put up to the realism to the squad based strategy Shoot'em up game. Commanding units 
 in a shooter has never been easy and complex in this game.
  
  Graphics was amazing comparing to it's predecessors, it will be the first thing you notice if you 
 played the first game. From explosions and gunfire to the dismounting of vehicles and planting 
 bombs. Although you need a really good graphics system to pull it off.
  
  Sounds was also a factor, although there is nothing special about it, but it brings something into 
 table.
  
  Gameplay is the icing that will keep you playing for more, the in-depth realism to the commanding 
 of squads was a blast. Mounting an ambush from every angle, moving in from point to point, infiltrating 
 an Iraqi base from every entrance, was fun.
  
  The only disappointment was the ending, they did not put much work to it, no drama to the ending. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 1.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I never thought i would say this i've found a game thats worse than the Starship troopers FPS game 
 that came out last year. ( check my and gamespots review) . Gameplay is terrible. You cant turn 
 your charcter to shoot anybody just use WSAD. You do nothing at all besides killing Iraqi troops 
 and blowing tanks up while running from point a to point b. Graphics are terrible as well. Charcters 
 are nothing more than stick figures with camo coveralls and a gun. Buildings are not battle scared 
 unless a helicopter blows it up. Deaths are prerendered and the body usually gets stuck a wall our 
 stretches out ( a bug commonly seen in steam game) ( this is not a steam game) Sounds are bad. Its 
 almost up to par with the graphics and clunky gameplay. Your squad talks like they are retarded 
 and the Iraqi soldiers sounds like they are just mumbling. The game is only 5-10 dollars but dont 
 bother even trying this POS out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  have you ever wanted to get the chance to go into iraq and host an assault on a city with four 
 highly trained SAS men, you, the grunt, getting your hands dirty while you heavy machine gunner 
 covers your back with surpressive fire, your demolitions expert destroys the nearby tank convoy 
 heading your way and your snipe takes out would-be threats from afar... well now you can.
  
  this game must never be classed as a first person shooter, it wasnt made for being a first person 
 shooter ad im sur this series never will, this is a tctical squad based shooter where the strongest 
 part o the game relies on your squad leading skills.
  
  you have a four man team, squad leader, demo expert, machine gunner and sniper, all of whom have 
 the ability to take care of you as long as you take care of them, and this is wher it gets interesting. 
 the commands are simple yet they alow you to control the battlefield quickly and easily meaning 
 you dont need to hide behind cover in order to issue orders... you can be leading your team while 
 wasting away a platoon of iraqi's trying to blow your head off.
  
  each tem member brings something different to the game, the squad leader (bradley) has anv all 
 around ability to whoop the ass of everyone who gets in his way, thats until there is a tank, which 
 is where either your demo expert or your machine gunner somes in, with two main tanks in th game, 
 te BMP and the T-62, you have a choice, bmp's are usually better taken out with a law frm you macine 
 gunner whreas t-62' s, only being destroyable from the back, are better off with a c4 up thneir 
 ass, which is where the sniper comes in, t-62's have gunners on the top who will anihilate any 
 member of your squad who try and go all john wayne on them, so get a clear shot, ad they're cannon 
 fodder. the snper (foley) is also very useful for offering cover from behind where enmies have 
 a wider field to emerge from, this s also applied to the machine gunner, who cant shoot while runnig 
 so lie him down on a road and he'll blast anyone he sees.
  
  the commands are easy and quick to use and offer a lot of potential. wth the ability to give and 
 take weapons and ammo from each other, you can allocate cedrtain jobs to different people which 
 makes the ge more free, so if your man with the last LAW dies in the thick of takingout a tnk you 
 can smoke the tank, nab the law and tae it out asap, this is also good if one of your team mates 
 runs out of mdi kits and the only person with them is the dead guy..... The commnds are as follows, 
 follow me, hold posiiton, attack here and open fire, these may sound limited but they allow you 
 to give a chain of commands quickly and easily during battle to multiple team members giving you 
 full control of your squad, and incase one of you mate goes awol and svrews up you can quickl switch 
 to him to regain control.
  
  from a technical ide the game snt stunning, the graphics are mediochre although this doesnt bother 
 me at all, the AI isnt fantastic which can ruin a well planned stealth attack but overall this 
 game plays well, like is said, it shouldnt b classe as an fps because the auto aim does th shooting 
 pat for you meaning you can concentrat on coordinating your attacks better.
  
  overall this is a fantastic game and i would recommend it to anyone who enjoys ordering team mates, 
 shooting bad guys and knowing that you, as a team can destroy anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainryan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  With big improvements and small ones CDS II comes out better then ever! Well we should be grateful 
 that GS finally gave it a somewhat decent score. But, they still should have given it a higher 
 one. The graphics have improved along with the sound and just about everything! There are less 
 levels, but they are still very fun! The fun is x2 when you have a friend with you! Everyone says, 
 "Oh it's a rip off of Socom!" Well hello! I believe this came out before SOCOM! SO Socom ripped 
 us off! Give it a try diffenetly worth it! Don't believe GS! BUY BUY BUY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_unit489
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:27 pm PT
Review:  from laser air-strikes to rescue missions this immerse game is very fun! you can switch characters 
 within your team who all have different purposes (sniper, assault, demolition expert etc.) you 
 will enjoys pulling off surgical takedowns of enemy outposts. with weapons like silenced smg and 
 rocket launchers this game offers a large assortment of weaponry. dont worry, it wouldnt be a military 
 game w/o vehicles! humvees and stationary artillary are useable during game play and the sound 
 is great! it sounds very realistic. you dont need a super powerful computer for this, if the game 
 gets glitchy you can always tweak the graphics to raise gamespeed in the options menu (recommended) 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
