-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conflict: Denied Ops
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/crossfires/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced and loaded with explosions.
 Good allied AI.
 Co-op multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive mission goals.
 Annoying music and sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 581 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GamersGate
Developer: Pivotal Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Feb 8, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Conflict: Denied Ops is a little dumb and a lot dated, yet it's surprisingly enjoyable if you're 
 into retro shooters with lots of kabooms. 

  For the fifth game in a series, Conflict: Denied Ops sure doesn't show any signs of evolution. 
 This might actually be the simplest edition of the shooter franchise that developer Pivotal Games 
 has produced, with gameplay so out of date that it might as well be wearing a plaid flannel shirt 
 and listening to Alice in Chains. But even though the action is a good decade behind the times, 
 the game's rapid-fire pace blurs the fact that you're shooting the same bad guys over and over 
 again. Attractive visuals feature diverse terrain spread all over the globe. Co-operative play 
 is another highlight, which earns the game some applause all by itself, given how this shooter 
 feature is so often asked for and so rarely delivered. So even though nothing here is going to 
 slow down traffic -- let alone stop it -- such a speedy mindless shooter like this is ideal for those 
 moments when you want to switch off the synapses and play Rambo for a few hours.  

           One grizzled old guy, one cocky young guy. Mix together and bake for 30 minutes to make 
 a single cheesy clich.      

  As with the four previous games in the franchise, the theme here is military. The gameplay is stuck 
 in the neutral zone between one-bullet-and-you're-dead hardcore shooters and the more absurd stuff 
 where you can soak up lead like a sponge before meeting your maker. The story in the campaign is 
 typical to these middle-of-the-road shooters, with you taking charge of a pair of special forces 
 operatives working behind the scenes in 10 missions spread across the globe to unravel a nuclear 
 arms conspiracy. Perspective has been switched to first-person from third-person, however, and 
 your squad cut back to two commandos from the four featured in previous Conflict games. These changes 
 don't make a great deal of difference to how the game plays. Being able to switch between sniper 
 Graves and heavy gunner Lang is actually so seamless that you might as well be playing a single 
 character.  

  That said, teamwork can be a key component of Conflict: Denied Ops. Your buddy can be ordered around 
 and healed with quick clicks of the right mouse button. The smart artificial intelligence adeptly 
 handles firefights as well. Storming enemy-occupied rooms, for example, is a snap. Just send Lang 
 up to the doorway where he'll automatically lay down suppressing fire while you sit back and shoot 
 survivors with Graves' scoped sniper rifle. No muss, no fuss. You can always count on your comrade 
 to kill a fair number of enemies if positioned correctly and even assign him to take out level 
 bosses like combat helicopters. The only problem here is that your squadmate takes orders too seriously. 
 He typically won't yield the position you've ordered him to assume even if you're trying to get 
 past him, causing congestion in tight corridors until you issue a new movement command. And you 
 have to be careful when directing your pal when he's at the wheel of the hovercrafts or other drivable 
 vehicles in the game because he is more than happy to roll right over you if you get between him 
 and his assigned destination.  

  Other than the smooth-and-simple buddy stuff, there isn't much here out of the ordinary. Level 
 design is the very definition of routine, although the campaign is jazzed up somewhat with the 
 ability to choose the order in which you handle some assignments. The graphics are detailed and 
 attractive, with the missions featuring varied scenery. These represent such diverse locales as 
 the Venezuelan countryside, a Siberian castle, an icy Russian whaling depot, and the dusty streets 
 of a Rwandan city. However, goals are never more involved than shooting everybody you see and blowing 
 things up. You occasionally steal data from computers and set explosive charges, but generally 
 this is a point A-point B expedition.  

  At least the pace keeps the proceedings from getting too dull. Even though you're repeatedly gunning 
 down the same thugs and soldiers, you do so at a pretty fast clip. This isn't Serious Sam or anything, 
 but the speed is zippy enough to keep you from feeling bogged down in endless enemies or eternally 
 difficult choke points (although there are quite a few of the latter spread throughout the game's 
 levels) . Further excitement is provided by being able to blow up damn near everything. Levels are 
 strewn with barrels, gas cans, and propane tanks ready to go boom at single shot. It also seems 
 like you can't turn around without running into some catastrophic incident, such as a helicopter 
 exploding in your face.  

  Multiplayer is another plus. A co-operative mode lets you play through the solo campaign with a 
 friend over LAN or the Internet. Because so few shooters offer this feature these days, it's awfully 
 welcome here, even in such a simplistic game. The other multiplayer modes are generic takes on 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, and conquest, though, so there isn't much here beyond the co-op. And 
 even that is somewhat iffy because there appeared to be very few people playing the game online 
 at the time of writing.  

           Yes, you've seen it all before. But stuff still blows up real good.      

  Poor audio 
 quality is another drawback. Environmental effects are way over the top, particularly for voices. 
 Talking in even a small, office-sized chamber is enhanced so that it sounds like the words are 
 booming out across a canyon. Too bad there isn't any way to turn off or at least turn down this 
 echo effect. At least this problem doesn't ruin any great scripting. Dialogue here is confined 
 to awful buddy-movie stereotypes, with Graves being the grizzled veteran who's gruff but lovable 
 and Lang being the cocky youngster who adds "motherf***er" to the end of every sentence. Music 
 is just as obnoxious and so loud on the default setting that it almost drowns out machine-gun fire. 

  If you go in with low expectations and an appreciation for simple retro shooters, you won't be 
 disappointed with Conflict: Denied Ops. It isn't a great shooter by any means, although it is a 
 competent one for those of you who don't want a lot of interaction or thinking to interfere with 
 senseless mayhem.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dkjjabs
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  this game is terrible the graphics are awful the single player mode is short and easy the co-op 
 mode is akward there, s no enviroment damadge the online mode.... well the less said about that the 
 better
  id rather download an arcade game off xbox live than pay the moeny to rent or buy this game as 
 for the on line the graphics were blocky as hell as was the enviroment with no interaction was 
 just unbearable should of stayed on the drawing board.
  conflict should stay with the old consol's and thay should stop giving us crap and give us some 
 thin nextgen
  for our nextgen consol.. or the conflict series should just quit while there ahead and stop making 
 games all togther... there are plenty of FPS out there you should play befor this one, HALO 3, UNREAL 
 3, BIOSHOCK, CALL OF DUTY 4, QUAKE WARS, FUEL OF WAR FRONTLINES, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndOfThings
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  You have guns... And you can open doors... There's also night vision goggles... You can control two 
 guys, one of them is black... The other guy isn't... There's also stairs and ladders you can climb... It's 
 also great that you use shift for aiming... It's a very fun game... You can blow up barrels and all 
 kinds of cool explosions happens all the time... There's also some great and very loud music... The 
 game isn't very long, but you have guns you can shoot... It's great that the black guy says "bro" 
 all the time... The white guy is boring, but he has a beard and a sniper rifle...
  
  The game has nice graphics, it's not as good as Crysis... But it's much better looking than the 
 original Doom...
  
  Online is very fun and there is noone else so you never die...
  
  The game is on DVD, so you have to have a DVD drive to install it... It comes in a beautiful DVD 
 box and it has written Conflict Deined ops on the side of it, so you'll have no trouble finding 
 it among your other games games on the shelf...
  
  The game is very well optimezed and I didn't have any framerate issues, running fluently at 60 
 fps from start to finish and it has guns you can shoot and grenades and lots of explosions... It's 
 a very good game...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  The graphics in the game are bad as you can see and sound is nothing special overally yes this 
 is a bad game people talking about busted stuff well it aint the best but it aint totaly crap the 
 truth is that YES I ACTUALLY SAID TO MYSELF IN THE BEGINNING THE GAME SUCKS BUT I GAVE IT A CHANCE 
 AND IT GAVE ME SOME FUN!
  
  Starting in the beginning i figured that i have two characters first the controls are bad like 
 right click orders shift aim and middle click no sprint button grenade throwing takes a while and 
 ctrl switches between weapons and if you hold it down you switch inventory same goes for grenades, 
 so in the beginning you got two characters a sniper and a mahinegunner the sniper got a 9mm silenced 
 pistol and the machine gunner a desert eagle magnum silent pistol also they got smoke grenades 
 and frag grenades no flash bangs in any case the bad point is that the sniper rilfe is weak like 
 a air rilfe and the machine gun is LMG light machine gun, overraly id like to use more weapons 
 tha those too, the crappy thing is that i shot someone 4 tiems with the sniper rilfe and the scope 
 is also bad, another bad thing is the night vision that feels like the character is feeling dizzy 
 its like there is water in the goggles, the ai works like this they see you BAAAAAA you are dead, 
 the game has checkpoints but if you fall down you can switch character and you go 4 minutes to 
 revive him before dying here id like to say that the space key doors climbs up and revives one 
 mistake and you gonna wind up dead, in any case ai does two things they see you they shoot you 
 and if youare close they hit you with thieir weapon you can hit too with... THE SPACE KEY!!!!! So 
 if you wanna revive your teammate or bash someone or open a door you might accidenlty do the action 
 you dont want to! also ai does take over and you can flank them!, there are also vehicles in the 
 game a BMP light anti personal tank and a a hovercraft but you dont use em much also there is a 
 machiinegun turret which is relly hard to use!
  
  The good points are that levels are just like movies eg one is an area in Africa that you help 
 government against rebels or a ship full of terrorist that you can sneak like splinter cell and 
 save the terrorists or some terrorist base in Venezuela or in syberia some Russian base with hover 
 crafts a lab and a castle it has 12 levels i think a little longer than crysis mainly combat is 
 considered average and the sniper character sucks cuz you cant hit anything and his sniper rilfe 
 ins very weak like a paintball, there is also a mission that you cover one character with you sniper 
 rilfe to sneak in the factory and follow the bad guy silently or eliminate a drunken Russian patrol 
 in a snowy level just like a movie! also after every mission character get upgrades silencer for 
 sniper rifle or a shotgun under the sniper rifle flash bang grenades more ammo for the machine 
 gun and a grenade launcher under the machinegun or a rocket launcher to take out tanks and choppers 
 yes you take out a few tanks and choppers there are tacttics in the game like attack fall back 
 follow go there you can flank with one character and use cover fire with the outher however some 
 things are eird eg a machine gunner rocket launcher character doesnt have the demolition charges 
 the sniper has them, over rally a cheap low budget game for tactical players if you look for cod4 
 or a great fps dont buy but a morden brother in arms go for it! Good levels too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karjah
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Seriously I couldn't even play this game for more then 10 minutes before getting incredibly bored 
 and wandering off to go read a book. 
  
  The AI was running into walls and at some points due to the already mentioned bad clipping through 
 walls. The weapons are frankly all meh and there's not a single unique gun in the lot and the only 
 gimmick the game tries to pass off that of being able to swtich characters may as well just be 
 a switch weapon button becuase that's all it boils down to.
  
  Everytime you swtich characters the former stands around like a braindead zombie only vaugely shambling 
 behind you and making a comment now and then with voice acting so bad I have to ask if they just 
 got some fast food worker to call it on for 20 bucks. 
  
  Seriously I could go on but just stay the heck away from this game. It's just awful all around 
 even if it were released 8 years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  TERRIBLE!!! This game is probably the worst pc shooter game I've played bar-none. The controls 
 feel awkward and are a very strange configuration for most shooters. Another thing that really 
 irks me is that on co-op, if both players die, the mission fails and you must restart the entire 
 mission from the beginning (because saves make too much sense right? Who would ever need to save 
 their game?) , not to mention that you cannot pause during gameplay (in co-op, I mean) . You also: 
 cannot pick up enemies weapons, fire blanks from your sniper rifle and paintballs from your pistol 
 (if you get what I meant here, then thanks.) , or have a satisfying first-person-shooter experience 
 with a friend or by yourself. The only upside to this game is the destructible environment and 
 the big booms you get from shooting exposive barrels and such. Other than that, I cannot possibly 
 fathom how anyone could have fun playing this game. It's almost like the creators knew that this 
 crap would piss me off, so they added it in. Thanks so much PIVOTAL GAMES! Don't waste your money 
 like I did, save it for something worthwhile, like for farcry 2 (why fcry2? bcause the ad was on 
 this page while I'm typing this so I'm using it as a random example) or the bourne conspiracy or 
 something along those lines. So, this game starts with a score of ten and im going to grade it 
 and remove points for errors:
  
  -1 for corny characters
  -5 for nearly bulletproof enemies
  -3 for inability to take enemy weapons
  +.5 for explosions 
 Total score: 1.5
  Congradulations designers of CDO! You FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL FAIL!! But honestly gamers, 
 don't waste your time or money on this waste of matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matconnor
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Even in spite of the negative- to- tepid reviews I had read, I figured what the heck, let's roll 
 the dice and see if perhaps something good comes up.
  
  Big mistake. In the case of Conflict : Denied Ops, nothing & I mean NOTHING, good comes up. Now 
 I know why so many gamers who have played it gave it a 1 or 2 rating. There is from what I've experienced 
 no redeeming or enjoyable aspects to save this thing from the rubbish pile. Eidos should be collectively 
 flogged for releasing a retro pile of crap like this in the Year Of Our Lord 2008. Perhaps if this 
 title had come out 6 or 7 years ago it might at least qualify for the bare minimum standards for 
 a decent shooter game.... but its unforgiveable in today's world, especially when it carries the 
 VERY non-value game price of $39.95 US. Or the very same selling price as any number of top-notch 
 pc titles have sold for in recent years, to put it in comparative perspective.
  
  CDO reeks of dated console-to-port technology and design. From the horribly outdated, low poly 
 count graphics and bad lighting effects, to missing textures and primitive character modeling, 
 clunky manual save sytem and ham-fisted control setup.... the game manages to get so many things 
 wrong it staggers the mind. Not that I was remotely expecting another Crysis, CoD4, STALKER or 
 Far Cry here, but at least someting as workmanlike & enjoyable as Conflict Desert Storm... a game 
 which came out 6 years ago, in 2002. Instead, the devs have handed us a game which looks and plays 
 like a title from perhaps 1998 or thereabouts, if that.
  
  I could go on and on about this game's lack of creative level design, repetitive and uninspired 
 gameplay, inability to pick up weapons or carry more than 2 of the same boring guns at a time (did 
 I mention the bad graphics ?) , hackneyed dialog, etc., but I think you are getting the picture.
 
  
  In summary : if you've already spent good money on this, my condolences.
  If you are thinking of spending money on it... DON'T. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here: 
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2488,0. html
  
  Conflict is another one of those series that has grown a bit long in the tooth. With the sudden, 
 spiked interest in co-op games in the industry, Eidos recently pushed out 2 titles that flaunted 
 their focus on co-op play. The first one, Kane and Lynch, wasn't exactly a success and the new 
 one, Conflict: Denied Ops, is arguably even worse...
  
  The story in the campaign has you taking charge of a pair of special forces operatives working 
 behind the scenes in 10 missions set around the world. Unlike other Conflict games, you play in 
 first person rather than third person. Fortunately, the switching mechanic is one aspect of the 
 game that Eidos got right...
  
  First, the good: your buddy can be ordered around and healed easily and is pretty smart at taking 
 orders. Unfortunately, controlling him errs on the side of micro-management as he won't leave positions 
 until after you've ordered him, creating a bit of a congestion problem. He also has a tendency 
 to run you over whenever he's in a vehicle, so duck out of the way!
  
  Level design is par-of-course, but you are allowed to choose the order of some assignments. The 
 game is pretty fast-paced, and this makes it slightly more bearable considering the generic enemies 
 and encounters. The levels are also oddly strewn with fuel barrels and other explosive materials 
 and objects.
  
  Multiplayer allows you to play through the campaign with a friend, which is a nice bonus and really 
 the core of what the game offers. The rest of the options... let's just say that they're not really 
 worth playing.
  
  The levels are "varied," but the technical prowess of the graphics engine leaves much to be desired. 
 Textures are extremely low-res, explosions are blocky, and character models look like they're out 
 of a 2003 game. Sound quality is also all over the place, with oddly enhanced echo effects accompanying 
 every sound. The two characters, Grave and Lang, unabashedly embody several B-movie stereotypes 
 and the music is obnoxiously loud on default settings
  
  Conflict: Denied Ops is an ugly stepchild, without any special features that allow it to set itself 
 above the competition or even to compete with its closest cousin, Kane and Lynch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPetit
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  This game doesn't break any boundaries while other new games do, or at least try to. It isn't a 
 bad thing that this game isn't groundbreaking but it isn't as enjoyable as any mindless shooter 
 you'll come across these days.
  
  Sorry to say that I didn't finish this shooting-extravaganza because I was fed up with the somehow 
 disappearing of my save files. This sometimes forced me to go through a complete level full of 
 the game's wonderful explosions, boring gameplay and the same enemies over and over again. The 
 game does put you in varied locations all around the world. But the levels are not worth playing 
 over and over again.
  
  So, you'll be playing as some sort of war veteran that still wields it's machinegun like the proud 
 American he is but also as, my surprise was as gigantic as the lack of originality in this game, 
 a rookie with a sniper rifle who thinks he can take care of everything himself. These two go great 
 together. While shooting bad guys they send each other to every corner of the battlefield, while 
 spitting out cool one-liners like "Die motherf***er" and "Get up it's just a scratch". Too bad 
 I already saw dozens of action movies that do the very same thing.
  
  The manoeuvring of your partner to the places you want him to be has been done pretty good; you 
 can het him to follow your lead, to give covering fire and you can place him almost anywhere you 
 want. Allthough you have to be careful with choosing locations because when the enemy is closer 
 than you think your buddy can't save himself and he needs your magic medical potion to get him 
 on his feet again.
  
  So that's it. Wether your shooting Russians at the South Pole, or sneaking past rebels in Africa 
 the game will feel old, dull and uninspired with still a couple of nice finished off details but 
 that won't keep you coming back to this shooter. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IanMclintock
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  CDO (Conflict : Denied Ops) Is a rather nice strategic shooter, the weapons interface is very customizable 
 depending on your preference, the buddy commands are OK but could definitely could use some improvements, 
 the dialog is basically nonexistent except for Lang yelling the f-word (I went through most of 
 the game with my speakers off) and the most enjoyable part of the single-player campaign was getting 
 hurt or going MIA (those are the most realistic parts of the game other than the accuracy of the 
 weapons) .
  The redeeming quality of this game is the Co-Op feature, depending on who you play with there is 
 a whole lot less swearing and having a smarter buddy does wonders for the fun factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkwaters
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  I see a lot of reviews for this game that give it a 3 or 4 or 4.5, but they miss the point of the 
 game. Conflict: Denied Ops (I'll just call it CDO) is not trying to reinvent the FPS formula. It's 
 not a No One Lives Forever or a Half-life or any other really great FPS. It's average, and many 
 even slightly above average. The levels are fun enough, the graphics are ok enough, and the two 
 diiferent people to play as is alright. 3 and 4 are not average scores. People have forgotten that, 
 just because a game isn't the greatest ever, it doesn't mean that it should be overlooked. I found 
 CDO on Gametap and I actually had fun playing it. Don't get me wrong, it's not worth 50 dollars 
 to buy, but with decent graphics and some fun and explosive shooting, its a good enough rent if 
 you are looking for a shooter game to take up some of your time before GTA IV comes out later this 
 month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Based on single-player demo
  
  The demo was very small with one level but it did show some warnings on how the final product will 
 be.
  
  This is a blacksheep compared to the other first person shooters. I cannot say 'beautiful, immersive, 
 addicting'. From the demo, I did not see anything that seems new and fun. Its a simple shooter 
 except your weapons are bulky and sometimes hard to use. It was very typical and seemed outdated. 
 The graphics were mediocure and a few glitches were present but the voice acting was okay. The 
 levels seemed tight and very small. I guess the only good attribute I can give you is that they 
 have Co-op and your ability to switch from team-mate to team-mate but that isnt enough. Overall, 
 this is a very unimpressive game which you shouldn't wast your time on with no attributes that 
 could amke this a great game. Try COD 4 if you want a 1rst person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit2006
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Conflict Desert Storm and Vietnam, and Even Pivotals last release, Conflict Global Terror were 
 all decent games, given the low requirements and good graphics. Though a bit different from other 
 games, still it was fun to play them. But this CONFLICT : DENIED OPS, is worser than the worst. 
 Needless to say, had it been 2004 , then it may been a good game, but after playing CRYSIS and 
 CALL OF DUTY 4, it stands no chance. Thanks to its C Grade graphics and bad controls and also stupid 
 gameplay. Its really difficult to imagine that how could the developers even release such games 
 after the standards set by CRYSIS , COD 4 or GEARS OF WAR. Also, another most annoying thing about 
 this game is its high system requirements. Even on a system with Intel 3.0 ghz Processor, 2gb RAM 
 , Nvidia 8400gs (512video memory) , i faced lower framerates issues and slow speed. For a game as 
 pathetic as this, its disgusting. The CO-OP mode though good, but you wont find anyone to play 
 with for sure. Overall , a mindless and primitive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Conflict Denied Ops is not a remarkable achievement and the GS score is about right ... actually 
 any score between 6 and 8 depending on the user likes is about right. Unfortunately for the developer 
 (Pivotal Games) and the publisher (Eidos) many peeps still smell the stink that the recent Eidos 
 K&L PR fiasco has left behind and many of the scores for this game reflect that quiet anger. Sure, 
 it's not fair to judge a game by what went wrong with another game, but we gamers are so often 
 powerless to affect what some uncaring publisher does that the negative feedback is the only thing 
 we can do ... even if it's a delayed feedback ... and indirect feedback ... and the feedback not 
 related to the original event. Anyways, moving along ...
  
  GENERAL/STORY: The story is nothing remarkable or unusual, but a very few game stories are: Graves 
 and Lang are, to quote James Nicholls of Pivotal Games, "members of the Special Activities Division, 
 which is a detached branch of the CIA that the US government officially denies all knowledge of. 
 Therefore the agents are freed from the regular constraints of military rules of engagement, but 
 this comes at the price of being on their own  if they go missing in action, no one is coming 
 to rescue them, and the US government will deny all knowledge of their existence. As such they 
 are highly trained in all areas of warfare, which has allowed us to create 2 distinct characters 
 with unique skill sets and opposing personalities!" As for the gameplay "the key to Conflict Denied 
 Ops' combat lies in creating crossfire situations and flanking the enemy. There are numerous opportunities 
 to do this throughout the game, with most levels featuring two routes into skirmish situations, 
 or open spaces that allow flanking to be effective." If you spend some time with this game you'll 
 pretty much see that this statement regarding the gameplay is actually correctly described by the 
 developer. Tho the game could be perceived as a Rambo-like combat, there are certainly a great 
 deal of situations where more tactical approach works exceedingly well. In the SP campaign, for 
 example, selecting your primary mission character will depend on the situation -- sometimes Graves' 
 sniper and in general more quiet approach will work better, but sometimes Lang's LMG will do better 
 when enemies are rushing you. Also, sometimes is useful to leave one of the characters a way back 
 if you think that the survival chance is minimal at the first try and you need a safe place to 
 switch to the other character if you die. Anyways, the co-op aspect is well done ... not perfect, 
 but good enough for enjoyable play.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The FPS part is also well done. Everything that should be in is in: reasonable upgrades 
 to your weaponry as you progress through the levels (for example, upgrades for the LMG: bigger 
 mag, recoil reduction, rate of fire increase) , a variety of rather attractive maps, a pretty good 
 teammate and enemy AI, and very importantly the FPS-desired movement (climb, lean left or right, 
 crouch, prone etc) , and lots of shooting. Nicely implemented damage model where a headshot is an 
 instant kill, while body shots are usually not. Blood splatter is also plentiful. Weapons feel 
 is slightly above the average and some features are very nicely done. A few weaknesses in the FPS 
 part include a lack of a variety of weapons, the ability to pick up enemy weapons from the ground, 
 and the unlimited primary ammo (the spread out supply crates will replenish grenades but you don't 
 have to worry about running out of bullets) . To me it was very refreshing to see the "prone stance" 
 implemented -- it makes sense with the sniper being one of the major weapons plus the accuracy 
 goes way up while crouching or being prone. Keyboard/mouse operation is very easy to adjust to 
 and the only thing I changed was moving the pre-programmed right click to the keyboard and moving 
 ironsights/scope zoom to the right click. In general, you can play this game (SP campaign) in three 
 ways. One is Rambo-like approach that works well in some parts of the 10 provided maps especially 
 if you leave one of the characters in a safe plays so you can transition safely if you die while 
 gunning and running. The other way is to keep tactically positioning the other character to provide 
 either suppressive fire or to flank the enemy -- this works most of the time very well. The third 
 way is to order the other character to go forward and take the brunt of enemy fire while you provide 
 some support from a safer distance -- this does work OK but you need to be ready to keep "reviving" 
 your teammate quite often. The environment is also pretty cool since a lot of it is destructible. 
 The game is definitively less linear than it appears at first and there are usually multiple paths 
 to an objective.
  
  GRAPHICS/VIDEO/SOUND: In general, the graphics/video is very good ... not the top notch as in CoD4, 
 but nevertheless very good and the video setting options are appropriate. The graphics quality 
 seems to improve after the first or second map. The developer obviously spent lots of time on the 
 destructible environment and pyrotechnics and Pivotal Games' proprietary Puncture Tech engine does 
 shine in this area. The sound is of an average to below the average quality leaving some room for 
 improvements.
  
  NEGATIVE:
  - some people will have problems starting the game because of the video incompatibility. Sound 
 problems with some sound cards also reported
  - while I didn't have any problems running this game at the highest quality settings, the requirements 
 for smooth running are quite high (especially reported with the Demo version)
  - sound quality could be easily better
  - unlimited primary ammo
  - rag-doll physics are exaggerated 
 and could be better
  - no ability to pick up enemies' weapons
  - lame/cheesy dialogs
  
  CONCLUSION: Conflict Denied Ops is not a masterpiece, but it's a solid first person shooter that 
 runs smoothly and looks very good if you have quite a power-rig. This game is likely to provoke 
 two quite opposite responses depending on the FPS orientation and likes of the player: either very 
 negative or super positive. In fact, the game overall quality is somewhere in between. Given the 
 relative rarity of FPS coop games, this is a gem for those who love coop FPS. For other FPS gamers 
 who don't care about coop, it will be more like a flawed gem, but still playable. And, for those 
 who consider a game like Bioshock an FPS game, this will be an undesirable experience. Anyways, 
 there are many things done right in this full length game (and not a 5-hour rip off) and the weaknesses 
 could be corrected with a patch or two. In short, more things to like than to dislike about this 
 game.
  
  Score: 7.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 3, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  this game is bad. its about 6GB and it is like sh** the graphics aren't even good and the sound 
 is bad. every enemy dies in almost the same way and act all the same. i played the first 2 minutes 
 and stopped because it was so bad. i didn't even get hurt when fighting the first group of five 
 enemies because they were so dumb. the system requirements are so high, but the game is so bad. 
 i don't see why such a lousy game could need so much processor power. your partner is stupid. at 
 least the developers could make him follow you but he will just stand at a certain place and only 
 decide to catch up when you get really far. this game really sucks and no one should buy it. if 
 you have it, throw it away. don't give it to charity, you'll be doing a bad deed to the poor.
 
  the conflict series was really good until now, and then they came up with a this cr*p, really 
 a total letdown and the weakest link in the whole series. could even be considered the worst game 
 released in 2008 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrament
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 1, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  killing/weapon effects are terrible.. makes the game unbearable.. the idea of 2player missions 
 are cool but, it would be better if they improved artificial intelligence and effects and graphics 
 engine.. hated this game.. but if they release a squel to this one, i will probably try it..
  
  for example; 
  *while zooming with sniper, it would be better if we could control the zoom 
 +/- distance..
  *when hittin a guy, no blood / gore effect comes out until hes down, bleedin.. feels like training 
 on woods..
  *there is no run, walk slowly option..
  *weapon fire effects are really terrible.. feels like playing old atari games.. 
  *if the graphics 
 were similar to cod4 or crysis, and if the system of gameplay was similar to graw2, and if the 
 killing effects were similar to those of soldier of fortune: payback, it would probably be the perfect 
 shooter game ever.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Good points:
  
  Nice explosions.
  Switching character mechanic is a little bit different.
  Not all run and gun.
  Intense firefights.
 
  
  Bad points:
  
  Weak story.
  Bad voice acting.
  AI can be really stupid.
  Same enemies.
  Hit detection is awful in places.
  Controls are a little bit console.
  Check 
 points aren't always in the best places.
  
  Explosions are always nice to have in a FPS game and this Conflicts explosions are really nice. 
 Some a absolutely huge!
  
  Switching between the two characters is a game play mechanic that's kinda rare, you don't usually 
 get that kind of stuff in an FPS game. The two characters don't feel a whole lot different except 
 for the weapons. The older grumpy man is a sniper and thus is a more long range person. The younger 
 guy is a cocky inexperienced agent who has a machine gun (similar to a M249 SAW) and he's basically 
 the Rambo man.
  
  Conflict is not all run and run there is some stealth in there as well. Some of the missions have 
 different ways to the objectives. Obstacles such as machine gun nests have different ways to tackle 
 them such as flanking etc. 
  
  Another good thing about this game is the intense firefights, sometimes there's all hell breaking 
 loose.
  
  The games story is nether good or bad, it's just weak. I guess the developers just thought that 
 a decent story would get in the way, obviously they've not played COD4.
  
  A game must have good voice acting and this game just hasn't. The old grumpy sniper is passable 
 as a voice actor but the rest are just awful.
  
  AI or is it AU? (artificial unintelligent) . The AI can be very stupid at times, running right at 
 you or standing still while shooting at you.
  
  I shot you, I shot you! When I shoot someone I expect them to fall over dead not just keep on running. 
 Just like when I shoot someone with a sniper rifle I don't expect them to keep on shooting at me. 
 Quite frequently you'll shoot someone five times with a sniper rifle to down them. WTF!?!?!?!
 
  
  I hate games that have console style menus and having to press one key to perform for just about 
 every action. Press space to activate something, press space to climb up something... you get the 
 general idea. Hello developers there are 102 keys on a keyboard why not use more of them? For example 
 the grenade menu, hold down G and then press up, down, left or right to select a type of grenade 
 to equip it.
  
  Checkpoints, I don't particularly like or hate them but some of the checkpoints are in the wrong 
 place.
  
  Overall this game certainly won't win any awards but if you want a pure action game then this is 
 for you. If you want a more intelligent action game with a story then you're looking in the wrong 
 place.
  
  Review system: QX6580 Extreme, 4GB RAM, 768MB Geforce 8800GTX, SB Audigy 2 ZS and XP SP2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wasp_x
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  (added on to Original Review) I've read some of the Bad reviews..
  
  i Own many High Graphic Games, i'll give 4 examples Unreal Tourament 3, Bioshock, TimeShift, Supreme 
 Commander (and its addon) ...
  
  i have around 14years worth of games, from MS-Dos to Windows Vista..
  
  As you may see below, 
 i have a High Spec PC with a PhysX Accelerator and my OS is Windows Vista Ultimate 64x..
  
  This game is not about Graphics.. its about Gameplay and its pretty good for a FPS gamer... (added 
 on to original review)
  
  I like ConFlict Denied, has pretty good Partical Detail and pretty good PhysX detail,
  overall 
 a Cool game, i have a High Spec PC so the game has MAX Settings..
  The Difficulties are kinda awquad Easy is accutually difficult, Normal is farely Hard and Hard 
 well u get the Drift...
  
  So the games cool, the Story is ok, basic at the Monistery u get information of 3 Terrorist Leaders 
 and have to Hunt them Down, sometime using Stealth Skill and while working through the game you 
 have to plant C4, Track Nukes, Deactivate Nuke and Steal Nukes...
  
  On Multi-Player u got the Basics:
  DeathMatch
  Team Deathmatch
  Conquest
  Coop
  Coop 
 Campain
  
  Unfortunutly when it comes to Multi-Player, you'll hardly ever see anyone on any of thoughs Multi-Player 
 Modes, im hoping that'll change, as eventually the game will get Lonely on your own...
  
  Also 1 more thing..
  This game is Supposedly able to connect with Xbox 360 game users...
  
 
  i hope this is a Good Review.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Conflict Denied Ops is pretty much what I expected out of this game, a light weight, but lot of 
 action arcade FPS. Though the graphics are pretty good, the action is pretty generic and dated. 
 I read this is a part of a long running series, well they sure need to update this one, because 
 it seems to be about 5-7 years out of date. This would have been a fun arcade game in 2000, but 
 the action is so been done before, I found myself getting bored with it after the first 3 missions.
 
  One thing I did kinda like was the switching between teammates, so I could play either of the 
 main characters, that made for some good strategy and a must if you want to get through on the 
 higher levels.
  The missions are pretty typical of the Middle Eastern Ops type mission. Go in, shoot up a bunch 
 of bad games, pickup the documents, and get the hell out of Dodge. 
  If you enjoy some mindless, fast action shooter, this maybe a good rental, but I if you want a 
 more updated shooter, get or replay COD 4, or Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  This game offers us a great, fast and hours of fun co-op tactical gameplay. You lead two characters, 
 the one equipped with sniper, pistol with silencer and ability to carry C4 explosives, which you 
 will need for some missions. The other character carry big machine gun, rocket launcher and he 
 is good for backing you up, till you plant explosives under enemy fire. Pressing TAB button, you 
 can switch roles (you can lead both characters, its only matter of taste, but eventually you will 
 need appropriate one to end the mission) and using second mouse button you put other character 
 to place (to use big machine guns, operate various vehicles or for backup fire) . If other character 
 is wounded, you can heal him, but be fast, because AI is great. Singleplayer missions are very 
 hard later in the game so, save often. Visual side of the game isnt made well, as i was expecting, 
 in term of "new generation" game, better support for higher configs ... DX10 for example ... hm ... unfortunately, 
 game is made on really old engine, using DX9, so dont expect deep textures. However, it have some 
 shiny moments as seen in highly detailed vehicles.
  
  Sounds and voice acting are made good enough, music perfectly fits the atmosphere (you will have 
 the feeling like you are watching a war movie)
  
  Story ... hm ... dont try to find a deep story in this game. Game offers 10 long missions, and after 
 the fifth mission its getting very hard, especially the last one. Its interesting to hear dialogs 
 between two characters you lead, as they hate each others, and they swear all the time.
  
  Gameplay ::: 10
  Visual ::: 7
  Audio ::: 9
  Story ::: 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtianus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I played just the first mission on my own so I can't say I know the game well, but in my opinion 
 it deserves a better score than it currently has.
  Sure graphics aren't as good as in Crysis, shooting doesn't feel as real as in COD4, team orders 
 don't work as well as in Vegas (don't work much I have to admit) but I enjoyed it.
  Where the game shines is in the cooperative mode. After the first mission I logged into the net 
 and in no time I found a guy kind enough to play with a total newbie like I was... and that was 
 FUN!
  The game was smooth and we kept dying in turns and healing each other and after a few attempts 
 we managed to finish one mission together. Great fun!
  
  Another good thing of this game is that no mission is an easy walk, much to the contrary of the 
 games I mentioned before: "normal" in CDO feels like "really hard" in COD4. And I like it.
  
  I had no performance issues at all.. but I have quite a fat SLI setup... 
  I'll have my girlfriend 
 hooked up on this and I'll let you know if this is good as foreplay too... :-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pata
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  Outdate graphics, extremely dumb A. I., stereotyped characters, moronic dialogue, boring gameplay. 
 
  
  this title has it all but in the negative end of things.
  
  A complete rip-off. The company producing this should be sued.
  
  They couldn't even get their 
 research right. The first level starts you off in Venezuela, in a church in the Andes. The church 
 is almost a gothic cathedral. I'm from Venezuela and I can tell you we have nothing anywhere close 
 to those cathedrals down there. But that's no big deal, how many people will be bothered by that? 
 The real problem is that the gameplay is just plain boring, the enemies and the 2 main characters 
 are stereotyped and cliched beyond belief. The attacking soldiers will often stand in the open 
 and shoot in your general vicinity. 
  
  Skip this one and read a comic book instead if you can't handle a whole book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greg_worwood
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  I must admit that i only played the first level but then again first impressions are everything 
 these days. 
  
  The graphics - considering that games such as cod4 and crysis have come out before this game then 
 they are nothing but dissappointing. I ran it maxed out graphically and still had yawn inspiring 
 visuals. The guns look blocky and moulded out of wood, and the environment filled with jagged lines 
 that look like it was coloured in by a 5 year old (keep it within the lines) f. e. a. r and far cry 
 look heads obove this game visually.
  
  game play - the control systems has tried to be a bit difficult but hasnt worked. while you can 
 change them and so this point is a bit moot i stand by the ascersion that the developers put the 
 default controls in a manner which makes the game best playable. That the 2nd mouse button isnt 
 scope means you usually send your comarade running somewhere aimlessly while getting picked off 
 by generic bad guy. The physics and body mapping are almost laughable. You can shoot a guy in the 
 head only to see him stop, look around as if he has been hit by a spit ball before carrying on 
 with what he was doing. rather than ragdoll death physics enemies constantly seem to crumple forwards 
 as if trying to touch their toes before toppling over. the 'destructable' items break up predictably 
 and in chunks which in no way reflect what was done to them and the damage done by weapons seems 
 variable. i hit a guy in the head from 20m out with a sniper rifle, something which would normally 
 explode a guys head but he seemed impervsious to this while later a pistol shot from an angle to 
 a balcony from a similar distance had the bad guy drop quicker than a brain aneurysm.
  
  overall ashame on you edios for releasing such a poor poor game. it would t have been half bad 
 if they had just ripped off some ideas from any of the 100 or so better shooters than it.
  
  i only gave it 2.5 instead of 1 cause well some one somewhere has obviously tried and well 
 i dont want to hurt there feelings too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lt_shazaam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Premier: first game I know that allows the story line to be played in co-op mode. I've been waiting 
 for a shooter like this for about 2 years, but it doesn't run that good on my friend's PC. 
  Mine is: core 2 duo 2.6 GHz 4MB cache, 2GB DDR3 800MHz, eax1950pro 256/256 580/1400. and runs great: 
 motion blur, HDR, antialiasing. Don't hate the game, hate your system ! !
  
  Destructible environment : YES and not 100%, but don't expect to take a house down by shooting 
 a gas canister, better you can knock out a few walls with a 75mm cannon. It's not safe anymore 
 duck behind a crate, you understand why. It's not as fun as Stranglehold where you can shoot a 
 propane tank and whole structure may fall on a guy, but where a gas recipient it's always fun to 
 see it blow up or fly trough the air.
  
  It could use a patch for the IA. Let's face it, FEAR got up to v1.8, COD4 v1.4.
  The soundtrack 
 is energetic and the dialog is humoristic. The chemistry between those 2 is great 
  
  Gameplay: you can suppress, cover, flank; just have to be creative.
  
  I didn't finish 
 the game, but I had to write this when I saw all those bad reviews.
  I'll give 7.5 and 9 if it has diversity, good story line and a satisfying ending.
  
  MOST important: 
 everybody is comparing this to Bioshock, Crysis and CoD4 (this one doesn't bring anything new to 
 the table) , which is really stupid and totally wrong, what if CDO could have been released in Aug07?! 
 They say these games raised the bar, it doesn't matter because at that time the game was in development, 
 they couldn't change the whole architecture Crysis was voted best game ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dipper145
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible. Poor graphics, yet it runs poorly. Poor AI, Poor gameplay, Everything about 
 this game is bad, seriously do not buy it. Played it for a few hours, going to just delete it because 
 it's bad.
  
  I have only played the first couple missions, but I am already thinking of deleteing it. I dont 
 understand why anyone could possibly enjoy this game, I just can't seem to find anything good about 
 it.
  
  Being in a team is alright, but its not done very well, say you switch to your other teamate, and 
 you forget to rightclick to tell him to follow, later on you die, you have to run all the way back 
 there with your other guy. Even if you had just set follow on the one guy then changed, it doesn't 
 swap to the other guy, he just stands there staring at the wall.
  
  Really the only good thing I can say about it is that each mission you do you get upgrades, which 
 is interesting, because I dont think it has been done that often. But everything else is just disastrous, 
 so don't even think about buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeonhaomaru
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 14, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  ---------------If you want a game that looks made in 2002, then go for it. This game feels like 
 an old ps2 game with little touches, but it lets more to be desired. Graphics could be better, 
 and AI could be improved to match Crysis or GRAW2, but this does not happen. For me is a disappointment 
 that in 2008 you still see games like this. I think personally if you see games coming up like 
 Bioshock, Crysis, GRAW2 or any other shooter game, at least you make an effort to match or surpass 
 the quality of the games in the market.  
 is my personal opinion, your experience may differ from mine. Thank you) ---------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theminence
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  At first, I would like to warn anyone who is even thinking of playing this game (even if it would 
 be only the demo) because it is gonna be a total waste of your time. Spending that time doing homework 
 is probably a lot more exciting.
  
  This game could have been quite good five years ago, but not now. The graphics are very bad and 
 make everything in the game just look like plastic. The characters seem to have been ripped from 
 Toy Story or something, and they are all the same (speaking of the enemies) . The two characters 
 you can play with and switch between (which is the only good aspect of the game) both carry their 
 own gun, and a handgun. You won't be able to switch weapons, which is bad.
  
  The gameplay is very bad too, it just does not feel like an FPS (at least not a good one) . I suggest 
 you go play CoD4 because this doesn't even come near the very first Ghost Recon.
  
  By the way, the lightning is terrible, not to mention the surrounding world :P. And why the heck 
 did they put a silencer on those handguns, also in the full-of-action missions like the one included 
 in the demo? Probably cause then you don't have to hear how low the sound quality is...
  
  Conclusion: Forget this game, find a better one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterpace
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Lately, we've seen FPS games booming. We've seen some "gems" like COD4, Bioshock, Crysis..., which 
 raised the bar in terms for FPS both graphics wise and gameplay as well.
  
  Sure, when we look at Conflict: Denied Ops and compare it with games like COD4, it lacks in every 
 field. I've tried the demo and decided to buy the game. Overall, the game is really not as bad 
 as some people mentionned. This game has its fun moments too. So far, here are my impressions:
 
  
  -Graphics are a bit outdated by 2008 standard (they are more like 2004) . But they are still good 
 and lightning/particle effects are pretty good.
  
  -Sound track could be more original but is still appropriate and energic enough for the context.
 
  
  -Controls are a bit cumbersome for a FPS: we can see a direct console port here! But after a while, 
 we get used to them and they are still customizable in the "controls" menu.
  
  -Story is basic, true, but the fun comes into shooting objects and those funny ennemies. Game is 
 a bit humoristic, which adds to it.
  
  -Given the level of graphics provided, I would expect a much smoother experience. Even Bioshock 
 and COD4 are smoother at similar resolution/settings and I believe those games are more demanding 
 than CDO. Hopefully, a patch will address this.
  
  Bottom line, it's not stellar but it's not that bad. Rent it first and check for yourself!
  
 
  P. S.: The demo doesn't give justice to the game. Other levels are graphically superior and gameplay 
 better. Also, incidentally, they are smoother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevilofhell
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 14, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  I am gonna keep this review free of words like FU... you know what i mean.....
  
  SO what i wanted to say is that people now a days think that by putting some guns, nasty explosions, 
 stupid frustrating AI and some hopeless animation on a DVD, getting it published by EIDOS and then 
 putting it into the FPS games department .... THEY ARE GONNA MAKE SOME MONEY.....
  
  Well let me tell you my friends this is not true..... Which obviously this game proves out to everyone.....
 
  
  Let me ask you one thing.... Why did you made a game which has:
  
  1. Worse gameplay then the previous games
  2. Uglier Graphics then the previous games
  3. Annoying 
 and frustrating AI then the previous games. (somehow you will find an explosive barrel near every 
 enemy that you face in this stupid piece of plastic garbage)
  
  The only new thing that it has that the previous games dont have and i mean the only good thing 
 is the RELEASE DATE.... Atleast thats NEW....
  
  
  I think they should hand you a HAMMER along side this game so that you do not hurt yourself when 
 you are trying to break this DVD....... or Atleast they should hand out free FIRST AID KITS...... just 
 in case...
  
  This game has nothing to do with entertainment.... The only guy who gets entertained is the guy 
 looking at you and seeing that you are so frustrated and are saying verbal abuses faster than EMINEM 
 ....
  
  I do not why they made this game ... I am sure CNN must be reporting DEATHS from all around the 
 world the moment this game was released....
  
  Why would they release such a game after the release of games like,"Gears of War","Crysis","Call 
 of Duty 4","Bioshock"......
  
  This is the biggest piece of plastic wastage done by mankind..... Means they could have sold out 
 those DVDs..... or handed them out for FREE... But WHY THE FU   did they put this game onto it and 
 wasted all those DVDs......
  
  Well i do not know about you.... But do not buy this game...... You can save that money..... or give 
 it to charity.... Is there no homeless people who live in your street...... Use this money for good..... Not 
 to waste on buying "something" which you take out every morning in your bathroom....
  
  Please spread this word that this game is HAZARDOUS to HEALTH and may lead to suicide or injury 
 to someone else due to the frustration caused by this game......... Thank You 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redox6023
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  While there are no majors flaws or bugs in this game, the developers could of done ALOT better. 
 Look at Crysis, COD4, Bioshock..... It doesn't have that "just right" FPS feel that the greats do. 
 The graphics aren't cutting-edge anything, and the sound is generic. There is NO weapon variety; 
 each dude has one main gun and a pistol, thats it. There's no way of knowing how much ammo you 
 have, but there are "resupply" crates so you can replenish you unknown quantity of ammo. All the 
 enemies look the same. I've been killing the same middle eastern guy for a whole mission. In another 
 mission you kill the same african guy but with different clothes. Plot: not to be found. Voice 
 acting: I've seen many B movies that do alot better than this one. Don't waster your money buying 
 this new, I should have known looking at the reviews of the past Conflict games. It will be interesting 
 to see what this site rates the game considering the ads for it are plastered all over the place. 
 Another kane and lynch maybe? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasparesky
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Not that bad but, i expected so much more........., really after playing games like Crysis, Bioshock, 
 COD4, etc. in 2007, i assumed that this will be a great great game since it is the first big FPS 
 in 2008, but what a disappointment ... it says that its next gen, but it is so far from it i can't 
 really see why it would be!! While i was running through levels i didn't spot any glitches, and 
 i think its a plus, becouse games these days sometimes forget about how important it is to deliver 
 a smooth running game to us. Gameplay is rather fun with co-op mode, some nice physics and medium 
 built story, but mostly missions is very linear, what a shame... i think most FPS gamers these 
 days are looking for a game that delivers Action, tension and drama, .. not lame walking around 
 sniping some dudes, and so on... I still quite liked this game, really don't know why, but i did, 
 and i recommend to check it out, maybe you will not be amazed, but you will have some fun for sure 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbpvivi
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Next-Gen? Did i hear that right?
  
  Pros:
  Instant switching, single player this idea is cool. You can heal the other player like you would 
 in gear of war so its good for that and Its fun flanking enemys
  
  Explosions. Although environments are not as destructive as it makes out (think stranglehold, alot 
 of s**t blows up but we all know that its not really a destructable enviroment.
  
  Cons
  No physics. When you shoot barrels they fly off into the air like fireworks, i have even had one 
 these little yellow canisters shoot back up the path of the bullet only to have had "both men are 
 down this mission is over" grrr!!!! No physics! No rag doll physics on the enemys for death animations. 
 Shoots guy in stomach he bends over in pain, shoot him again nothing, shoot him again, nothing. 
 Enemy recovers starts shooting back again. You gotta hit these sucks in the face or it just looks 
 awful. Reminds me of the days of ghost recon :D lol
  
  Enemy AI- Enemys are either placed in buildings or spawned from random off the map locations on 
 out door environments. They will do nothing untill they see you, then when they see you run to 
 one of 5 points and start shooting. As you kill one, another will go in his place....... not exactly 
 the AI we have come to expect from next gen titles
  
  Conclusion
  Its just a mish mash of games all into one and it doesn't work. The games got low budget written 
 all over it. Think
  Doom3 Levels meets fear/stranglehold destruction meets Call of Duty/Stalker/soldier of fortune 
 3 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KabusTuccari
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Conflict: Denied Ops (CDO) is a so-called next-gen FPS, and it promises to give a good journey 
 throughout various areas of the globe. Unfortunately, the game fails to do so.
  
  We control two special CIA agents in CDO. One of them is Agent Lang, he is the close-combat guy, 
 he carries a LMG and later on he gets a rocket launcher. The other is Agent Greaves, the recon-guy, 
 he carries a sniper rifle and he does all the detonation work, like planting C4s for destroying 
 specific tactics. With Tab key, we can play the game with the character of our selection. 
 When one of the crew members get hurt and go down, the other one has to help the other one. Its 
 better to change the control to the other guy (ex. if you were playing with Lang, when he goes 
 down, you change to Greaves) and help the fallen agent. You can also wait for the other guy, but 
 the other way seems more logical. The game takes us from Venezuela to Africa, to Arctic, and various 
 other places of the world. 
  
  The area designs are on the par, nothing special. Level design is definitely boring, its 
 just a mess of corridors and enemies. The game itself is very easy, its linear and you can 
 easily find your way. There is always a pointer on the actual game screen which indicates where 
 you should go. There is no minimap so you dont know where is the other member of your crew, 
 and if you forget to command him to go forward, he can even rest on the start of the level, so 
 dont forget to press the right mouse button.
  
  Graphics are really bad. Characters faces are not well-designed, the engine totally lets 
 us see how old it is. Textures also look out-dated. Sounds are also below par, the black LMG guy 
 says mofo (the long version, of course) before or later his sentences. The weapons 
 dont feel right, its not like you shoot them. The physics are OK, you cant 
 shoot through walls, but you can destroy wooden objects on your way. Also, you cant take 
 the weapons of the dead soldiers in the game. You resupply your ammo, grenades etc. from various 
 supply crates in the level.
  
  The game also has a multiplayer mode and a coop mode, I didnt try the coop, and couldnt 
 try the MP as there were no servers / servers were empty. But Im pretty sure that it wont 
 be anything like CoD 4 MP.
  
  Finally, I have to say that Conflict: Denied Ops is nothing but a bad FPS. Weapons do not feel 
 right, its the same old repetitive gameplay with bad graphics and below par sound effects.
 
  
  Only play if you are burnt out with CoD 4 MP, finished CrySis and played enough of its MP. 
 Rent before buying, you probably will regret your decision if you actually buy this game from a 
 store.
  
  Have a good day (:
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koal_Jadian
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game we purchased for a try and it was disgusting. All four previous Conflict titles... did 
 I say ALL FOUR?, including 4-player splitscreen co-op and was the only reason, the ONLY reason 
 it was somewhat successful because the best part of playing on a console with 4 controller slots 
 is to play a 4-player game (wow, what a concept!) with friends.
  
  Any game that steps back from FOUR prior titles in terms of gamplay and functionality doesn't deserve 
 above a 0.5.
  
  Sadly, this is the state of the industry for the next-generation Games. Look at Perfect Dark for 
 the X360 and how little it had to offer compared to its N64 predecessor. Compare that same predecessor 
 to all 3 Halo games combined... and it still has more multiplayer features and more replayability.... so 
 how and why are these new games next gen... because of graphics? What use is that when you can't 
 play with your friends!!! What use is having a "Next-Gen" console that has 4 controller slots when 
 you can only play with 2?! It's really disgusting and this game is a failure on the PC and the 
 Xbox 360. If the next game in this series does NOT have 4-player co-op for the entire campaign 
 then this series needs to be ended.
  
  Bottom Line. I want My Money Back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enblogopedia
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 13, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  Well, I played this game for 10-15 minutes and I was going to throw my computer through the window!
 
  
  Seriously I can't believe that Eidos published such poor game!
  I thought we are in the 1995 not 2008, maybe this game was in-hold ten years ago and Eidos published 
 it in 2008 by mistake! This is the only rational explanation I came up with after playing this 
 game. I don't know what to say, really!
  
  Just recall your worst FPS game (Ah sorry Modern First-Person Shooter!!) this game will be even 
 worst!
  Graphics:0 (yes zero!)
  Sound:3
  gameplay:2 (as it tooks me 10 min to uninstall it and break the DVD!)
  
  Note: I'm against 
 rate any game under 3.5-4 because you should keep in mind the production time and team effort... etc, 
 but with this game I could not, SORRY!
  Seriously, DO NOT GET THIS GAME EVEN FOR FREE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Story: Kill bad guys. For real, that is about it.
  
  Missions: You (a sniper!, how original) and your buddy with a machine gun (he's buff and strong, 
 who hasn't seen a strong guy with a MG before?) kill the bad terrorists and save the world! Ya!
 
  
  Controls: Lame. Standard to say the least.
  
  Features: Nothing you haven't seen in a PC FPS.
  
  A. I.: Stand next to explosive barrels, they 
 are so smart!
  
  Loading Times: Long, before each mission.
  
  Graphics: Xbox (not 360) -esque graphics with some lighting effects.
  
  Audio: ... please don't 
 ask.
  
  Multiplayer: Worse than the single player.
  
  Requirements: Low to Medium PC.
  
  The Good: Give me a second to think... hmm.... I mean I guess 
 it's playable...
  
  The Bad: This game.
  
  The Ugly: This game.
  
  Replay Ability: Low.
  
  The Bottom Line: Please. Do. Not. Buy. This.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
