-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conflict: Desert Storm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/conflictdesertstorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 25, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.8
Critic Score: 6.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 241 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gotham Games
Developer: SCi
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Oct 1, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Conflict: Desert Storm's problematic gameplay and run-of-the-mill presentation keep it from succeeding 
 on any level. 

 Conflict: Desert Storm is a military-themed tactical third-person shooter set in the Middle East 
 during Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and the resulting Operation: Desert Storm. It puts you in charge 
 of up to four troops at once, and while the squad element opens up some interesting strategic possibilities, 
 the game fails to compete with other, similar PC games. Its problematic gameplay and run-of-the-mill 
 presentation keep it from succeeding on any level.           You'll meet and command four teammates 
 in Conflict: Desert Storm.    

  Desert Storm starts out with a brief optional tutorial segment. This training sequence teaches 
 you the intricacies of movement, combat, and commanding your squad. From there, you're given control 
 of one man and are sent on your first mission. Halfway through, you'll rescue the second member 
 of your squad. As the game proceeds, you'll work your way up to four troops, each with different 
 specialties. Some are better medics than others and some are better marksmen, and each starts with 
 a different set of weaponry, including an M16, a sniper rifle, and other real-world weaponry. As 
 you move from mission to mission, your troops gain experience. If one soldier uses a lot of medikits 
 in a mission, he might become more proficient at healing. Other actions will improve your other 
 stats, such as marksmanship, which is key considering how awful the game's auto-aim is at taking 
 enemies out quickly.   

  Each level has a series of objectives that you must accomplish to move to the next level. Almost 
 every mission suggests that you take a stealthy approach, but the game's definition of stealth 
 is pretty loose. While you might think you've approached an enemy without being spotted, or even 
 fired off a stealthy shot or two with a silenced pistol, most enemies automatically spot you as 
 soon as you're in visual range, even if you're lying prone or ducking. Getting spotted will eventually 
 cause the base you're infiltrating to raise the alarm, bringing more troops and other enemies to 
 your location. Once your squad is at the four-soldier limit, however, dealing with enemy assaults 
 isn't terribly difficult. Most objectives are usually as simple as escorting a diplomat through 
 a dangerous area, destroying targets of military importance, and so on. Once you've completed your 
 objectives, you simply need to get to the landing zone for extraction.   

  Everything about Desert Storm's gameplay is really, really clunky. The soldiers move in a very 
 jerky way, and the mouse-based aiming control is never as smooth as you need it to be to make accurate 
 shots. The interface used to order your other troops around is weird and unintuitive. There is 
 neither a point-and-click interface to assign orders nor a first-person-shooter-styled inventory 
 control system; instead, you need to hold down an item select button and use your movement keys 
 to scroll through your list of items. Your entire inventory is accessed from one list of equippable 
 items, and you must equip items in real time. So, if you're taking heavy fire and need to heal 
 immediately, you'll have to hold the inventory button to bring up the list, scroll through the 
 list until you find the medikit, use it, and then scroll back to your weapon. The same goes for 
 planting explosives, using binoculars, or doing just about anything else. Breaking up weapons and 
 other items into different categories or including the ability to set up quick access to important 
 items would have been a much more straightforward way of dealing with the game's inventory. Instead, 
 you'll find yourself fumbling for your detonator, wondering which soldier is holding the antitank 
 rockets, or wasting medikits in the heat of battle.   

  While the single-player campaign is pretty straightforward, Desert Storm does feature a multiplayer 
 option that lets you play a few different games over a LAN or the Internet. There are six different 
 gameplay modes, including deathmatch, team deathmatch, and other team-based missions, such as assault/defend, 
 VIP assassination, and recovery. The game lacks any sort of in-game player matching, so you'll 
 have to seek out other players and server information on your own. The multiplayer options are 
 nice, in theory, but they do little to make the game more entertaining, and they don't solve any 
 of the game's interface and gameplay troubles.           Unfortunately, the game doesn't really 
 stand out from other tactical shooters.    

  The presentation of Conflict: Desert Storm fails to distinguish itself in any way. It has a generic 
 style to it that delivers a smooth frame rate but not much else. The game's textures seem realistic, 
 but they're a little too blurry. Also, it's worth noting that your soldiers never really die from 
 gunfire -- getting another soldier over to the wounded guy with a medikit will fix up the fallen 
 comrade quickly and easily. The game's voice work is all over the place. The in-game stuff is decently 
 done, but the drill sergeants who train you in the beginning of the game are pretty awful. If you're 
 going to spend time basing your drill sergeants on Gunnery Sergeant Hartman from  Full Metal Jacket 
 , you might as well just go to the source and hire R. Lee Ermey to do it.   

  Conflict: Desert Storm has a couple of decent ideas, but fans of realistic tactical combat games 
 would be better off with Ghost Recon, Operation Flashpoint, America's Army: Operations, or, if 
 you're new to the genre and looking for something a little less complicated, The Sum of All Fears. 
 The competition in this genre simply squeezes games like Conflict: Desert Storm right out of the 
 picture.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PerfectJones
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Conflict: Desert Storm is a good, squad-based shooter. Compared to others I've played, like Kuma 
 War and Hidden and Dangerous, this one is superior. However, it does have some flaws that prevent 
 it from being an extrordinary title, like switching weapons and firemodes and its multiplayer. 
 However, you can't help but notice that it was overall a good, solid effort by the developers.
 
  
  C: DS has you leading a squad of special forces commandos on tactical missions in the U. S.'s early 
 conflicts with Iraqi forces. Oftentimes you'll be charged with blowing up missiles, rescuing squadmates 
 and other important people, and other necessary missions. In doing so, you will be required oftentimes 
 to use stealth and avoid detection, ward off tanks and helicopters, and lead strikes on enemy bases. 
 These sequences are often very exciting and are executed quite well. However, what impedes on the 
 fun you'll have in this game is it's poor control interface, which really gives you this feel that 
 this game was ported from some earlier console release. Also you can tell that the multiplayer 
 didn't really recieve alot of attention by them either as it doesn't even allow you any matchmaking 
 service. This really stinks as I think it could have had alot of potential, especially if they 
 allowed you to play the game coopertively online or over LAN.
  
  But despite these shortcomings, I must say the game is still quite enjoyable and worthwhile. The 
 missions are all fun and intense, and your squadmates are pretty capable fighters themselves which 
 you won't have to worry about a whole lot. I never had to worry about one of my squadmates getting 
 stuck when I wanted him to follow me, even if I was far away. This folks is a rare accomplishment 
 in squad-based third-person shooters. And while it's not innovating it is diffinately very nice 
 to have.
  
  There are aspects with this game that seperate it from others like it that can be viewed as either 
 good or bad, depending on your expectations of a game like this. This game, to begin with, is a 
 mix between full-blown unrealistic action games like contra and tactical games like rainbow six. 
 You can use healthpacks to revive teamates but at the same time headshots kill instantly. And despite 
 having multiple medpacks, you'll have to still be careful because the enemies might shoot a tank 
 shell at you or throw a grenade and wipe out most or all of your squad with it. And you'll be fighting 
 alot of enemies and taking alot of hits during the missions, so you'll definately need to be careful 
 as to when to use your medpacks. Also the game allows you to save mid-mission but only allows you 
 two or three saves total for each. This might seem frustrating at first but to me it was also another 
 incentive to play tactically.
  
  So while Conflict Desert Storm is not at all perfect, it does (in my opinion) improve upon it's 
 predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  What the hell, only 4.8? This game does deserve 8.0! If gameplay isn't good, it doesn' t mean that 
 graphics and sound must be rated as poor just because gameplay was poor! Graphics and sound are 
 great, especially musics. Gameplay is a bit lame, but the most important thing about this game 
 is that this game supports CO-OP! CO-OP is really important! You can't just go out to the battlefield 
 alone and yell: Come on, enemies, don't be hiding! I will handle you all myself! . Yep, this game 
 is really good because of CO-OP. You can't complete this game without supporting allies that give 
 you a helping hand when you're lying down and shouting medic.
  
  Conflict Desert Storm is a good game, and anyone who likes CO-OP action should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is really only for those of us who have laptop computers too old to play any half decent 
 FPS game. If you want a good game with deep gameplay, good graphics, good storyline, then don't 
 bother. I'd recommend the Delta Force series over this game which is of a similar spec. The game 
 does somewhere have potential to be a half good game, but is ruined by graphics that are out of 
 the mid 90's, poor AI and bad game physics.
  
  I'd recommend this game as i said before, for those with machines unable to play anything else 
 or maybe for first time players in the FPS genre. But other than that this game is best avoided, 
 its &pound;5 for good reason, because i for one wouldn't pay anymore for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pradeep_A
Rating: 3.1
Date: Oct 26, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  Conflict: DS fails to indulge the player in it. The handling of the characters is poor. The mouse 
 sensitivity is lacking. Locking on the targets is not accurate. The developers have tried to give 
 target locking a realistic feel in which they have failed except for the Sniper Rifle. I find the 
 Sniper Rifle target mode a bit better as compared to similar FPS games. The gameplay is also not 
 impressive.
  The most irritating is the Characters standing posture. The posture of the characters are alway 
 in a H2H conbat mode even if there is no weapon in hand.
  The character also lacks the Jump feature that is essential to overcoming obstacles of medium height.
 
  The graphics are fair.
  
  Overall i would not recommend spending money on this game, unless to have money and time to waste. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  The game is based on the 1991 Gulf war. Through most part of the game, you control 4 characters 
 that have to infiltrate enemy camps, destroy missiles, warheads, and rescue POWs etc. 
  
  The game spans 15 missions... fairly decent gameplay time, any more than that, I would have quit 
 playing. After the 10th mission, I had just about enough of this game, but I don't usually leave 
 games this easy unfinished. 
  
  Let me highlight something good about this game before I go on to the many bad aspects. 
  
 
  The graphics are decentnothing special, but they are not too bad either, and the game has some 
 huge environments, all of it is desert landscape, with varying degrees of visibility and time. 
 Oh yes, there are night and day missions too. In one of the missions, the day turns to into night, 
 and that was a bit of a surprise for me, because I wasn't expecting anything slightly creative, 
 and then there are desert storms, which are quite well done. In this case, the visibility is very 
 restricted. 
  
  After a couple of missions, once the control system gets familiar, playing the game isn't as tedious 
 as it is in the beginning. 
  
  The enemy AI is nothing special, but the enemies have an incredible gift of sight it seems. Even 
 during night missions, they never seem to miss spotting your soldiers in spite of being miles away. 
 Also, in every mission there are a huge number of soldiers, so their stupidity doesn't really matter 
 much because they are going to keep you really once that alarm is raised. 
  
  The same can be said about your teammates I suppose they are equally up to the task when it comes 
 to clearing crowds of enemy soldiers. But sometimes they act really insane, like walking into the 
 enemy's line of fire, wasting away rockets ad such. So you have to constantly watch over your teammates, 
 watch the kind of weapon they equip themselves once they run out of ammunition for a certain kind 
 of weapon. 
  
  For example, one of the soldiers was carrying two fully automatic machine guns, and a pistol. While 
 fighting a bunch of enemy soldiers closing in, this guy ran out of ammunition and equipped himself 
 with a pistol instead of another automatic machine gun, just because the pistol happens to be the 
 next item in the inventory. And this cost me the mission and I had to reply from the previous save 
 point all over again. 
  
  Now the most irritating part of the game is the controls. Even to do simple things like using a 
 medi-pack, or changing a weapon, you have to go through elaborate procedure of scrolling the inventory 
 by holding the shift key. If you are in a battle situation, either you will get killed or suffer 
 a significant loss of health. 
  
  Also the movement is retarded. When they are confronted with a wall, the character cannot turn 
 right or left, you have to move back and then turn, so if you are running from enemy fire, and 
 happen to run into a wall, consider yourself dead. Also they move quiet slow
  
  Finally, the game could have been better, but the control issues and movement have spoilt the experience 
 for me. I know some people don't find this a problem, but I have played a lot of 3rd person games, 
 and after having played them, this game just didn't cut it for me. 
  
  Disappointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Pimp
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  I like this game a lot. The thing I like the most is that you can play any of the men at any time, 
 so you can set them up exactly how you want them. I dont like the fact that you can not pick-up 
 your enemys guns. You also cant move side to side while youre laying down. What the heck It 
 also could use some more levels. Other than that I like this game, I give this game a 7 because 
 I have a lot of fun playing it, & I think you will too.
  
  Have fun playing!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainryan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Obviously GS must have been drunk whe they rated this game. Not all games have to be as good as 
 SOCOM. When you have a person who can't play M games me being one of them you turn to a fun squad 
 based modern war tactics game! Am I Right? 
  For a game coming out in 2002 the graphics are great the sound is everything! But, once you get 
 tired of playing by your self call up a friend! There is an awesome Co-op mode that just adds to 
 the fun! TEAM WORK IS KEY! Gooood times gooood times. HIGLY SUGGESTED! BUY BUY BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vietnamgamer
Rating: 1.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Once again the commercial was what inspired me to buy this game. The first time I got it I had 
 a heck of a time stabbing goats, and goat farmers, but when it came to fighting Saddam's militia, 
 it was like shooting paper targets whit beards. The game's AI let you get a hole bunch of stealth 
 points with your knife, because they all were stupid, deaf, and weren't keeping their eyes peeled. 
 If you waited for a while the AI would fall asleep. This game also didn; t spend much time on your 
 team's IQ ethier, your team would shoot no matter what was infront of them, civilians, friendlies, 
 POW's, they'd just open up and blow the crap out of them. This game also had extremely unrealistic 
 explosions, three big red blobs would appear, and little steaks of yellow would fling out, and 
 mysteriously dissapear. They added in a nice touch by alowing you to see the blood from where you 
 got shot, but I had already seen other companies do that, better (Soldier of Fortune, SOCOM, SWAT, 
 Spec Ops) This game had a easy to catch onto command system, but it required you to press 4-6 buttons 
 just to do one simple thing like use a med pack on someone. This game wasn't much of a conflict, 
 it was more like a training session. Your team didn; t much well comunicate with you until you heard 
 there gasps meaning they got shot, then the next game (Conflict Desert Storm 2: Back ot Baghdad) 
 they over did the comunication between you and your team. This game was more on the side of, don't 
 buy, go waste your money on another game like Quake 4. This game also was quite disapointing, it 
 was a PC game, and they still had brick hands, (one was brick, the other was open) and square faces, 
 except for Connors, whose head was actually round, the voice actings were okay, the enemy spoke 
 Arabian or whatever those ragheads speak, and your teams voice would change by picking SAS or Delta 
 Force. This game was VERY VERY VERY disapointing to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_unit489
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  wow, i bought this game for 10$! and spent like 200 hours with it! i bought it about 2 years ago 
 and still remember the greatness of this fun shooter! although primitive compared to newer shooters 
 and its sequel this game is for people who dont have the strongest computer. the graphics are ok, 
 but were excellent 2 years ago. the sound is ok but was again good a long time ago. although dated 
 this older game is solid and has all of the classic military weapons. from carbines to RPGs to 
 humvees to turrets this is a real-life military simulator with a good, long story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeltFlame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Conflict desert storm is a game that was looked down because of its graphics, but it in reality 
 is a very interesting game and can be played many a times before it becomes boring. Even after 
 it is borin, if you come back to it, it is very exicting. The game is based on a 4 man squad and 
 takes place in Iraq 1991. The missions bring you from defending the Emir of Kuwiat and takes you 
 to the heart of Baghdad on covert ops. The missinos them selves are fairly long and require some 
 stratagy when saving. You only have 3, saves and one goes in the beginning so you can only save 
 twice throughout the map. The characters you have will be promoted as the game goes on and will 
 also recive medals and new skills depending on their part in the mission. The characters can also 
 die but that is rare. If a character does die, he will be replaced by a guy with a clean slate. 
 To get the highest promotion and medal though, you must beat the game on hard, which is no easy 
 task. But wether you enjoy blasting infantry with a heavy machine gun, or blowing up tanks with 
 a rpg, this game is very good. The sequal is also good. It has better graphics and a few new weapons, 
 though it is by far much shorter. 
  All in all, just a good and fun game which should not be turned down due to its lack of graphics. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
