-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conflict: Global Terror
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/conflictglobalterror/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lengthy and varied campaign.
 Easy to switch between squad members.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 AI can be frustratingly bad on both sides.
 Online multiplayer is very limited.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.1, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 224 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Pivotal Games
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Oct 4, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like the previous games in the series, Global Terror offers some redeeming value as a shooter, but 
 poor execution on certain aspects, such as the AI, keeps the game from distinguishing itself.

  Stop us if you've heard this one before. Conflict: Global Terror is a tactical shooter that puts 
 you in control of a four-man squad of commandos as they fight against terrorists in various locales 
 across the globe. OK, there may be a lot of games like it on the market, but consumers can't seem 
 to get enough of tactical shooting, so you can't fault publishers for making them. In fact, Global 
 Terror is actually the fourth game in a long-running series of similar shooters from Pivotal Games. 
 And like the previous games in the series, Global Terror offers some redeeming value as a shooter, 
 but poor execution on certain aspects, such as the artificial intelligence, keeps the game from 
 distinguishing itself.  

          Conflict: Global Terror -- because the world just isn't safe from terrorism without another 
 counterterrorist video game.     

  Conflict: Global Terror's single-player campaign involves a lengthy, 14-mission campaign that will 
 take you all around the globe, from steamy South American jungles to snowy Himalayan mountain passes, 
 on over to the streets of South Korea. Each mission takes place on a fairly large map, and you'll 
 need to complete a series of objectives (that often change midmission) in order to complete the 
 level. Each mission can take quite a while to complete, but the size of the level is only part 
 of the reason why. One issue is that the game doesn't include autosave checkpoints. You're given 
 a limited number of save games per mission, and you'll need to use these judiciously. The problem 
 is that you don't know how each mission is going to play out ahead of time -- so you may end up holding 
 onto your save-game chances for too long, and put yourself in a bad position later in a mission 
 because you're running low on ammunition or health packs. Conversely, if you use up all your save 
 games up front, you may find yourself wishing you saved one or two when some unforeseen tough spots 
 come up at the tail end of a long mission. This type of guessing game can result in a number of 
 extra mission restarts, making the game a little more frustrating than it needs to be.  

  There are other aspects of the single-player game that are frustrating as well. Your teammate AI 
 can be rather wasteful of ammunition when you have them free to fire at will. In some missions, 
 you can find them quickly resorting to pistols or grenades because they've wasted away their ammo, 
 like a trust-fund baby goes through money. You can "solve" this problem by toggling to hold fire, 
 but of course that keeps them from doing their job, which is to kill the enemy. Enemy AI isn't 
 particularly smart, either. Whenever they're aware of your presence, they tend to charge at you 
 in waves. While this gives the game a fun, frantic feel at times, it also renders a lot of the 
 squad control mechanics useless; it's more effective to spend your time shooting at enemies than 
 fiddling with the somewhat convoluted game controls. As mentioned earlier, you do have the ability 
 to issue orders to your squad, such as hold position and follow, or fire at will and hold fire. 
 There are more advanced commands as well, such as the ability to give delayed orders, which will 
 be executed later when you give the go code. But given the pace of the game, you won't find much 
 use for those. Switching between standing, kneeling, and prone positions can be a bit of an adventure 
 as well, since it's mapped to a single button. The game can sometimes misinterpret a tap of the 
 button for a kneel as a command for prone instead. You'll also notice that your soldiers don't 
 always keep their weapons at the ready. For some odd reason, if you move around a lot without firing 
 for a while, your commando will inexplicably drop his weapon from a ready position. This results 
 in an extra second for him to raise his weapon and fire the next time you try to shoot, which becomes 
 really annoying when you turn a corner and find yourself face to face with a terrorist and he gets 
 the first shot off.  

  What the game does do well is let you switch control quickly between the different members of your 
 squad. Amazingly, it's actually easier to switch between squad members than it is to switch weapons 
 and fire modes on an individual operative. Though each commando is supposedly a specialist in certain 
 types of weapons, this doesn't have an appreciable effect on the gameplay. The point is that in 
 some situations you need a rifle, a silenced submachine gun, a heavy machine gun, or a sniper rifle. 
 You can think of the different operatives more or less as different weapons for different situations 
 and swap between them accordingly. And since you need to keep all of your squad members alive at 
 all times anyway, you're never without the right tool -- although if you leave them on "fire at will" 
 too long, as we mentioned before, they may go through all of their ammunition. Thankfully, you 
 have the ability to pick up dropped weapons, and there are usually a generous number of weapon 
 caches and health packs lying around for you to grab if you need them. The missions themselves 
 are a highlight of Conflict Global Terror's campaign; they do a good job of mixing up your objectives 
 as you blow up roadblocks, escort VIPs, capture key enemies, and of course, shoot up a lot of bad 
 guys. Slightly better balancing with the AI and a true checkpoint system would have been welcome, 
 but as it is, there's still a fair amount of entertainment to be had with the game.  

  If you have friends, you can play four-player cooperative split-screen on the consoles, or over 
 LAN on the PC, which makes the game marginally more fun and interesting. You certainly don't have 
 to worry about teammates wasting ammo anymore, unless, of course, your buddies are as wantonly 
 trigger-happy as the AI. Even if you don't have any friends, you can still play cooperatively or 
 competitively online with either version. This works well enough, when you can find people online 
 to play against. Unfortunately, the competitive mode is pretty standard deathmatch fare, and is 
 limited to four players.  

          Squad control is one of the highlights of the game.     

  The presentation values in 
 the game are decent, but they're nothing to get overly excited about. The character models exhibit 
 a fair amount of detail and animate decently. But you'll notice an excessive amount of fogging 
 if you try to look into the distance, which limits the effectiveness of scoped weapons. At least 
 the variety of settings you play through keeps the game looking somewhat interesting. Sound effects, 
 on the other hand, are particularly limp. There's no oomph to any of the weapon effects; voices 
 sound muffled all the time; and on occasion, the Xbox version of the game has the sound cut out 
 entirely. The music in the game is also subpar -- especially the menu music, which is about as cheesy 
 as the soundtrack of a '70s-era B movie. There are some cutscenes to move the story along, but 
 these aren't particularly noteworthy or enjoyable to watch.  

  Conflict: Global Terror has some of the ingredients to be a good shooter. A lengthy and varied 
 campaign, intricate squad commands, and a squad control system that's easy to use are all part 
 of the game's strengths. Unfortunately, weak AI and some frustrating aspects about the interface 
 and game balancing keep it from being a real contender in a crowded genre. The game should still 
 appeal to longtime fans of the series, or those who just can't get enough squad-based shooting. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: firecruz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Starting from the releasing date of the game... if you see at the time it was launched there were 
 not much games with high graphics and also we had not a powerful hardware to support! CounterStrike, 
 MOHA, DotA these all dont have cool graphics but the gameplay is awesome!
  
  Same with this game ... i have player over 104 great games and i rate this on top as a co-op FPS 
 multiplayer! It has four roles...
  Bradley - Rifleman
  Jones - Explosive expert
  Connors - Heavy weapons
  Foley\Sherman - Sniper
  
  If you want to play easy you can take 
 jones keep killing guys with shortgun and run to complete :) but thats not exactly this game is 
 about! playing on extreme difficulty is a lot more fun! Because then each role has its value! specially 
 the sniper role is good as its a 1 headshot kill!
  Its still played alot by many players! the multiplayer has no bugs but its gamespy powered scoreboard 
 is very interesting place to visit!
  Keywords for this would be
  
  Worth playing
  Underrated
  Great Multiplayer
  Surprisingly Great
  Old School but still
  Rocks
  
  Have 
 Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leelee_rocks
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  i dont know why it has been given a 6 from gamespot it, this is a very good game
  
  i bought this game under recommendation from a friend. i have played the previous conflict desert 
 storm games on the ps2 and i thought they were brilliant and so different from the rest of the 
 3rd preson shooters out there because of the tactical qualities the games held and this new addition 
 to the series looses none of the emphasis on tactics. 
  
  controlling a 4 man squad each with a different speciality behind enemy lines means you have to 
 use each man's strengths to your advantage to progress smoothly through the levels and pre planned 
 tactics work like a dream. you can hav delayed orders so that each man runs to a certain point 
 and you have several other orders like 'hold your fire', 'hit the dirt' and other orders which 
 also feature in the earlier games. i was told that the console version was disappointing because 
 they had got rid of the auto-aim leaving less time to concentrate on the tactics of the game but 
 on the pc, auto aim is just wrong so it benefits the game that auto aim has been taken off.
  
  my main complaint is the fact that foley goes 'MIA'! he was our decoy! the one we used to die 
 as the rest of us ran round to own them. now we have to have a crazy woman named Sherman!!!
  
  the controls are a little tricky to get used to. other games tend to have it seems standard 
 controls but because you are commanding 4 men, you have a number of extra commands to master and 
 remember which you will need in the fast moving combat situations.
  
  apart from that, the game is very good and i recommend it to any fans of the previous games and 
 of course any tactical fps or tactical 3rd person shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-Phax
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Conflict: Global Terror is simply one of the best shooters out there. C: GT gets high marks for 
 realism. I was surprised to see when firing a SAW that every fifth round is a tracer as in real 
 life. The troopers in your unit all talk and have their own personalities. I've been hearing from 
 others that the graphics aren't that hot but I disagree. The graphics are very good and they create 
 a nice atmosphere.
  
  One drawback of this game is that it has a bigger learning curve than most squad based shooters. 
 The controls are a bit clunky but when you get used to them, it provides a lot of options. The 
 game lets you delay actions for troops so they can hide and wait for you to give the order to fire. 
 This is great for ambushes. However with all these options come a lot of buttons to remember and 
 that's where the learning comes in. Another drawback is the AI at some points the enemy troops 
 get really stupid. At certain points they will run right behind the other down a hall or walkway 
 making it very easy to shoot them. Often you get left with a pile of bodies one on top of the other 
 where they all got shot in the same place. I would like an enemy that dove behind cover when the 
 first guy gets shot. I wish the AI were more like that in the Brothers In Arms series,
  
  All-in-all game is worth a look to anyone who likes action games. Even with the flaws it provides 
 some good action and fun.
  
  Shadow-Phax
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EchoZeroJ
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Why is this game rated so low? I don't see whats the point.
  The graphics are beautiful, not the new generation, but still very good with 1280* res. and 6x 
 AA.
  Those who say it sucks should update their video card or so... cuz no problems here.
  
  And btw, When the enemy is keep coming from a direction and kill your team... well, You got 
 a TEAM so let them work together.
  Just use tactics, stay behind cover, and know where the enemy is.
  Don't just run like an idiot, 
 and after, whine that the enemy is spawning near your soldier everytime ! A soldier should know 
 where the enemy could be... and not expect the enemy wouldnt be here or there.
  
  Overall this game is much better then the other versions, the designers did their best with a good 
 result... thats my opinion.
  If you like teamplay in a wargame this is something you like.
  The only thing i dont like, is that your team is a bit slow when they you follow you..
  But,
 
  I give it an 8.0 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjools212
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:47 am PT
Review:  Not a revolution in any sense, but the latest Conflict-title stays true to its predecessors. 
 
  
  The single most annoying thing for me is the constant spawning of enemies if you stay put in one 
 place where there is a corner that you havent cleared. 
  
  Also it's kinda stupid to position your crew outside a closet, only to see 30 people coming out 
 directly in your path. 
  
  That said, it's not the worst game around, the missions are long and to some simple extent, varied.
 
  
  Weapons feels alright, and the amount of ammo and med-packs will offer a challenge for experienced 
 players.
  
  If you liked the earlier titles in the series, and can find this one cheap, why not?
  It's very 
 2002, but sometimes that ain't too bad either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjarrideath
Rating: 3.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:02 am PT
Review:  Im getting tired of these conflict games. I hate the graphics in this game its so damn buggy i 
 cant understand why they dont fix this graphical buggyness. the gameplay is ok i guess anything 
 else sucks. The cool thing about this games is the squad play you can give them commands and they 
 will do it, and also a cool thing in this game are the vehicles you can drive trucks and alot of 
 **** If you are going to buy some pc game i would pass this one, i cant understand why gamespot 
 gave this game 6,8 or something this is a piece of crap game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
