-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conquest: Frontier Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/conquestfrontierwars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 235 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Fever Pitch
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Aug 14, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Conquest succeeds in large part due to an epic atmosphere and a number of unique design elements 
 that convey the complexity of waging war, from establishing supply lines to commissioning talented 
 commanders. 

 Better late than never -- that well-worn phrase has been granted new life by Conquest: Frontier Wars, 
 a real-time strategy game set in space that spent much of this year without a home. Numerous problems 
 turned the game from a Digital Anvil production being published by Microsoft during the 2000 holiday 
 season into a Fever Pitch Studios production being published by Ubi Soft in August of 2001. Members 
 of the development team, including Wing Commander guru Chris Roberts, should count themselves lucky 
 that the game survived long enough to reach stores at all. Actually, we should all count ourselves 
 lucky that Conquest made it to retail, since the game is a remarkably fresh look at traditional 
 real-time strategy gaming.           Conquest has a lot of depth for a real-time strategy game. 
    

  Conquest succeeds in large part due to an epic atmosphere and a number of unique design elements 
 that convey the complexity of waging war, from establishing supply lines to commissioning talented 
 commanders. There is a level of depth in the game that goes well beyond what we're unfortunately 
 accustomed to seeing in real-time games. Frantic mouse-clicking has been abandoned in favor of 
 sober second thought. Tactical considerations govern your victory and defeat -- not hand-eye coordination. 
   

  You don't expect this sort of innovation in light of the game's plot, which places you in the role 
 of a Terran military commander assigned to investigate an encounter with hostile aliens in unexplored 
 space. This soon degenerates into open warfare with insectoid creatures dubbed the Mantis, and 
 the remainder of the campaign is spent dealing with the threat that the Mantis pose to human survival. 
 Along the way you'll meet another alien species called the Celareons. Highly intelligent beings 
 of pure energy encased in metal shells, the Celareons are bitter enemies of the Mantis, and thus 
 your allies.   

  Neither the Mantis nor the Celareons are playable in the campaign, although this is not as big 
 a loss as you would think. The Terran campaign alone consists of 16 huge missions, each with multiple 
 goals spread out over large areas. Completing even the basic early assignments often requires more 
 than three hours. Furthermore, there wouldn't be much point to playing campaigns as either the 
 Mantis or the Celareons. Aside from some subtleties about resource gathering and the distinct look 
 of each side, there is little to separate the three factions. The Mantis and Celareons each feature 
 a technology tree that's remarkably similar to that of the Terrans. Units and buildings match up 
 in nearly every way. This doesn't do much to distinguish the three different races, though their 
 similarities are to the benefit of Conquest's quick battle (skirmish) mode and multiplayer mode. 
 In these modes the presence of counterparts on every side balances out games and ensures that strategic 
 concerns are paramount. Combine that with skirmish maps that can be fully customized, the ability 
 to train cunning computer-controlled admirals to command fleets (a feature unfortunately not available 
 in the campaign) , and the dedicated Ubi Soft game service, and Conquest has a lot to offer outside 
 of campaign play.           Battles span across multiple star systems.    

  Regardless of the limiting campaign option, it's hard to imagine anyone being disappointed with 
 the campaign itself, which presents one of the most realistic depictions of futuristic warfare 
 ever seen in a real-time strategy game. Most significantly, the design team has added the need 
 to supply units. All vessels in the game, right down to stationary gun turrets, have finite sources 
 of ammo and must be reloaded on a regular basis. Accomplishing this isn't as easy as it sounds. 
 Because missions typically stretch across numerous planetary systems (each as large as a single 
 mission map from a typical strategy game) connected by wormholes, you'll need to establish supply 
 lines. An offensive from one system to another will quickly run out of steam unless you construct 
 jumpgates around wormholes and secure new planetary bases upon which headquarters and supply platforms 
 can be built and supply ships can be loaded. Proper planning and strategic thinking are required 
 elements. Rushing to a mission's conclusion by massing units and sending them forth (made difficult 
 at any rate by the strict use of command points linking unit construction to base structures) is 
 tantamount to suicide. Careful advancement is the only way to go.   

  There are a few weaknesses in this otherwise effective approach. For starters, the emphasis on 
 supply lines can slow the game to a snail's pace. During some of the challenging later sorties, 
 you'll spend more time twiddling your thumbs resupplying your ships in dry dock than blasting away 
 at the enemy in a firefight. Some mission design is also a little tedious. Planets are occasionally 
 used as mere stepping stones, requiring you to inch across a sector with too much repetitive base 
 building and resource gathering, and too little action. Still, although you might yawn occasionally, 
 you won't stop playing.            Conquest's pacing can be slow...    

  Map design further enhances the experience. Conquest features fully 3D models on a 2D plane, meaning 
 that the action plays out more like Command &amp; Conquer than like Homeworld. This background 
 is anything but flat and lifeless. Every system has different types of planets, moons, nebulae, 
 and asteroid belts that can be either hazardous or healthy. Earth-type planets are the most beneficial 
 to the construction of bases, as they permit the most building styles. All have the same number 
 of orbital building slots, though, so don't expect to cram more facilities into a planet just because 
 it's a gas giant. With the construction of a refinery, Earth-type planets allow for the collection 
 of the game's three resource types -- crew, ore, and gas. The latter two elements can also be gathered 
 from asteroid belts and nebulae, "terrain" features that cause serious problems to vessels. Floating 
 fields of rock force ships to slow down as they navigate through them, and nebulae wreak havoc 
 on ship systems. This effect varies depending on the type of nebula encountered. For example, hyades 
 cause physical damage, while celsiuses lock up your supplies and ions bring down your shields. 
   

  All of these special features have been nicely realized by the graphics engine. Planets boast moving 
 cloud systems, asteroids tumble against a sparkling starfield, and nebulae provide a pretty, multicolored 
 light show. Unfortunately, the rest of the visual presentation isn't nearly as satisfying. Conquest's 
 protracted development time is obvious at a glance, as nobody is producing big-budget games that 
 look like this in 2001. The blocky in-game interface occupies nearly a third of the screen, a serious 
 annoyance despite the ability to remove it entirely, because you'll need it much of the time. Video 
 resolution is limited to 1024x768. Vessels are curiously flat, failing to stand out from the starry 
 background despite being rendered in 3D. Dark-colored Terran and Mantis ships are often hard to 
 pick out at all without using the camera's zoom feature. There are few other reasons for going 
 in for a closer look, as the ship models are angular and their textures are bland -- though they 
 do allow for the display of dynamic battle damage.           ... but its focus on pure strategy 
 is refreshing.    

  The quality of the audio in Conquest is similar to that of the graphics, in that the bad aspects 
 tend to outweigh the good. The musical score sounds like something that John Philip Sousa composed 
 as a toddler, full of bombast that seems to be leading to a crescendo that never arrives. Weapon 
 effects are equally irritating, thanks to bloops and beeps that would be more appropriate coming 
 from a Sega Genesis. And it's hard to know what the designers were thinking when they popped in 
 that siren announcing a new mission objective. The one saving grace is acceptable voice acting 
 that balances melodrama and good humor. Terran naval radio excerpts that preface every mission 
 briefing add a lot of color to the story, even if much of this has been freely cribbed from Paul 
 Verhoeven's movie adaptation of  Starship Troopers .   

  Minor problems aside, Conquest: Frontier Wars is akin to a cold splash of water in the face of 
 the weary real-time strategy gamer. It's particularly welcome these days, both as a reminder that 
 something worthwhile can still be pulled out of an archaic concept and as a notice that not all 
 developers are making due with cookie-cutter designs. Although the game's measured pace might not 
 be to everyone's taste, those who can remember that this isn't the typical real-time strategy game 
 will almost certainly warm up to its unique charms.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: otomayim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Conquest Frontier Wars innovates the sci-fi genre with game play additions rarely seen even in 
 today's RTS titles. What still impresses is the interface that is very helpful and excellently 
 well-thought and makes everything simple to understand and execute despite the complexity of some 
 of these features ( like the multiple map functionality) .
  
  The game combines 3D graphics ( space ships, buildings and planets) on a 2D plane and allows you 
 to rotate the camera and zoom-in or out ( that's very helpful during battles or navigation) . The 
 game's engine can support a huge number of space-ships on screen at once ( more than in Starcraft 
 ) and there is no frame rate drop even in the most hectic situations. In addition to that there 
 are many small details that impress, like guns tracking their targets and recoiling, units featuring 
 real-time battle damage ( you can easily distinguish the damaged units and send them for repair 
 without looking at their bar indicators) , buildings and space ships supporting cool extra-ordinary 
 detailed animations during their construction / destruction or repair phases. .
  
  There are a few things that don't look that much impressive though... the background of empty space 
 and nebulae gets repetitive and boring, if you zoom-in too much on the space ships you will notice 
 that their textures don't look as crisp as in other titles ( like let's say Homeworld) , it's difficult 
 to distinguish your units -especially the smaller ones- in too dark or too bright areas ( your 
 map can help you in such situations) and sometimes it' s difficult to distinguish the buildings 
 ( they have similar design and are built on the free slots of the rings, which surround each planet 
 or moon, so it's a bit awkward to recognise and use all of them at once -&gt; however keep in mind 
 that there are hot keys that can help you in this task) .
  
  The epic music, although it sounds nice and sets the mood in this one, gets boring after the first 
 few missions. The sound effects are average to good without enough variety to make your ears like... 
 Yoda's and the voice acting in the single player campaign is very good most of the times. I just 
 think that the alien voices aren't as interesting and successful or memorable like the ones found 
 in Starcraft and other similar titles. .
  
  Conquest: Frontier wars is different than most of the other RTS games out there. Yes, you can adjust 
 the behaviour of your units ( attack, patrol, idle, protect etc.) , you will have to gather resources 
 ( ore, gas and crew) from planets and moons ( by building specific structures on their rings) or 
 to harvest them ( by constructing specific space ships - harvesters) from nebulae and asteroids, 
 set rally points for your new units etc. However the game isn't your casual RTS experience since 
 it takes the game play of the genre to the next level with a few great additions.
  
  First of all the title takes place in a number of different maps simultaneously. Each game-session 
 is basically broken down into different planetary systems which are connected to each other with 
 the help of wormholes. Since each map can have more than 3 wormholes at once, it can be simultaneously 
 connected to multiple maps and this adds a unique strategical approach to this title. At first 
 you will have to build your base and start mining resources and creating your fleet. After a few 
 minutes you will have to expand your power and influence into new territories and systems and to 
 decide carefully your next step, since each map can be connected to many others at the same time 
 ( there are different paths that you can take) and any one of these maps can also be interconnected 
 with the rest, creating a very complicated diagram of different paths between the systems ( you 
 can have access to this diagram through the HUD of your screen, the one that also displays the 
 map of the current system) . .
  
  Another addition that changes completely the way that this game is played is the need for re-supplying 
 your ships. Each space ship has a blue bar that indicates the unit's energy. If there is no energy 
 left your unit won't have the power to shoot. You can either use supply - ships which can become 
 valuable allies during the toughest situations ( you will need to occasionally re- supply AND these 
 ships ) or built supply platforms into the different planetary systems. In order to have a functional 
 supply or repair platform in a new system you will have to construct a new headquarters ( on one 
 of this system's planets) or build a jumpgate atop the wormholes that connect the current system 
 with your own previous ones, in other words you will need to establish a supply line between your 
 home-base and the new maps / territories. So the game isn't all about mining , creating a strong 
 fleet and conquering the world, but it's mostly about protecting your home base, reassuring the 
 stability of your supply line and carefully progressing into new areas. Add to this the fact that 
 most of the maps are huge in size and that you can have more than 15 maps in a single mission and 
 you realise that you may spend more than 4 hours in order to finish just one of them ( not suitable 
 for people who aren't patient enough and want to have the usual 30 minutes-one hour battles) .
 
  
  What's great about these features is that despite their complexity in theory, in practice the interface 
 is really helpful and intuitive. You can use the diagram, that displays all the systems, in order 
 to set rally points in different destinations, watch your active supply lines, notice the areas 
 in which you are under attack or send parts of your fleet into other systems ( the good thing about 
 this one is that the faster ships of your fleet will wait for the slower ones in order to make 
 simultaneously the jump through the jumpgate-&gt; your fleet won't be split up while moving from 
 one area to the other) . .
  
  The last really innovative feature is the addition of the Admirals, who will take command of the 
 largest ship in your fleet, increasing the AI of your ships during battles significantly. Again 
 using the Admirals is a very easy thing to do, since you will only have to give a general order 
 to your fleet ( through your Admiral's simple command -interface) and never bother again ( at least 
 for the next few minutes) .
  
  The single player campaign consists of 16 different missions, that are huge in size, have many 
 different objectives and are very fun and challenging to play ( it took me more than 50 hours in 
 order to beat the game) . There is a nice epic story that is supported by some excellent cutscenes. 
 You will mostly be playing with the humans ( Terrans ) through the campaign but there are also 
 two other races, the Mantis ( reminding a bit of the Zerg in Starcraft) and the Celarons ( let's 
 say the Protoss of Frontier Wars) , that you will have to use their technologies and units ( depending 
 on the mission) in order to succeed. There are three different training missions that let you learn 
 the basics of each race. The problem is that despite the distinct looks and a few small differences 
 ( as far as their development tree and their technologies is concerned) there just isn't enough 
 variety ( there are too many similarities between the races and you will use more or less the same 
 tactics with each one of them) .
  
  The multiplayer was excellent and very fun to play... and i say WAS and not IS because Conquest 
 is one of those titles that no one almost bought. The game didn't sell at all and Ubisoft stopped 
 supporting the title a few years ago. That's why you won't be able to find the official site of 
 it anymore and there are no servers for you to try its online features, since there is no community 
 and support behind it. And that's a shame imo.
  
  In conclusion Conquest: Frontier Wars is a must-buy, must-play for any self-respected RTS fan. 
 It's as simple as that. Too bad for the lack of support though. It ruins the replay value of the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337issweet
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 11, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  if your a fan of real time strategy and you liked starcraft, i suggest conquest frontier wars. 
 the graphics are good for the age it was made so that area isnt bad. gameplay is fun because you 
 can have up to 8 people and if you get the patches up to 5 difficultys and 300 command points, 
 not like starcraft or warcraft where you only get 200. the sound.... ugg sometimes i just turn 
 my speakers off cause you will send a fleet of ships in and they will get COMPLETELY decimated 
 sometimes and the death crys just dont stop but other then that the voices are informative and 
 its funny to listen to the people die heheh. i have a game going, and its 4 v 4 with imposible 
 A. I. and ive been playing the map for about 3 days now anout 4 hours a day. you can have up to 
 16 systems with 5 planets in each (need to build on planets) so it gets huge. the internet play 
 is a little funked up but.... i wont even go how bad it is acctualy.... im mad at this game for 
 one thing, they shut down the multi servers i think. tis dum. but other then that i would say this 
 is one of the better strategy games out there............. ITS discontinued so d. l the demo first 
 from gamespot and if your intrested buy it off of the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasc00
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Wow this is quite a game, its really fun. I find it really fun in this game taking over solar systems, 
 and defending solar systems..... this game is really fun, buy it if you can........ now since i 
 cant put this review down with 1000 words im gonna have to keep on repeating this review
  Wow this is quite a game, its really fun. I find it really fun in this game taking over solar systems, 
 and defending solar systems..... this game is really fun, buy it if you can........ now since i 
 cant put this review down with 1000 words im gonna have to keep on repeating this review
  Wow this is quite a game, its really fun. I find it really fun in this game taking over solar systems, 
 and defending solar systems..... this game is really fun, buy it if you can........ now since i 
 cant put this review down with 1000 words im gonna have to keep on repeating this review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iljandir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  .. so sad that no one is playing it online anymore.
  Well i guess thats what happens to a lot of games after awhile.
  
  But this is amust have for 
 those who like space battles in old style strategy and 
  the 2D style is very charming.
  
  Three fun races to play and a whole bunch of space crafts.
  
  One other thing is the warlords 
 available in skirmish and multiplayer mode.
  They make the fleet you put them in better and they actually enter one of the spacecrafts of that 
 fleet and you can also select which spacecraft your warlord is going to sit in.
  
  Worth to play if you want to try something else..
  
  But no multiplayer unless you get some 
 friends together on it..
  I found not one player on gamespy arcade playing this anymore.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inomyabcs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2005 3:27 am PT
Review:  As a fan of Chris Roberts' computer games, I completely missed that this was one when it came out. 
 I waited two months after it came out before I realized who was behind it. You can tell right away 
 from the opening movie that this is a game following Mr. Roberts flair for Hollywood production.
 
  
  But it is not a bad sign; in fact, this game leads you on a great tale of space exploration while 
 bringing a great real time strategy game to the table. Keeping with the genre it kept aliens, mining, 
 building, defense, offense, and tech trees that are all familiar components of the RTS genre of 
 the period. It also added something unique at the time and it was the concept of supply lines, 
 not in one space system but over many. You could only advance systems and keep supplying your armada 
 by building gates to connect them.
  
  The sound was lacking but the music had the catchiness of the movie of "Starship Troopers". One 
 track is based on the opening theme of the movie.
  
  I would definitely recommend finding this game and giving it a spin. It still gives a challenge 
 and looks fresh enough to survive some of the new RTS out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dominal
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:31 am PT
Review:  Conquest: Frontier Wars is unique in its naval warfare. This is the only game that I have seen 
 which does the ships justice. 
  
  Game play is smooth, with no bugs having come up as long as I've played. Units are all unique and 
 easily differentiated. Although the 3 races you can play as look suspiciously like those from . 
 You could almost call it in Space. Resources are easy to gather, and bases to maintain. Admirals 
 and supplies add good strategy depth.
  
  Graphics aren't cutting edge anymore, but very good for their time. Sound is a weak point with 
 the classic, nothing special background music, but it does have good voice overs for admirals and 
 such. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
