-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Conquest of the New World Deluxe Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/conquestofthenewwde/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  4, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.8, 8.2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 36 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Quicksilver Soft.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Dec 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you missed Conquest the first time around, don't miss it now. 

 If the release of Conquest of the New World Deluxe does nothing else, it should reacquaint people 
 with a sadly neglected gem of historical strategy gaming.   

 A far more entertaining experience than Sid Meier's Colonization, Conquest puts you in the role 
 of French, Dutch, English, Spanish, or Portuguese explorers in a "new world," with an option to 
 play as Natives as well. In the grand old tradition of conquest games, you begin by landing on 
 an unexplored piece of land, and must push back the black veil over the map by sending your explorers, 
 settlers, and soldiers fanning out over the countryside. The landscapes these explorers will find 
 are some of the best rendered in any such game to date, with mountains, rivers, valleys, and plains 
 all done in amazing detail and a zoom feature that can take you right into the dirt. An especially 
 fun twist is the option of naming any new geographical features you may find (mountains, rivers) 
 and getting credit (in the form of points) for their discovery.  

 Also found in the countryside are various natural resources such as gold and metal, with the Deluxe 
 edition containing new productivity-boosting items like gems, jade, mines, and medicinal herbs. 
 The point is to settle a good region that can support crops, colony expansion, mining, and possibly 
 add a production bonus through proximity to special resources. This settlement will grow over the 
 game as you build farms, mills, smiths, churches, houses, and other structures to increase your 
 population, income, and the overall success of the colony. One particularly fascinating element 
 of Conquest is the ability to zoom right into these settlements and watch them up close, playing 
 with various levels of productivity, moving people from one job to another, and generally playing 
 god with their little lives.  

 Of course, you'll need to protect these settlements and create a military force to expand and conquer 
 the rest of the continent. To do this you can build infantry, calvary, and artillery, attach them 
 to leaders, and send them out across the country side spoiling for a fight. These battles are done 
 in short, novel combat sequences that resemble a cross between miniature wargames and chess. (The 
 Heroes of Might and Magic combat system obviously owes a debt to Conquest.) The soldiers appear 
 on a small grid, and fast, turn-based sequences let you move across the grid and attack the enemy 
 - choosing exactly how you group your men and where they attack. It's simple to understand and 
 adds a good combat element without upsetting the general pacing of the game.  

 The general pacing, however, is the big problem with this game. There is a mid-game sag as your 
 explorers fan out and get the measure of the new land. The structure of the financial and building 
 systems makes it hard to maintain two good settlements during this exploration time, and too often 
 turn after turn passes as you simply explore and build up the colony. A new trade element in the 
 Deluxe edition reduces this problem a bit, since it allows you to form trade alliances with other 
 units on the map and have more sophisticated control over the flow of goods between colonies. But 
 it still takes a long time to build a good force and starting attacking.   

 Other new features in the Deluxe edition are expanded diplomacy, new bonuses depending on what nationality 
 you play (France has improved relations with natives, Holland gets extra money from gold, as so 
 on) , customizable world size, a scenario builder, and advanced game scenarios that set specific 
 tasks. While you can set parameters for customs maps (the percentage of mountains, rivers, flatlands) , 
 you cannot create custom maps from scratch; all you get do is place forces and structures on randomly 
 generated landscapes.  

 If your already own the original, the Deluxe Edition doesn't offer a substantial enough enhancement 
 to warrant purchasing it. But if you missed Conquest the first time around, don't miss it now. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DarthVillainous
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Conquest of the New World is a turn-based strategy game by Interplay in which you assume the role 
 of one of five European powers (Britain, France, Holland, Spain, and Portugal) or that of the Natives 
 as they compete for dominance in the new world. It is quite simply a masterpiece, one of the greatest 
 games of all time, and the best strategy game I have ever played.
  
  PROS
  
  There are so many things going for Conquest that it's difficult to know where to begin. Perhaps 
 the best place to start would be to talk about the variety. That, in a nutshell, sums up the game. 
 There are a variety of factions, each with basic similarities, yet enough variance between them 
 to make them play differently. The English, for example, have an advantage in naval combat; the 
 French, with artillery. If this sounds similar to something like Civilization, it is, a bit. However, 
 it's done better here, as all the factions actually do play differently, instead of only some of 
 them playing like that while others only have token differences.
  
  Speaking of variety, you can alter the size of the maps, ranging from tiny ones to enormous ones. 
 You can set practically any variable you want (hostility of native villages, number of native villages, 
 number of resources, amount of water in the world, etc.) to almost any degree you want, except 
 turns, which are capped at 300. The degree of customization here gives the game enormous replay 
 value.
  
  When exploring the map, anytime you discover a river/mountain/etc., you get to name it. The same 
 goes for founding cities. In addition, there are also various "special" locations you can discover, 
 which give you a bonus depending on what it is. For example, if you find the "Temple of War," your 
 military units gain experience and a combast bonus. If you find the "Fountain of Youth," your cities 
 grow faster. The kicker here is that, unlike in other strategy games with similar things, these 
 locations don't disappear upon discovery. Rather, they stay on the map, and if you want their bonuses, 
 you are forced to either garrison troops there to defend them, or build a city next to them for 
 the same purpose. If you don't, any rival that stumbles upon them or sends troops there can claim 
 them, and the bonus (or bonuses) will transfer to them. It adds another layer to the strategy aspect 
 of the game, and lessens the luck quota. After all, if group A lucks out and has lots of special 
 locations near them, just because group A found them first doesn't mean no one else will have a 
 chance to get them.
  
  The combat system in Conquest is unique to any strategy game I've ever played. Basically, when 
 you take your troops into battle, you get an overhead view of the battlefield that is similar to 
 a chess board. You deploy your troops, watch the enemy deploy theirs, and then take turns firing 
 at each other (very similar to what European warfare of the time was actually like - which is to 
 say, they all stood in lines and fired at each other) . Depending on the size of your army, the 
 type of your units, how much training you've given them (you can research your army by spending 
 money at a building called a "War College") , and most importantly, the strategies you use, you 
 can win big, or get your butt kicked. It's extremely fun, and it blows the combat system of something 
 like Civilization Revolution out of the water where you merely send your units into battle and 
 await a result. In Civ Rev, battles are mostly luck and numbers with a little bit of strategy; 
 here, it's the reverse.
  
  Maybe the funnest part of Conquest is the diplomacy system. You can trade with your rivals, declare 
 war on them, ally with them, etc. If you choose the Native civilization (loosely based on the Aztecs 
 and Mayans) , you can attempt to set up a "High Native" civilization that is in essence a confederacy 
 of all the Native tribes. The best part of diplomacy in Conquest, however, is given to the European 
 powers. Assuming you start out as one of them, you begin the game as a subjugate to your mother 
 country: nothing more or less than a colony. As you gain in power (and gold) , your mother country 
 will tax you more and more and interfere in your affairs and foreign relations. You can either 
 submit - or, if you feel ready, declare independence and prepare for war. Fighting your mother 
 country is far more difficult than fighting one of your rival colonies (at least, until you're 
 significantly into the game and your rivals have upgraded their militaries) . It takes strategy 
 and planning to win. However, while it's definitely a challenge, it's not frustratingly so, and 
 is one of the coolest innovations I've ever seen in a strategy game. If you manage to win, it is 
 one of the most gratifying moments you'll ever experience in a video game. Also, the earlier you 
 achieve independence (if that is your aim) , the much better chances you have at winning in the 
 long run.
  
  CONS
  
  The biggest problem with Conquest is that it can be very difficult to run with modern PCs (heck, 
 even with some older PCs) due to the fact that it runs on DOS. I'm no computer programmer, but 
 I've gotten some DOS games to work on XP/Vista; however, I haven't ever been able to get Conquest 
 to work on either OS. For some reason Conquest doesn't seem to like them.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Conquest is a fantastic game that anyone with an older PC (or who is tech-savvy enough to get 
 it to run on modern ones) should play. It's unfortunate that the programming is so finicky, as 
 it makes this already-rare masterpiece even harder for people to play and enjoy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
