-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Contract J.A.C.K.
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/contractjack/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 5.1, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 337 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Nov 11, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Contract J. A. C. K. is merely a mediocre shoot-'em-up that can be finished in four hours. 

  Pity poor Cate Archer. Everyone's favorite superspy in paisley has been replaced with a man in 
 the latest addition to the No One Lives Forever franchise, a prequel called Contract J. A. C. K. The 
 move is a timely one, seeing as the comely female version of James Bond by way of Austin Powers 
 hasn't been wowing consumers accustomed to the stereotypical testosterone-heavy shooter. It's just 
 a shame that developer Monolith couldn't have come up with something fresher and more involving, 
 as the new release is merely a mediocre shoot-'em-up that can be finished in four hours.  

          The most obvious difference between Contract J. A. C. K. and its predecessors is the blood. 
 Cate Archer never stacked the bodies as high as John Jack.     

  Even in that limited time frame, Contract J. A. C. K. never takes off. You portray "ruthless assassin" 
 John Jack (the J. A. C. K. of the title is also an acronym for Just Another Contract Killer) , a thug 
 working the other side of the street from Archer and her goody-two-shoes comrades in UNITY. Just 
 weeks before the beginning of the events recounted in No One Lives Forever 2: A Spy in H. A. R. M.'s 
 Way, he gets forced into an assignment by arch-villain Dmitrij Volkov of HARM. But the potentially 
 interesting angle of facing off against your old friends has been dumped for a hackneyed plot where 
 Jack fights a group of Italian ne'er-do-wells called Danger Danger for the rights to a mad scientist 
 currently dwelling on the moon.  

  Not being able to take on the likes of Ms. Archer and her mentor Bruno is a letdown from the very 
 start. Even more disappointing, the sense of fun that permeated the series has been replaced by 
 a guns-first philosophy. In some ways this is good, as the game gets right to the point in a way 
 that its predecessors did not, but most often it proves simply numbing. All seven multipart missions 
 deal strictly with shooting your way through waves of enemies from start to finish. You slaughter 
 hired goons to escape a trap laid by a rival. You slaughter HARM agents that Volkov has sent to 
 test your mettle. You slaughter Czechoslovakian soldiers guarding a rocket base. You slaughter 
 Danger Danger storm troopers in secret headquarters, Italian villas, and even on the moon.  

          You even get to play  Moonraker  in one late mission. It's a pretty impressive moment, 
 even if there is little to do aside from swiveling back and forth blasting enemies.     

  These are some interesting locales, particularly the moon base and a climactic fight in space reminiscent 
 of the final scene in the Bond movie  Moonraker . The lead-up to the final battle in the Italian 
 countryside allows you to drive a scooter equipped with machine-gun cannons and is very scenic, 
 set amidst rolling hills and a canal. Most settings, however, are pretty bland. The succession 
 of Czech military installations consists of faceless warehouses awash in crates, and the huge village 
 at the end of the game is like a maze of dead ends and doors that don't open. But no matter where 
 you are, you never have time to soak up any atmosphere, since you're too busy bathing in blood. 

  And you get pretty bloody in Contract J. A. C. K. Aside from regular pauses to search for ways to 
 open blocked doors (and pad out the running time of this brief shooter) , there is nothing here 
 but splattering bad guys all over the landscape. There is no stealth, no lock-picking, no playing 
 around with the lethal hairpin, banana, and other nifty devices that UNITY's Santa's Workshop weapons 
 lab provided Cate in the first two games. There are no conversations worthy of eavesdropping, no 
 note trails to be pieced together to tell amusing side stories. Even the swinging '60s atmosphere 
 has been all but eradicated. If not for old cars scattered through the levels and the great title 
 song reminiscent of the classic Peter Gunn theme, the game could be taking place in the present 
 day.     

  Enemies even lack the character of the previous games. There are really just three types -- garden-variety 
 thugs, Czech soldiers, and Danger Danger troops in black jumpsuits and helmets similar to the yellow 
 togs sported by HARM minions in the previous games -- and the thugs show up in just the first mission. 
 Those famously goofy catchphrases from the likes of the Moroccan assassins in the first NOLF have 
 been replaced with bland action-movie dialogue, which isn't amusing even when spoken with Super 
 Mario accents by the Italians in Danger Danger.  

          Driving the Czechs' supersnowmobile leads to some tense moments with a pursuing helicopter. 
     

  The artificial intelligence has been dumbed down so that foes often charge your location no matter 
 what. They still duck and throw over tables for cover and are quick to toss hand grenades, although 
 they typically leave safety almost immediately and run right into your crosshairs. Bad guys seem 
 less human in other ways as well. While headshots continue to be noted in mission wrap-up screens, 
 they have little if any effect. It takes at least two or three clean bullets to the cranium to 
 put down a foe, which is at least better than the dozen or so shots that are required to the torso. 
 You practically have to shred enemies to kill them here, spraying blood in all directions like 
 an out-of-control garden hose sprays water.  

  Supervillains from earlier in the series are no-shows. There isn't anyone here to rival the big 
 Scotsman Magnus Armstrong and mime King Pierre. Danger Danger leader Il Pazzo is a presence, but 
 only through goofy speeches threatening his nephew over various public address systems. You don't 
 even fight him face-to-face in the final battle, a disappointing long-distance affair conducted 
 by rocket launcher from the windows of a far-off house. Your boss, Volkov, is heard only on occasion 
 over a two-way radio. The biggest personality in the game is the unhinged Dr. Harij, who delivers 
 some hilarious monologues -- again, always over PA systems for some reason -- but he doesn't show up 
 in person until the very end of the game. Even then, his biggest moment is a darkly humorous conversation 
 with Volkov that plays over the closing credits.  

          Assassin John Jack needs to use all sorts of weapons to take out Danger Danger, including 
 cannons.     

  Not much is offered in terms of multiplayer, either. All of the modes of play -- deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch, doomsday, and demolition -- were released as free downloads for NOLF 2 months ago. Many 
 of the maps are also retreads. You do get some new weapons to play with, like Jack's trademark 
 Desert Eagle pistol and a powerful combat shotgun, along with a few snazzy new skins, but for the 
 most part, this is familiar ground.  

  Contract J. A. C. K. is sort of a backhanded response to all those naysayers who found Cate Archer's 
 adventures to be too cute. The sense of humor, varied mission design, nifty Bond-inspired thingamajigs, 
 and even the groovy 1960s threads have been swapped for a straight focus on action that strips 
 the franchise of its identity and charm. It seems almost as if Monolith is sending a "be careful 
 what you wish for" message to the complainers via one of the most uninspired shooters of the year. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Really, it isn't all that bad!
  
  Indeed It does pale in comparison to NOLF 1 and 2 - I totally agree. These games were incredibly 
 well crafted and engaging, and this one isn't anything close.
  
  That isn't to say that this was not enjoyable. The level designs were good, the locales were very 
 enjoyable, and the plot was interesting. The ending really is unique too.
  
  What I found in Contract J. A. C. K. was an entertaining title with some humor, good level designs, 
 and a ton of battles and gore. Everything worked well and was enjoyable It's pretty much a straightforward 
 shooter.
  
  I'd recommend it over a lot of shovelware type games that are left wanting in most areas... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertBowen
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Contract J. A. C. K. had the potential to be a good game. After all, it was developed by Monolith 
 who have made some great games in the past, and was set in the No One Lives Forever universe - 
 and the NOLF games have deservedly garnered widespread critical acclaim.
  
  However, the very elements that made the NOLF games so memorable (stealth, skills, gadgets) all 
 seem to have been left by the wayside in favour of a straightforward run and gun experience. The 
 humour is somewhat lacking as well.
  
  With no Cate Archer in sight the whole game feels slightly askew, although the story does provide 
 a little extended background information regarding events that appeared in No One Lives Forever 
 2. It really feels as if this game was meant to be a part of NOLF 2, but the developer did not 
 want to introduce a new protagonist as part of that game, so kept back certain elements to make 
 this shorter and more concise action game.
  
  While it was only intended to be a budget-priced game, it still feels somewhat lacking due to the 
 omission of key gameplay elements from the NOLF series. To be fair, though, Contract J. A. C. K. does 
 exhibit a high level of polish when compared to many other budget titles. The levels are well designed, 
 and there is a decent selection of weapons that all offer the right amount of punch. Enemy AI is 
 good enough to offer a challenge, although not outstanding.
  
  The single player campaign is painfully short and linear, taking only around 5 hours to complete. 
 The multiplayer side of the game was basic but fun for a while due to the solid selection of weapons 
 and some good level design. Interest soon waned, however, and now there no longer seem to be any 
 servers to play on.
  
  Due to the nature of the Lithtech engine, the graphics are good, and the sound is well done. I 
 can't say that I encountered any noticeable bugs either. However, due to the short, linear and 
 run and gun nature of the single player campaign it seems very basic and has very little replay 
 value. I gave it a tilt because I had a lot of fun with the multiplayer while it lasted, so in 
 the end felt I got my money's worth. Without the multiplayer, though, this game would only really 
 appeal to die-hard fans of the NOLF series for a little more immersion in that game universe, and 
 find out some background information regarding something that happened in NOLF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman888
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Too old, in fact. Had this game come out during the heydays of Doom and Quake, it might passably 
 be called unique. In the shadow of such successes as Half-life and Far Cry, JACK's role as just 
 another contract killer is painfully obvious. Compared to Cate Archer, JACK is downright pathetic.
 
  
  Game-play:
  There is not much to say about the game-play except you shoot bad guys with different guns. I find 
 the weapon models to be decent; though if you were into realistic gun models you're better off 
 with R6 3: Raven Shield. I am not a great shooter, so I have a tendency to run out of bullets in-game.
 
  
  The AI is frustrating. Although enemies alternate between shooting and taking cover, they inevitably 
 charge into your sights once you retreat to a good enough spot; simply rounding a corner would 
 do it. The enemies do use grenades now and then; that provides a bit more action without posing 
 any real threat. I am most impressed (not!) with the AI's uncanny ability to lay traps. It seems 
 the bads guys always find Jack at the right place and the right time. It is intense the first couple 
 of times. Then you find it terribly contrived.
  
  Screenplay:
  Almost non-existent. There are some scripted dialogues that you can eavesdrop for a bit of dry 
 humor, but I find that hearing those minions talk makes me want to kill them more, and fast. Some 
 of NOLF's characters make cameos, notably Volkov and Archer (briefly) , but their presence is subdued.
 
  
  Recommendation:
  Why not? Although I rate this game poorly, it offers a different flavor than NOLF 1 and 2. If you 
 want to play NOLF Rambo style but can't bring yourself to turn Cate Archer into Lara Croft, then 
 you might find the $7 (w/ shipping) that Contract JACK fetches on Amazon to be acceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 683B
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This is a run and gun FPS shooter and not much more. The AI is not to bright. But there's a lot 
 of them. So your LMB will be used a lot.
  Don't think, just shoot and shoot. So if you like that, then this is a good game. Controls was 
 good. Except in one level where you'll ride a snowmobile, that felt akward.
  
  Graphics:
  Overall the graphics are pretty nice. Animations are good and the enviroments look good too. When 
 I was playing it, I felt like this was some sort of a very early beta version of the engine used 
 later in F. E. A. R. I'm not sure if it is. But it felt like it. Sound:
  I think that some of the dialogue is supposed to be fun. But I wasn't laughing. Voiceacting didn't 
 blow me away, but didn't really bother me. The music was cool, but forgetable and I didn't notice 
 it at all after a while.
  After installation I was asked to restart system. Which I didn't. Therefore I'm not to sure if 
 the weapon sounds was supposed to sound the way I heard them. If so, they were awfully distorted 
 and the weapons that didn't distort just sounded underpowered.
  
  Value:
  Compared to the price I payed (approx. 14$, 99 dkr) I didn't fell cheated.
  I got a 4 hour action 
 rush and I believe it's fair considering the price I payed for the game. I own a lot of great games 
 and this is not one of the games that I'm gonna leave on my harddrive. The replay value isn't to 
 great.
  
  Tilt:
  If you're girlfriend is out and you're home alone with nothing to do. And you have the choice between 
 renting a movie or this game. Then get the game. If you are ready to start playing at 8 you are 
 finished before midnight :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Contract JACK topped my Christmas wish list for 2003 based entirely on its relationship to the 
 excellent NOLF series. I spent many an hour tiptoeing through HARM bases, quietly offing any cartoonish 
 rogues who wandered far enough away from their security cameras, scouring every drawer and file 
 cabinet for every available experience point. After rocketing through JACK over the course of just 
 one day (Christmas Day, in fact) , I realized that I wasnt terribly satisfied with the result. 
 Although JACK looked and sounded like its cousins, it just didnt FEEL like a part of the NOLF 
 series. The Jupiter engines impressive vistas and intricate character animation were present, 
 as was a taste of the excellent voice acting (primarily Jock Blaneys solid work in his third outing 
 as the wry hitman Volkov) . However, Monoliths decision to eliminate the finesse of NOLFs stealth 
 element in favor of a steady hail of bombs and bullets removed some of the appeal garnered by JACKs 
 predecessorswhich is really saying something, considering that I tend to prefer fragfests over 
 sneakers.
  
  The problem in JACKs wall-to-wall havoc was that the combat mechanics felt incomplete. Enemies 
 often appeared in tightly-packed clusters, with their guns blazing full-bore from the very moment 
 each group spilled through the doorway. The key to surviving nearly every battle was simply to 
 hold back and try to bottleneck every wave of attackers through a choke-point, spraying the entryway 
 with machine gun fire before the first target appeared. Target after target would rush directly 
 into the line of fire, and once the carnage was over, I would round the next corner and repeat 
 the exact same process. I saw a few stray targets duck behind cover, but most bad guys would simply 
 run straight toward me until one of us was dead.
  
  I was grateful to find that JACKs repetitive battles and constant scouring for armor and health 
 packs after almost every unbalanced encounter was mitigated immensely by the visual majesty that 
 is the Jupiter engine. The glittering depths of space were especially impressive in one of JACKs 
 best levels, which was an interesting take on an on-rails sequence in which our spacesuited anti-hero 
 floats along in the void while taking potshots at some suicidally rabid villains as they dart around 
 &agrave; la Intellivisions Space Spartans. Like NOLF 2, the environmental details in JACK are 
 appreciably nuanced without trying too hard for perfect photo-realism, in keeping with the series 
 cinematic cartoon motif.
  
  As happy as I was upon hearing the announcement that HARMs newest and deadliest assassin would 
 eschew the tranq darts, camera disablers, and bunny slippers that dominated Cate Archers toolkit, 
 I quickly realized that removing NOLFs furtive elements left little more than a nearly identical 
 series of ambushes and firefights wrapped in a very pretty package. JACK is not a bad game; its 
 only crime is the boring and somewhat glitchy combat model. As opposed to the first two titles, 
 the expansions incidental humor is more wacky than witty (although the strangled cawing over the 
 moon bases PA system that signals Danger Dangers appropriation of the facility still makes me 
 laugh out loud, and the anti-nepotism rant that follows is worth a chuckle) . Otherwise, there are 
 some very good visuals and an engaging storyline present that deserve a more solid presentation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XanderKage
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 24, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  I don'y write reviews usually, but after I played this game I has so much on my mind that I had 
 to say so I decided to do so. When i heard of it, immediately got excited, since I'm a big fan 
 of N. O. L. F and N. O. L. F. 2. i saw a couple of reviews, but i thought, how bad can it be? It's another 
 game in a great series, even though it doesnt have the name in the title. Turns out it's a good 
 thing, because the game is awful. But first things first: Positive stuff: the graphics and the 
 sound are actually pretty good. But thats probably because it was copied right from the N. O. L. F. 
 2 game. And by copied I don't mean "resembles", I mean "ctrl+c_ctrl+v" style. It looks exactly 
 the same, and sound tracks, both in-game and menu, came straight out from the N. O. L. F. 2 game. 
 Also the game has some good references to the N. O. L. F. universe, like the crashed space station 
 from the first game, Harij character from the second game, and why Volkov is in full body cast 
 in the second game. Also working for H. A. R. M. is a nice concept, but it's not used in it's full 
 potential. Negative stuff: Oh. where to start, where to start... Well, you can forget almost everything 
 you remember from the other games:, no stealth, no gadgets, no skills, no interesting story, no 
 puzzles, just shooting, shooting, shooting. Apart from Volkov no other major characters make an 
 appearance. Overall the game fells like a mod for the N. O. L. F. 2 game. A bad one.
  Story. As you may know, the game takes place in between the stories of the first two games. You 
 play as contract killer John Jack (who came up with this?!) , who is hired by Dimitri Volkov, the 
 villain from N. O. L. F. universe, and your main task is to retrieve a scientist, trapped on the moon 
 after the space station crash in the first game. You will not face Cate Archer, no Unity agents 
 at all, even if you may expect to, which take a lot of excitement from the story. Overall it's 
 a nice story, but like the game itself, it could've been a lot more.
  Game play. game play was cut of everything good and innovative from the first two games to a simple 
 run_and_shoot. But even if you forget the fact that it's a N. O. L. F. game, it's still bad. almost 
 all the weapons are the same, only the "girlie" 9mm pistol was changed to "manly" .50 cal. BUT, 
 it deals a lot less damage. Here's the MAJOR let down of this game: all the weapons deal MUCH less 
 damage than they should. It take two shotgun shots (!) at medium to close range to bring down a 
 foe, and it take 20-30 shots from a machine gun... And keeping in mind that it's a FPS now, not 
 an stealth action game, it is very bad. Another le down is the enemy placement and AI. Every other 
 room you enter has a pack of enemies that run like crazy and rush at you... You could point your 
 gun at the door and pull the trigger without aiming and you will hit all of them. Not kill though, 
 cuz you will have to reload after you kill one guy. Even if you shoot from 30 bullet clip machine 
 gun, and even if you hit every shot... And that how the whole game is played: enter room, blast 
 enemies, rinse repeat. Overall the game is a major disappointment. I have no idea what the developers 
 were thinking. They had a great game, they just needed to tweak it a little, improve here and there 
 and they had a great sequel. But instead they did this... Why? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Contract J. A. C. K. drops you into the No One Lives Forever universe as a paid mercenary (J. A. C. K. 
 stands for Just Another Contract Killer) to get a different take on the series as a whole. Instead 
 of the tried and true formula of puzzle solving, gadgetry and first person shooting, you just get 
 the shooting part. It takes the series into the realm of run and gun at the cost of the series 
 character and charm.
  
  In the game Contract JACK, you are John Jack, a hired gun that has just signed up with H. A. R. M., 
 the evil entity from No One Lives Forever 1 & 2. After going through a training session, you are 
 given the assignment of trying to track down the leader of a terrorist group Danger Danger. This 
 takes you through several locations around Europe and beyond while looking for the rogue outfit.
 
  
  First thing that anyone should know about this game is that it is not a normal No One Lives Forever 
 game. It is nothing like it for that matter. There are no puzzles, no gadgets and the shooting 
 is not all that fun. You are essentially on a hidden rail to some degree, working through uninteresting 
 levels while mowing down bad guys. It is almost like NOLF Doom to some degree. It just does not 
 fit into the series due to the serious play changes. Make some changes to the main enemy characters 
 and you could be playing something with no relationship to the original games and no one would 
 be the wiser.
  
  It seemed like a cool idea at first, playing as the bad guys for a change. For some games, this 
 lets you see how things work through different eyes. But here, it feels flat, because you never 
 really feel like you are working for anyone but yourself. Beyond some chatter by Volkov, your boss 
 in the game, you never really hear from H. A. R. M. No training sessions with an evil scientist or 
 banter with some of the bad guys from the first two games, none of that is here in this game. You 
 never have any sense of attachment to the game.
  
  The game has a generic look. Nothing here taxes your graphic card in anyway if you are of the last 
 few generations of video cards. The character models look pretty good and have fluid motion. I 
 will say that Monolith really got the faces of the characters to start moving realistically. Blood 
 and particle effects really look good in this game. When you hit something with a bullet, it reacts 
 with splintering and/or splattering. It comes off quite nicely and looks physically correct when 
 it occurs. Environments are not really detailed, and take away from what was done with the character 
 models. One level does stand out in particular due to its uniqueness; nothing sticks out and strikes 
 you as bold or daring. It is mostly cookie-cutter design that is decent, but never captures your 
 attention.
  
  Sound is the shining example of what is right in this game. Voice work is pretty good. The voice 
 work is probably good; because you never really see any of the people you are suppose to interact 
 with for any period of time. You see Volkov at the beginning of the game and the end, but the rest 
 of the time, it is all voice and no physical presence. It hurts the game in my opinion, because 
 interaction was a big key to the first two games in the NOLF series. The voice work is professional 
 and works with what they have here, and it is solid work. Gun sounds are also full and throaty. 
 When you fire off an AK-47, you will probably be reaching for the speaker volume. The weapons are 
 loud, but have a crisp sound. 
  
  There is a multiplayer mode in the game, but it lacks design and focus. There is no real news here 
 in regards to different types of multiplayer, etc. it is rather generic, again never straying from 
 what works. And when you try to play, you will be more response from your echo than other players, 
 because no one is there to play with at all. Just a case of Me, Myself and I to quote De La Soul.
 
  
  So far everything sounds okay, but not great. But here is the kickeryou will finish the game in 
 less time that it takes to read this review. That is almost a true statement. (Editorial note, 
 I finished the game in just over three hours) . This is due to the design of the game. Short levels 
 with run and gun mentality will not last long no matter how much story you try to put into it. 
 And since the game is light on story elements, it just withers and dies without any sense of sorrow. 
 Upon finishing the game, you will just sit there wondering where the rest of the game is at. Maybe 
 you missed an install CD, but sadly, that is all there is and you are not missing anything. 
  
  So Contract JACK tries to branch the No One Lives Forever into a different direction, but in 
 the process seems to lose everything that defines the series. Things blow up pretty good and they 
 sound even better. But in the end, all you get is a below average game without any of the joy or 
 wit that Cate Archer brought to the series. In the end the game does more to alienate you, then 
 to bring you in.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiao
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 25, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  This stand-alone expansion of the excellent No One Lives Forever series features a new protagonist: 
 the enigmatic assassin John Jack, whos Just Another Contract Killer. Unfortunately  inconceivably 
  the name is all thats new. Monoliths trademark witty acronym just about sums Jack up.
  
  The collective genius behind Cate Archer and the magnificent villains of H. A. R. M. have taken 
 the hackneyed first-person formula of running about, pounding bullets into minion after generic 
 minion and done nothing much to improve it. Contract J. A. C. K. has the same glossy good looks as 
 NOLF2, but pretty rendering aside, the levels are unimaginative and the action repetitive, to say 
 the least. There are moments of dark deadpan comedy, but they do little to alleviate the tedium.
 
  
  Touted as a prequel to NOLF2, the wafer-thin plot sees freelancer Jack recruited somewhat reluctantly 
 into the ranks of H. A. R. M. and sent on a series of assignments to infiltrate, investigate and annihilate 
 various enemy camps. This he does at such an efficient rate that all 10 single-player levels can 
 be completed within the space of an afternoon. The superb NOLF A. I. is utterly squandered, as the 
 relentless tide of goons Jack encounters merely charge stupidly towards him. Even the available 
 weapons are a rather staid assortment.
  
  There are scattered high-points to this otherwise unremarkable first-person shooter; these include 
 a challenging lunar mission, which benefits greatly from flashes of the NOLF series characteristic 
 good humour, and a climactic Mediterranean stand-off featuring antiquated cannons. The dastardly 
 Dmitrij Volkov is a welcome addition to the cast of J. A. C. K., as is crazy Harij, one of the amusing 
 peripheral characters featured in NOLF2.
  
  The multiplayer experience is fun, although its freely available to download with NOLF2. Obligatory 
 deathmatch and team competition modes are included, as well as a more innovative Doomsday game 
 in which opposing teams must race to gather and assemble components of a doomsday device that allows 
 them to obliterate their rivals. The most interesting element of Contract J. A. C. K. is the development 
 package included with the game; but again, this is obtainable at no cost from the Sierra website. 
 Its as if Monolith threw together Contract J. A. C. K. as an example of what can be achieved with 
 a great toolkit and not much else, in the hope that someone out there will come up with something 
 more enterprising.
  
  If this was merely a one-off shoot em up, it would be justifiably disregarded by the world at 
 large. But being tacked onto the dazzling NOLF series, with all the talent, care and affection 
 that went into the preceding games, Contract J. A. C. K. is a considerable disappointment. This is 
 NOLF Lite, but the fizz has gone out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Presentation
  Comes in your standard DVD case with a detailed manual and a single DVD disc. The game menus are 
 easy and effective.
  
  Story & Dialogs
  Prequel to NOLF2, the story in NOLF2 didn't need to be justifyed so this story is very uninteresting. 
 
  
  Puzzle Design
  Puzzles aren't any different from NOLF2, they're just worse.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are the same as NOLF2, using the same engine. The graphics are average 
 for todays generation (back then) The best feature in the game is the graphics.
  
  Sound
  The music is good, nothing epic or amazing. The voice acting is practicly none existant. Rather 
 replay NOLF2.
  
  Gameplay
  The AI is pretty weak, you're basicly showered in enemies that look like clones. Less charm, and 
 more random killing.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  The game won't even keep you interested enough to play through 2 or 3 levels, this is NOLF 2 on 
 a diet. No substance.
  
  Last Word
  Not worthy of using the name NOLF, this game is vey repetitive. 
  
  5.4/10 - Mediocre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightmareseh
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  Everybody says that this is one of the wrost games they played.
  And i can't figure it out.
  This game is good. Nothing wrong with it but the only thing that 
 isn't good are the graphics.
  they make is so joyfull.
  Like that the game is made before 2000.
  The story is not so good but it is one so nobody has 
 to complain.
  Expect those 2 things it's a great game.
  Contract Jack is build in not so long time and not by the best man.
  This was really the first 
 game they did but that can't take the pleassure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornej
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  Contract JACK was actually a pretty fun game. I really enjoyed both the NOLF games and this game 
 certainly had the same flavor to it. My only problem with it was the repititous music. Some previous 
 reviewers mentioned how short it was but it took me 10 hours to finish. I found all of the secrets 
 in the game though and like to take my time. I am sure if you run and gun the entire time, you 
 would reduce it to four hours if thats your style. GS was kind of tough on it and Im sure its because 
 of the large shoes it was supposed to be filling as part of the NOLF series. NOLF 1 and 2 were 
 truly fantastic games. This game isnt the same caliber as those but certainly good and cerainly 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 18, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Contract J. A. C. K is the official prequel to Gamespys 2002 PC Game of the Year No One Lives Forever 
 2. No more playing Cate Archer. You are now a male, secret agent. The game-play is exactly like 
 the original, No One Lives Forever, so the learning curve is darn-near flat. H. A. R. M. is still 
 the advisory for the main character to contend with, so many of the bad-guys look and definitely 
 act the same.
  
  This game would rate relatively high with the author based on the original games standing (GOTY 
 - 2000) . As in the original there are various vehicles to drive, many of which are have armament. 
 Weapons are, for the most part, the same as in No One Lives Forever. The plot takes the gamer all 
 the way into space (also like the original)
  
  The game plays very linearly in that it would be quite difficult to get lost or not know where 
 to go or what to do to get there. One of the biggest draw-backs to this game is its brevity. Basically, 
 there is not much game to play. Overall, this is much like a very small expansion pack without 
 Cate Archer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 3, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why game reviewers slammed Contract JACK. Did their expectations for a continuation 
 of No One Lives Forever-style depth ruin the experience? They damned this game, not because it 
 was horrible, but for being what it is: a straightforward run-and-gun arcade-like shooter. In my 
 book, there's nothing wrong with simple, mindless video game action. Quake and Quake II were mindless, 
 yet they earned awesome reviews. Contract JACK should be judged on its own merits. The bottom line 
 is that I had vicarious fun playing it, like bubble-gum pop music. It's no Earth-shaking classic, 
 but I've certainly played worse.
  
  I like the fact too that Contract JACK is quite easy. Sometimes games can be impossibly difficult. 
 Instead of being fun, they stress you out. This title supplied just what I was looking for -- a 
 quick, painless escape from back-stabbing job BS, traffic jams, God awful "reality" TV, and all 
 the other crap that makes modern life so aggravating. So if you see Contract JACK in the bargain 
 bin, don't hesitate to dive right in. You won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 20, 2004 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Well I agree with this review and I quote :
  
  "Boy, what a downer. I guess they guys at Monolith thought that since they had a great game with 
 great reviews but with less than stellar sales, they had to try for a new image, and a new main 
 character. Well, for anyone who hasn't played No One Lives Forever 1 or 2, I strongly urge you 
 to go out and buy them. Fun, Funny and interesting "
  
  When it comes to contract it was too short lacked creativity in story content and was not as funny 
 as the first two. They need to go back to the drawing board and reclaim the greatness of the first 
 two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlascott
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2003 6:18 am PT
Review:  Boy, what a downer. I guess they guys at Monolith thought that since they had a great game with 
 great reviews but with less than stellar sales, they had to try for a new image, and a new main 
 character. Well, for anyone who hasn't played No One Lives Forever 1 or 2, I strongly urge you 
 to go out and buy them. Fun, Funny and interesting. One of the few shooters that I played all the 
 way thru. Return to Castle Wolfenstein and HalfLife are the other 2, and NOLF 1&2 definitely belong 
 in that elite category. The graphics are the best of any currently released engine, other than 
 maybe UT2003, the gameplay is awewsome, the story is interesting, just a couple of masterpeice 
 games, can't say enough.
  
  But maybe because they didnt sell well enough, they decided to change the character to a man and 
 make the tone more serious. Unfortunately they also left out the humor, the excellent level design, 
 and the compelling story, and the variety of levels (action, stealth, puzzle, item collection, 
 etc) . Contract JACK is just ordinary, but still pretty tro look at . Get it if you have no sense 
 of humor or like arcasde-style games (you know, like in DOOM or Serious Sam where the enemies just 
 run right at you) . Get it. Evryone else, go out and buy NOLF2. You wont be sorry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal_Jam
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 15, 2003 5:51 am PT
Review:  Super ultra action packed thrill ride!! Too bad Mono left out the vital factor of variety. This 
 game would kick a donkey's nuts with a steel toe boot if it weren't for the uninspired Neverending 
 onslought of mindless hoards running directly at you shooting like Apes high on PCP thirsting for 
 a bananna, with you playing the role of the bannana. Dullness ensues shortly after you realize 
 the demo that suckered you into purchasing the game was really not a joke-that's exactly how the 
 entire game plays, like a tasteless joke. Every level is direct and uninspired. The graphics are 
 nice, but the amount of blood spilt would make even Dracula vaumet. It's fun if your looking for 
 a short romp similair to that of a cheap porno video, in it's particular category of course. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
