-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cossacks II: Napoleonic Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cossacks2napoleonicwars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Enjoyable RTS game involving formations and tactics.
 Captures the formality of Napoleonic warfare.
 Makes you feel like a field marshal.
 Graphics are bright and colorful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No.
 Turn-based campaign lacks depth.
 Bugs can cause crashes and freezes, as well as corrupt saves.
 Silly single-player campaign.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 26, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.3, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 611 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Apr 27, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite some quirks and bugs, Cossacks II captures the stately carnage that was the Napoleonic Wars. 
 

  With this year marking the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Trafalgar, it seems a bit fitting 
 that the Napoleonic Wars seem to be getting a little more attention than normal. Case in point 
 is Cossacks II: Napoleonic Wars, the follow-up to 2000's Cossacks and the latest game in the real-time 
 strategy series. In a way, Cossacks II marks the first major upgrade for the franchise, as it sports 
 a much updated graphical look, as well as some significant new features. The gameplay, however, 
 remains unmistakably Cossacks, which is good news for fans of the franchise. Newcomers, on the 
 other hand, will discover a somewhat quirky but enjoyable real-time strategy game that focuses 
 on formations and tactics rather than base-building and tank rushes.  

          Cossacks II lets you wage the Napoleonic Wars in all their stately carnage. Warfare was 
 never quite so civilized.     

  In Cossacks II, you take control of one of six great powers of the era and attempt to settle your 
 differences on the open field of battle, like civilized gentlemen. The game features a single-player 
 campaign that's a bit loose with the facts for dramatic purposes, a battle for Europe campaign 
 with both turn-based and real-time elements, and a variety of skirmish and historical engagements. 
 At the heart of Cossacks II, though, are the real-time strategy battles that remain relatively 
 unchanged from the earlier games.  

  When you get down to it, Cossacks II is a real-time strategy game for history fans. This is a big 
 game with battles that take place on huge maps dotted with villages and towns connected by roads. 
 You'll have hundreds of peasants gathering resources and building a variety of structures, while 
 formations of 120 men march to and fro across the map. As in real life, roads play a strategically 
 critical role in warfare, since they're the only efficient means to march men across the map. Thus, 
 you can create blocking positions at key crossroads, and you get to feel like a real field marshal 
 as you attempt to maneuver your army around the map.  

  The combat in Cossacks II is very faithful to the era, so you have the fun of marching your formations 
 on to the battlefield, lining them up, and firing at the enemy. This was the era, after all, when 
 armies stood in open field and exchanged fire until one side shattered and fled. Despite the apparent 
 simplicity, there was actually quite a bit of strategy involved, especially since it took upward 
 of a full minute to reload muskets. Fire too early and the enemy would make you pay while your 
 men were busy trying to reload. Thankfully, the new color-coded range system lets you hold your 
 fire until your men can see the white's of the enemies' eyes, or, in this case, until they enter 
 the red zone, which is helpful in gauging the effectiveness of your volleys. The artificial intelligence 
 of your opponents varies, but generally it's pretty good about finding your flank and trying to 
 lure you into wasting a volley. If you fire prematurely, the computer will waste little time in 
 exploiting the fact.  

          The new range system gives a whole new meaning to the term 'entering the red zone.'    

  You can also select from three different formations, depending on your tactical position, and you 
 also have to worry about your men's morale, as well as their fatigue level. Furthermore, you have 
 cavalry and artillery at your disposal. However, the infantry represents the core of your army, 
 so it'll do the majority of the fighting, as well as the majority of the bleeding. Thankfully, 
 you can pull depleted formations out of battle to send them to the nearest friendly village, where 
 they will replace their losses. However, if a formation takes too many losses or loses too much 
 morale, it will break and shatter, meaning it's out of the fight for good. It's also critical to 
 capture villages, which are the source of the various resources in the game, including iron, food, 
 coal, and gold. Food and coal are particularly important, because your army's logistical needs 
 mean you must secure these sources, or else your army will starve to death or run out of bullets. 
 Unfortunately, we wish the same could be said for the enemy, because during the single-player campaign, 
 we noticed that even after choking the enemy off from all sources of supply, it still managed to 
 keep fighting for a pretty long time.     

  We mentioned before that the single-player campaign is a bit loose with the historical facts, and 
 that's an understatement. The campaign puts you in control of a British officer trying to save 
 God, king, and country (not to mention his fiance) from some rebellious nobles in league with 
 the French. The dastards even go so far as to besiege London! Melodrama aside, the campaign features 
 some static cutscenes and dull voice acting, and it only exists as a contrived reason to stitch 
 together some missions that vary in difficulty from challenging to frustrating. In fact, one starts 
 you off in such a horrible tactical position that it takes hours and hours, not to mention a large 
 amount of saving and reloading, to claw your way to victory. Unfortunately, there's no "easy" difficulty 
 setting in the game, and one of its strange quirks is that "normal" is the easiest difficulty setting 
 available. And it only gets harder from there.  

          Sure, you can try to conquer Europe. And you don't have to worry about the Royal Navy or 
 the Russian winter.     

  After you're done learning the ropes with the single-player campaign, you can then tackle the Battle 
 for Europe campaign, which adds a turn-based strategic layer to the game, kind of like the one 
 featured in Medieval: Total War... only simpler. You control one of six nation-states, and you get 
 to capture provinces, build defenses, and move your army around the map of Europe. While the turn-based 
 strategic layer is a nice addition, it's a bit lacking, especially since it doesn't take into account 
 naval combat, which played a pivotal role during the Napoleonic Wars. As a result, it's possible 
 for France or any other power to invade England from across the English Channel, though it will 
 need a sizable army to capture the heavily defended London. There's also a lack of depth that separates 
 Cossacks II from other strategy games with turn-based modes, because you only get one army stack 
 to push around on the map, and the only building options at your disposal are to increase the defenses 
 in a territory.  

  On the flip side, the lack of depth can make for a fast-paced game, especially since the real-time 
 battles unfold differently from the ones found in the single-player campaign. Instead of grinding 
 battles of attrition, the battles are relatively quick, since your main task is usually to shatter 
 the enemy's will to fight. It helps that logistics play a big role during battles as well. For 
 example, you go into battle with only the resources you gathered during the turn-based portion. 
 This means it's possible to encounter critical shortages that can cripple your army. If you don't 
 have coal, your army can't shoot. It also means you'll want to capture key territories from the 
 enemy. Seize someone's coal-producing territories, for example, and he, she, or it will have a 
 hard time fighting you on the battlefield.  

  Multiplayer offers some interesting modes, including Land War, which lets players from all over 
 the world battle it out for parcels of national territory on a map of Europe. Simply choose a nation 
 to attack and you're matched up against a comparable opponent based on you and your opponent's 
 ranks. If you win the battle, you win a small piece of that nation for your country. Multiply this 
 by hundreds of matches, and eventually a group of players can try and conquer a nation whole.  
 

  Meanwhile, Cossacks II offers some traditional skirmish battles, which you can play in a head-to-head 
 game or in teams. Playing in a team can be fun, especially since you can offload some of the workload 
 to your teammate; one can handle production and building while the other manages the armies. However, 
 the large skirmish games can take a very, very long time to resolve, especially if both sides manage 
 to build up defenses and large armies. Unfortunately, you can't play the Battle for Europe campaign 
 in multiplayer, so you're restricted mainly to skirmish games, battles, and the Land War.  

  The presentation of the game has improved quite a bit from its predecessors. The 2D graphics 
 engine remains, but it's been upgraded and is a lot more colorful and richer in appearance than 
 before. The designers have a much larger color palette to draw from this time around, so the terrain 
 feels a lot more organic and natural, rather than drab and uniform like it was in earlier games. 
 Meanwhile, though your formations and men animate well, you wish you could zoom in and inspect 
 them up close. Unfortunately, the game has a fairly limited zoom capability, and while you can 
 zoom out for a more strategic view of the map, you can't zoom in. In a nice touch, though, Cossacks 
 II is stuffed with video clips of Russian Napoleonic War reenactments, which play in a small window 
 to give you an idea of what actual soldiering was like. There's not a lot of variety, however, 
 and the game loops through the same clips over and over. But at least it's not obtrusive. The same 
 can't be said of the overly bombastic, synthesized orchestral music, which gets inside your head 
 like a bad song on the radio.  

          The game looks great despite the 2D engine, since it feels a bit like a painting come to 
 life. Too bad you can't zoom in to inspect it.     

  Cossacks II is also plagued with some little bugs, and it can crash or freeze up on occasion. A 
 more frustrating issue is that trying to load certain saved games can cause the game to crash, 
 meaning you'll either have to revert to an earlier "working" save or start a mission over again. 
 To avoid a lot of heartache, it's best to use several different save-game files rather than one 
 universal save, because if it becomes corrupt, you'll have to start over.  

  There's a formality to the warfare in Cossacks II, and it makes for an enjoyable game with a statelier 
 pace than most other real-time strategy offerings, which are basically clickfests. The game takes 
 quite a number of liberties, but overall it presents a good mix of gameplay and historical accuracy, 
 though it doesn't go overboard in either direction. So if you're a fan of the period, it's definitely 
 worth checking out Cossacks II.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bea0023
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is a once in a life time chance to control huge armies (up to 64,000 men) and dictate 
 the fate of Europe. Of course i am comparing this to the great new Empire Total War but it was 
 very close. So the main differences are the graphic and movment options. The thing that makes Empire 
 Total War better is the fact that you can zoom right in and watch the battles which is unlike Cossacks 
 II where you can only have 2 modes of zoom which certainly don't give the realistic affect. 
  
  The second thing is that in ETW (that short for Empire Total War) you can rotate your view 
 which give you an advantage because you can see the hills and theangles of the landscape and where 
 to put your troops (for e. g you can put your men on top of a hill which gives the advantage) . Thirdly 
 the units them selves. In Cossacks II and the others of the Cossacks/American Conquest series is 
 that the men are robot like. They are all excatly the same and move all the same. Unlike ETW where 
 the men twich and move a little and aren't all the same. And when they fight they donts do the 
 same actions, the fight with their own techniques compared to Cossacks II. So Empire Total War 
 win the graphics department by a mile. 
  
  But the good news. 
  The number of things you are able to do with Cossacks II is things like control the buildings and 
 what they do, upgrades, control larger numbers of men (64,000) and personnally send men to build 
 buildings which you cannot do in ETW. Thats what made them even. So for the gameplay department, 
 Cossacks II wins.
  So now they are tighed. 
  
  The great new feature for Cossacks II is the battle for Europe mod which is based on the Total 
 wars campaign map. Here is were you created your empire with deplomacy and trading. But the best 
 thing is that when you meet an enemy army you go down onto the battlefield and control the armies 
 personnaly.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourNo1CR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  REVIEW
  I've never actually heard of the Cossacks series until I bought this game. But when I looked at 
 it and played it ,it was an instant hit.
  
  The game allows you to become a commander and control thousands of soldiers in skirmishs across 
 Europe. Every nation has it's own type of infantry, cavalry and own building look. The terrain of 
 the maps are very beautiful with cows grazing in fields with fences around, proper roads, villagers 
 working in NPC buildings, and also others. The game also has basis on morale and instead of concentrating 
 on individual soldiers it concentrates on troops. There are also reinactment of battles such as 
 Ulm, Wagram and others. There is also a battle of europe campaign is very good and if you have ever 
 played rise of nations conquer the world that's basically it except only in europe. The graphics 
 for the game also looks good however I would say the sound system is only 7/10. The game will provide 
 you with hours of fun destroying enemy flanks lowering their morale and capturing their town hall 
 or take all the villages.
  
  However there are also bad points, the campaign is quite hard and will take around 6 hours to finish, 
 8 levels in all. The campaign is also thought out like a fantasy (save the girl and defeat the bad 
 guy) but the campaign is still quite good. However it would have been better if it was about historical 
 events. Another bad point is that there is only 6 nations  and 
 Prussia (a country that is now a part of Germany) . Also as the game is set in the Napoleonic War (around 
 1793-1815) there aren't many upgrades meaning you can't make your soldiers better. The game also 
 has a few bugs (why do they all have bugs?!) , one of them will slow the game down alot and can only 
 be stopped if you take the game out then in. Sometimes a window box will come out and what ever 
 button you press it will still be there so that's annoying as well. And although the maps are well 
 decorated I feel that the maps are only average sized.
  
  Overall, I would say this game is very x7.5/10 good but it could have been better if it had a good 
 plot for the campaign and more upgrades. It's a good game but compared to other games like Rise 
 of nation it's not so great. Still I would recommend that you give it a try and buy it on Ebay costs 
 about 1 to 5.
  
  HINTS AND TIPS 
  *Use the advantage of height in terrain.
  *Before shooting look at your enemy's morale, if it's low you can separate their troops at the 
 green zone.
  *Prussia is a good nation, their light cavalry can take villages quickly and reload quickly.
 
  *Use cavalry to attack their flank.
  *When faced with lots of troops (when you have lots as well) tell them to all stand ground (+40) 
 and then fire all together this can separate lots of troops but only do this when their troops 
 are moving.
  *Use grenadiers to destroy buildings instead of cannons.
  *Go box formation (+20) if an enemy comes out in a surprise attack, defence goes up quickly.
  *Use 
 troops to go out in all directions to conquer villages (they are essential) .
  
  If you need any more help write a message to YourNo1CR.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Apart from the bugs that really bug you :) the game is very good, and you can enjoy it no doubt 
 about that. But before we get to the good part let's go through the bad part of the game. First thing 
 that actually hits you are the bugs, apparently random errors that pop up for no good reason, in 
 my opinion errors that would't be there in the first place if the game was properly tested. Second 
 thing, if you play the campaign... you're gonna laugh at the story line i mean come on... Moving 
 onward we reach, a rather small problem, compared the previous ones, witch is squads inability to 
 sprint or move faster than normal in any way.
  To the good parts. As i previously said, it does not get anymore tactical then this. Strategy at 
 it's best. I especially liked being able to have a very large number of troops, that was very very 
 cool, not every day can you command up to one thousand men on the battle field now can you? The way 
 artillery fires, realistic not exaggerated, only using tactics could you kill up to 50 men with a 
 cannon, and even so not from 100 meters away. Extremely nice building design and scale, did you see 
 the fortress? What else? Oh did i mentioned how tactical the game was? Yes i did. Thats it for this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerMeister69
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is not that of a normal RTS, it has none of the diversity the first game and expansions 
 had. After fighting a couple of line up and shoot battles, I was enjoying the experience of the 
 19th century. However, three hours into the game I found myself wanting more. This game just doesn't 
 deliver. All it has to offer is is the realism of battle. The building of your camp/cities is not 
 great, the aquisition of resources is somewhat boring, and the advancement of technologies within 
 the parameters of the given historical time frame is non-existent. All consedering, just not a 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon_nolan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok i dont care what aneone has to say about this game because it is 1 of the greatest games of 
 all times it haves lots of buteyfull maps to play on and farely well campaine and it has somting 
 where you play on europe as 1 of the great powers in the 1900s that i would have to say would be 
 the best thing about it and multyplayer omg multyplayer is exlant but the only thing i dont like 
 about that is u cant play on europe on it but the game is still a verry verry good game and whoever 
 can buy this game do it do it raght now because if you dont u will regreat it i almost missed out 
 on buying this game haha and i would of died if i did because if u see i realy realy love this 
 game haha well that's all i have to say well i'm out  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  This game Cossacks 2 is a great game which is really underrated. This Real time stratay game is 
 set during the Napolionic wars so you would expect to line up your troops in a line and start fireing 
 vollley after volley of bullets in to the other wall of men until they break. Gameplay: The gameplay 
 is pretty good, The game brings along six nations that played a leading role in the history of 
 Napoleonic wars. These are France, Britain, Austria, Russia, Prussia and Egypt, with each country 
 possessing its unique and peculiar abilities, architecture, development tree and military features. 
 There is a moral system in this game were the men would be demoralized if to many men die or they 
 are outdunbered and your men would start running away from the battlfield. There is also another 
 feature were you get to see the how much dameage your troops can do by colored circles around them 
 each of them signifying how much damage they can do, for example red is point blank rang and will 
 do the most damage while yellow is the furthest away and to minimal damage to the enemy. This game 
 lets you micromanage your empire like building buildings and produceing troops and fighting battles 
 but there is another side to it to. There is this empire building like in Rome: Total war were 
 you have to dominate the whole map or key areas of the map to win. The great thing is that you 
 don't wall ways have to send troops to fight the enemy, you could just cut of your openents resorces 
 and economicly starve your enemy and then take over there land.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not the best in this day and age and it's 2-D mostly. But the buiidings 
 are very nicely done and can see every single detail in the buildings. The graphics are not bad 
 but not the best though I think the troops could of used some more detail. Gameplay is usually 
 more important then gameplay though graphics can play a part in gameplay like in Company of Heroes. 
 oh one more thing I should mention when you get board at watching the action on the battlefield 
 sometimes there would be life re-enacting video's at the bottem of the screen that is pretty ineresting 
 to watch.
  
  Sound: I think the sound is great from the fireing of the Muskets and rifles to the booms of the 
 cannon. Value: This game has great replay value, You can play and try to dominate as much as the 
 map with the diffrent nationalities once your done with one nation. Then is the the multiplayer 
 portion of the game that supports up to four players to duke it out against each other which can 
 be challanging.
  
  All in all I give this game a 8.5 out of 10 because I think that they could of done a little better 
 on improving the game but all in all this is a good game to play and too add to your collection 
 of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 5, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  The Cossack series as at times been an ignored series, which is wrong because for those that have 
 played the previous in the series know it's an enjoyable game that gorws on you. The big concern 
 with Cossacks 2 is that GSC Game World have changed a lot of what make the series great, but in 
 my view are trying to enhance one of the games best features. Large battles were the reason a lot 
 of people played the original especially online. And I can happily say the battles are even better 
 from my experience, graphically the game as always been pleasing and the sequel is no different. 
 Even though some of the units move wierdly at times it makes up with the number of units you can 
 have in the game. One of my personal favourite feature of Cossacks 1 was it's sound. Mainly the 
 sound in battle as gun fire and cannon fire spreads accross the battlefield, This is no different 
 in Cossacks 2 with more concentration on gun fire which is very enjoyable to watch. True to the 
 time the game is set. 
  
  Another aspect I enjoy is the fact that you know have to use up your peasants to create units for 
 battle (as in realife) and it works well. There is a lot to like about this game but it will only 
 be liked by those that have played and loved the series in the past. For those that will be playing 
 the sequel for the first time ever, will find the first impression will be bad. The original Cossacks 
 borrowed a lot from classic games such as Age of Empires (like many in it's genre) and the sequel 
 tries something different. In truth it works but like I said, will work for those that lobe the 
 past game and it's great expansions. Basically, it's definantly worth a look if you have the time 
 and if you have played the past game (enjoyed it or not) you should play this game because it as 
 some nice new ideas into a genre that needs new ideas.
  
  LAST WORD!
  It's simple, play it if you like the series or at least give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheval52
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics, realistic actions & formations, fantastic scenery but complete idiotic story lines 
 concerning a Civil War fought in England at a time when they were fearing a French takeover of 
 Europe ?
  
  I love this game but the overall gameplay does not allow you any time to
  set up a strategy, improve your defenses, or buildup troop strengths. It is constant INVASION, 
 INVASION, INVASION. No matter how many of the enemy you succeed in killing, they keep coming at 
 you like hordes of Chinese Army Ants getting wind of the Hershey Bar in your back pocket.
  
  At least with Empire Earth II & Age of Empires III, you have time to build up a pretty sizeable 
 community and adequate defense force. With Cossacks II you are dumped into the middle of a densely 
 packed town and by the time you have figure out where the barracks and towncenters are, the enemy 
 already has 3 battalions marching down your throat.
  
  It is the equivalent to being locked in a phone booth with the Polish Lancers and handed a copy 
 of "The Art of War"
  
  Great game but give the little guy something to defend himself with !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Thus far, 2005 has been a lackluster year for strategy games. Luckily, April has brought three 
 great titles from which to choose from here in the U. S. Ironically, they are sequels to successful 
 games: Empire Earth II, Stronghold II, and Cossacks II. The latter, Cossacks II, may not reinvent 
 its core gameplay mechanics, but is solid enough to hold its own in a crowded market.
  
  The real draw for Cossacks II is its simulation of 18th century battles. If youve played the first 
 Cossacks, or any of the Total War games, youre probably familiar with the style. Youll have large 
 formations of soldiers, normally groups of 120, with specialized infantry like riflemen in squads 
 of 15 or 30 that will line up face-to-face and massacre each other at close range. It was a very 
 brutal and disciplined way of fighting during the Napoleonic era, and that discipline has transferred 
 well to the game. Troop formations will follow your every order, from which formation to choose, 
 to when to fire. 
  
  Both are equally important in Cossacks II and mastering these two elements is essential to success. 
 Each group of troops has several different formations to choose from: the standard line formation 
 is the main attacking and defending formation that youll be using; columns will allow you to traverse 
 roads, which not only saves your troops from getting tired, but road travel allows you to relocate 
 squads across the map much quicker; square formations throw your troops in a giant square and provide 
 defense and offense boosts, its most useful against cavalry and when youre completely surrounded. 
 Formation selection does vary on unit type and cavalry will have their own specific ones, suited 
 more to attacks than defense.
  
  A group of men is only as good as the commander that leads them and Cossacks II lets you control 
 every aspect of the battles. Thanks to a color-coded damage system you can tell when your troops 
 will do the most damage with their weapons. Bands of green, yellow, and red wrap around your soldiers, 
 as soon as the enemy gets within range of yellow or red, your weapons will do a significant amount 
 of damage. You can even break your attacking down further and control your troops on a line to 
 line basis. Since each formation consists of three infantry lines you can tell the front to fire, 
 luring the enemy closer. When they get dangerously close, you can let loose with the rear lines 
 for some massive damage. The game does a good job of including variables such as trees, which absorb 
 bullets shield your soldiers, and hills that increase your range of fire, particularly with artillery.
 
  
  Youll be focusing on tactics like these in one of the games single-player modes which tries to 
 re-create historic battles. Its in this mode, and only in this mode, that the much-talked about 
 massive battles will happen. Youll be given dozens of squads, thousands of soldiers overall, and 
 have to take enemy positions or hold the enemy off from overtaking you. Its here that you get 
 the best sense of the games AI. Its efficient in attacking your flanks, battering you with artillery, 
 and performing fast hit and run attacks with its cavalry. With such a large field of battle and 
 so many soldiers to look after its easy to get overwhelmed, even on the games easiest difficulty 
 setting: normal. Luckily, youre aided by the game which will give you prompts when enemies come 
 into firing range, when your troops are scattering, and other important issues. Combined with a 
 quick select key that will go to the latest alert, it helps make these battles manageable and easier 
 to pick up for beginners.
  
  Focusing on the real-time strategy battles wouldnt be telling the whole story; Cossacks II does 
 have a turn-based campaign similar to the Total War series, albeit a shallow one. You can take 
 control of six different nationsBritain, France, Austria, Prussia, Russia, and Egyptin an attempt 
 to conquer all of Europe. Unfortunately, you have a limited list of things you can actually do. 
 Youre restricted to fortifying your provinces, sabotaging enemy provinces, and controlling a single 
 army around the map, which can only move one place per turn. Even when countries surrender to you, 
 their generals miraculously disappear and leave you to defend an even bigger area with your single 
 army. There are some diplomatic options as well; you can sign peace agreements, permissions to 
 pass, and non-aggression treaties with other countries. 
  
  They all combine to make the campaign longer than it should be, facilitated by the fact that the 
 real-time battles during each turn tend to last anywhere from 15-30 minutes. These individual battles 
 for each province arent large-scale fights like the historic battle mode, and play more like a 
 skirmish or mission game. Your forces are placed on a map and are tasked with capturing the enemy 
 city, destroying the enemy army, or capturing various strategic locations. 
  
  Scattered throughout the maps are various villages. These villages serve as resource collection 
 points and harvest one of the games six main resources: Gold, food, wood, stone, coal, and iron. 
 Capturing them will make their workers gather resources for you, and often give you a lump reward 
 such as 3,000 coal, or 8,000 food. These villages help your cause greatly and resources you capture 
 in the individual villages are thrown into your nations total resource count when battle ends. 
 In addition you can park a formation that has taken losses near a village and it will supply you 
 with fresh bodies to fill out your ranks.
  
  Real-time battles will also be the focus of the skirmish and mission modes. Both will have you 
 using base-building to conquer your enemies. The base-building elements are very basic, and very 
 straight-forward. Your town center will produce your building and resource-gathering units; your 
 barracks will produce soldiers; other buildings like the academy and blacksmith will enable different 
 and more advanced types of units to be built. There are a few defensive structures that can be 
 constructed but youll want to focus on fortifying choke points instead of your base perimeter. 
 Theres a decent amount of units and upgrades that can be purchased, thus giving this aspect of 
 Cossacks II a little meat on an otherwise scrawny design. 
  
  After youve had your fill with the single-player, you can go online and compete against your friends. 
 Setting up a game is made easy, as is navigation of the menus and the display of the players and 
 clans. There seems to be a lack of multiple game modes but if you enjoy the single-player skirmishes 
 then chances are youll feel right at home here.
  
  Graphically, Cossacks II features some very nice work. All the buildings are richly detailed with 
 little items that give them that extra layer of polish. Youll see scaffolding around structures 
 as you build them along with construction tables holding bricks and mortar. Your military units 
 will be decked out in full regalia, just as the gentlemen-warriors of the period were. Theres 
 excellent use of colors, its just too bad there isnt any zoom feature. It would be nice to see 
 these battles from up close.
  
  The sound department features a mixed bag of good and bad. Some of the dialogue during the in-engine 
 cut scenes may make you cringe a little; there are a few mispronunciations throughout the campaign. 
 Otherwise, the mini-map alert notifications are done clearly and theres enough emotion in the 
 voices to sound convincing. Cossacks II does feature a limited soundtrack, nothing too memorable 
 but catchy enough to keep it on while you play.
  
  Regardless of the presentation, you may want to watch out for Cossacks IIs many stability issues. 
 The game may have trouble installing, and tends to freeze on occasion when saving and loading a 
 game.
  
  Cossacks II wasnt a giant leap forward from the original game. However, the real-time elements 
 are a blast due to the good variety of unit and formation possibilities. The turn-based mode may 
 seem lacking but youll have more than enough to do with all the other modes of play. Fans of the 
 original Cossacks will love this sequel and strategy buffs may find enough here to warrant a purchase.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: teddylove
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  I have bought Cossacks 2 with much hope and at the moment I have no second opinion : I liked the 
 game in many ways but it's such a shame that their is just 1 kind of boat and you can't really 
 play with it.
  So that's why I said no boats.
  One thing that ennoys me is when you play the conquer of Europe section at the end when your winning 
 they all want to surrender.
  
  But there are many things that make the game worth while:
  Nice graphics and sound.
  I likked the many different leaders and cultures you can play.
  My 
 favorite culture is Egypte.
  
  The multiplayer option is pretty cool.
  Din't play much the multiplayer option so I won't talk about it.
  
  I have founded something 
 neat in the system to I know how to change your economics: there 's a .txt file in the progam file 
 of cossaacks 2 and it has the name oconomics there you can chose for how much you buy and sell 
 and for wich price.
  
  To putt this review in wview sentences:
  It's something new and fun, it's senario is played out fast , there are no real boats in the game (only 
 1 stupid little boat for a mission) .
  You can play with 6 cultures and over 24 leaders.
  The calverie and infantry are good so it makes a nice game with some little down but i'm glad if 
 bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDude
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:15 am PT
Review:  Cossacks II, unsurprisingly the sequel to the hit RTS, Cossacks: European Wars, was released and 
 marketed as an 'amazing strategy game of napoleonic era conquest and epic battles' but sadly this 
 is not the case as the game is just plain dull. Read on for my full review!
  
  The first thing that hits you when you load Cossacks up and start playing is the graphics engine, 
 it looks around four or five years old and is completely 2D, and this is most probably not the 
 best way of doing an engine in the gaming culture of today which has a sort of saying that goes 
 'Graphics first, gameplay second' (although I dislike this ethic) . Now, despite the fact that the 
 graphics are 2D everything is surprisingly well detailed and animated; you can make out lots of 
 little details on your soldiers uniforms if you look closely enough, and you can even call some 
 of the animations 'realistic'. With that said I let Cossacks II off with a 5 in the graphical department.
 
  
  Now, gameplay wise the game both plays and feels very different to the original with new features 
 such as 'firing zones', morale and fatigue. Whilst these features are nice and refreshing for the 
 genre they are also a little tricky and hard to understand at first. For example, when you select 
 a squad of infantry and select an enemy squad you have to make a choice between either melee or 
 ranged combat, the latter requiring the enemy to be within either a green, orange or red zone that 
 extends from your soldiers. So, if the enemy is 200 metres away expect them to be in the 'green 
 zone' meaning that your soldiers ranged attacks will barely scratch them, however, if they close 
 in to around 10 metres then they are in 'the red zone' and vulnerable to the full combined fire 
 of your soldiers rifles. Allthough this feature is quite realistic and represents the accuracy 
 of 'old style' weaponry it is also quite easy to 'exploit', especially in online battles (but I 
 won't go into that, as that would be cheating, and as you all should know, 'cheatings is wrong') . 
 The game is also quite repetitive with very similar and 'static' feeling maps, and a dwindling 
 online community that offers too much of a challenge for the new player (and this is very bad as 
 the Singleplayer game against AI gets boring very fast) . So, if you can learn the key tactics and 
 strategies of Cossacks quickly enough then you should be able to compete well enough in online 
 matches, however, if you're as skilled (or should I say skilless?) as me then you have NO chance 
 online.
  
  Cossacks II also features a rather bizzare sound mechanic, with every soldier, regardless of nationality 
 sounding like an American. This is both entertaining and annoying as you send French grenadiers 
 into combat with the 'dreaded English' and hear battle reports of "Formation morale has broken! 
 RUN!" in a thick American accent. Now, onto the sounds that actually matter: the sounds of combat! 
 This is where the game truely (and only) shines, the combat sounds like combat (which can't be 
 said for many games) , swords and bayonets make a realistic metal clanging sound and gunfire crackles 
 like, well, gunfire. One thing that lets the battle audio down however is the fact that soldiers 
 often die without a sound, which is not too realistic and deducts from what little immersion there 
 is in the game.
  
  Lastly is the stability issues that are sometimes encountered in Cossacks II, the game will occasionally 
 crash or slow down randomly even on my machine which is relatively high end, and the 1.1 patch 
 seemed to cause as many issues as it fixed.
  
  So, as a last word, I give Cossacks II a 'mediocre' rating. If you wish to try the game then feel 
 free to do so as you can pick it up cheap at almost any game shop, and who knows, you may even 
 love it! If you want to 'try before you buy' then their is also a demo available at the official 
 site: http://www. cossacks2. de 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2005 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Cossacks 2: The Napoleonic Wars is a superb game! The graphics are gorgeous and the presentation 
 is excellent. What I like the most is the tactical finesse and timing that is required to win. 
 Make no mistake, this is a difficult game. The lowest difficulty level is normal and that will 
 keep you busy for a long time before you are ready to step up a level. Even though men only stood 
 in rows there was still a great amout of Stratagy involved to demoralize and break the other line. 
 The detail in the buildings are absolutly Amazing. The Game play is great there is an empire building 
 campine like Rome total war and there is random map part of the game which is intresting. 
  
  The game brings along six nations that played a leading role in the history of Napoleonic wars. 
 These are France, Britain, Austria, Russia, Prussia and Egypt, with each country possessing its 
 unique and peculiar abilities, architecture, development tree and military features. 
  
  The single player game offers you unique opportunity to experience most known Napoleonic campaigns 
 playing as a prominent figure and commander. 
  Tailor-made AI takes advantage of combat formations and tactical and strategic techniques that 
 allows for "Battles" game mode against computer opponents.
  
  Cossacks II multiplayer game offers two modes - classical Deathmatch and Battles with the latter 
 reproducing real historical battles with possibility to change their outcome. 
  
  After playing this game I give this game 9 out of 10 and There is another RTS game Imperial Glory 
 which also set in the Napolionic wars which is also a good game. Go pick up both games Now you 
 will not be disapointed if you like RTS game, History or both.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panza
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 4, 2005 7:52 am PT
Review:  Cossacks 2: The Napoleonic Wars is a superb game! The graphics are gorgeous and the presentation 
 is excellent. What I like the most is the tactical finesse and timing that is required to win. 
 Make no mistake, this is a difficult game. The lowest difficulty level is normal and that will 
 keep you busy for a long time before you are ready to step up a level. 
  
  You have to put all your men into formation before they become effective fighters. Complement your 
 battalions with officers, drummers and standard bearers and they will fight even more effectively. 
 Its not your standard RTS fare at all. Very sophisticated! 
  
  My only serious criticism (apart from all the ideas for improvement in various areas I have) is 
 the sound. The music is rather obtrusive, it would be better if it only played at certain times, 
 like when youve won or the first big battle. The voice acting is execrable and the American accents 
 really ruin the mood. Now that I think of it the campaign is also pretty weak. Campy story and 
 some of the scenarios are skewed. 
  
  You need a lot of memory to run the game. 512 mb is the minimum with 768 recommended. I can attest 
 that it chugs a lot with 512 mb. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 29, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Cossacks 2 is an immerse strategy game which takes you to the fullest of the game, however, not 
 everything is quite there to be honest, there are many, many, many mistakes in the game which is 
 quite dissapointing, for example 
  
  You cant have 2 vs 2 on Single Player, only 1 vs 1 which is dissapointing
  as well as
  Multiplayer 
 you cant set 2 vs 2 team separately, if you do, it will be you building a base with another person, 
 not your own.
  
  Many bugs flying around on there, as well as mistakes which i could list many more if wanted to.
 
  
  But behold that, the game has a gripping eye catching fun to it, its certainly attractive to the 
 naked eye and the graphics are top notch. The game play itself couldnt be any better its certainly 
 improve that way from the older versions.
  The game should improve soon when they bring patches to resolve this buggy situation and i hope 
 they will but if your intending to play this game totally online may i suggest you will bumb into 
 many bugs which many of them require to restart the game.
  
  I'L look forwards to hearing from the new patches for this game :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
