-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cossacks II: Battle for Europe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cossacksiibattleforeurope/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Core gameplay is still interesting.
 Artificial intelligence is smarter, which makes your job a bit tougher.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The new nations and missions don't really improve the original game all that much.
 Translation issues still crop up throughout the game.
 The musical score is starting to get a bit grating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.9, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 141 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jun 28, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This stand-alone expansion to last year's Napoleonic Wars doesn't add a lot that is noteworthy. 
 

  Cossacks II: Napoleonic Wars, which came out in 2005, was an engaging strategy game that let you 
 relive the pomp and circumstance that was Napoleonic combat. Huge formations of men stately marched 
 around the countryside, only to be cut down by withering gunfire. There's actually much more to 
 it than that, as the game abstracted the feeling of conquering entire swaths of the European countryside 
 quite well. Cossacks II: Battle for Europe repackages that game and adds in some new content. But, 
 at the heart of it, the experience is pretty much identical to that of last year's game.       
   Call it crazy, but warfare in the good ol' days consisted of standing tall in the open and getting 
 shot at on purpose.     

  To be fair, Battle for Europe is a stand-alone expansion, which is how the developers managed to 
 turn it around so quickly. So in addition to the content from Napoleonic Wars, Battle for Europe 
 adds several new nations that you can play as, such as Spain and the Rhine Confederation. Aside 
 from the new nations, Battle for Europe includes a slew of new missions and maps and some improved 
 artificial intelligence. But when you get down to it, there aren't any significant game-changing 
 new features or upgrades to the core game.  

  Like Napoleonic Wars, Battle for Europe offers several different game modes depending on your play 
 style. The skirmish mode lets you battle it out in a number of historical battles, including Waterloo. 
 Meanwhile, the battle mode is like a real-time strategy game, as you get to construct various buildings, 
 gather different resources, and then raise regiments to go off and conquer villages on the map, 
 which feed you more resources. Then there's the Battle for Europe mode (not to be confused with 
 the game's name) . This introduces the turn-based strategic layer that lets you conquer the map 
 of Europe one province at a time, and this is mainly where you'll get to see the new nations in 
 action. However, these new countries feel just like the older ones in many ways, and so their introduction 
 doesn't do a lot to the overall game.  

  Still, Battle for Europe retains some of its interesting gameplay mechanics. For instance, the 
 resource mechanic in Cossacks focuses on the old maxim that "professional soldiers study logistics." 
 It's not enough to simply raise an army, but you've got to keep it fed and supplied with ammo. 
 This is represented in the game by food and coal (gunpowder) . The larger an army you have, the 
 more of both resources you consume, so you must capture and defend important villages on the map, 
 and then make sure that the supply lines are secure so that the pack mules can get to where they 
 need to be.  

  Perhaps the most significant improvement is seen in the artificial intelligence. In the core game, 
 the AI was content to throw regiments at you piecemeal, allowing you to shatter them rather easily. 
 This time around, the AI seems more aware of that danger, and it's better about holding its troops 
 beyond your effective firing range and trying to goad you into wasting your shot first. (In an 
 era where it could take a minute to reload a rifle, firing early could often be fatal.) The AI 
 also seems to be a bit better about flanking you, or using cavalry effectively. Once again, the 
 game uses color-coded range circles to let you know when the enemy is in the "red" zone, which 
 is close enough so you can see the whites of their eyes.  

          You can still try to take over Europe, only this time there are a few more countries to 
 deal with.     

  Multiplayer allows you to battle online in battle or skirmish mode, or in the ratings game, which 
 lets you fight for your respective country in a persistent online game. The ratings mode divides 
 the map of Europe into thousands of little territories, and each match that is fought decides the 
 ownership of a territory. The multiplayer experience is pretty much identical to the single-player 
 one, aside from the fact that you're battling a fellow human mind, rather than the AI. However, 
 you may have latency issues, since it appears most of the game's player base is located in Europe. 

  Unfortunately, the translation issues that plagued Cossacks II also plague Battle for Europe. It's 
 not a biggie, but it is annoying. The production values also remain unchanged, and while the 2D 
 graphical style of the game seems appropriate for the setting (since it looks like paintings come 
 to life at times) , the synthesized, overly dramatic musical score is starting to wear thin at this 
 point. Meanwhile, the recycled video clips showing Russian Napoleonic War reenactors are also a 
 bit too familiar. And that pretty much sums up Battle for Europe. It's essentially Napoleonic Wars 
 with a small amount of new content. There's not a lot here to recommend if you already own Napoleonic 
 Wars, though if you are a newcomer to the series and have a yen for early 19th century warfare, 
 you might want to give it a try.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is the expantion for Cossacks 2 and in this game you get a few more nations to play 
 around with like Spain and the Rhine Confederation. The core gameplay if you have ever played cossacks 
 2 is still pretty similer to the first game. This game simulates historical battles with 150 different 
 units and 180 buildings like Napoleonic Wars, Battle for Europe offers several different game modes 
 depending on your play style. The skirmish mode lets you battle it out in a number of historical 
 battles, including Waterloo. Meanwhile, the battle mode is like a real-time strategy game, as you 
 get to construct various buildings, gather different resources, and then raise regiments to go 
 off and conquer villages on the map, which feed you more resources. Then there's the Battle for 
 Europe mode (not to be confused with the game's name) . This introduces the turn-based strategic 
 layer that lets you conquer the map of Europe one province at a time, and this is mainly where 
 you'll get to see the new nations in action. However, these new countries feel just like the older 
 ones in many ways, and so their introduction doesn't do a lot to the overall game. The mutilplayer 
 part of the game there are skirmish modes where you get a set about of troops and duke it out by 
 building up your base and your army and try to wipe your enemy from the face of the battlefield.
 
  
  Graphics: They are still the same old 2D graphics but they are nicely done and colorful. The moviements 
 are smooth and quite good when soldiers get hit and fall too the ground. Then there is the destruction 
 of the buildings is quite realistic and the buildings are very well detailed.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, from the chopping of wood to the boom of cannons everything sound the 
 way they should sound.
  
  Value: I found this game to have lots of replay value, this game is just so addicttive like standing 
 your men in rows and watching them shoot each colum of men shoot each other and watch men fall 
 and the mutilplayer part make you want to come back for more. All in all this is a pretty good 
 game though some of the new nations don't reallty do to much to change the game entirely. So i 
 have this game 8.5 out of 10. I don't think that gamespot should of gave such a low score for this 
 game. Also I don't like how much memory this game need just to run it considering the graphics 
 are 2-D and such. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
