-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cossacks: Back to War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cossacksbacktowar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.4, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 170 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Nov 20, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Back to War is difficult to recommend to anyone who isn't a die-hard fan of the Cossacks series. 
 

 Cossacks: Back to War is the second expansion pack in the Cossacks series, but it's different from 
 the previous expansion, Art of War, in a few ways. For instance, Back to War is a stand-alone product, 
 and it doesn't actually have a single-player campaign. That's right, it offers only single-player 
 scenarios -- 101 to be exact -- a few of new nations, a handful of new units, and a multiplayer component. 
 This is both good and bad. Back to War has the same great gameplay of the previous two Cossacks 
 games, but is it really enough to justify another expansion?           Back to War includes 101 
 stand-alone scenarios...    

  You may or may not be familiar with the Cossacks series -- a set of real-time strategy games set 
 in 16th-18th century Europe. The series has always let you choose to play as one of many nations, 
 each with its own historically-themed architecture and units. One of the Cossacks series' most 
 unique aspects is that its engine can accommodate thousands of individual units on the battlefield 
 at once. You might think that handling so many soldiers at once would be chaotic, but your units 
 do a pretty good job of staying in formation on their own. Also, the Cossacks engine lets you group 
 together many units into a single army that acts as a single unit. You can then move several of 
 these armies in formation to avoid unnecessary micromanagement during a pitched battle.   

  While the first expansion included several gameplay additions, Back to War has none. That's not 
 to say that the game was in dire need of improvements. In addition to the aforementioned formation 
 controls, the Cossacks series has always had solid gameplay mechanics. It takes a while to get 
 used to the fact that you can build pikemen in the blink of an eye, but Cossacks games generally 
 play like standard real-time strategy games in every regard. You have peon units to build structures 
 and gather the game's six resources. You have infantry, cavalry, artillery, and naval units to 
 flesh out your army. Back to War adds two new nations, Switzerland and Hungary, for a total of 
 20 playable factions in the game. The difference between these is mostly cosmetic however, since 
 every side is functionally equivalent.   

  Each of the 101 scenarios has a good background story, and will give you many objectives ranging 
 from defense, escape, and rescue. You'll find many of the missions to be difficult the first few 
 times you play them, while others can be completed in less than a quarter-hour. As with previous 
 Cossacks titles, the AI in the game can be challenging. This mostly has to do with the fact that 
 it's inhumanly efficient at producing massive armies and sending them against you. It also has 
 the frustrating tendency to destroy its own buildings and units right before you capture them. 
 Back to War's unit pathfinding is generally acceptable, and lets your units auto-acquire targets. 
   

  But Back to War hasn't made any improvements to Cossacks' graphics. Unlike many real-time strategy 
 games that have made the jump from 2D graphics to 3D, Cossacks remains a 2D game, though it still 
 looks good for what it is. And just like its predecessors, Back to War packs the screen with impressive 
 battles between huge armies. However, with the exception of gunpowder units, Back to War's sound 
 is generally lackluster. The game has are no unit acknowledgements, and melee fights simply sound 
 dull.           ... but it's essentially identical to previous Cossacks games -- just without a campaign. 
    

  Should you play Cossacks: Back to War? If you're looking for a great single-player experience, 
 you probably won't find it here. Back to War's 101 individual missions offer plenty of game to 
 play, but they aren't connected in any way, so you won't feel any real achievement at completing 
 any one scenario. Once you finish all the missions, you might try using the game's included map 
 editor to make your own maps. If you're ambitious enough, you can go wild and create your own 101 
 missions. Unfortunately, you can also download 101 missions that other Cossacks fans have already 
 made, and play those, and you wouldn't need Back to War either, especially if you're a casual player 
 who doesn't find Back to War's two new nations to be very important. If you're looking for a good 
 multiplayer game, you'll find that Back to War is certainly functional, and that there are plenty 
 of servers and players online -- but the majority of these are in Europe, so if you aren't, you should 
 be prepared for more online lag than you may be used to if you tend to play on faster online services 
 like Blizzard's Battle. net. Finally, Back to War's $40 price tag is rather steep, considering how 
 few new features it actually offers, despite the fact that it's a stand-alone product.   

  Back to War is difficult to recommend to anyone who isn't a die-hard fan of the Cossacks series. 
 There are simply too many other excellent real-time strategy games on the market, and they sell 
 at a roughly equal price and offer much more bang for the buck. And those who are new to the Cossacks 
 series might be better off getting the recently-released Cossacks: Gold Edition, since it offers 
 both the original game and the Art of War expansion for a lower price.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lebman69
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Cossacks is a very enjoyable game to a certain respect. The graphics is pretty good for an older 
 game and it can run on a lot of computers without lag. You can have up to 8000 units on the screen 
 at one time. Missions are historically accurate.. sort of... but it will give you an idea of what 
 was going on in those times at least. Easy to learn to play.
  
  What I like about this game is how creative you can be. For example, You can make yourself a very 
 powerful fortress that your enemies can't even destroy (unless your playing Multilayer) You can 
 set up defensive positions of towers walls and gates as well as unit formations. You can pick almost 
 any state in Europe in those times including Russia and Ukraine (thus the name Cossacks) also Algeria 
 and Turkey or rather the Ottoman Empire. Each State has there own unique buildings and units. You 
 will see yourself building the Notre Dame if your France or a Mosque if your Turkey. There is a 
 lot of landmarks or historical buildings you will get to build for each state. What confuses me 
 is if your in a valley map of green and your Turkey or Algeria, you build a building and it comes 
 with sand... so your base is sand patches all over the valley floor I find it a little strange 
 because a lot of Turkey isn't sand and major cities in Algeria back in the day didn't have much 
 sand near by... doesn't make sense to bring it with you... 
  
  All the serfs or villagers sound the same. units don't say anything when you click on them the 
 only sounds you hear from Villagers is them chopping wood or gathering stone and sometimes making 
 pointless noises that not even a universal translator can figure out what hes saying. troops or 
 Cavalry don't make any sound unless fighting someone or dieing. Pretty much sound is terrible and 
 it's a complete turn off, however the music is good but you will find yourself in 2 hours of playing 
 that you went over the play list 100 times. Since the sound is really bad in the game I turn it 
 all off and put my own music on so it's all not that bad.
  
  Unit Formations are a bit stupid though unless it is for defensive purposes or if your using pike 
 men for offensive. Even in Cossacks II Formations are somewhat limited and it can be easily destroyed 
 and can have a few programming glitches (like one of your units runs away from the line and goes 
 straight to the enemies base to die then another one will do the same, or they all freeze and won't 
 attack. The only thing good about formations is the extra bonuses they get to attack and defense. 
 If you stand ground your units they get a +9 to defense and a +3 to armor for some reason and its 
 good.. again for defending a marching army or Calvary trying to soop in and capture your villagers. 
 Having formations is like having human walls pretty much.
  
  Calvary units is the most enjoyable because they move fast and have amazing attack. Don't put them 
 in formations they become very dumb if you do and vulnerable since they are all tight next to each 
 other. There is lots of different cannons too (with poor sound though) but if your playing the 
 AI maybe put the setting to making them expensive since the AI loves to use Motars on your base 
 when it finds it hard to reach, and it gets really annoying seeing pieces of your base flying all 
 over the place killing everyone (and they never stop doing it either, you'd come in and kill them 
 off.. oh look another 6 waves of the same unit formation and motars on it's way...)
  
  The thing I love most about this game is the sea battles. Battle ships are amazing and almost realistic 
 for shots and movement. There are somewhat slow moving and expensive depending on size and how 
 many you build (increase in price the more you build for most of ships) not all your cannons hit 
 your target. So if you have little ships running around your enemy, you will find it amusing to 
 see cannon balls splashing into the water missing your little boat as you do a few sucker shots 
 at them and high tailing it out of there towards your fleet. In this expansion you get a massive 
 ship called the Victoria. It fires at one time 64 or some shots per vally. A slow reload but having 
 2 of them defending a sea way can mean you own the sea way; ships get wiped out from these bad 
 boys. There weakness is close combat since they can't shoot too close and they are SO slow.
  
  The game would be a lot better if the AI was better and made real Formations and defensive 
 capabilities. I find myself murdering them whenever I feel like attacking. I'm not an expert player 
 don't get me wrong but I can kill off 4 AI all on the same team against just me. And I'm very confident 
 ANYONE who plays Strategy games will know what I mean you can see how easy they are on very hard 
 lol.
  
  I hope my review was helpful. This game makes a good "I'm really bored and I got a laptop or decent 
 PC and I have 2 hours to waste" this game is perfect. I'd play online with friends. Have little 
 LAN parties or whatever. I'd stay way from the public because everyone has different versions of 
 the game which will be difficult in finding someone with your own version. Also a lot of players 
 don't speak English since its a Euro game, friends makes it easier and more enjoyable anyways 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruno-K
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  When you hear epic strategy game what you remember? Total War?
  Ok, Total War series are great and all but TW is not the exactly gameplay of AoE, so many people 
 prefer the resource-gatherin' play (I do) .
  
  --I Reviewing BACK TO WAR 'cause I think it's a must have for the complete Cossacks experience. 
 --
  
  Then, you play Cossacks. Ye's Ol Good Resource Gatherin' game and simply discover that you can 
 have thousands of units under your control. When it was launched and I discovered this feature, 
 I was like Damn God .
  
  The Gameplay is fantastic, specially if you are an old RTS player and know exactly what to do in 
 that kind of games. In the game the resources are not only for building and creating units. You'll 
 need food for your units, or they'll die of famine. Your need iron and coal to your cannons, towers, 
 ships, muskets shoot. You'll need gold for mercenaries... and if your gold supply is over, the 
 mercs you uprise against you.
  The Naval combat is simply amazing. The Ships sail slow, like the epoch's true ships. When they 
 fire cannons at the others ship, you see smoke coming out. When the ship is hit by an cannonball... 
 big pieces of wood fly over and damage nearby units. This thing also happens with artillery/buildings. 
 When the mortar's cannonballs hits a building, pieces fly and may kill a passing by vilalger or 
 soldier.
  
  The Sound of the artillery is terrific, specially if have a big bunch of mortars firing at once. 
 Also, you hear when the cannonball is falling with that loud noise. The Graphics were great but 
 many players will consider outdated.
  
  Ending, Cossacks is a great game. Any RTS Fan will be pleasured with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Cossacks : Back to War is the stand alone expantion pack to the original Cossacks: Europiean 
 Wars . In the single player, You get to controll twenty nations along with two new nations which 
 are Switzerland and Hungary with eight new units to each nation. there are also 101 single mission 
 scenarios which has a good background story, and will give you many objectives ranging from defense, 
 escape, and rescue. You'll find many of the missions to be difficult the first few times you play 
 them, while others can be completed in less than a quarter-hour. As with previous Cossacks titles, 
 the AI in the game can be challenging. This mostly has to do with the fact that it's inhumanly 
 efficient at producing massive armies and sending them against you. Again you can produce thousands 
 apoun thousands of troops and hundreds of ships you there is water nearby to send and destroy the 
 enemy. There is also a multiplayer portion of the game which has not really being changed all that 
 much. You still fight against another person over the internet in a sever which can hold up to 
 eight people. (The Multiplayer part of the game can be quite addictive.)
  
  Graphics: There has being no improvement in the graphics in this expantion pack. The graphics are 
 a mixture of 3-D and 2-D graphics and are quite colorful. I have to say that the buildings are 
 very nicely detailed and are are fully 3-D and are bigger then the people, unlike some RTS games. 
 Also the exlotion and destruction effects are not bad but they could be better.
  
  Sound: The sound (s) is not bad. The fireing of guns and explotions all sound the way they shoud 
 but could be done a little better and more realisticly which is done in Cossacks 2. Also the voice 
 covers is not bad either.
  
  Value: All in all this is an ok game. Back to War's 101 individual missions offer plenty of game 
 to play, but they aren't connected in any way, so you won't feel any real achievement at completing 
 any one scenario. Once your done you can make your own maps to play and also play the multuplayer 
 part of game which will keep your occupied for a number of hours.
  I give this game 8.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jkandrey
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game makes original Cossacks complete, adds many new stuff, and it's better, than Art Of War. 
 The graphics is crap, but when it was released?! In 2002, so I think, in 2002 this graphics was 
 very good for strategy. The only problem with Cossacks game: you can't play very long time, because 
 you will come to point, when game will bore you. Anyway I liked this Cossacks add-on very much, 
 and I didn't even played Cossacks 2 yet. :)
  New stuff is great, new buildings, nations, weapons, animals, espesially camels, but I didn't played 
 for arabians to ride camels.
  I personally think, that Cossacks is best strategy for 2002 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game Cossacks is a rather good RTS game. i'll make this review short because i want to go 
 back to gameing.
  
  The gameplay is like no other game that i have played before when i frist played it. You use Muskets 
 and early rifles and line you men up and fire at each other. There are many nations you can play 
 from England to Poland
  
  Graphics: Well the graphics could of been done better but they are rather good and the movement 
 of the soldiers are pretty well done but the cannon reloading could of been done better but since 
 it came out in 2002 i can forgive CDV for that. The Building are really well done they are very 
 well detailed.
  
  Value: This game has alot of different nations and historic missions that will keep you Busy for 
 a good day or two. 7.5/10 Go out at get this game.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
