-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cossacks: The Art of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cossackstheartofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 22, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.8, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 243 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Mar 31, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its additions to the gameplay make Cossacks much more enjoyable by opening up more strategic options. 
 

 Cossacks: The Art of War is the expansion pack to last year's Cossacks: European Wars by GSC Game 
 World. Cossacks is a real-time strategy game set in Europe during the 17th through 18th centuries. 
 What makes the game particularly interesting is that it focuses on epic-scale historical events 
 and the nations that forged them. The Art of War continues on this theme by adding new campaigns, 
 historical battles, and two new nations. While the expansion doesn't drastically change the core 
 elements, its additions to the gameplay make Cossacks much more enjoyable by opening up more strategic 
 options.
 
 The Art of War's new content will keep any strategy fan busy for quite a while. There are five new 
 campaigns, which will place you in command of notable historical figures like King Frederick of 
 Prussia or Algerian pirates in the Mediterranean. Each campaign spans several missions and will 
 take you all over Europe as you proceed. If the campaigns weren't enough, there are also new single-player 
 missions and new historical battles to fight. Bavaria and Denmark have been added to the roster 
 of playable nations, but curiously enough, neither is featured prominently in any of the new missions. 
 At any rate, these are very similar to every other European nation in the game. There are also 
 new units in The Art of War. The majority are ships that you can build once your nation advances 
 to the 18th century. They make naval battles much more devastating and stress importance of dominating 
 the seas if the map has water.
 
 There are numerous new options to select when starting a new battle. First of all, you can now select 
 a difficulty rating when playing campaign missions. Being able to adjust the skill level of the 
 opponent makes the campaigns accessible to both new players and to those with a lot more experience. 
 Anyone should enjoy the new customization options in launching a random map, though. There is a 
 huge list of choices to select from. You can start the game with an army, or with cannons, or perhaps 
 you'd just like a swarm of peasants. There are also other types of choices, like starting in the 
 18th century or having the whole map revealed. You can disable the capturing of peasants and buildings 
 and also choose to not let players build cannons and defensive structures. One of the more interesting 
 options is peacetime. The host can select a length of time when players can build up their economy 
 and military with no pressure. What prevents you from attacking someone else? If you attack someone 
 during peacetime, your attacking units will be destroyed instead. Another noteworthy addition to 
 single-player random maps is that you can now choose teams for the computer opponents. That way, 
 you can enjoy a large-scale battle by yourself without having to worry about seven nations demolishing 
 you within minutes. With all of these different options, players are bound to find a game type 
 that they can enjoy.
 
 Once in the game, you'll find that there are lots of gameplay improvements. The most drastic change 
 is that each artillery depot can now field only five cannons at a time. An artillery depot will 
 not let you build a sixth cannon if it has already produced five that are still on the battlefield. 
 Since there's an exponentially increasing cost associated with constructing multiple buildings 
 of the same type, this effectively limits the number of cannons you can have in an army. It helps 
 prevent stalemates when players avoid attacking for fear of losing their entire army, and it more 
 accurately represents that artillery was expensive to create and maintain.
 
 Other improvements are seemingly simple yet strategically important. Units can now be ordered to 
 guard other units or patrol an area. Both of these options are best used to defend units that can 
 be captured, such as cannons and peasants. Artillery now has the ability to attack the ground to 
 ward off incoming forces threatening your borders. Formations have been tweaked as well. You can 
 group formations to act as a single entity. Now you won't have to constantly arrange your units 
 individually on the battlefield. You can also replenish formations that have suffered losses, but 
 it's not entirely useful considering the massive losses of life in the later parts of the game.
 
 
 There are a few areas that The Art of War did not change, some of which are a bit disappointing. 
 The game's graphics and sound have not improved since the original game, but that's not that big 
 of a deal. The game still looks good -- nothing is more satisfying than being able to see thousands 
 of pikemen on the screen, marching into battle. The absence of unit acknowledgements is still disappointing, 
 but at least cannon fire is still as thunderous as ever. Some AI issues weren't addressed, and 
 they can make the game vexing. The computer is still inhumanly efficient -- teaming up with a computer 
 player will make you realize just how cheap the AI can be. Also, when you try to capture the AI's 
 structures and cannons, it will still destroy most of them right as you're about to gain control.
 
 
 The Art of War may not make a whole new game of Cossacks, but that's not a bad thing. With The Art 
 of War, Cossacks becomes an even better real-time strategy game for fans of the genre or the historical 
 period. The fully featured control scheme puts many competing games' control schemes to shame, 
 and the developer was wise to improve upon that even further. The new random map choices add a 
 near-limitless variety of gameplay options for gamers of any skill level, and the new campaigns 
 and missions will keep you playing even longer. All of this can be had in a low-priced $19.99 expansion, 
 so there's no reason why an RTS fan should skip this title. 
 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FlightNumber15
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  yes, this is a great game. thats all i can say.
  
  
  
  please dont read this, i had to do this to have 100 words 
  
  
  ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Cossacks: The art of War is an great stand alone expantion pack. This game is set in 
 Europe during the 17th through 18th centuries. What makes the game particularly interesting is 
 that it focuses on epic-scale historical events and the nations that forged them, since there are 
 not many games set during this time period. Acculy this is the first game of it's kind set during 
 this time period. There are two new nations which are Bavaria and Denmark added on to the 20-22 
 nations allready in the game. There are five new campaigns with thirty new missons in Prussia, 
 Austria, Poland, Algera and Saxony. But one frustrating thing in this game is the masses of troops 
 that could reach into the thousands if you wanted were incredibly hard to handle on what could 
 quickly turn into a truly messy battlefield where half of your troops could be annihilated without 
 you ever realizing it until it was too late if you are trying to do a number of things at the same 
 time. In the multiplayer part of the game it is quite addictive and the severs can hold from two 
 to eight players. The other major addition to the multiplayer is the global ranking system that 
 will keep tabs on the outcomes of matches played in the league, which of course, gets everybody 
 more involved and hyped up to play. Players that log in with their ranking name will get points 
 every time they win a game. Graphics: The graphics are not bad but they have not being improved 
 to much from the original. But the graphics still look great with a colorful mixture of 2-D and 
 3-D graphics. I have to meantion the buildings which is particually well done because they are 
 very detailed in every way to builds at that time. The effects like guns firing and cannon balls 
 hiting buildings are allright but what can you expect it's kinda an old game.
  
  Sound: The sound (s) are quite well done. Eveyrthing from the firing of guns to the voice covers 
 are pretty well done and sound the way they should sound. Value: All in all this is a very good 
 expantion pack with a single player which is replayable because of the number of ways you can fight 
 the enemy. Also there is a map create part which you can make you own maps and play in the multuplayer 
 part of the game. In the multiplayer part of the game it is quite addictive and you can easily 
 spend hours just playing it, fighting against others. So I give this game 9.0 out 10. This is certainly 
 one of the best and most realistic RTS games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrij77
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  This is a game about Cossacks. Cossack are Ukranian soldiers meaning free people so i tell u to 
 try this game it has map editor wich is soo much fun i spent the hole day playing the game as a 
 british army VS russian i will upload some vidoes for this OK soo see ya there who wver has the 
 game i will meet ya online. So the most soldiers i gt was 300,000 and my computer did no lag at 
 all i recomand this game to all the people that likes stretegy games well i need some one to email 
 me and tell me if they wonna join me in my video crew and we will creat an awsome vidoe about British 
 VS Russian Army and Some Uranian Soldiers who wants to join please email me or messege me in here 
 OK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mucilago
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  For me cossacks it is a greatest game ,because this game have uniq interface that you cant find 
 in any strategy game now, also it is all traditon that was absolutely true autors bring us to this 
 game. superbbbbbbbb bbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb 
 bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbb bbbbb bbbbbb bbbb bbbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb 
 bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbb bbbbb bbbbbb bbbb bbbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbb bbbbb bbbbbb 
 bbbb bbbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb 
 bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb 
 bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbbb bbbbb bbbbb bbbbbb bbbb bbb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCossack
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  When I played Cossacks: EW, I really didn't think it could get any better. However, after chopping 
 wood for 2 weeks, I finally worked up the cash to buy The Art of War way back in April, 2002. 
 
  
  Cossacks is simply the best thing to ever happen to the PC. It is a near perfect game, which surpasses 
 all the strategy games that were around at it's release, and even all around today. It's incredibly 
 much better than Cossacks II, and it's only relative rival is the American Conquest series, but 
 they also seem to fall short gameplay wise.
  
  Cossacks is a game which is highly inspired by the Age of Empires series; but all the attributes 
 that Cossacks borrowed from AoE, were successfully built upon and perfected. The handling of armies 
 up to 8,000 units is perfect, it is so easy to handle, and truly allows a multitude of tactics 
 to be employed. 
  
  Each nation is unique, in the way you play it. Some nations are more unique than others, but it 
 does not detract from the game's historical correctness. The armies of Western Europe at the time 
 were exceedingly similar, with only a handful of unique regiments and army classes differentiating 
 them. However, when you move Eastwards, the armies become very different. Ukraine, Russia and Poland 
 are all different from each other and from all the other nations in the game. Turkey and Algeria 
 are also extremely different from the others, but they are somewhat more similar to eachother, 
 but that too is historically realistic, as their tactics are very different, due to Algeria lacking 
 modern soldiers.
  
  Even with the nations being very unique, the game is extremely well balanced. Each nation is capable 
 of defeating another, as long as you make use of their strengths and the opposing nations weaknesses 
 appropriately.
  
  The singleplayer campaigns in Cossacks are great fun, and quite difficult, although the expansion's 
 campaigns may not be as enticing as the original's campaign for Ukrainian independence (I believe 
 this campaign is the centrepiece of the entire game) , the Caribbean campaign and so on. 
  
  The game even has a random map generator, which will really add to the replayability value, and 
 in many ways, will probably be the main force keeping you glued to the game. The options that you 
 can use are so numerous, it'd be pointless to list them all here. Each option boads for a different 
 type of tactics, and as the nations are so different, as long as you change nation and options, 
 it's virtually impossible to play a game the same way twice, unless you are fixated with one specific 
 tactic.
  
  Multiplayer is also one of the game's strong points, with an online ranking system outdoing all 
 of it's competition. The only other games that can compete with it are Cossacks II, American Conquest 
 and Battlefield 2.
  
  In conclusion, Cossacks truly is an amazing game, which will keep you enthralled for as long as 
 you pleased. I've been playing it ever since the original was first released, and I still consider 
 it the best strategy game available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I am going to make this review short because i want to get back to gameing.
  
  Like I said in the first Cossacks review this is a great game and the expantion adds a whole lot 
 more Histoical war's you can play. There are many more Nations added to the game which is a good 
 thing The Graphics are a bit of an improvemet but not much the building are well detailed. I still 
 think that they should put faces on there soldiers and put expressons on them. In the end i say 
 this is a great expation for cossacks go out and get it. I would give this expation 8/10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
