-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cossacks: European Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cossackseuropeanwars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 11, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.8, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 415 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Apr 14, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you don't mind another variation on an oft-played theme, Cossacks has more than enough variety 
 to ensure fun empire building and colorful clashes. 

 Cossacks: European Wars is a game about epic battles in one of the most turbulent eras in European 
 history. Mighty nation-states were forged in the fires of the battlefield, and massive fleets set 
 sail with dreams of conquest. It was a time of war after bloody war, wars lasting decades, wars 
 involving nearly every European nation. These dramatic events of the 16th through 18th centuries 
 in Europe have provided Ukrainian developer GSC Game World with ample material for a fairly ambitious, 
 if flawed, real-time strategy game.           The gameplay in Cossacks is reminiscent of Age of 
 Empires II.     

  At first glance, Cossacks looks like a real-time strategy game aimed at history majors. The details 
 of the conflicts featured in the game, like the Thirty Years' War and the War for Austrian Succession, 
 aren't exactly common knowledge, and units like the spakh (Turkish cavalry) and serdiuk (Ukrainian 
 musketeer) will seem obscure to players without an encyclopedic knowledge of military history. 
 Initially, Cossacks also looks like an Age of Empires II clone, just set a few centuries later. 
 The similarities are many and striking. Cossacks features a very similar isometric view, visual 
 style, unit scale, iconic interface, resource display, and map. Villagers harvest materials like 
 wood, stone, and gold. Priests act as adjuncts to your troops, and historically based military 
 units essentially work on a simple rock-paper-scissors combat model, in that each unit specializes 
 in attacks on another particular type of unit.   

  Fortunately, there's a bit more to Cossacks than first meets the eye. You'll enjoy a lot of diversity, 
 if nothing else. You can play as 16 different factions: Algeria, Austria, England, France, Netherlands, 
 Piemonte, Poland, Portugal, Prussia, Russia, Saxony, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine, and Venice. 
 Each nation fields a variety of military units from four basic categories: infantry, cavalry, artillery, 
 and navy. Each country can also pursue unique paths through 300 possible technology tree upgrades. 
 It all might sound like a bit much, and sometimes it is, but there's a decent tutorial, as well 
 as an extensive encyclopedia feature about the units, technology, and history featured in the game. 
   

  One of the game's most touted features is the ability to field enormous armies totaling 8,000 units -- at 
 least in theory. Games will often end with several hundred peasants toiling for you, but likely 
 fewer military units. For example, repeated, well-executed light cavalry raids against enemy peasants 
 and resource centers can so weaken your foe that only a hundred or so troops might be needed to 
 march in and deliver the coup de grace.           Cossacks lets you field gigantic armies of various 
 European forces.    

  Either way, you'll get a lot of replayability from the game. There are four campaigns, ranging 
 from the Thirty Years' War to the battle for Ukrainian independence, though poorly integrated scripted 
 events and an awkward attempt at injecting some role-playing into the game make these rather uninspired. 
 You can also play ten much better single scenarios, and there's a skirmish mode that lets you confront 
 up to six computer-controlled opponents on random maps generated according to basic criteria you 
 set. Multiplayer mode lets you "deathmatch" on random maps or fight in historical battles from 
 the Seven Years' War, the War of Spanish Succession, and others.   

  Gameplay conservatively follows a very traditional, straightforward real-time strategy formula. 
 Your faction's town hall, apparently doubling as a maternity ward, creates peasants, who in turn 
 erect new buildings like a barracks to produce military units or an academy to research technology 
 upgrades. After you select a peasant and right-click on a resource center, be it for food, wood, 
 stone, gold, iron, or coal, the villager will trot off and get to work. Fortunately, you usually 
 don't have to hold peasants' hands and constantly issue new orders. Mines, farms, and so on require 
 little if any maintenance and just keep cranking out vital goods when worked by your serfs. Grain 
 fields are automatically replanted after each harvesting, for instance. The context-sensitive point-and-click 
 interface makes controlling peasants, raising or razing buildings, and commanding troops fairly 
 easy and intuitive. However, an order queue and easier unit selection would have been helpful. 
    

 Units are generated very rapidly, and you'll amass substantial armies and fleets in no time, though 
 computer-controlled factions sometimes seem to produce units with improbable efficiency. With officers 
 present, you can form squads and set formations, which are vital for maintaining control in the 
 big battles that can try your reflexes more than your tactical skill. Since tactics work on simple 
 principles, these formations are important for ensuring you have the right unit in place to counter 
 a particular enemy. Sadly, tactics are only so important, since a mad rush with a lot of random 
 troops can often overpower the enemy, albeit sloppily.           You can array your troops in various 
 formations.    

  Resource management is arguably the heart of the game -- military units don't merely cost material 
 to be produced, but also to be maintained. Since an army travels on its stomach, you'll watch your 
 food stores constantly dwindle as your armies and populace grow. Projectile weapons like muskets 
 also use coal and iron with each shot, and cannons and other heavy weaponry cost gold to maintain. 
   

  Given the number of resources and troops you'll have to manage, larger scenarios risk becoming 
 overwhelming. While you can pause the game to help you track your situation, you unfortunately 
 can't issue any orders while paused, which reduces the possibility for precise tactics. However, 
 you can set the game speed to your liking, ranging anywhere from slow motion to impossibly fast. 
 Regardless of the game speed, weak unit pathfinding can wreak havoc on your plans, as large military 
 formations fall apart and peasants blithely march off toward enemy territory instead of taking 
 a reasonable route to work.   

  Even when they go astray, units are nevertheless fun to watch. The crisp, detailed 2D unit and 
 background animations are colorful and fluid. Peasants wade through flowing fields of wheat, later 
 lugging bags of grain to the local mill. Cavalrymen's horses buck and rear, and musketeers reload 
 after each shot, though units tend to be cute rather than menacing, thanks to the cartoony yet 
 appealing visual style. Some of the buildings also feature clever little animations, like the Spanish 
 Academy, with its bubbling courtyard fountain.           Markets and other more-complex features 
 make Cossacks fairly involved.    

  While the graphics are often attractive, the game's sound is less than stellar. The blatant score 
 gets old in a hurry, though some of the more exotic-tinged themes can be catchy for a while. Fortunately, 
 you can toggle the music off. Buildings emit a characteristic sound when selected, such as a city 
 bell or a miner's pickax striking rock, but units don't issue verbal command responses: Don't expect 
 to grow attached to them; they don't have distinct personalities like units in games such as Starcraft. 
 That's unfortunate, given the possibilities for employing relatively exotic languages or accents. 
 Combat sound effects are above average, though, and in larger battles, the roar of massive cannonades 
 and the clash of sabers are entertaining. Unfortunately, you may find that the effects are often 
 marred by an odd and frequent staticlike popping.   

  Cossacks can be very entertaining. What it does, it does quite well. At the same time, it can grow 
 dull quickly for anyone with more than a passing familiarity with other real-time strategy games, 
 particularly the superb Age of Empires II and its expansion. Cossacks follows existing formulas 
 too closely. Even its somewhat distinctive features, like the potentially huge number of peasants 
 and troops you can command, don't lessen the feeling that you've already played this game in other 
 guises many times before. Still, if you don't mind another variation on an oft-played theme, Cossacks 
 has more than enough variety to ensure fun empire building and colorful clashes.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in Cossacks: European Wars is like non that I have every played before, 
 when I first played it. That is to say in terms of the battles fought in the game. There is still 
 the micro-management like anyother RTS games like building things and collecting minerals and wood 
 and food. The first thing I would like to meantion is the time periiod, There is the first RTS 
 game of it's kind to be set during the renaissance time period. Meaning that people used matchlock 
 and flintlock guns. Also the Battles are quite diffrent as well. You can create thousands apon 
 thousands of troops and line them all up and have them fire huge vollys of bullets at the enemy. 
 It's quite enjoyable to watch men topple over and all. You also get to control ships which can 
 change the battle in many ways like they can help with laying waste to the enemy base and help 
 out with land battles from sea... if they are close enough that is. Well in the single player part 
 of the game there are five campains which take you between 16th to early 18th century Europe. and 
 there are also thirty six tutorial missons, 10 single missons and twelve hisotrical battles. There 
 is also a multiplayer part of the game which can host up to seven players fighting against each 
 other.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are allright but they are definatly not the best for the time. It is is 
 mixture of 2-D characaters and enviroment with 3-D buildings. The movement of the characters are 
 fluent which is nice and the effects of things are not bad either but could be done better. Also 
 everything is very colorful and nice to look at.
  
  Sound: The sound is quite nice. THe voice covers are well done and the explotions are good too, 
 it sound like the accuall thing they are suppost to be.
  
  Value: All in all this is quite a fun game for anyone who loves history or RTS games because of 
 the shear size that you can get your amies at. There is also a huge replayability with this game 
 with the multuplayer and you can play the single player over again and still have fun with it. 
 So I give this game 8.8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkphoenix777
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The core design of the gameplay plays true to previous games in the genre, in that your 
 fundamental goal involves building a base from which to gather resources and attack your oponent 
 [don't mess with proven formulas] . However, the innovation in this department involves the sheer 
 scale of the armies you can command. Where previous installments of RTS games (namely Age of Empires) 
 allowed the player to command maybe 50-100 men maximum (which I'm not complaining about!) Cossacks 
 allows for virtually unlimited numbers, leading to vast pitched battles. What's more, you're given 
 the option to organise these troops into regiments of different sizes with a commanding officer 
 and drummer (or, in the case of 18th Century England, a bag-piper) , which in turn can be arranged 
 into different formations. All of this adds a tremendous sense of realism which has never really 
 been present in previous games of the genre. While this might sound off-putting to some gamers 
 (i. e. larger scale = more to control) the game displays everything subtly so even the most squeamish 
 player will get used to it fairly quickly ( which can't be so easily said of later games in the 
 series) . One of the highlights of the gameplay occurs during online multiplayer, where you're rapidly 
 trying to build a huge army, and eagerly anticipating researching the hot air balloon technology 
 to see what your opponent has conjured up to counter it.
  
  Graphics: Does what it says on the tin: nothing innovative but nothing too complicated as to confuse 
 you and hinder your pace (such as the overly large buildings in the later games which would take 
 up the whole screen when hovered over) .
  
  Sound: The music in Cossacks: European Wars is fantastic: totally befitting of the period in which 
 it's set and instantly memorable. Sound effects are also impressive: there's nothing better than 
 marching into battle to the sound of the snare-drum and your commanding officer barking orders, 
 while cannon-fire echoes in the distance.
  
  Value: Considering the game can be bought for next to nothing from any source nowadays, and the 
 fact that literally hundreds of hours can be spent on a multiplayer mode which never really gets 
 dull, as well as a competent campaign mode, there's no reason to award this attribute anything 
 less than a perfect 10.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: For anybody interested in a Napoleonic Era RTS that ticks all the boxes and still 
 stands up well today, why look any further? The developers took a brave step in delivering a game 
 based on an era where melee combat wasn't standard (which, in a genre rife with melee-based combat, 
 is some feat) and they succeeded in every way. My recommendation can't be stressed enough! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Cossacks : European Wars , is a sorprisingly good dame. Although its graphics are not that good 
 , its gameplay is what saves the day. I features many different types of units like for example 
 , Musketeers , Sweedish Riders , Frigates , Dattle ships , mortars , etc. It has much to offer 
 and is unique in some aspects. For example , its has Mortars , that fire small rounds that fly 
 into the sky and hit very dong distances. Also the fact that logicly there is no pop limit and 
 you can make squads of soldiers coonsisting of 500 , is really fun , and the reacton of power full 
 cannons , cavalry , Infanrty and lots of other things make the battle field alive. What is bad 
 about this game it that the enemy AI is kind of scripted , or i better words , not uniqe. It is 
 because if you play a scenario with 4 Computer players , play for 14 minutes , and stop the game 
 , you will notice that the , thec reserce happened in the same time , Popuation size is almost 
 the same etc. I recomand this game for who like RTS or likes games of the 17th Centry era 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otownshend
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  When I started playing the game, I was not expecting the high detail of the game and the sound!
 
  The units are nicely done inculding the warships, I love the battleship with it's cannons firing 
 constantly in to anything it can fire apon!
  It took me a while to master but I have finely got the hang of it!
  
  The troop movement I 
 find is realistic, where there prepare to fire and fire in a line not all over the place! On one 
 game there is no Iron on the map to mine, I did not realise how to get more, until I saw my market, 
 which I built and the enermy were coming in there 100's! The I bought as much as I could, and all 
 my unitls and towers opened fire! Fantastic!!!
  
  I have recommended this game to my friends and they play it as well!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Cossacks are my favorite strategy game of all games. It's very addictive, and very interesting. 
 The game was released like in 2000 and by that time it was one of the best, still right now it 
 has amazing gameplay, and sound. The graphics by today is not the best but i love it. The game 
 runs at any todays computer. I very like that game has build on the historical events, and you 
 can replay some great battles of all times. Also, it has like 16 European nations, each nation 
 represents by unique troops, buildings and qualities. I have played Cossacks for about a year, 
 and i have walked through all the missions and campaigns, . .... My advice to get it and play it
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: looksofat
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  So let me do this. The game Cossacks (i wont be including the European wars in here due to the 
 lack of time) is a strategy game which came out a couple of years ago. For its time the capability 
 of the engine to put thousands of soldiers on a map was amazing. Never before had I seen such fierce 
 fighting and this game certainly has loads of it. I might even say that you wont get through a 
 random map battle without a couple of thousand soldiers killed. YOUR soldiers. Unless you are very 
 good :) . 
  Gameplay: The gameplay is quite good, but the relative stupidity of the AI grants serious lack 
 to it. You can get thousand of soldiers on the field relatively quicky and the ability to take 
 enemy civilian buildings is, well quite stupid for me. If you play the game on the easiest level 
 the computer wont form any formations at all, it wont collect resources the way it could and it 
 wont fight the way it can. If you play it on the hardest than, well i rarely get to survive for 
 very long, due to the fact that it rushes up with mercenaries very quickly.
  Okey, there are a lot of buildings in the game, and there are also plenty of research to be done. 
 You can collect resources for infinite from the same spot. I wonder why the maps have more than 
 400+ wood spots if you need only one in the whole game. Another thing is that this game wasnt ment 
 for such fast computers as we have today, and It runs WAAAAAY to fast for an ordinary human to 
 withstand. Even on the slowest setting it runs way too fast than it should. But overall i would 
 give a good 8 for gameplay.
  Graphics: The graphics are, well the game looks quite ugly but the ability of thousands of soldiers 
 on the battle map is a great achievment. The good part of the game is that the explosions are very 
 well made and i think that they are one of the best parts of the game. Graphics get a good 7, sorry 
 i would love to give more but somehow i think that they could have done it better.
  Sound: You gotta looooove it. When you have 1000 grenadiers firing at each other and charging at 
 the sound of drums you got to smile and order you cannons to fire. By sound i think this is probably 
 the greatest in a strategy game i ever played to the day I got this game. Well of course R: TW has 
 better sound but come on, this game is old. Sound is perfect for me.
  Value: A hard thing to say. The Sp of the game is good, and i prefer it over the Mp. The campaigns 
 for this game are waaaaay too hard and I wasnt able to complete them even with the cheat codes. 
 Well i wasnt able to complete one of six but still... :) After a while the game will start to repeat 
 itself but thats why well, about 20 nations are included. Each has some unique units and you may 
 like to play them through. Value gets 8.
  
  Considering everything this game is an Instant classic, and i beleive two expansion packs came 
 out for it and there is the sequel Cossacks: Napoleonic Wars that is coming soon.
  To fully enjoy it i would consider this game a must have. It shouldnt cost too much these days... 
 
  
  I hope you liked my review and that i will get some thungs up ;) . I am off to write another review 
 and i hope you will like that one too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ninja
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 16, 2004 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games. Although this is an old game and has cheap graphics its gameplay 
 makes up for it.
  
  Graphics:
  Not to shabby considering its an old game. Any graphics card can support this game so don't worry 
 to much about graphics. Overall for the graphics is a 7.0.
  
  Gameplay:
  The graphics aren't to good but, the gameplay is great. You have a wide variety of units and buildings 
 to choose from. Sending thousands of men into battle on this kind of graphics engine is amazing. Huge 
 fights break out. Ship battles are great also you can have huge ship battles that give the game 
 a different view. Overall for the gameplay is a 9.0.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds pretty good also. The sound of hundreds of musketeers firing makes you feel like your 
 inside the battle... literally. Overall for sound is a 7.0.
  
  Value:
  This game is worth your money unless you hate games like these then don't buy it. Also, try buying 
 the expansion for the game "Art of war" which has more features, units, and countrys to pick from. Overall 
 for Value is 8.0.
  
  Overall:
  "Cossacks" is a great game that is a must have. You will be imersed in this game for hours.
  So 
 go out and buy it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
