-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Counter-Strike: Condition Zero
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/counterstrikeconditionzero/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 6.6, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 3,740 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Turtle Rock
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Mar 23, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Condition Zero's release is overshadowed by no fewer than three new technologically advanced, highly 
 anticipated shooters, which all cast a harsh light on what is essentially a 6-year-old game -- albeit 
 a classic one. 

  When Counter-Strike: Condition Zero was first announced three years ago, it seemed like a decent 
 enough idea. The definitive first-person shooter mod was at the height of its popularity, so having 
 a single-player game based on the winning formula sounded like a good way to win a new following 
 and perhaps entice even more people to venture online. However, those who have been reading up 
 on the game over the years know that development has been a bumpy ride. The duty of making Condition 
 Zero has practically been passed around more than the collection basket at Easter Mass. What started 
 internally at Valve Software quickly moved to Gearbox, then to Ritual Entertainment, and finally 
 over to Turtle Rock Studios. Given such an unusual development path, Condition Zero is surprisingly 
 enjoyable, thanks mostly to some remarkable artificial intelligence. Unfortunately, the game will 
 be remembered as a victim of its own delays. While the core gameplay is timeless, Condition Zero's 
 release is overshadowed by no fewer than three technologically advanced, highly anticipated shooters, 
 which all cast a harsh light on what is essentially a 6-year-old game -- albeit a classic one.  

 
          Bombing maps are one of the classic gameplay types available in Condition Zero.     

 
  By now, most FPS fans at least know what Counter-Strike is and have likely played it or have seen 
 it. For those of you who have recently been paroled from a lengthy incarceration or have awakened 
 from a coma, Counter-Strike is a team-based tactical shooter that pits terrorists versus counterterrorists 
 in round-based match play. In the game's current incarnation, there are two game types -- bombing 
 and hostage rescue. Bombing maps require the terrorist team to plant and detonate a time bomb in 
 one of two bombing areas while the counterterrorists guard these sites. Hostage rescue involves 
 having the terrorists guard computer-controlled civilians while the counterterrorists try to rescue 
 them. In practice, both game types often result in one team or the other being eliminated in bloody, 
 fast shoot-outs.  

  Players earn money based on their performances in the previous rounds, and with this money, they 
 can buy weapons at the beginning of each subsequent round (and those who survive the last round 
 keep their guns) . The game's arsenal is based on real-life weapons, including Desert Eagle pistols, 
 pump-action shotguns, AK-47 assault rifles, and even some exotic equipment, like tactical shields 
 that deflect bullets.  

  Single-player Condition Zero is just like the multiplayer version of Counter-Strike that's been 
 played for years, only your teammates and the enemies are replaced by computer-controlled bots. 
 You assume the role of the commander of a counterterrorist force, and you choose your teammates 
 from a menu of named bots. The bots vary in skill, aggressiveness, choice of weapon, and tendency 
 to cooperate with the rest of the team. Those with greater skill and more-powerful weapons cost 
 more points to hire, but you'll earn points steadily as you make your way through the game's campaign. 

          You'll choose your teammates from a menu before each map.     

  The campaign is divided into six "tours of duty," each of which consists of three maps, thus offering 
 you a total of 18 maps for gameplay. Most of the maps are drawn from Counter-Strike's classic collection, 
 so veterans will be familiar with classics such as Dust, Aztec, and Italy. Some of the maps have 
 been tweaked greatly, however. For example, Militia is now vastly different from the map longtime 
 CS players are familiar with. The above-land approach from the counterterrorist spawn area to the 
 house has been shortened and adorned with additional rocks to hide behind, thus making life more 
 difficult for terrorist snipers. A handful of new maps have also been included, like Stadium, a 
 multilevel demolitions map that features a lot of narrow hallways and stairwells. Fastline should 
 also be new to PC players, since it was borrowed from the Xbox version of Counter-Strike. It's 
 a very small bombing map, set in a Tokyo subway, that encourages quick rounds and a frenetic pace. 

  Beating each map requires you to win at least three rounds against the terrorists, and you must 
 be ahead of the terrorists by at least two successive wins while also completing a number of special 
 challenges. These challenges usually involve getting a certain total number of kills, getting kills 
 with a specific weapon, rescuing hostages, and/or winning a round under a certain amount of time. 
 You don't have to complete all these challenges within the three rounds, so if you're beating the 
 terrorists 3-1 and still have a challenge left unfulfilled, the match will continue until you've 
 satisfied all the requirements.     

  The challenges vary with the difficulty level, as does the rate at which the terrorist team ramps 
 up in skill and number. At the easiest difficulty level, you'll have few prerequisites, and the 
 ones that are there are simple to accomplish. At the expert difficulty level, however, you'll be 
 asked to perform some particularly tough feats, such as getting a knife kill and surviving the 
 same round. For veterans of CS, the normal difficulty level won't be much of a challenge, but the 
 two higher difficulty levels offer some pretty decent challenges, thanks to the surprisingly good 
 bot AI.  

          The bots are surprisingly lifelike in Condition Zero.     

  The bot AI in most first-person shooters is laughably bad. Counter-Strike provides even more challenges 
 for programmers who are attempting to design capable bots because of the relatively complex tasks 
 these bots must perform. At any rate, we were pleasantly surprised by how clever the bots on both 
 sides were in Condition Zero. Teammates communicate with you constantly by voice by telling you 
 where they are, what they're doing, and if they've spotted an enemy. If the bomb carrier falls, 
 bot CTs know to camp the dropped bomb, and the remaining terrorists are aware that they need to 
 pick up the bomb to complete the mission. Terrorists on hostage rescue maps know that once a certain 
 amount of time has elapsed, patrolling or camping hostage rescue points is an important strategy. 
 They'll also plant bombs behind boxes and other defensible positions. All the bots seem to be programmed 
 to know each map intimately and will crouch on top of good spots or will lie in wait behind strategic 
 corners, just like an experienced human player would. Even more remarkable is that you'll see bots 
 breaking windows and jumping down from high ledges to purposely reach other areas more quickly -- even 
 at the expense of incurring a bit of falling damage.  

  The bots aren't infallible, though. Occasionally you'll spot one getting hung up temporarily on 
 some geometry. We've also seen the terrorist bots abandon planted bombs, thus allowing CTs to sneak 
 in and defuse them without a fight. To be fair, we've also seen many human players make the same 
 boneheaded mistakes over the years. Overall, the bots are remarkably human -- and varied -- in their 
 behaviors. Some teammates will respond to your commands, while others insist on forging their own 
 paths, which isn't terribly different from human teammates either. It's too bad there's no way 
 to play as the terrorist side on these maps, but assuming you're willing to retry the game on higher 
 difficulty settings after beating it on normal, there's decent value here.  

  Adding to the game's aesthetic significance is the fact that a special "deleted scenes" mode has 
 been included. These deleted scenes actually comprised the single-player campaign that Ritual was 
 working on before game development was handed off to Turtle Rock. While the 12 missions here are 
 pretty fleshed-out -- with scripted sequences and dense amounts of action -- the deleted scenes, as 
 a whole, feel like clichs. To anyone who's played shooters for years, the deleted scenes 
 seem like flashbacks to the shooters of 1999 and 2000, so you'll immediately know why Ritual's 
 project was canceled. While it's nice to have this extra content, your decision on whether to buy 
 Condition Zero shouldn't hinge on it.  

          The deleted scenes aren't a bad way to kill time if you have nothing else to play, but 
 they're certainly not great.     

  As far as multiplayer goes, the game is the same Counter-Strike that most of us have been playing 
 for years. There's not much else to say about it other than that it's still the world's most popular 
 shooter for a very good reason -- it's got a classic, timeless design. However, the fact remains 
 that it's still a freely downloadable mod for Half-Life owners, so it's difficult to say that multiplayer 
 here is much of a value-added element.  

  The highlight of Counter-Strike: Condition Zero is clearly the bot AI. The bot behavior, while 
 not perfect, is remarkably lifelike. And at the higher difficulty settings, it will provide at 
 least a decent challenge for most shooter fans. Unfortunately, you're limited to playing as the 
 counterterrorist side in the tour of duty campaign. While some maps have been prettied up a bit, 
 the graphics are still basically the same as ever, which is to say, they're dated. At least the 
 sound has held up well and is still great. In the end, Condition Zero is a product that will appeal 
 most to those players who haven't tried CS yet (and how many of them are there?) , those who don't 
 want to deal with the hassles of playing the game online, and those who just want to have some 
 offline practice. For those of you who are already playing Counter-Strike online (let alone finished 
 with playing Counter-Strike online) , there isn't much reason for you to own Condition Zero, because 
 it's basically the same thing you're already playing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (114 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: goreaffection_i
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  First of all this game is more of a world sport, like football or cricket, than a video game. I 
 can safely say that everyone in the world has played this one with their friends. Before COD 4 
 came along, this one was the no 1 online game. From school children to engineers, everyone would 
 find time to slip into a cyber cafe to play cz over lan. Why would anyone in their right state 
 of mind would rate this game so low? 
  While Counter Strike Condition Zero does not come alive unless u play it over lan or online, the 
 single player kind of works as an excellent tutorial. While experienced cs players will find the 
 bots to be dumb, they will pose a serious threat to newbies. Although the graphics is not the selling 
 point of this game, this ensures that u can play it in older computers also. But trust me, once 
 u start playing the game, u will hardly notice the graphics as ur life will be constantly at threat. 
 Weapons feel and sound great, and u will soon find out that each weapon has an individual role 
 to play. For new recruits to the cs world, i would suggest they use the singleplayer to get the 
 feel of the world and understand the scouting points of the maps. And once u conquer the singleplayer, 
 u r ready to enter the multiplayer world of cs. 
  As it is practically there in almost all gaming parlors around the world, u necessarily dont need 
 to buy the game, but u can anyway buy it for practice. Once u enter the cs world, u will find out 
 that u r giving more time to cs than ur girlfriend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shankar_461
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  Hi guys, i am a gaming student and writing this review in a gaming student's point of view and 
 not as a gamer.. This game is one of the most boring FPS when played alone.. So my review is tat 
 as a single player game the rating is 4 and as LAN or Online it is 6.5.. Orange box's most boring 
 game is this i think... Atleast can say borer than half life. The design concepts in this game 
 is good.. thats it.. Weapon system is good.. props are good.. AI programming is nicely done.. But 
 the availability of weapons is adecqate.. The texures used in this game like in walls, players 
 hands and guns and the boxes placed in between to take covers are very nicely done.. And as a final 
 output the game play is nothing but it is made interesting by the props and the game environments.. 
 Enjoy playing game.. Many of my friends too like this game very much but not me.. Meet u guys in 
 next review... "GO GAMING" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 2, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Condition Zero tried really hard, but sadly all this effort amounted to a game that simply wasn't 
 very good and could be easily skipped. Especially when Half Life 2 was less then a year away and 
 a much better Counter-strike game, 1.6, was already available I just don't know why Sierra had 
 to make this game. Nothing about the multiplayer was different from the original game but instead 
 they added in some really bad maps. One of them takes place inside a stadium, and the others are 
 just plain forgettable. Nothing really was great about them. The community from the game isn't 
 as large as the other counter-strike games either so essentially you lose a huge part of the appeal 
 of the game which is the custom content and games. Luckily when I bought this game I got a much 
 better game called Counter-Strike 1.6. Funny thing is 1.6 came out in 2000 and back then it had 
 top of the line graphics. Sadly four years later they couldn't improve the graphics even a little 
 bit. There are some better lighting effects but other then that there is nothing worth while that 
 would make the graphics much better over 1.6. Four years and nothing was accomplished by Sierra, 
 sad...
  The single player is a joke, it's basically playing a map with bots and that is it. There is nothing 
 special about it and this was supposed to be the selling point of the game. The Counter-Strike 
 deleted scenes game is slightly better but there is still no story and it fails at trying to be 
 the intense shooter. It just doesn't compare with other games to boot like Call of Duty. What Condition 
 Zero tried to do is basically do what Battlefield did. Make the single player just a multiplayer 
 map with bots and make no attempt at a story. At least Battlefield didn't pretend to have a story. 
 Condition Zero sadly attempted though. 
  There is some fun to be had with the multiplayer but why would you buy this when Counter-Strike 
 Source was coming a year later. What a waste of development time which in the end only resulted 
 in this poor and rushed game. Avoid at all costs unless you have friends who bought this mess and 
 you'd like to play with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reduserisk
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is a classic that I really enjoyed. Countless hours of my high school life were spent 
 on this bad boy. The game is certainly dated and doesn't stand up to the fps of today, especially 
 to it's successor CS Source. There is still a large community that plays Zero though, and it's 
 always fun to go back and jump on for old times sake. Nonetheless, this game is still a ton of 
 fun, and if you don't have the machine to run Source then definitely pick this one up. It runs 
 smoothly on low end machines. For instance, I used to run it at 800X600 with a 128 Radeon and play 
 with a ball mouse, ah memories.... :) Also, I would recommend playing Zero along with the original 
 CS before diving into Source. I think it will help your game play and make you appreciate the franchise 
 more. Of course part of me is saying that because I have played all three games extensively, and 
 as a die hard CS fan, I would never be caught without all of them on my pc. :)
  
  Overall a good game, but inevitably its age has caught up with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo-i
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is marvelous, its simply incredible. I've tried it once and i already knew that this 
 would be an addictive game. I have tried this game at a friends house and i simply wanted to have 
 this game immediatly. This game is great because it is simple and you have a lot of fun when you 
 play at it. I love this game but i got addicted and couldn't stop playing. What i prefer in this 
 game is the online mode on steam, you a lots and lots of maps to discover and i love that, especially 
 my favorite that i can't stop playing : pool day.
  Now the things that i don't like in this game is : well nothing really, i think its a perfect game 
 but still if you play to much you can be bored and quickly stop playing this game.
  To finish this review, i have to say that it is a game you must try at least once in your life, 
 because like i said it is a masterpiece and i will always like it. Now it depends on you ( Buy 
 it or at least try it)
  
  Leo
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: s_awi102
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  One of da best first person shooter i've ever played. The no. of  
 really get u hooked up to ur comp for hrs at a stretch. u can choose from an arsenal of pistols, assault 
 rifles, machine guns, sub mg's and the trusty sniper. Weapon physics and sounds are amazingly life 
 like other than the campaign u can start ur own offline mission based on the classic cs maps. If 
 u r ready for a shooting challenge cs: cz is just the game for u. Though the graphics engine show 
 little improvement over cs1, objects of the environment and the interaction between the player 
 and the environment is very realistic. U will realize that u will need to take cover behind walls, boxes 
 etc more often while undergoing a head to head shootout. Play as a terrorist or a CT doesen't matter, 
 the CTs have the M4A1 and the terrorists have the CV-47 (or better as the AK-47) which give u a 
 heck more headshots than any other gun. For me cs: cz is a great game
  near perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  Graphics are not improved much (if at all) over CS. The missions help noobs practice a bit or experience 
 something different. Bots are a nice addition to this game. The community for this game is small 
 and never was that large to begin with, so youll probably play CS instead. The feel is slightly 
 different compared to CS, seems faster perhaps, as it takes a tad bit of adjusting when u jump 
 fro CSCZ to CS and back. Overall, this is a purchase only necessary if you dont own CS. Since CSS 
 already came out (as I am reviewing this long afer I played it) I wouldnt recommend this purchase. 
 But considering the time when I did play this, this game would have scored decently high, as it 
 came with counter strike, which is a wonderful online game. Not much else to say, I just need to 
 make more words so this review will process. Blah blah blah. Buy CSS or the half life package. 
 Better yet, just get Team Fortress 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrishnaB
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  India's highest played Online/LAN game its been a super hit in India. According to me huh just quite 
 good not magnificent:-Ive played CS a lot its been a good game CS 1 Anthology has many problems 
 as compared to Condition Zero. CZ is available in many versions which makes it available to all 
 there are many hacked and cracked versions which are excellent because we don't need steam or its 
 heavy updates so i find it much better as compared to 1,1.6&Anthology i have not checked out source 
 so don know much abt it all i know CZ is definitely worth buying and playing. It has a quite good 
 single player an excellent LAN play n average at online but its definitely an fps classic .Of course 
 the most ive ever played of fps has been doom 2 one of my best games till date highly entertaining 
 and a nice long game. CS CZ is a good pick throughout India i think u must give it a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I am sorry but I might not be able to say much about this game so I will try to fit as many as 
 things as possible.
  
  First lets start with the good things:
  
  Gameplay: Great original counter strike gameplay. Counter Strike finally has single player.
  
 
  Sounds: Better weapon sounds and bots have voice acting that kind of talk like players.
  
  Graphics: High definition half life graphics. Better weapon textures.
  
  Systems: Very 
 low system requirements.
  
  NOw the bad things about the game:
  
  Gameplay: Almost no change in gameplay. Single player feels more like making a server and placing 
 bots. Bots are too easy. AWP is still rigged (dont think AWP will ever change)
  
  Sounds: NOthing to say much about.
  
  Graphics: Scout skin looks kind of retarded. Not much 
 difference from the original counter strike.
  
  Systems: Nothing to say much about.
  
  Overall: Not that much of a great game. I don't suggest trying this game if you have alright got 
 counter strike (unless you cant player counter strike for some reason) . I think its better to get 
 original counter strike becuz more ppl play and more fun servers like Zombie Mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitar_Tank89
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  In Condition Zero you get to play as either a terrorist or a counter terrorist and you can use 
 weapons such as grenades, pistols, machine guns, rifles or sniper rifles, but thats it.
  
  On the non-online version you can do missions where you have to kill a certain amount of people 
 and with certain different weapons - Not at all challenging really.
  
  There is a limited amount of maps and all are pretty lame with too many camping spots or not enough, 
 On online play it can be very repditive as players often tend to choose the same easy maps over 
 and over again.
  
  The game also loses alot of enjoyment on online play as you pretty much start the game and get 
 awped straight away and there is also the problem of hackers.
  
  The game is only fun when you start to play it and then when you have played it for about a month 
 (not even) it just loses its "zang" and becomes very boring and repeditive.
  
  I advise only play this game if you feel really bored or are into these sort of games.
  
  -GT89 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christheman1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Probably one of the best first person shooter games I have ever played. It looks like Counter Strike 
 Source is much better in terms of graphics and game play though. The bots many times are ineffective 
 against other bots but, oddly enough, lethal to players. Multi-player was awesome and the weapon 
 selection is great. The three levels of missions are difficult because of the requirement to kill 
 with the worst of the arsenal. I was expecting grenades or some other kind of explosive. Instead 
 I got frag, smoke and flash bombs. I would also prefer an easier way to communicate. The worst 
 part of the game is running out of a clip when engaging an enemy. I try to switch over to my secondary 
 weapon but it takes too long and I die. If you set your single player game on random map you will 
 always play on one of the three most popular maps which gets annoying after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddos-attacker
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  counterstrike condition zero is a great game. i just play iut when i have extra time, and believe 
 me....... i have alot of time so i play it alot cuz its really fun. i would highly reccomend this 
 game to a freind if he likes or plays counterstrike. Well this game is almost the same as counterstrike 
 1.6 but has better graphics. like the ak-47 has scratches all over it. makes it have a little taste. 
 the gameplay is good but graphics are far. maybe......... because sometimes when you die in front 
 of any object or wall you'll just fall right through it. but still a real good game. all it is, 
 is just better graphics, but worth playing. seriously a GOOD game. if you havent tried it yet then 
 i think you should.  OR  
 ever you choose =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman2005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of online games, but this is a great game to play with your buddies. I haven't 
 played Counter-Strike for such a long time now, it's been ages since I played and I just got back 
 into it. I don't play with other people over the internet, I just play Counter-Strike: CZ offline 
 with bots and close friends of mine which we all have a blast.
  
  Counter-Strike is still the #1 online action game in the world and I would recommend this to anyone 
 interested in FPS type games. You can get this really cheap on steam or at a local store (under 
 10 bucks here in Canada, I got mine for free from a friend :P ) . The game is even more fun if you 
 have a microphone and headphones (so you know where the footsteps and gunfire is coming from) and 
 so you can talk quickly to your team mates.
  
  All and all I give this a 7.5 just because I'm not active in the game anymore but if I played this 
 non stop like before, I would give it something like an 8.5 or higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  This was a new spin on pointless FPS online games. Add a loose plot and some challenging obstacles 
 and presto this became the game to own. Not to mention the fact it was easier to mod than BF2 and 
 more fun to play on the hundreds of custom levels and using the thousands of custom weapons. The 
 one failing point in the whole thing. In one of the levels you are made to use a rocket launcher, 
 now that just wet my lips to the point of tieing a tea towel to my face to stop the drool, but 
 sadly the weapon is NOT included or even hinted at in later renditions of the game. Aside from 
 the lacking rocket propelled flashbangs and suchlike I was and still am avidly impressed with this 
 edition though I don't use it any more it was a mile stone and thank Valve for recognizing its 
 potential, now all we need is that vmapire mod they have for the old halflife to come out again... 
 hmmm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asswarrior
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys, here is my review of Counter Strike: Condition Zero
  
  First off I just want to say that CS is easily the best first person shooter in the history of 
 videogames. It is fun and although you might get owned and may never be able to be a real "pro" 
 you will still have some great fun playing this classic, even if you suck at it (me) . The game 
 itself is very easy to understand. If you are on the Terrorist side, you need to try to plant a 
 bomb in the bomb area and win, if you are on Counter-Terrorist, you have to defuse or protect the 
 bomb area. You can also win by rescuing the hosties. Another way for a team to win is by competely 
 eliminating the other team. Which means you killed every person on the enemy team... then you win. 
 Its all pretty basic in my opinion. Its CS's gameplay that set it apart from the rest. Counter 
 Strike provides the best online First person shooter experiance out there, and it will keep you 
 hooked for hours, weeks, days, monthes and even years. 
  
  Overall, Counter Strike is easily the best FPS ever made, and Condition Zero does a good job building 
 on this classic game that really set the pavement down for some of the great FPS's that we enjoy 
 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opsAllen
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  A very fun and addictive game. It keeps the gameplay of the older version, and the weapons of the 
 Counter Strike: Source. Like the previous versions of the world known Counter Strike series, has 
 a few bugs. Sometimes, your knee continues to wobble after your death, and some more. It's a great 
 and very fun to play it on the internet with other players, and the game includes a number of great 
 maps, like the famous cs_assault or de_dust. Other great maps can be downloaded from the internet. 
 To conclude, a fairly easy game to play, but need a lot of practice to become a pro. A good pass 
 time if you're bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Americas most actively played multiplayer game can now be enjoyed by those with no desire to be 
 slaughtered online by teenagers. Condition Zero retains the Counter-Strike model of team-based 
 matches, but now the rounds are played alongside computer-controlled bots in a structured tier 
 system.
  
  The missions are built around revamped maps from version 1.6 of Counter-Strike, as well as from 
 newly designed scenarios. You select a team from a roster of bots, allocating points gathered from 
 victorious rounds to buy more skilled allies. The primary objectives are taken straight from 
 classic CS multiplay: different levels require you to defuse a planted bomb, rescue several hostages, 
 escort a VIP to an extraction point, or kill all of the terrorists.
  
  Initially, I was skeptical of how the bots would compare to human players; thankfully, they play 
 very much like actual humans, and each displays a distinct personality.
  
  For example, each bot has a unique rating for bravery, skill, and cooperation, so some will rush 
 happily toward the opposing team while others prefer to stay back and provide security. Whenever 
 I issued a command via the games hotkey-activated communication system, each bot would reply with 
 a confirmation or denial of my order. Bots have an enormous database of scripted comments that 
 are voiced throughout each round: hearing a teammate congratulate a kill by saying Great shot! 
 or exclaim Yes! at the end of a victorious round gives the solo-but-like-multiplayer experience 
 much more credibility.
  
  As you progress through the tiers and unlock new levels (three levels on each of the six tiers) , 
 the skills of both the Terrorists and your teammates dramatically increase. Bots cautiously look 
 around each room, walk to avoid being detected, and listen for footsteps. They even call out the 
 location of enemies with lingo straight out of the multiplayer community, so youll know what it 
 means when you hear Ts rushing the middle through double doors.
  
  In addition, rounds can be completed only if you meet specific tasks, all meant to improve your 
 skill and diversify the gameplay. The earlier tiers require you to eliminate enemies using specific 
 weapons or rescue a set number of hostages, but later challenges call for multiple headshot kills 
 or killing someone only after blinding them. I liked that these tasks not only helped improve my 
 skills, but forced me to use some of the less obvious weapons in the game, such as the P228 pistol 
 or the Scout sniper rifle  challenges I found to be great fun. The tiers can be completed pretty 
 quickly  familiar maps took around five minutes each to beat, while new maps took at most 10 minutes 
  but the game also includes another single-player campaign from an earlier, abandoned version 
 of Condition Zero, aptly labeled Deleted Scenes. These are completely linear missions where teamwork 
 is scarce, the enemies just stand around, and the objectives are drab. These scenarios would be 
 unacceptable if they made up the full game, but its interesting to see how the game couldve turned 
 out.
  
  Underlying all the advances made in bot technology and the updated maps, Condition Zero is still 
 fundamentally a five-year-old game. Location-specific damage and round-based teamplay are no longer 
 innovative features, but this standalone package should satisfy both the Counter-Strikecurious 
 and the broadband-impaired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  Counter Strike Condition Zero is the single player game to the multiplayer hit Counter Strike. 
 Now the actual game Condition Zero itself is only bot matches much like the Xbox version of the 
 game that was released around the same time as this game was. Then with this game came a game called 
 Condition Zero Deleted Scenes which featured my favorite level from the Xbox version Miami. Sadly 
 there are like ten deleted scenes servers so you are stuck playing the single player. The single 
 player in this game is much better than the one that comes with the regular condition zero. This 
 game is more like a Rainbow Six game which was all great with me. Only its a lot harder and it 
 isnt all that you would think that it would be. For example most of the levels require you to be 
 stealth for half of the time, which if you know the series is not something that you would see 
 in a Counter Strike single player experience. Sadly Deleted Scenes does not feature any bot match 
 ability which too me was a big big let down. Graphically this game looks a little bit better than 
 the first Counter Strike it just really all depends on what you have your system set at. This is 
 kind of pathetic since the first Counter Strike is years older than this game. It is obivious to 
 me that they put way more effort into the Xbox version than they did this game. If you own Counter 
 Strike 1.6 then you are pretty much set and you don't need this game. That is if you are a casual 
 Counter Strike gamer. I would however suggest this game to people who are really into the Counter 
 Strike series because it offers just a little bit more and the bot matches allow for lots and lots 
 of practice for CS 1.6. This game isnt totally pointless but it is nothing compared to the original 
 Counter Strike. If you are gonna pick up this game then do what I did, buy it over Steam where 
 it is fifteen dollars cheaper, that or just buy one of the packs on Steam and then you will get 
 the sequal to the game that started it all Half Life2. So if you are a Counter Strike fan that 
 is getting a little bit bored of the multiplayer and looking for a new Counter Strike experience 
 than pick this game up, but I would not spend more than 15 dollars on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmaster299
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  First thing, prepare to get frustrated and angry playing this game. You will never be exposed to 
 a more hardcore and mean spirited group of people. The entire on-line CS community is an angry 
 and bitter lot. I have been lucky to find a close group of good friends to play with but with out 
 them the game is a waste of time. Hackers are bad enough and there is almost nothing you can do 
 about them, but what is worse is the people that spend their entire day trying to pick fights with 
 people over the Internet! You can go into a random server or some one can join the one you are 
 in and they will instantly scream and yell insults at people in the server for NO reason what so 
 ever. These jerks will actually try to threaten your life, even though you are in no danger unless 
 you tell them where you are! Don't waste your time or money unless you know some people who already 
 play the game so they can guide you to good servers and good clans (groups of people that play 
 together in dedicated servers) . All of this is on top of the frustration of playing against these 
 jerks beyond their screaming, ranting and insults. The game play can really get to you at times 
 so you better have a lot of patience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  It's great, sure. The Condition Zero + Deleted Scenes are all good, thanks for the CS "normal" 
 being a classic. The engine can be old, but this game still rocks, independent of the machine running 
 it, it just goes smooth. Problems? Don't ask me. If there were any problems, people wouldn't be 
 playing it, as they do with Quake 1. Now that it's an classic too, and that so many years have 
 past since it's release, but people still play it, I consider it perfect, by the fact that this 
 game presents what it's predecessor had (and people loved it) and some improvs.
  
  The Deletes Scenes part is also o. k. for me. It could've been better, but they mapped and did single 
 player missions for a game I love, so this counts aswell. Also, the weapons used are all from Counter-Strike 
 so even better.
  
  The multyplayer and singleplayer in the normal Czero are good. MP goes great, some itens from classic 
 cs plus that Galil, shield and french rifle. The missions you find in single player can make take 
 some time, but it depends on skill, so other than that, it can kill some time, but it's definitely 
 not the best thing to do.
  
  Go for it, if you want a good game, cheap. Not the very best, but it will serve you well enough. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worting
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  An improvement from 1.6, but not a huge leap from it. All it is is enhanced textures and stuff. 
 This engine is now how many years old? I can't remember. I think it's 8. That's old. this game 
 has to be my favorite computer game of all time. it is so much fun. i stopped playing it a while 
 ago but when i did play it i would pwn some serious ownage. now i went on like a couple of weeks 
 ago and got the **** kicked out of me. serious ownage. but this game is awsome and would love playin 
 deaglez and m4's. i used to pwn. the graphics werent the best but that is where CS: Source comes. 
 sound was good and the singleplayer was a failed attemp at a campaign. either though it wasnt bad, 
 it wasnt great. so i would just open up a easy multiplayer game with a bunch of easy bots and try 
 to get 100 kills without dying. and how easy that sounds, your mind wonders and you start to lose 
 focus and eventually get raped by one of the bots because you''ve been sittin somewhere to long. 
 anyway i hope htis reveiw helped and i hope that you make the right decision. COW out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davorg22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  It is very similar to Counter-Strike 1.6, featuring nearly identical gameplay, weapons, equipment, 
 and maps popular in the multiplayer version. The textures are all different, as are the guns and 
 maps. The graphics and animation are sweet. The environment is very realistic. The terrain, buildings, 
 etc, all look very real. Offices, military bases, subways, everything has a nice touch, even close 
 up. Special effects ranging from bullet holes to bomb explosions are nicely done. Is there a window 
 in the way? Just blast it out with whatever weapon you have and view the shattered glass hit the 
 ground. Want to watch TV with a gunshot hole in it? Go right ahead and pull the trigger. Whenever 
 you shoot a wall with your weapon, the bullet holes will stay. Mostly everything will give off 
 a graphical effect when you blast it. The blood will splatter on an object or wall next to the 
 character if he/she is close enough. Smoke along with explosions is nice and realistic. When you 
 run through it, it will disrupt your vision a bit. When the big bombs go off, it shows a huge explosion, 
 almost like a mushroom. The characters themselves are a little blocky for my taste, but good enough 
 to be happy with. Running is nice and smooth, no video jitters . The weaponry is nice and detailed 
 as you hold it in front of you. There is snowfall which is done very nicely, but sometimes there 
 is rain which is a little stringy. The rain drops are too long, kind of looks like straws falling 
 from the sky. However, when the rain hits the ground, it makes a nice splash graphic. Also, a lot 
 of shadowed areas are done really well so you can hide from your opponents and give them a nice 
 head shot to eliminate them. All in all, the graphics are pretty hip. Not much music is in this 
 game. Title and menu screen has music. When you complete a music, there's a little jingle at the 
 end or between maps. Sometimes in certain maps, you will hear a little music, but only in small 
 areas. Like, if you are playing in one of the Italy maps, you'll hear someone singing, what appears 
 to be, opera. Even though there is not much music, the music is decent and fits the game well. 
 The sound is excellent. Stereo or surround sound, you'll hear gunfire, explosions, even footsteps 
 just around the corner. It had me looking around my room for terrorists at one point. The footsteps, 
 however, mess me up a little bit. What I mean is, my footsteps sound like I have five feet. I can 
 hear my footsteps, but sometimes I would think my team is near me, when they are not even close 
 to me on radar. I would even check around the area to see if any baddies are near me because you 
 can hear their footsteps as well, but nobody was around. Another thing about footsteps, when you 
 walk in shallow water, it sounds like someone hitting a trash can with a wet towel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krakam
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Review for Counter-Strike Condition Zero by Krakam
  -------------
  INTRO
  To begin with, CS: Condition Zero is a mediocre game, because it has the potential, but not any 
 work at all was done on it. Surprisingly, however, many people seem to really like this game.
 
  
  GRAPHICS -Really Disappointing
  The moves really look fake , definitely not real. The graphics are too plain even on the highest 
 resolution, and only the weapons are just a bit nicely drawn. The hostages... well they are a complete 
 failure. SOUND-WTF? There are many stupid sounds in the game, but one of the worst is the grenade 
 explosion sound, which sounds like it was recorded by an old cell-phone and then sent to the PC 
 via Bluetooth. Really awful. The player's recorded voice sounds weird, and it's in weird tones 
 . MULTIPLAYER -Nice.
  The game gives you the co-op ability, something that gives it just a bit interest. Nothing more. 
 It's generally nice to play with other players. However that's what you also do in Call of Duty 
 2 Multiplayer mode but there, the graphics rock. But let's not change the subject.
  
  Buy / Rent?
  BUY. Of course I would say rent, but there's no such option as this game is mostly 
 played for its multiplayer.
  
  Overall:6.6 (fair) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I have to say the game is quite challenging and will get any newbie ready for the challenges to 
 be found on CS 1.6 servers. The challenges like kill 3 people using a pistol or 3 with a sniper 
 rifle give the player opportunity to test the available weapons. True CS CZ was too much too late, 
 but for someone who wants to get into CS and just hasn't given CS a good fair chance it is an excellent 
 opportunity. The Deleted Scenes campaign lacks in joy . I found HL1 expansions a ton more fun than 
 the Deleted Scenes. Maybe it's just me, but I guess a tossed in story is just that.. For a game 
 that has dated graphics by today's standards the storyline must take the front seat. I enjoyed 
 the old maps given in CZ.. but the campaign lowered the score of the package. I must give my tilt 
 a 7.0 for good just not great .. I also based my score on the time it was released as well as for 
 the claims of the game when released. 6.8 by GS was a bit too harsh.. since it does give the opportunity 
 to those who never really got into CS.. a chance to give it a good go . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patno77
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  WTF. Condition Zero is **** gay ass **** All it is is **** 1.6 (1.6 is awesome!) with single player 
 and retarded bots. The only thing new about it is slightly better looking weapons, and an extremely 
 gay single player campaign. The single player is so gay because all you do is play against retarded 
 bots who are so dumb that if they shot the floor they would miss, and you have to pay to get guys 
 on your team?!? wtf! Multiplayer is fine though, it is pretty much the same as 1.6, and 1.6 is 
 awesome, but Condition Zero has like 32842095091 less players as 1.6 because its so gaii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playwrite
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Now all most 10 years old, Half-life is one of the most popular and revered first person shooters 
 of all time. Aside from the innovation and high level of immersion throughout the game itself, 
 This comes down largely to the engine (a HEAVELY altered version of the Quake engine) and the many 
 mods thereof. By far the most successful mod was counter-strike, a multi-player only tactical shooter 
 which depended on terrorists and counter-terrorists fighting in short rounds. This mod was so popular 
 that Valve bought it and released their own version of the game (CS 1.6) . They then started work 
 on a single-player version of the game called Condition Zero.
  
  There are actually 2 totally different Condition Zeros. There is the newer game that was released 
 by Turtle Rock studios and then there are the deleted scenes. While the new game (the one officially 
 released by Valve) is just a set of goals within most of the maps made for the game (playing with 
 and against the new bots) , the deleted scenes is more like a standard first-person shooter, with 
 a series of unconnected missions, but with full VO and scripted events. This version was the one 
 originally made by Ritual before the game was taken away from them. These offer a good diversion, 
 but dont really differentiate themselves from a normal FPS. Also, the game is far less realistic. 
 You normally play as a one man army against huge numbers of enemies, and you eventually have to 
 defeat a helicopter with a sniper rifle on an open rooftop. Its easy to see why Valve was unhappy 
 enough with this work to take the project away.
  
  Counter-strike is fairly simple, at least in concept. Terrorists and counter-terrorists (hereby 
 known as Ts and CTs) fight each other in 5 minute rounds (which can be altered depending on the 
 map and personal preference) . Either the Ts are trying to set a bomb in a target zone which the 
 CTs have to defuse or prevent from being laid all together, or the Ts have hostages which need 
 to be rescued by CTs. Players have to buy weapons when they die, using money earned by killing, 
 planting bombs, defusing bombs, rescuing hostages or winning a round. While easy to grasp, this 
 is easier said than done. In single player on easy mode the enemies are so dumb my brother could 
 play (though of course, your team mates are as well) , while normal mode should offer only moderate 
 challenge. Things change in hard and very hard mode. Of course, any online game is going to be 
 harder, since a lot of people play this game every day. This makes CZ a better introduction than 
 the original game, since it does include the one player mode, allowing you to train a bit before 
 going into the big wide world. This wont train you for the huge amount of slang that the players 
 have come up with. If you want to play, youll need to familiarise yourself with terms such as 
 deagle, hostie noob, nub, noobie, noob cannonthe list goes on. This isnt that different from 
 any other online game, but this game is especially popular which means that people have spent more 
 time creating terminologies and overall culture.
  
  CZ is an interesting midpoint between the original and Source. It is better than CS1.6 in every 
 way. The graphics are much better, It includes BOT AI, the maps have been tweaked slightly, as 
 have the weapons (for the better) . It also has some advantages over source. For one, any computer 
 should run CZ, while Source still requires a newer PC (and dont bother playing on anything that 
 doesnt run perfectly. You want every frame you can get, and slowdown coupled with lag would be 
 unplayable) . It is also more challenging for a few reasons that I wont go into here, which ultimately 
 makes the game more worthwhile. In fact, unless you really want dynamic weapon buying, or a few 
 radar tricks, there is little reason to play Source over CZ. Most features that were added to Source 
 from 1.6. Were first tested and released in CZ, including BOTs and new map configurations, as well 
 as a huge number of different settings.
  
  The online experience in CZ is probably the best of the three. This is largely because only the 
 really dedicated ever bought it. Most of the people who would come in and start being unpleasant 
 are either still playing 1.6 or upgraded their machines and started playing Source. Thats not 
 to say that the game is perfect. People still swear a lot and there will usually be some guy who 
 has to be kicked because he doesnt follow server rules. Also, unless you really like a few maps 
 it can be hard to find players. There are a few really popular maps, and some user-created maps 
 that exist for kicks (such as Wal-Mart or Super Mario 64) but after that its just a matter of luck 
 whether or not there will be someone to play with on the map you want. And dont think that youll 
 be going back to the single player, because the on-line experience is far more rewarding, especially 
 if you have a microphone.
  
  Overall, counter-strike is insanely addictive and if your going to buy a copy of the game (which 
 all gamers should at some point) , this is the one that will benefit most people. It is good to 
 introduce yourself to the game through single-player, It has the same basic features as Source 
 without the high system requirements, and the players are on the whole more dedicated to the game. 
 Of course, this version has the least players of the 3 (though not a small number by any means) 
 and odds are your friends wont have this version. Ultimately, youll have to decide for yourself 
 what game meets your needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astroboysurya
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  hay this game is really cool just like a real, we wont stay if we got a few hits, even if the world 
 is same in all the levels, highly skilled enemies and difficult missions will make us more addictive. 
 if we know to use the weapons we can rule the game. my favorate bullpup, powerful shot on each 
 bullet. three ways to take out an enemy. cover, make ur shot accurate, and shoot at head. and thats 
 it that is all we have to do to win the game, iam now in 5th tour of hard level. its a pretty tough 
 to complete the game.
  take a try perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  
  um... there is none... go around shoot bad guys.....
  
  
 
  counter strike hase a very unique gameplay mechanic in that it is set up kinda like a sports game 
 in that it gives you points and all. the object of each map is to kill all the terrorists (counter 
 terrorists) and protect/defuse a bomb or protect/rescue hostages. this adds for some fun gameplay 
 and equally fun maps and online
  
  
  yea they suck but in its day and age im sure they were awsome
  
  
 
  awsome sound effects and some pretty cool backround music
  
  in the end condition zero is a solid expansion pack to an awsome game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeGamespot
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  Well counter-strike is one of those games that is played still today by many and many players all 
 over the world. In my opinion it's new version doesen't fails to be good, just need some improvement.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Well, it's the old same gameplay, good one by the way... if you're cops you can save hostages or defuse 
 the bomb, if you're terrorists you can plant the bomb and kill the cops. AI is not all that great 
 thought but for me it's enough, I think they're pretty good and only real elite players won't be 
 satisfied with it.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphics are much better than the other versions, much better than even counter-strike 1.6, they've 
 worked much more on it.
  There's some shadow, lights and everything a default FPS game would have, but the guns are now much 
 more realistic and have the Half-Life 2 engine thought.
  
  Sounds:
  
  Amazing sounds, everything's just too much real to describe. You can hear the sub-machineguns shooting, the 
 computer players talk louder like as if you would with a microphone and even the hostages call 
 for you.
  
  Value:
  
  Good value, not great but good... you won't have to pay much for it and it's worth to buy. If you 
 have the original game you'll have much fun playing it on multiplayer.
  
  Concluding:
  
  Great game compared to it's antecessors, you won't be disappointed and will have much fun playing 
 it on multiplayer because it's good for FPS players due to it's realistic stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikemuffins000
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike: Condition Zero is the follow-up in the Counter-Strike series to, of course, Counter 
 Strike. CZ is basically no different than the original CS. It has some minor graphics changes, 
 they advanced on the weapons making a little bit, but yet again, the physics suck. I don't think 
 anytime in your life you can jump you're own height. The graphics are OK. There are some minor 
 glitches portraying rushing of the makers. Sometimes the game lags horribly, even though you're 
 offline. And sometimes it just shuts down unexpectedly. But, through all that, it's still really 
 fun.
  The gameplay, as it may seem, is the exact same thing as the original CS. The weapon mechanics, 
 as I mentioned before, haven't really improved drastically.
  The sound is also OK. Sometimes it lags, in correspondence with the graphics.
  The value is excellent. 
 Right now, you can get Counter-Strike and CZ and the CZ: Deleted Scenes (all put into a nice little 
 package called the Counter-Strike 1: Anthology) for about $20. Rent or Buy
  You can't really rent PC games so if you can spend $20 on a good FPS go out and buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarbedBuffalo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  i didnt read the gamespot review but i saw something about this being a 6 year old game??? are 
 you serious? can a person be that empty headed???? notice the big M for mature on the cover. ( 
 i downloaded off steam though :D )
  
  it has lots of blood sperts if you shoot people in the right place. yes its like every other counter 
 strike for the most part but i like this one the best because the graphics aren't insanely good, 
 but they aren't terrible either.
  you see, the original counter strike graphics are insanely pixilized and makes me dizzy just to 
 play :S
  and counter strike source doesn't have alot of MODS, i only play zombie mods on source and the 
 occasional regular match.
  but condition zero is kind of in the middle, the graphics are really good for its time. and i can 
 at least play it without hitting giant lag spikes.
  
  i go on some INSANE servers... people change player models, create entire maps, weapon skins. everything 
 seems almost completely new!
  
  i'ves seen players taking big craps on people! i've seen people pissing all over a dead players 
 corpse. i've seen knifes replaced with **** still sound like a 6 year old game? infact i'm in the 
 middle of putting together a video with a bunch of chaos in a counter strike wedding :)
  
  and eventually getting around to finishing the actually wedding. (btw they were really getting 
 married)
  
  i'll upload them up here when i reach lvl 10 and even sooner i'll upload them on youtube. anyway 
 its a great game. it never gets old, when theres always something new going on! :)
  
  how much does it cost now anyway? $10-$20? great deal! try do get a copy or download as soon as 
 you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennis2845
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  An amazing shooter counterstrike really is. Ive spent 3 years playing this and its not old yet. 
 The condition Zero content sux. Its poorly done, glitchy, Just Not fun to play. But CS 1.6 or Original 
 Counterstrike is awesome. Theres endless action when you play Online. Its extremely addictive. 
 The depth is amazing and thats why the game Is so good. Its better than any online shooter. Counterstrike 
 is IT. Awesome guns, I mean the guns for me look like the same old eggs and bakkie after 3 years, 
 but they still Own... if you can own. The graphics are good. You dont really notice graphics you 
 just play. The sound is good. This game is overall SO MUCH fun to play. (\_/) [] [] W WARNING ! 
 IF YOU BUY CONDITION ZERO WITH COUNTERSTRIKE OR COUNTERSTRIKE ANTHOLOGY YOU WILL HAVE THE CONDITION 
 ZERO SKINS OR PLAYERS IN CS:1.6 AND TRUST ME THEY ARE UGLY. iTS BETTER TO BUY A STAND-ALONE VERSION 
 OF THE GAME FROM STEAM, OR JUST PLAIN BUY THE HALF: LIFE PACK 4 PC WITH ALL OF THE KEWL MODS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Condition Zero, is basically the original Counter-strike with a smaller hitbox, improved graphics, 
 and a lot of detail added to most maps. Especially the map CS_office, which originally looked like 
 a little kids playground with some desks, computers, and a tank outside. Now it truly is an office. 
 The level of detail added to the guns is truly marvelous. Character models haven't changed much. 
 The sounds are all still the same. The main thing Condition Zero is for, is for challenging experienced 
 Counter-strike players. It makes the game 10 times harder, by purposely lowing the shot registration, 
 and shrinking the hit box. You'll have to find cover and take time to take out your opponents. 
 Most people still dislike condition zero because it tends to irritate those who play it if they 
 play it before the original CS which was a lot easier. The added single player campaign is mainly 
 for practicing, and the Deleted Scenes campaign tries to bring a story to the player, but isn't 
 very appealing, and includes several corny moments. Overall Condition Zero doesn't add much, but 
 still is good for the experienced, and provides a decent challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  I played this game with one of my friends, and first it felt like a very good game. But when you 
 get to know the game better you will notice that this game sucks. Graphics are shockingly bad, 
 they really aren't as good as they seem at first sight. Blood looks like mashed tomatoes. Sound 
 effects are even more terrible, all submachine guns sound like dying rat. You can play this game 
 suprisingly long, even the whole day without getting bored of it. But in the second day, you will 
 notice that this game is very bad. I don't like the buying-weapons-and-armour system. Allies and 
 enemies work suprisingly wisely, but bad thing is that they don't do anything if you shoot 'em. 
 They'll just say: Hey .
  
  Really a bad game. Not as god as it looks for the first sight. It's just fun for one or two nights, 
 and after that it strts to seem pretty bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praharsh22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game...... though it cannot compete with the other greats in it's own genre.
  The graphics are not very good thiough I found the sound okay. It's great fun to play with the 
 bots. They are quite intelligent and I sometimes feel that they can see through the walls because 
 of the way they attack.
  To play with friends on LAN is an absolutely great experience. One never gets bored playing the 
 same map again and again.
  The deleted scenes (not multiplayer) of the game are okay to  they 
 are not very good....
  overall the game is a great fun to play and is a must have for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnsucks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  A great shooting game, has all the makings of a generic shooting game, plus several challenges 
 you have to complete. It's not just kill with your favorite weapon throughout. You have to rescue 
 hostages or use special weapons. The graphics are good, though not as good as the newer shooting 
 games, like Call of Duty 2 or Battlefield. Bots are intelligent and challenging. Bomb defusal gets 
 repetive and boring though. Weapons are amazing realistic and recoil is accurate and what you except 
 on a real gun. Map hard to follow though. Controls are easy to learn. Sound is great and the opening 
 music is ominous. A challenging game overall especially on hard. Playing over LAN is fun, and competiting 
 against friends is cool. Can't wait for the new version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandercow011
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  this game has to be my favorite computer game of all time. it is so much fun. i stopped playing 
 it a while ago but when i did play it i would pwn some serious ownage. now i went on like a couple 
 of weeks ago and got the **** kicked out of me. serious ownage. but this game is awsome and would 
 love playin deaglez and m4's. i used to pwn. the graphics werent the best but that is where CS: 
 Source comes. sound was good and the singleplayer was a failed attemp at a campaign. either though 
 it wasnt bad, it wasnt great. so i would just open up a easy multiplayer game with a bunch of easy 
 bots and try to get 100 kills without dying. and how easy that sounds, your mind wonders and you 
 start to lose focus and eventually get raped by one of the bots because you''ve been sittin somewhere 
 to long. anyway i hope htis reveiw helped and i hope that you make the right decision. COW out!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shuttle1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I HAVE HAD THIS GAME FOR AGES AND AM STILL HOKED ON IT THE AMOUNT OF MAPS IS A GOOD AND THE AMOUNT 
 OF GUNS AND CLANS IS GOOD IF URE GOOD ENOUGH TO GET IN THEM LOL IT IS AHRD AT FIRST BUT ONCE U 
 GET USED TO IT ITS THE ONLY GAME U WOULD NEED FOR A LONG TIME. PEOPLE ARE VERY FRIENDLY ON THE 
 SERVERS AND THE OPTION TO PLUG A MIC IN ADDS DEPTH TO THE GAMEPLAY AS U CAN DISCUSE TACTICS WITH 
 PEOPLE. GAMEPLAY IS GOOD AND BASIC ONCE U GET TEH HAND OF IT YOULL BE WANTING TO PLAY FOR AGES 
 . THE GRAPHICS ARE GOOD SEEING AS THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE AGEM ARE VERY LOW 
  A TOP CLASS GAME THAT WILL KEEP U GOIN FOR AGES A MUSTBUY FOR FPS FANS
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Mr_Derp_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a hard to describe game, with it's somewhat recent release date you would think that Valve 
 and Turtle Rock would have been able to put more content on the game than just a (somewhat) fresh 
 coat of paint. It's still the same old counter strike, same weapons, two new classes (about the 
 only thing that is new, except for the lackluster excuse for single player) basically same maps, 
 with a few more props. All in all it's just a somewhat updated version of the classic counter strike.
 
  
  It comes free with the Counter Strike one anthology, so you might as well play in instead of 1.6, 
 unless you have a preference. However as a game in itself it can't hold up to recent tiltes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This is the same thing as Counter-Strike 1.6, except with enhanced textures, bots and a broken 
 singleplayer mode. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is pretty good, consistent with all the CS games. The only problem is that the AI 
 and bots... SUCK. In singleplayer, the AI is just SO bad. Really. 
  
  Graphics:
  An improvement from 1.6, but not a huge leap from it. All it is is enhanced textures and stuff. 
 This engine is now how many years old? I can't remember. I think it's 8. That's old. 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is the same exact thing as 1.6. Nuff said. 
  
  Value:
  Do not play this. 
 It's a waste of time. You could be playing CS 1.6 or Source and have a much better time than this 
 piece of crap. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acmilanrocks
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of Counter-Strike. I own them all, and have played them all. Perhaps the least talked 
 about is quite probably the best of them. The best you might say? Let me explain.
  
  I have spent a lot of time listening to what CS fans like and dislike about the various titles 
 in the series. Generally, 1.6 (the original) is the most played of them all, with well over 100,000 
 gamers at all times of the day playing it. The problem with 1.6 they say, are the hugely outdated 
 graphics (they are around 7 years old) . The gameplay however, is still first classm hence it's 
 popularity.
  
  Next we arrive at the new Source port of 1.6 - Counter-Strike: Source. The amount of players at 
 any one time varies. It's usually between 15,000 - 25,000. What CSS boasts are beautiful visuals, 
 and a revamped physics engine. But it is disliked by many. The most common complaints are dodgy 
 hitboxes, you need a hell of a machine to even think about playing it, it's riddled with bugs, 
 are more "n00b" community - therefore requires less skill, it isn't as fun to play, and so on and 
 so forth...
  
  Now we come to Condition Zero. Released shortly before CSS, according to the complaints above, 
 it should be the ideal CS game. It has the same wicked gameplay as 1.6, and yet it has much improved 
 visuals. It doesn't require a hell of a machine to run, it has the CS Bot which only CSS also has, 
 it has several single player modes which exclusive only to it, and it has a very mature online 
 community. And, unlike CSS, it has literally - no bugs. At all - 1.6 perfected this, and CZ continued 
 it (they both use the HL1 engine, which has been developed over a period of 6 years) .
  
  Yet, it only has around 12,000-20,000 players playing it at any one time. The intial excuse by 
 1.6 users was the $40 price tag, however CZ can now be purchased for as little as $9 direct from 
 Steam, or even less from a cheap retail store. For 1.6 users there should be no excuse. The game 
 looks 300 times as good, way more features, and it's as cheap as. It's bug free, and for when your 
 ISP is experiencing difficulties, there is always the single player modes to keep you busy, which 
 they will for many days.
  
  It's terribly underrated, and, according to feedback by the many CS gamers, CZ should be the perfect 
 Counter-Strike experience. Why 1.6 still continues to thrive is a question for some higher life 
 form - it is far to puzzling to be answered by the mere human.
  
  What's good
  --------------------------------------------------------
  +Upgraded maps & models
  +New sounds
 
  +The Official Counter-Strike Bot (they chat and use the radio to!)
  +Tour of Duty
  +Deleted Scenes (18 missions)
  +Upgraded weathering
  +100% bug free basically
  +NAV Bot system 
 far easier to pick up than the old waypoint system
  +Constant 14,000+ players playing - big online community
  +It upgrades your 1.6 models if your 
 silly enough to revert back
  +New Hostage AI (wow, smart hostages - finally)
  +Mature community
  
  What's bad
  --------------------------------------------------------
 
  +No longer receiving additonal content from Valve (stupid CSS)
  +Need Steam to receive updated models and new Hostage AI (stupid Valve)
  +Deleted Scenes is 1.2GB, 
 way to much to justify download IMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first to introduce a single player mode. Which is very uninspired.
  Gameplay 1/10
  The single player is very awfull. There is no story line and the expert is just 
 too easy. Just awefull'
  graphics 9/10
  The graphics are pretty awesome if you turn on texture enhancement but its just like more dots 
 on the ground which kinda suks.
  sound 8/10
  The bots sometimes say funny things but other times they do the same thing. But some of there chatters 
 tell where the enemy is.
  Value 3/10
  This game is pretty crappy and has alot of replay value but not on the single player mode.
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt 8/10
  This game is just broken and doesnt introduce much new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dum_dum_626364
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike: Condition Zero is essentially the same game as the original CS but with updated 
 graphics and a single player mode that seems like it was put there just to expand the CS franchise. 
 I'm not going to go too deep into the gameplay as I already did in my recent review of the retail 
 version of the original Counter-Strike, but here are the things new to CS fans found in CS: CZ:
 
  
  The single player campaign of Condition Zero is pretty much just a whole bunch of matches of the 
 original CS against bots. Each match is unique in its own way. Some for example, will pit you and 
 a couple of team-mates against a few terrorists which you have to kill within a certain amount 
 of time, or with a certain gun. After each match, you are rewarded with credits based upon your 
 performance in each set of rounds which you use to buy better bots to use on your team. This portion 
 of CS: CZ is moderately entertaining, but seeing as if you are used to playing online against real 
 people even the hardest difficulty setting should be a breeze.
  
  After you are finished with the main portion of Condition Zero (or before) you can play the Condition 
 Zero Deleted Scenes game. You take part in a number of missions (not interconnected in any way) 
 across the world that have a distinct Rainbow 6 feel to them. These Deleted Scenes are what Ritual 
 was working on before the game went into the hands of the Valve developers. And strangely enough, 
 the Deleted Scenes is what kept me playing Condition Zero for a few more hours.
  
  There are a couple things that Valve manages to change for the better this time through. First 
 and most importantly is the graphics. Then they also somehow managed to keep almost all hackers 
 out of most of the CS: CZ servers.
  
  Closing Comments:
  
  If you didn't like Counter-Strike before, this game definitely isn't going to change your mind 
 and if you already own the original CS don't bother with this game. On the other hand, if you don't 
 own Counter-Strike yet, or if you're not very good at it , the Condition Zero single player campaign 
 is definitely the way to go.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  No different from the original CS.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  A definite improvement over the original.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Absolutely outstanding 
 weapon effects and much need background music.
  
  Value: 7/10
  Only $20 now but you can probably find a better game with that money.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 8/10
 
  Single player modes won't take you long to complete, but Condition Zero still has the solid multiplayer 
 component that made the original CS legendary.
  
  Overall: 7.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fearlex
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Excellent sequel to the best online shooting game of history, it takes you to a realm where the 
 sound of bullets penetrates every part of your ears and make you feel like like the world depens 
 on you. If you decide to be a Counter Terrorist, you will feel the need to defuse that beeping 
 bomb or die in the act. Maybe rescuing hostage could be better for you but Terrorist are more split 
 in the map, and will have more cover and advantages. If you are covering a VIP, TAKE CARE, they 
 can be everywhere. If you like Terrorist, feeling the bad guy could give you a new look and power, 
 you will try to place the bomb, and you don't care to be a Kamikaze or not, the objetive: BOMB, 
 and BUUUUUM will be. If you take hostages, just wait for the CT, they have to come to you. You 
 have a variety of weapons, powerful Falcons to AWPs. Sniping is one of the funniest things about 
 CZ. The Maps are really cool, CZ_DUST, a classic, CZ_DUST_2, updated from cz_dust, another classic, 
 cz_inferno, cz_militia, cz_aztec, cz_prodigy. Simply awesome, and yes i have been refering to the 
 online gameplay. It have a Tour of Duty that make you create your team as you complete missions. 
 And the Deleted Scenes feature, that let you play a whole history trought a world plagued of Terrorist. 
 Conclusion: The Best Online Game Ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGrandMiG
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  now i actually never played CS before, and i play some fps games. i got CZ because i heard its 
 good for new CS players. i must say, it really did help get the basics down. 
  
  the single player is more like training for when u go online. u lead ur counter-terrorist group 
 and defuse bombs and rescue hostages. big deal. throw some high-powered guns in the mix and its 
 highly addictive. i honestly thought the AI was great, but not excellent
  
  i played the game on normal the first time around and i was surprised by the shwerdness of the 
 bots. utimately, though, the AI will do dumb things, making them easy targets for ur sniper rifle. 
 in one such instance, a enemy bot was staring at me from a balcony for about
  
  5 sec before opening fire. he didnt live shall we say. still, i do like how ur friendly bots give 
 very useful advice lie where the enemies are, and where the bomb is. very helpful. overall, the 
 single player is quite enjoyable for those new to the CS thing
  
  now the techncial stuff...
  
  (Gameplay) gameplay is very enjoyable and highly addictive. it 
 will make u wonder why u didnt get CS sooner.
  
  (Graphics) im not too big on graphics, but i will say the graphics in CZ are good. i have quite 
 possibly the worst computer to play games on (a dell dimesion 4300) but im able to turn the settings 
 high 
  
  (Sound) LOUD guns and teammates talking to u. it does sound good though
  
  (Value) the single player and multiplayer will keeps new CS players busy
  
  (Tilt) One word: 
 fun
  
  CONCLUSION: good for noobs, vets stay away
  
  (Sorry about all the spaces. it was getting all messed up on me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meweus
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  THIS game is just like cs. 
  everything about it is just like cs. 
  except 2 things single player missions and im proved grafics. 
  Lets start with single player..... bad 
 all u do is stupid callenges. Like kill all the enemies within 90 sec..... stupid. 
  cs and css have WAY more people playing online then cz. 
  The multiplayer it self seems to be 
 missing something.............. it doesnt feel as fun as cs. 
  The game looks a little better but still the grafics suck!!!!! but u wont mind too much.
  
 
  but the bots are smart. REALY NICE AI. 
  
  nothing new, nothing great its just a fair game!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  if u dont got cs get this game. 
 (better yet get cs) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  Counter-Strike: Condition zero:-
  
  By, Scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  The game is very simple! You have 2 teams of 5 members each (CLAN matches) one 
 is the Terrorist [T] and other is the Counter-Terrorist [CT] . The Terrorist can win rounds by detonating 
 the bomb on the one of the two bomb sites available (bomb site A and B) or by eliminating the Counter-Terrorists. 
 The Counter-Terrorist should just do the vice-versa; they should defuse the bomb or should kill 
 all the Terrorists. You have different maps to be played on. I was explaining you the bomb planting 
 maps (de_) . There are other maps like hostage rescue (CS_) , Save the VIP, Aim maps (aim_) , custom 
 maps (fy_) , etc. there are thousands of maps available on the net for free download, there are 
 many people who create maps.
  
  Few of the famous maps are de_dust2, awp_india, de_aztec, de_cbble, de_train, de_assault, de_inferno. 
 Few maps favor a team; they should use it properly to win rounds. (A map is space where you both 
 the teams spawn opposite to each other, it has building and other stuff, its just like a part 
 of any normal game but the surroundings are limited to a certain amount. You cant walk out of 
 the map)
  
  This game is one of the most online played games and it is one of the best FPS games ever. Actually, 
 it was MOD of the best seller Half-Life which later became a famous online shooter and its one 
 of the games in all gaming tournaments and the popular WCG (World Cyber Games) . You can play the 
 game with Bots (computer players) offline and online. It can be played between different numbers 
 of players but in tournament you play as a team of 5 members. 
  
  Game-Play:- 
  The game should be played with strategy. You have to buy your weapons sensibly; you have to save 
 your money for remaining rounds by not buying useless stuff. 
  You have to move quickly to hold position so you must use a knife while running to that you could 
 reach there first and camping should be minimal. Camping can be done along with moving; I mean 
 move take a or few enemies down, then camp , the look for another and so on ; but remember to take 
 cover at all times. Most of them try to get head shots to get one shot kill! 
  
  Games are played in short rounds, and when you're killed, you sit out the round as an invisible 
 observer; there are no death match-style respawns.
  
  This game is similar to CS: 1.6 ; its jus with the addition of the a single player mode. There 
 are two types to single player modes in this game one is the mission based mode and one is a story 
 mode named deleted scenes. In the mission based mode you earn points and make your own team to 
 beat the bots.
  
  Graphics:-
  Nice graphics. Better than CS 1.6! the models look great! few environment changes can be noticed 
 ! the smoke and flash effects are better 
  
  Sound:- 
  The gun sounds are gud enough and the radio commands are decent. The game has a decent sound.
 
  
  Conclusion:- 
  This review was review cum guide! :D This game jus rocks! The update of 1.5 is 1.6 is very famous, 
 its obvious that every one play 1.6 not 1.5 anymore. The CS: CZ is not that popular, its jus a 
 crap of single player mode, the single player su*ks! But the multi player is good as 1.6, there 
 is no difference between them. My Favorite guns are M4A1, CV-47, Bull pup, Krieg., Magnum Sniper (AWP) . 
 The shield feature in this game is not available for the tourneys coz its kinda unfair. 
  The next version CS: Source is really fun to play. The multiplayer rocks rocks !! :)
  
  Graphics 
 - 8/10
  
  Sound- 9/10
  
  Gameplay-9/10
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _3D_Unknown
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Since that it left Half-Life that innumerable mods has come to be facts, and each time the community 
 is bigger that it intends to make contents for this heading. Not even the Valve could imagine the 
 longitude of its game, that passed six years still vende, and well. Great part of the success of 
 the game must to mod Counter-Strike, one of most famous, seno more famous than the proper Half-Life. 
 The Valve caught in this mod and became it in a commercial version, has one years. Without great 
 advantages in relation to the gratuitous version, the players had felt a little stolen. Exactly 
 producing Half-Life 2, the Valve wanted to continue to capitalize profits and promised plus a Counter-Strike 
 commercial version. It is as soon as is born this polmico Condition Zero (CZ) . Polmico because 
 one does not know that bruxedo was put in projecto, that all the involved producers finished for 
 leaving. Having been in production during a eternity, CZ already changed of hands some times. 
 It started for being the Gearbox Software in the production, firms this that had made the expanses 
 Opposing Force and Blue Shift for Half-Life. For reasons that I do not remember myself, this producer 
 was moved away from projecto. It was followed Ritual Entertainment, responsible for games as Sin 
 and Heavy Metal F. A. K. K. 2. The game was not to take the intended route and one more time it was 
 moved away from projecto. However its contribution meets edited in the set of the game, as bnus 
 of that I will speak more ahead. Finally, it was the Turtle Rock Studios to finish the game. Funniest 
 or ridicule, if to want, is that although all the credits to have IDO to stop to this firm in software 
 in itself, the layer of the game or the stampings had been not even changed. That is, Ritual and 
 Gearbox for the side say all. For who never it acquired any version of Counter-Strike and it is 
 to planear to make it, this Condition Zero corresponds to version 1.6 of the Mod. All the involved 
 work was to add Bots to the existing maps, allowing to play the ground simulating the game in net. 
 They will still have access to the cut version of the game and that it corresponds to the work 
 made for the Ritual. In my opinion, this yes was the way that the game must always have followed, 
 and that it justified this commercial version. Although if it perceives well because it was cancelled. 
 Very bad One is about some missions of exploration of maps, with objectivos, and that it makes 
 me to remember much Delta Forces: Black Hawk Dawn. Perhaps the intention until would be to create 
 a campaign with history and everything, but they had probably arrived at the conclusion that this 
 would desvirtuaria the concept of Counter-Strike all. In the main way, that one that tries to simulate 
 all the functionalities of the original game, the player is the leader of one equips antiterrorist. 
 We have to the all 18 missions, divided in groups of three. It starts for being the first set of 
 available missions, having that to win them to pass thus to the next one and successively. For 
 this they will go to count on one equips of Bots that will go to enlist in a similar way UT 2004. 
 They will have of charisma beginning points of enlisting welded, and to each successfully exceeded 
 mission they can enlist new elements. Each soldier has its proper attributes, and is separate for 
 classrooms, that will go to unblock to the measure that the game advances. The soldiers of the 
 first classroom can be acquired with a point of charisma, of second with two, and for there successively. 
 To the measure that the missions if become more complicated they will go to have the hypothesis 
 to choose one equips each better time. He gives to choose the difficulty where they want to play. 
 An exceeded time all the campaign in one of the difficulties will go to gain a medal, being tried 
 to make the same feat in a superior level. The game in itself does not have practically new features 
 for who knows the Mod celebrity. Terrorists and against-terrorists will go to fight in itself executing 
 the objectivos of the map. The terrorists try in some maps to place bombs, having to another one 
 equip that to neutralize before expluda. To save prisoners also can be one of the objectivos of 
 the map. In newness terms and that it serves to pass to the next map, the fulfilment of more complex 
 objectivos exists. As winning a game in less of one certain time, killing at least one definitive 
 number of adversaries, to abate an enemy with definitive weapon, and for there ahead. To join to 
 this, we will have that to always get with an edge of asked for victory. In case that the enemies 
 obtain to win more games and to guarantee the edge of victories without terms fulfilled the objectivos, 
 we will have to start everything again. To the measure that we advance, the missions go being more 
 difficult. As they know, in each abated enemy or victory of the map they gain money, as saving 
 prisoners. With this they will go to be able to buy weapons and the ammunition for the following 
 patrol. If they will be constantly to die run the risk not to have the intended armory to be disentangled. 
 The game also has a system that it allows automatically to buy the weapon most adjustable to the 
 mission, saving the player to this work. Gnero of radar that allows to see the position of the 
 friends, useful exists one in many situations. Before leaving for the missions they also have a 
 course of trainings so that if they can ambientar to the controls and weapons, as well as the o 
 work in equips. If it has something of that it does not exist doubts, is of the quality of the 
 artificial intelligence of the Bots. If they want a good challenge in the way the ground, then 
 I can guarantee that the Turtle Rock made a good work. Also it was not for less. In a fast one 
 it searches to its official site, I gave account that this firm does not have any games in the 
 resume, not to be the conversion of CS for the Xbox and the official construction of the Bots of 
 Counter-Strike. As much the enemies as the allies try to simulate some of the situations of the 
 game. Since the attack in he equips, or one or another Bot to make of camper and hiding themselves. 
 They are capable to pass the game to say connosco, give-in the important information, as the localization 
 of the enemies, or informing that they are to disarm bombs or to save prisoners. For times we repair 
 that the terrorists not only have a concern in locating and activating the bomb, as well as hide 
 themselves in the roundnesses in order to protect it. According to Turtle Rock, the Bots is until 
 capable to learn to recognize a new map, adaptando itself it its environment. The system allows 
 that the Bots has attention to the barulhos and investigates the place of where they had heard 
 shots and stepped on in noisy soalhos. These also change of weapons consonant the involved situation. 
 As in Half-Life, these do not save the garnets! In tcticos terms, the radio of communications 
 allows that the player gives orders to the Bots, as proteco, or aid in a shoot out, that exhaust, 
 and other more. It is to praise that some Bots has proper personality and for times they deny in 
 in obeying them. They can also program the Bots in order to give different challenges to the player. 
 Clearly that Counter-Strike was drawn to play online excusing the Bots, but these serve as good 
 trainings. The available armory will not have to walk far from what already it was seen in the 
 previous versions. All the weapons are Real rejoinders, and all they give-in the one very efficient 
 sensation of detonation. These vary between pistols that include Glock 18, Desert Eagle or the 
 Beretta. Later we have the caadeiras and machine guns such as the MP5, the Mac the 10 or UMP. 
 Later we have weighed as Colt M4A1 Carbine and the AK47 and the rifles of aiming by telescope as 
 the SG-1 and the Steyr Scoup. We also have some types of garnet and C-3 explosives. Each weapon 
 valley one determined value consonant its power. We now go for the heel of Aquiles - the graphical 
 engine. However, if this game uses the engine of Half-Life, that in turn used of Quake 2, how many 
 years will have of this? Half-Life already commemorated six years of life Therefore! Much dated. 
 It is case for the defenders of the game/Mod to say that all the visual aspect is trod for second 
 plain had all the realism of the game in itself. I would give reason, but if thus it the technology 
 was all would have that to estagnar. It liked to defy the Valve to review Counter-Strike in the 
 new Source engine, that feeds sequela of Half-Life. The community will be here for giving income 
 to the engine. They do not think to interact with all the elements of the scene as nowadays. To 
 see the dated one that it is the game, if to go off for a light bulb, this nor blinks, the more 
 to leave. Exactly the doors, some are drawn in the scene, other effectively they give to open and 
 to close. At least still we can break glasses of windows, but nothing of special. I think that 
 valley the penalty not to continue, already it gives to have a ideia. How much to the models that 
 give to choose, a certain limitation in the variety exists, but the few that have are well pleasant. 
 She will not be necessary to say in the way online, therefore all the people that follow this Mod 
 will better know of what I eat I function. But I want to say that all the bureaucracy in playing 
 in the Steam servers alone confuses what it could be simple. She is necessary to pass for some 
 complications of short while irritating configuration and validation. But all know that the game 
 results well online very, and my task is to analyze what it was made to simulate an excellent sensation 
 in the way the ground, that was effectively not reached. How much to the sound, all the prominence 
 goes for colon. The communication between the Bots and us and the realistic sound of the weapons, 
 as well as all the sensation that this gives to manejar. The melodies are gifts, but it does not 
 have nothing of more designating. To finish, the final comments. It will be valid to fanatic Counter-Strike 
 the investment in a version commercial of a game that plays the years, but increased of Bots? Clearly 
 that not. If a player plays has years in net, because he would have to start to play the ground? 
 He will have some newness moreover? Much little. The maps are all practically available ones in 
 one of the last versions of this Mod. All the experience is practically equal. But the players 
 whom they now look to start to play Counter-Strike and that they want to invest are that they will 
 certainly go to acquire this heading. This because still search for Half-Life exists in order will 
 use the Mod, and thus, even so investing more money they are with all the complete package. But 
 I cannot leave to relate that we are before a heading technical dated and limited. Other actuais 
 proposals of game in net exist. E as already I related, for what! paying for that if it finds gratuitous 
 (legally, it is understood) to unload in the Internet? Now one note of credit for the Turtle Rock 
 and for the excellent work in the programming of the Bots. One becomes until viciante to fight 
 against artificial intelligence, but this for itself does not only justify the acquisition of the 
 game. We wait that they have many invitations for future works. Ah! Excellent E marketing maneuver 
 the inclusion of a COMPACT DISC with a set of ten of videos of Half-Life 2. Appositive that thus 
 they will go to increase vendas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty992
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 7, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  counter-strike is an online FPS where theres a group of terrorists and a group of counter terrorists. 
 Theres two types of game either the cts have to save some dumb hostages or the terrorists have 
 to blow up 1 of 2 the bomb sites. After each roud u win money what u can spend on guns, amour etc...
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: This game is a load of fun and will work on pretty low computers. Theres plenty of weapons 
 from desert eagles (a pistol) to a ak47 (a rifle) and awps (a sniper rifle) and much more. If ur 
 not playing online u can play player vs BOTS but thats boring and i dont do it. theres a ton of 
 maps all well made and lots of custom maps made all the time what have some times got cars in stuff 
 in them what is great fun. What im trying to say its fun, its crazy and at the same time u need 
 to think. You can also make/join clans which bring things to a very tactical.
  
  Grahics: Not the best but there ok when they were making it they looked more 2 gameplay than grahics 
 but its good enough.
  
  Sound: Its ok guns sound real and on alot of servers they have lots of different kinds of music 
 so sounds are good. Also u can use ur mic and others will so u dont have to type stuff.
  
  ROUND UP: This is a great game that will give you endless hours of gmaplay in my opinion u want 
 grahics go for source for crazy fun fights and lots of great maps go fore codition zero. Thx for 
 reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Vampire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  This game are no diffirent than Counter-strike 1.6. Only few weapons added and good AI. 
  The AI in this game is clever and very good. Its really fun to play over and over again. All clever 
 AI make this game really interesting and really fun to play. They will use shortcut to the place 
 he wanna go, jump up the crates, camping and covering. 
  This is really good for newbies who want to warm up before joining online games.
  
  Like the 
 first game, the sounds and gameplay are great. Too great. Its added new weapons and maps. 
  
  But Counter strike deleted scene is not fun at all. I recommend dont install this along with 
 Condition zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unshaken
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  They could have done a better job with the single player deleted scenes. Itz just the same as cs 
 source 1.6 exccept with some minor changes. If you own cs source, dont bother buying cs: cz, rather 
 keep updating the game. Besides, cs source has more and better maps being created every day, unlike 
 cs: cz which u have to wait a week for one to be released. my fav site to get mapz and add-ons 
 is here: www. fpsbanana. com.
  You will be able to download most of the valve games' stuff there, and ALOT of maps espically for 
 cs source (thety have lots for other games too) .
  itz fun if u r bored, but i'd rather not play it if i had WOW (world ov warcraft) or bf2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guy_arye
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 15, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game I was thinking: "If the last game was so good the next will double the 
 fun", but when I started to play I found out how my hope for this exciting game was unfounded. 
 The graphics has got better from the last game but it didn't made the game good as the last. You 
 will find out that the missions in this game are extremely boring till you will be sorry for wasting 
 good money on game. The gameply was the same good as the last game like the sound.
  But was made me disapointed the most was the amount of people in the multi playier game (at least 
 in Israel) .
  My advise: "don't do my wrong, don't buy Counter-Strike Condition Zero".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakdownXcore
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  well.. counterstrike condition zero.. i think this game is really good and very cool.. compared 
 to counterstrike source or the normal counterstrike.. its amazing.. its fast, and the weapons dont 
 look ridiculous. the bombs are alrite size. (uinlike counterstrike.. there like watermelons) .. 
 this game is easier than the other two, and its quite addictive.. i personally love this game and 
 play it quite often. the headshots are amazing also.. graphics are fine. i think this game could 
 do some re-work.. but overall.. it is a classic and is amazing! i think more games should be like 
 this, counter terrorist, vs terrorist. and each team has there own set of weapons.. nice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cr3sent
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  Come ON 6.8? I was reading some peviews when i scrambled onto the CS: Condition Zero preview followed 
 by noticing the should not be rated rating. It is obviously underated.
  
  Counter Strike is one awesome game even till now. Lan shops never stop earning from fans playing 
 counterstrike, even now. Condition Zero is no where worse. It made great improvements and had more 
 realistic movements. i think the sound are awesome. Graphic is not bad. I think It is pretty good. The 
 game is still popular. Tell me which FPS gamer have never heard of CS? Man they should go back to 
 their cave. 
  
  It provide abundance of fun and action to fellow FPS fans. The muliplayer/lan/online is awesome. The 
 fun we our friends, fellow CS friends online spent and had fun together. Simply fun filling and not 
 as bad as it is rated. Should have a better rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommygun141
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 2, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Theres not much too say for CS: CZ. It is the sequel to the amazingly popular Half life mod Counter 
 Strike, and adds a single player function.
  
  _________Graphics_________
  The graphics are not spectacular, but they get the point across. They are competent and you won't 
 be dissaproving of them.
  
  _________Gameplay_________
  Spectacular. Amazing. Super fun. All good words to discribe the great gameplay in Counter Strike: 
 Condition Zero. The game is innovative in the way the game works. If you die you wont respawn immediatly, 
 you have to wait for one team to win before you, along with all the other dead people, respawn. 
 You also buy guns with money you earn from killing enemies or accomplishing goals. If you are a 
 fan of ANY First Person shooter you should get this game.
  
  _________Sound________
  The sound is very nicely done, the guns sound very powerful, which is what they are. That is all 
 I need to say.
  
  _________Value_________
  There is a extensive single player campagin to train on in CS: CZ, and when you find yourself good 
 enough, you can go to the main attraction. Multiplayer. The large array of official and player 
 made maps are easily accesible because of Valve's simple point-and-click interface. The fun can 
 almost never end playing online, with a great replay value.
  
  __________Final Verdict_________
  This game owns. That's all you need to say. Lots of replay 
 value, and great fun. This game is for any FPS fan.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is one of the best games when it comes to plying LAN.
  
  GOOD: The graphics have improved alot since the first Counter Strike and there are bots and a Single 
 player campaigne, but the game is built for LAN and Online play, they also have added bots in to 
 the game it self which is cool and the bot AI is pretty good too. The graphics are cool
  
  BAD: Well there si not much bad to talk about really guess the AI could have improved
  
  Overall 
 it's a pretty cool game which me and my friends love playing we play it for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up yesterday, and it is great! I just wish i woulda gotten it sooner.
  
  Overview:
  
  Gameplay - same as the other CS', 9/10.
  
  Graphics - smae as the other CS', 
 9/10.
  
  Sound - same as other Cs', 10/10
  
  Value - same as other CS's, 10/10.
  
  If you do not own this game, you better go pick it up. It is an amazing game, even though it is 
 still old, it's fun! The graphics may not be that great, but the game is still playable! This is 
 a game you must have, it's pretty good if your bored also. Good time killer too.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -generic-
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Those who would mostly appreciate this game would be those new to the Counter-Strike scene, CZ 
 has a tutorial mode which does a good job of explaining the basics of gameplay (although being 
 a long time CS player I can't really judge how effective it is since I already know the ropes) . 
 CZ is also infinitely more offline friendly than CS - as it has some very human-like bots and a 
 "Tour of Duty" campaign which are a series of matches consisting of you as a CT with a team of 
 CT bots, against a team of Terrorist bots and there are several conditions of defeating the the 
 enemy which you'll need to fulfill in order to progress to the next stages, such as killing an 
 enemy with a certain weapon or winning the round within a specified time. This makes CZ almost 
 like a whole new game and serves as great training to newbies since they'll be facing off with 
 very experienced opponents online.
  
  Graphics:
  CS: CZ has updated player models, weapons, maps and sounds which offer a much more aesthetically 
 pleasing game and somewhat brings it closer to more recent games. But don't kid yourself - this 
 is still the Quake engine at work and it's limitations are really becoming apparent. While in this 
 review my rating for graphics seems abnormally high, I'm taking into account that this is based 
 on a game engine from 1998, and the fact that is still looks somewhat decent today is quite an 
 achievement.
  
  Gameplay:
  The core gameplay is still good ol' CS - an extremely addicting yet simple fast paced team shooter. 
 The Tour of Duty allows you to play offline or hone your skills against bots, and the included 
 Deleted Scenes gives a mildly entertaining way to kill a few hours, but be warned - it was called 
 Deleted Scenes for a reason, and personally I think it should have stayed deleted.
  
  Deleted Scenes:
  This is the Single Player game Condition Zero was originally meant to be. Initially 
 it was being done by Rouge Entertainment, then it switched to Gearbox Software, then it switched 
 to Ritual Entertainment, and finally it was scrapped in favour of a heavily improved CS 1.6 with 
 bots by Turtle Rock Studios. If you play it you'll understand why Valve decided to abandon it.
 
  
  The enemy AI is crap - I have no idea what Ritual did to Half-Life's advanced AI, but they managed 
 to fudge it up good. The enemies all use the same static pose when shooting you, have near perfect 
 aim and it's blatant that scripted sequences were extensively used to simulate physics. For some 
 reason, there's also enemies who are only equipped with knives and suicidally run at you. The missions 
 involve going from different countries as a CT and pretty much doing the same thing in different 
 environments - hunt and kill the evil terrorist leader while slaughtering his minions on the way. 
 Basically, Deleted Scenes was cut out for a very good reason. Only play this if you're very bored.
 
  
  Sound:
  CZ's sounds are pretty average. They're all slightly different and higher quality sounds from CS.
 
  
  Value:
  If you've never played CS before and want to join, CZ would be perfect since it allows you to play 
 on existing CS and CZ servers (although to play CS, you'll be playing the original CS which is 
 included with CZ) . The bots will also allow for offline play and the Tour of Duty mode will allow 
 you to learn the mechanics of playing CS. However, for existing CS players, the only noteworthy 
 feature would be the updated graphics and ability to play offline against bots, although there 
 are just as good and better custom models that's readily available in the community.
  
  Bottom Line:
  CZ is a good reason to get into CS if you haven't already, and also has better 
 visuals and a decent tutorial mode. But the Deleted Scenes shouldn't be used to affect your decision 
 to buy this game. Those who are already playing CS will be somewhat disappointed with CZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  By now, most FPS fans at least know what Counter-Strike is and have likely played it or have seen 
 it. For those of you who have recently been paroled from a lengthy incarceration or have awakened 
 from a coma, Counter-Strike is a team-based tactical shooter that pits terrorists versus counterterrorists 
 in round-based match play. In the game's current incarnation, there are two game types -- bombing 
 and hostage rescue. Bombing maps require the terrorist team to plant and detonate a time bomb in 
 one of two bombing areas while the counterterrorists guard these sites. Hostage rescue involves 
 having the terrorists guard computer-controlled civilians while the counterterrorists try to rescue 
 them. In practice, both game types often result in one team or the other being eliminated in bloody, 
 fast shoot-outs.
  
  Players earn money based on their performances in the previous rounds, and with this money, they 
 can buy weapons at the beginning of each subsequent round (and those who survive the last round 
 keep their guns) . The game's arsenal is based on real-life weapons, including Desert Eagle pistols, 
 pump-action shotguns, AK-47 assault rifles, and even some exotic equipment, like tactical shields 
 that deflect bullets.
  
  Single-player Condition Zero is just like the multiplayer version of Counter-Strike that's been 
 played for years, only your teammates and the enemies are replaced by computer-controlled bots. 
 You assume the role of the commander of a counterterrorist force, and you choose your teammates 
 from a menu of named bots. The bots vary in skill, aggressiveness, choice of weapon, and tendency 
 to cooperate with the rest of the team. Those with greater skill and more-powerful weapons cost 
 more points to hire, but you'll earn points steadily as you make your way through the game's campaign. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  has finally arrived on store shelves (and Steam servers, by the way) . And after all the delays, 
 the final product has offered us a few new surprises -- some delightful, some dreadful. For them 
 that don't know (and shame on you, by the way) , Counter-Strike is a wildly popular online shooter 
 built on the original Half-Life technology. Though it wasn't everyone's cup of tea, twitchy action 
 gamers around the world loved the title. Part of the success of the game was that it was built 
 on one of the best shooters around; part of it was that it was free to download and play. Now Valve 
 has now released an updated version of the game that includes some new offline modes, plenty of 
 competent bots and pretty much nothing else. And that's the real issue -- if you can see past the 
 "nothing else" to appreciate the new things that the game offers. Each mission requires you to 
 defuse a bomb, rescue hostages, you know, the usual Counter-Strike stuff. You're usually up against 
 half-a-dozen or so of terrorists but you can take along some back up. There are a number of bots 
 here that you "buy" to take with on a mission. Those that cost one point are pretty terrible; those 
 that cost four points are pretty damn good. Each comes rated in a number of areas: skill, bravery 
 and teamwork, and has a preferred weapon. I'd really like to have seen an extra option that allows 
 you to buy specific equipment for your team but there's a nice range of weapons at all point levels 
 so you can create the team that suits you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Well, not bad game. However, gameplay is usual but still difference between level so hifg that 
 you dont care about game scenario. Actually there is no scenario at all. You have missions in different 
 places around the world, and it is need to be done. So lets go, that's fair enough for killing 
 terrorist and passing dangerous traps or what ever. 
  
  During game you will not get boried at all, coz in some missions is not about shouting it has some 
 tactical moves as well. Quietly enter the zone and eliminate the targets, which is makes game a 
 bit serious.
  
  Graphic, well it is look like Counter Strike graphic, so I would not bother with that too much 
 but however, not bad. Sound is great in game, gun shots, alarm system peoples svearing in their 
 own language depending on mission location, Good one!
  
  Have a look, may be you will like it.
  
  Enjoy your game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herviross_2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Counter strike condition zero is arguably the best ever FPS game today. There is just so much you 
 can do with the game and as such.. making choices is really difficult!!!!. Well that 
 just shoes what counter strike is capable of doing. On campaign you and a team compete in various 
 levels set out for you. Or you could just stick with LAN ( Local Area Network ) . On LAN, condition 
 zero features dozens of maps to play with right from a mansion to a train station. Two teams are 
 available for you, Counter terrorist ( C. T ) and Terrorists ( T ) . From there on its going 
 to be a killing spree for you.. and hope that you are not on the receiving end of gunfire. Weapons 
 will differ from the two teams so choose wisely. To conclude this review I would like to say that 
 Counter strike condition zero is an amazing game for the PC and a game that will appeal to every 
 gamer around the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CQCmasta
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  everybody like CS it a good game and yes it fun but jeez if they could fix up the little probeblems 
 it coulve got a nine like the shoddy graphics not pretty at all just average oh and there isnt 
 much to do rather than campain and DS which also isnt that fun either though the online is great 
 so yeah i guess its still quiet fun to play even though the little things they screwed up its overall 
 a good game but with some polish it would be great and definalty a game that needs to be played 
 at some point.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  fun but needs substance
  
  GRAPHICS
  just average
  
  SOUND
  nice effects
  
  VALUE
  nice but needs more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Counter Strike is one of the best, if not the best, online games there is. However Condition Zero 
 provides you with a nice getaway from some of the obnoxious guys online. Playing online is definately 
 a great way to have fun, but sometimes it can be even more entertaining to freeze the computer 
 BOTs and mess around with them. There is no doubt in my mind that you can enjoy Counter Strike 
 online no matter who you are, but Condition Zero might not be for everyone. However Condition Zero 
 still lets you play the striaght up counter strike online, so you con't go wrong buying it. Enjoy. 
 Feel free to visit my profile and check out some of my other reviews while a make my way toward 
 the certury mark, plus I went around to all my reviews and edited this back in, so you should just 
 have a look anyway. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  It's a long time ago I played Counter-Strike and after a year I just hated the game. I got sick 
 of it! Just suddenly, playing the game didn't make sense. Then 2 years later, i borrowed Condition 
 Zero for a weekend, and suddenly I somehow missed the game. But not that much, I just needed to 
 play it for a while. 
  Condition Zero doesn't change the whole game that much. There's just a singleplayer campaign, some 
 new weapons and maps. All of this is good, but anyway I don't liked it that much. 
  
  The GooD: 
  - New weapons and maps.
  - A new singleplayer is some fun.
  - Counter-Strike 
 has some gameplay in it, but I don't like it.
  
  The BaD: 
  - Still the same unattractive graphics.
  - Still the same boring voices and sound effects.
 
  - Still the same boring tiresome gameplay.
  - Still the same old me, almost hating the game.
  
  Condition Zero is crappy game to be honest. 
 In the start I was too nice, man, don't buy or download this game, just stop playing Counter-Strike, 
 your life will be so much better. I recommend you to stop playing the game!
  Please, no Counter-Strike in the future!
  
  Dope999
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  I don't have a good computer. I am sorry, but I can't keep on upgrading all the time especially 
 when it is so expensive. When Counter Strike Source came out I downloaded it through steam, but 
 the graphics were all messed up and it just wasn't fun to play. So I downloaded this, and really 
 experienced what all the hype was about.
  
  Gameplay:
  Amazingly fast, fun and exciting. The controls are great (as expected) and the addition of a single 
 player campaign helps new players sharpen their skills. Many weapons and many maps add to a great 
 game.
  
  Graphics:
  Although pretty old, the character models look pretty good. The environment and the weapon models 
 are not good, but this game is pretty old. 
  
  Sound:
  Pretty good sound for the actions of the weapons. No music, but who really plays this game for 
 the music.
  
  Value:
  This game probably has the best value of any game I have every played because it is so addictive. 
 I cannot believe how the time flies when you are playing this game. So much replay value!!!
  
  If you are like me and want to play the game, but have a subpar computer, get this game. However, 
 if you have a "wicked sick" computer, get source. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triton71
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  I know this games is not the best single player games, but it does not have to bee. Because this 
 game can't bee rated ass an single player game. It's a online game, and the best online game ever 
 ! ! 
  This is the "old" counter-strike, and alot of people seems to like this best. (the hard core cs 
 players) . I agree that cs: cz was not all that, but i promise you hours with great online gaming 
 with the latest cs: source. 
  If you have not played this game yet, you have been missing out alot. It's not the easiest game 
 to learn, but when you get the hang of it, you cant stop playing. In fact it not only a game it 
 is a religion. Loooove cs!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  For anyone whos ever played the original version of this game online and died a million times heres 
 your game. Forget all those cheaters and really good players who have nothing better to do than 
 play it all day. In this there acctually a story (gasp) and no online (double gasp) . You can tackle 
 the story missions, which are kinda cheesy, or play the closest thing to online: the training mode. 
 Don't expect anything mind blowing or totally new here. Acctually expect the opposite. Old graphics 
 and same old gameplay. But its fun. I don't care about all that new crap. I just wanna shoot me 
 some terrorists. Anyone who says this isn't a fun game has the definition of fun as playing scrabble 
 with their grandmas. Its a good game. And you won't feel humiliated every time you die. You know 
 you can accctually get revenge. Like I said the graphics aren't great but they get the job done. 
 Gameplay is spot on and only slips with jumping parts. Voice acting all around sucks along with 
 no next to no music. It may be behind the times but its still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerman92
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  i got it with anthology. 1 thing thats just retarded is the fact that most bulletproof windows 
 cant be killed by bullets but rathe by throwing grenades at them (when it collides, not when it 
 explodes) 
  gameplay: bulletproof glitch, but this was a pretty good game, i dont see why people hate it so 
 much
  sound: i guess it was good, i dont really say anything about sound or graphics in reviews for old 
 games
  graphics: (no comment)
  
  I didnt do good at this review. maybe ill come back to this review sometime and uptade or uptade 
 or update. until then, im playing darwinia and am totally addicted. TRY IT! and try CSCZ! its a 
 good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MjrMantaray
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  It's basically a revamped version of the old Counterstrike, but with the addition of better graphics, 
 more realistic weapons, and the inclusion of fairly smart A. I. bots.
  This game's single-play campaign is just ok, but the shining gem here is 
  the on-line multi-play. 
 I personally prefer CS: Source, but that game doesn't have some of the cool maps that are in CS: CZ. 
 (like the map 747)
  The deleted scenes are basically crap, but the missions themselves can be mildly amusing at times, 
 it's mostly a lot of puzzles.
  The box says this game has "A slew of new weapons and toys."
  The only somewhat new weapons are 
 on the deleted scenes portion of the game. The only reason to buy this game is if 
  A. You don't own Counterstrike.
  B. You love Counterstrike.
  C. You need something new and 
 cheap.
  
  If you chose C. I would strongly suggest buying CS: Source or 
  Day of Defeat: Source instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eldanny
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great advance from the previous version. The previous Version is also good but this 
 is MUCH better than the earlier version. This game has a lot more graphics and sound than the previous 
 version. Also the map modifications help the game a lot. For example the shades and roofs that 
 the previous version did not include. Some extra features are that when you use the radio it specifies 
 where you are at, and also when using voice. Finally another feature is that there is an extra 
 character in both counter terrorists and terrorists sides. Also some details have changed such 
 as the bomb that is now with more details. But one of the things that impresses the most is the 
 sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Condition Zero is an excellent online shooter. It's plainly just Counter-strike 1.6 but better. 
 Condition Zero adds more maps, better graphics, and more equipment. Condition Zero is a well made 
 expansion. If you haven't tried Counter-Strike 1.6, get Condition Zero instead. Its much more fun. 
 Condition Zero actually tells you to get steam before playing online! And its totally free! If 
 you already have Counter-Strike 1,6, get Condition Zero too. You won't be disappointed. The new 
 Counter-strike, Source, may have beautiful graphics too but its way to easy to kill. Condition 
 Zero is really fun and is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herviross
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  Condition Zero surely is the worst counter strike game yet. The single mode is atrocious and very 
 boring. Playing on LAN is the best that you can get out of this game. Playing with friends is just 
 a treat. There are 2 teams, counter-terrorists and terrorists. There are a lot of maps for you to 
 chose and the playing is intense. The weapons are superb with nearly all the weapons inflicting 
 a high percentage of damage to your rivals. Graphics and sound is average. Accuracy and being one 
 step ahead of your opponents is everything that you need to play the game. Nothing else to say about 
 Condition Zero except that a little more thought (did i say little, i meant a lot) should have been 
 given to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeshoe1121
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  When people think CS, everyone thinks Online Fraggin' and Hackin'. However. Condition Zero is not 
 quite what most players expect
  
  Condition Zero is essentially CS offline. Containted within the game is the "Tour of Duty", a collection 
 of classic and new CS maps with certain objectives and challenges to complete such as:
  
  Win in under 75 sec.
  Kill 5 enemies
  Kill someone with (weapon here)
  get () WN3d (Jk)
 
  
  this allows a challenge to players who are experienced and allows noobs to learn the basics of 
 counterstrike and familiarize themselves with the weapons, maps and equipment of CS. The difficulty 
 rating you pick changes the number of challenges and difficulty of the bots. As you complete maps, 
 you unlock "Reputation points" you can use to assemble a team of CT's.
  
  Condition Zero's other SP experience is Deleted Scenes. These missions are a series of story driven 
 missions that are typical of traditional FPS games. Most of these missions are easily completeable 
 in less than 20 minutes.
  
  CZ also gives CS a facelift, redoing textures and models to at least a more acceptable standard. 
 New quipment both online and offline also adds to its replayability. All in all, Condition Zero 
 is an excellent place to start for people getting into Counterstrike and a perfect addition for 
 CS fans, costing about $20 or less 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcgaminghitman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok. I first saw the game on the shelf at wal mart and there were like five of them, so i thought, 
 but i always heard great things about them but i never tried them, except the Xbox version which 
 was cool but i didn't have Xboxlive which made it suck. A friend of mine let me borrow his copy 
 of the game and man was i hooked. I played for 4 hours straight without reliezing it. The game 
 play is smooth and the combat is intense. You first select wither u want to be the Counter terrorist 
 team or the terrorists. You then select the skin you want to play with, then u buy what weapons 
 you want and equipment you want. You are constatly be shot at from all sides. The greatest thing 
 about CS is when you die u wait for the next round which can be anywhere from 10 seconds to 2 minutes. 
 The only challenge is your skill level against the other players. It is a great game and i would 
 recemmended it for anyone who likes FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkeye049
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game for over several years now and they update the game like every two months 
 making it better and better. The gameplay is excellent and you'll find online gameplay very difficult. 
 I highly recommend this to anyone who is a fan of first person shooters. Also it has low minimum 
 requirements so most anyone can get it. There are plenty of weapons to chose from this game has 
 more weapons then Counter Strike Source. Hours of entertainment its one of the most played online 
 games in the U. S. They have thousands of servers with up to 32 people in each one. Downloadable 
 maps are made every month you'll never find a game like this. In some servers there's low gravity, 
 superpowers, music, and special player models like Neo or Master Chief. You can ride on jeeps, 
 helicopters, boats, and even skateboards. If your a fan of sniper rifles like i am you'll love 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8r196
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  Great value game, should but it if your lokking for another action game to add to your collection!
 
  If your is fairly good buy Counter strike source instead, much better, but this is still worth 
 playing if your into fast paced online play!
  The sound is fairly good, grapics are fine for the time it was made, and the game play is fast, 
 built on the halflife 1 engine, this should be a sure fire winner for any keen halflife player.
 
  
  A wide array of weapons are at your disposal, including the FAMAS, the AK-47 and the M4. 
  
 
  So if your looking for a cheap thrill, this what your looking for! Everything you need for a bit 
 of good messy fun! But I doubt its re-play ability, this game will probably not last long if you 
 don't put enough time into it!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddiebone
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  When Counter-Strike: Condition Zero was first announced three years ago, it seemed like a decent 
 enough idea. The definitive first-person shooter mod was at the height of its popularity, so having 
 a single-player game based on the winning formula sounded like a good way to win a new following 
 and perhaps entice even more people to venture online. However, those who have been reading up 
 on the game over the years know that development has been a bumpy ride. The duty of making Condition 
 Zero has practically been passed around more than the collection basket at Easter Mass. What started 
 internally at Valve Software quickly moved to Gearbox, then to Ritual Entertainment, and finally 
 over to Turtle Rock Studios. Given such an unusual development path, Condition Zero is surprisingly 
 enjoyable, thanks mostly to some remarkable artificial intelligence. Unfortunately, the game will 
 be remembered as a victim of its own delays. While the core gameplay is timeless, Condition Zero's 
 release is overshadowed by no fewer than three technologically advanced, highly anticipated shooters, 
 which all cast a harsh light on what is essentially a 6-year-old game -- albeit a classic one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Critical condition.
  
  After three years in development, the long-awaited single-player follow-up to the most popular 
 online fragfest known to gamerkind has finally been deployed. Like many, I nearly forgot all about 
 it. Counter-Strike: Condition Zero has bounced from programmer to programmer over its development 
 cycle, having gone through four different developers and constantly changing in focus and content. 
 It's been hard to keep this one on the radar.
  
  Astonishingly, the game is now actually here, yet the question remains: for whom is this dated 
 piece of software designed? The answer: Xbox owners. In fact, it's perfect for them. The problem 
 is this little soldier is a PC-only title. Confused? Don't be. Just be wary and read on.
  
  For all three of you who have been cast away on a deserted island with your buddy Wilson for the 
 past several years, Counter-Strike is still the most widely played first-person shooter on the 
 market. It pits terrorists against counter-terrorists in a number of now traditional gameplay modes: 
 bomb planting or defusal, hostage retaining or hostage rescue and VIP elimination or escorting, 
 depending on which side you play (see the old original review for full gameplay mechanics) . The 
 game is painstakingly well-balanced with modern day weapons and smart, realistic ballistic physics. 
 For a few years there, CS simply ruled.
  
  In hopes of squeezing a few more coins from gamers before Half-Life 2 shows up and clears the slate, 
 Counter-Strike: Condition Zero arrives with a paltry, lackluster single-player component to the 
 tried and true multiplayer funfest now creeping into its fifth year.
  
  The meat of the Condition Zero's single-player is called "Tour of Duty," which pits you as a counter-terrorist 
 against a collection of classic CS maps. In a strange twist, you proceed from one map cycle to 
 the next by accomplishing level goals reminiscent of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater. You might have to 
 kill 7 terrorists with a certain weapon, rescue 6 hostages, or defuse a bomb in a certain amount 
 of time before continuing on to the next map. Completing these tasks affords you access to new 
 player skins, maps and other weapons.
  
  The problem is twofold. For anyone who has already played CS, it's quite annoying having to suddenly 
 unlock maps, especially since every one included here has been playable in CS forever. Additionally, 
 many of the level requirements are counter-intuitive. For instance, you are often required to rescue 
 a number of hostages, but maps end if you kill every enemy (this is, after all, a good thing) , 
 so you'll find yourself purposefully not shooting the last guy just to lead the hostages to the 
 extraction point to satisfy your stupid objective. Fail and you have to start over. Argh.
  
  Also, ghost mode is still here in the single-player game. If you die early on in a map, you'll 
 have to sit there watching the AI go at it just like you'd do in the normal online game, except 
 now it's single-player and you just want to achieve your objectives and move on; why still make 
 us wait?
  
  The other single-player component is the "Deleted Scenes" section, which throws you around the 
 globe on 12 very uninteresting missions. This mode was initially designed by Ritual, who were eventually 
 dropped in favor of Turtle Rock, and it's clear that no one took the time to finish or fix what 
 Ritual started. Each mission is rooted in dated gameplay and feels glitchy and unfinished. The 
 firefights are pretty frantic and some of the scripting is commendable, but how this is supposed 
 to compete with games like Battlefield Vietnam, Call of Duty and so many others is beyond me.
 
  
  Tipping my disgruntled hat, I will admit that the bot AI is very believable, albeit not perfect. 
 They don't necessarily move like a well-trained team of terrorists or counter-terrorists, instead 
 performing a lot like your garden-variety humans, camping a dropped bomb and strategic bomb-planting 
 included. At times, you might almost forget you're playing offline.
  
  Until, that is, you remember that you spent a bunch of money on this rip-off. A $10 purchase for 
 the offline bot software as a separate program might have carried some merit, but thanks to the 
 half-baked thinking of some marketing nut, CS: CZ retails for a whopping $40 (it can also be downloaded 
 by CS vets through Steam for "only" 30 bucks) . Considering what little new stuff you get, that's 
 asking a lot. A whole lot.
  
  As you'd imagine, the graphics are extremely dated. Blocky models, old textures  it looks like 
 the five year-old game that it is. This makes it scalable for just about any low-end PC, but again, 
 who's willing to shell out the dough for this? For that matter, why were the single-player features 
 (Tour of Duty and Deleted Scenes) not just included in the skeletal Xbox version of CS instead? 
 And ultimately, why not just wait for the fancy new Half-Life 2 and crank out an official sequel? 
 I loved CS as much as the next guy, but please, leave the dead horse alone!
  
  I suppose if you've never played CS (all 10 of you) and would like a glorified tutorial to get 
 you going, then by all means, grab Condition Zero. The gameplay itself is still pretty fun and 
 this package isn't bad for CS newbies, though at this point, how many of them are there? As for 
 the millions of CS vets, as you were. This old soldier isn't worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox360willown
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  Now, CZ is a real good game, but, i think you'll just find the same thing as before, Great multplayer.
 
  The single player wasn't so good in my opinion but, that's only my opinion!
  now CZ is a really good game all in all but i don't think the Artificial Intelligance is such a 
 big deal, i mean they are great but not THAT great, know what im saying?
  lol rofl g2g cya brb lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol!! lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mand_450
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 12, 2005 6:58 am PT
Review:  I cant see why i wished this game so badly. A played it for a day and got bored. You simply do 
 the same again and again. Buying your farvorite weapon, a kevlar+helmet and some grenades with 
 your unlimited stock of cash and go out to shoot the enemy down.
  
  The bots are simply brain dead freaks. I ones walked next to an enemy bot without he saw me, and 
 simply offering no challenge at all. Giving orders to friendly bots wont help that much. They will 
 just respond and forget the order right after.
  
  There are just simply no fun at all in this game. Maybe for six seven years ago where it was made, 
 but valve could have made some new features, (Others than Brain dead bots) such as better graphics 
 which this game requires BADLY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellknightshade
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great squad based acton game, especially online, i definetly could not get tired 
 of this game online. Level designs are basic though offer great defense on offense positions, game 
 never gets old and playing is always a challenege depending on the difficulty.
  
  There isnt a campaign which ruins this game for me, i like to play through campaigns and then play 
 multiplayer or that, but the game simply does not offer campaign. Guns are designed well and are 
 easy to use, you buy weapons with credits you recieve and it makes game go very easily depending 
 how you play.
  
  Although not great graphics and no online it is still a great game, definetly a better first person 
 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good shooter for the ones that want to be bored quickly!!!!
  
  Gameplay: you play a soldier and you need to kill all the terrorists or save all the hostages. 
 There isn't a story line and the killings are pretty good.
  
  Graphics: horrible!!. This game looks like it was been made in the 90's or something like that. 
 If you want a good shooter game with good graphics then maybe pick up killzone or halo.
  
  Sound: There is no sound. The only sound in this game are the shooting and the music that you finish 
 a level or a round.
  
  Value: If you like these crap of game then you can play for hours and if you don't play barbie 
 insted of this game.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game one big Crap and you should never buy it or download it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  When counter strike 1.6 came out, it came out as a mod, lots of people started trying it out, now 
 its a official game.
  But if you own counter strike 1.6 why should you get this game?
  Well Condition zero is counter strike source mixed with counter strike 1.6.
  Gameplay:::::::::::
 
  The gameplay is improved from CS 1.6 because maps have much better graphics, and theres condition 
 zero deleted scenes, for just some single player fun.
  Sound::::::::::
  Sound hasnt been much of a problem in counter strike, it hasnt been a problem because all the the 
 weapons make proper shooting and reloading sounds. When you kill someone the sound you get is awesome.
 
  When you switch teams the noise you get is absolutely realistic, and its awesome, you get the 
 whole dying effect.
  Graphics:::::::::
  The graphics still use the half life 1 engine, but the textures, models, weapons and maps have 
 got much better graphics.
  Also lots of professional players play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Every mission in the game was played ( by me ) for more than 7 times .. And I am taking about every 
 single or multi-player mission.
  The game is just hard to tell about its effect on me..
  Of course I played the first part of the game ( the original counter strike ) in LAN games since 
 I think 8 years ago .. And I was deeply in love with the game from ever since .
  I had the Counter Strike Source game b4 getting this one .. But this one has an advantage of playong 
 offline which means alot for me.
  I didn't finish all difficulties in the game ... But I am happy to say that I have finished more 
 than 50 percent of the difficulty levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkllia
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  Actually im not into all this hard and crash game so much...
  love football and others more than this but after trying the first game in 2000... suddenly i felt 
 in love with CS.
  with a lot of improvement for Condition Zero such as maps, models and type of weapon and level 
 of difficulty it quite interesting...
  The single player mode is basically playing with bots. Great practice, for a pro player it is really 
 easy.... but for normal or amateur player sometime the bots are quite hard to beat.
  actually it is a nice try but for a real gamers.....
  Counter-strike is nothing without their 
 online game...
  and for me, singe player mode i could give 7/10 and for online mod 9/10..
  
  Park De'tsiwt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_peasant
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 11:56 am PT
Review:  thats is what i need plz tell me . i like the game to be honest i would like to play the new version 
 ,have to save up : ) the down fall is that the graphics could be better otherwise verry good .it 
 runs very smooth baring in mind a 6 gigabite** hard drive . the internet is good ive seen it on 
 my freinds
  if i had to i would put more things into the game inc. single player ,death mode and many more 
 . given rating 8 / 9
  if anny one disargrees tell me lol
  this is the best game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_rulez_all
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Incase you're wondering, I AM a first time CS player. I picked up the Anthology (CS 1/CS: CZ) because 
 I wanted to see what's so great about it (and it was cheap lol: Only $25 Canadian) . Now I see why 
 everyone is talking about it like it's the Holy Grail.
  
  First off is the gameplay: Plays pretty much like your standard FPS, except you have to BUY your 
 weapons, ammo, and accessories at the start of each round. You earn money buy killing enemies, 
 rescuing hostages, etc. Each weapon/accessorie costs a certain amount, and you can't buy something 
 if you don't have enough money, so use your money wisely!
  
  Next up is the graphics: All I can say is WOW! They are 100% PURE IMMACULATE!! Especially seeing 
 as you need less than 128 MB of RAM, and virtually ANY video card to run! Trust me, my PC is pretty 
 crappy when it comes to hardware -- 256 MB of RAM, and some video card that I don't even know the 
 name of :P.
  
  Sound: Standard gun sounds, zipping/loading sounds when buying weapons at the start of each round, 
 etc. Online, the mic volume is good, too.
  
  
  Single Player: Single player is OK... nothing special, just standard bot matches.... the bots suck.... they 
 NEVER follow your orders, and even on expert, they can't aim.
  
  Online: WOW! EXCELLENT online! It rarely lags (I have a 100 MB/PS connection, so, yeah....) , and 
 it's WAY more fun than single player, as you are playing against REAL PEOPLE! You die WAAAY too 
 easily online, though....
  
  
  The last thing I have to say is: If you are an FPS fan, or just a plain action fan, BUY THIS GAME 
 (or even better: Counterstrike 1: Anthology) NOW!! It is EXTREMELY cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazare
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:01 am PT
Review:  The game does have bots, which is something I've wanted in a CS related game forever, ever since 
 CS 1.5 was upgraded. The AI on the bots is pretty real, however the Easy bots seem to be really 
 stupid (which makes sense) and the Expert bots seem to be too good (which also makes sense) , so 
 if you want more of a human feel I recommend Hard bots, since those seem to be the most balanced. 
 There are missions in this game, they don't follow much of a story line, they basically just being 
 you thru all the maps and have you complete objectives. For example on Office you may need to rescue 
 4 hostages, kill 6 enemies, and kill 3 enemies with the M4A1. You need to do all that and have 
 2 more wins over the other team to complete that map. In short, all it is is you playing on the 
 maps  nothing too special. Something I did like about this is you get to build your own team, 
 each time you beat a map you get a point, and with that point you can get another person on your 
 team, the more points a person costs, the better they are. You can have 6 people on your team. 
 
  
  Now, playing thru the missions you will ask yourself, what happened to the rocket launcher? All 
 the 'new' gun looks, 'better' graphics, sounds, etc. Well, all those were taken out of the game, 
 who knows why, but you can get all these in a download off Steam called Condition Zero Deleted 
 Scenes. This is where it's all at; he rocket launcher, more realistic guns and sound, real missions 
 that remotely follow a story line. It's beyond me why they took this out of the game they released, 
 it's so much more better, combine this with the bots, and you would have had an even better game. 
 Unfortunately you can't have bots with all the 'cool' guns and what not, just missions. 
  
  You also have online play, but why play this online? It's not different from CS, and hardly anyone 
 plays it. I only recommend it for LAN parties, where you and some friends can own some bots, but 
 online just seems pointless to me after seeing how close it is to the regular CS. 
  
  Graphically this game offers little to nothing new to the CS world, they look identical to the 
 CS graphics. The only thing that offers anything new is the Deleted Scenes, even those are spectacular, 
 and won't be the reason you come back to play the game. I think this is where they really messed 
 up, they hyped this to be an 'upgrade' over CS, but left many, like myself, dissatisfied with this 
 'upgrade'. 
  
  The sound, also, offers nothing new for me. The deleted scenes has some tweaks to it, like the 
 silenced weapons sound more real, and bullets hitting certain objects sounds as they should, but 
 nothing compared to what it should have been. 
  
  *Taken from my CS review and tweaked to fit this game* 
  I am adding a new section in for this 
 review, and that's for Steam. As most everyone may know Steam is a content distribution program 
 and makes getting patches and games a breeze. It has all but replaced the WON network, and now 
 players have a STEAM ID, rather then a WON ID. This has sped up the process of getting things fixed 
 in games. Since it is so easy for people to get them since it is all automatic. 
  
  It also has a friends list, which works a lot like AIM. You have a buddy list and you can IM each 
 other back and forth, even while in a game. You can also play parlor games against a friend; like 
 checkers or chess. Now, this friends list is cool, but it is down a lot, but lately that has been 
 changing and it has been up more. 
  
  There's also a nifty server browser that lets you add servers to a list, called your favorites, 
 so you can find them fast! It also lets you filter the servers with such thing as ping, map, and 
 game being played (i. e. Counter Strike, Day of Defeat) , even the number of players! 
  
  This game will only appeal to hard core CS fans, or people looking for a good FPS game they can 
 play off easily. It won't last very long for other people, picking up a CS type game for the first 
 time or expecting big upgrades over CS, as it doesn't do much. The missions lack a story line, 
 and basically is just you vs. all the terrorists trying to get out of somewhere or rescue someone. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanM1411
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is just like the regular counter-strike 1.6 gane. Except with a little improvement with 
 the map textures, models and weapon skins. It also adds the little feature of Single Player mode 
 and the Deleted Scenes..
  
  The deleted scenes mode was pretty decent, not exciting... decent.. It got kinda boring after a 
 while.. The Single player mode is basically playing with bots. Great Practice, but gets boring 
 after a while cause the bots are quite easy to beat.
  
  This game is a pretty great game if you dont feel like playing online but still want to play some 
 counter-strike. The weapon skins looks better and sounds cooler. and the Models look nicer as well 
 as the maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnx
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Man i still love this game it gives you something to do so it may get a little
  borring so what if your friends are over pull it out and play it for a bit
  may not be as good 
 as fear or halo 2 or half life 2, or counterstrike sorce
  but man its totaly old school i am shure this will remain a fun game for
  a long time to true 
 fans of this game i wish they could of done better
  well we will see in the next game to come out in the half life series
  thankyou for listening 
 bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 4.8
Date: Sep 12, 2005 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Counter Strike: Condition Zero is the expansion pack of Counter Strike (Although it wasn't ment 
 to be nothing much changes) . The gameplay is the same, the graphics still suck but are minorly 
 improved, and everyone can still kill you in 1 shot in this game. The single player I have to say 
 in pretty good, although your AI bots don't really listen to you all the time they're not useless 
 leaving you to do everything they can acutally win a round by themselves at times. That's the fun 
 factor however, the looks of the game is terrible, the maps seem like they were all made on a plain 
 texture that raps around the map and your guns don't look that great, nor do your teammates. 
 
  
  What I hated the most about this game is that it's Online based so you'll spend most of your short 
 time playing Online. Now I beat CS on Hard mode really easily and it's still sort of challenging 
 but I didn't have many problems, online I get killed in 1-2 hits however when I unload 50 bullets 
 into a guys skull with perfect aim I somehow miss everytime and get killed with an easy headshot. 
 It seems almost EVERYONE in these games can get a headshot easily except for you, unles you played 
 the oringal CS since it was out there's no way you can get good and have fun with this game. Everyone 
 plays the same 3 maps which are always annoying no matter what team your on, even if you switch 
 to a Dominating team who's winnign 70-1 you always end up dying in some cheap way. Somehow everyone's 
 bullets do more damage then yours can I can only give out 44 damage if im lucky when encountering 
 enemies. The game is a waste of time and will just get you frustrated as you listen to 18 year 
 olds who play the game all day laugh histerically into their mic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  Since I loved playing Counter-Strike online with players all around the world, I decided to test 
 my skills in a few missions, which is why I picked up Condition Zero. All of the controls are the 
 same as is you were playing Counter-Strike, which made me feel comfortable. This is just like any 
 other first person shooter war game. You can select missions and when you complete them more missions 
 are unlocked. All of the same guns are there. They dont throw anything new at you. The graphics 
 were better than the original CS and the sound was also better. If you have spent some time playing 
 CS then I suggest you try this game out. Like I said, its nothing new so it will grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Paradox-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 27, 2005 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Well condition zero might not be the best game on the market, but it is very addictive. Throught 
 the game you play as a counter-terrorist. You try to prevent the terrorists from detonating their 
 bomb or in combat. The game actually is very fun. I enjoyed it from start to finish.
  
  The Gameplay of condition zero is great. Like I said. It is very addictive. I couldn't stop once 
 I started. You begin (or most people do) on easy. Throughout the game you play through various 
 levels. Each with their own special area. The game gets harder as you progress.
  
  The Graphics of condition zero are overall good. Your team looks very real. However, looking at 
 yourself holding a gun is very blocky. Your arm holding a gun looks like a block. Overall trees 
 and the environment looks good.
  
  The Sound of condition zero is great. You have to talk to your team at certain times to tell them 
 to regroup or maintain a position. Overall the sound is good.
  
  The Value of condition zero is good. You mainly replay the levels on each difficulty, but with 
 different goals. It features online multiplayer with steam and some deleted scenes, if you bought 
 the same version I did.
  
  Overall condition zero is a great game for hardcore VALVe supporters and fans. I recommend it to 
 any and all of you. New players may have a difficult time adjusting if you have never played Counter-Strike 
 or Half-Life's series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperDumbGuy
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 4, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  For those of you that have never played Counter-Strike (CS) before, it is an online game where 
 you play as either terriorsts (T) or counter-terriorsts (CT) , each with different objectives on 
 different missions. For example, when you're on a de map, your objectives as a terriost is to set-up 
 a bomb, while the counter-terriorsts try to prevent the bomb from being set and defuse it if it 
 was. If you like the sound of the game so far, then the chances are that you will also like Condition 
 Zero (CZ) . 
  CZ is basically a duplicate of CS, with a few minor tune ups and it lets you play offline for a 
 change. You play through the game as a CT in a squad. When you first start out, your team is very 
 pathetic and useless but as you play through the missions, you acquire "points" for which you can 
 earn better teammates. Some of the things you have to do on these missions are stupid (knife someone) 
 but they do get challenging, even for veterans of CS. Playing through these missions occasionally 
 does get boring and annoying and the players may feel like they're doing a chore instead of a game. 
 
  For you veterans of CS out there, this game probably isn't worth checking out, since, like i said 
 before, it is almost EXACTLY like CS. You are able to go online with CZ, which has the same maps 
 as CS with a slightly better looking map but it probably isn't worth spending $30-40 over.
  About the "deleted scenes," it is probably the only thing in CZ thats different from CS. It has 
 new weapons, etc. and is quite strategetic. Why they cancelled that and added the CZ we have now? 
 I have no clue. 
  The difficulty of the game depends on the player. If you have been playing CS for a long time, 
 this should be eazy or just right. But if you have never played CS, the game is hard and you will 
 find yourself crazy within a few hours.
  Overall, CZ is a "fun" addition to the CS series. If you LOVED CS, this game is probably worth 
 a play and if you have never played CS, you should probably check this game out too. Personally, 
 i gave up on the game about 10 hours and left it. It isn't worth the frustration it game me. Having 
 to knife super intelligent bots is something that's not on my to do list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THELordGavin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2005 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I think this should have been cheaper mainly for the fact that it's an expansion. It had what the 
 first counter-strike didn't; A single player campaign. The single player is quite good and the 
 AI is very smart. This is a good way to hone your skills for online play. It is objective based 
 and there are a few objectives per map. You might have to kill a certain amount of enemies with 
 certain weapons. It is great for tactical skills but your team won't help as much. Your best bet 
 is to get the best guys you can and pull a lot of the weight. The graphics are a little better 
 and each character looks a little different. The online play is basically.... well it's exactly 
 the same. It's still a fun game but it is more oriented to the single player offline play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridingshotgun
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 19, 2005 5:27 pm PT
Review:  suck at cs? new to cs? this is the game for u... and only for u....
  condition zero is just counterstrike with sum different weapon models and the maps have been slightly 
 changed but no new dynamic chagnes. the 'single player' is just a series of 'missions' where you 
 have to kill a certain number of people with a certain gun. all this really does is prep u up and 
 is just a practice for online games. i heard there was a rumor about a 'story mode'...? stick that 
 up ur ass. 
  graphics have only marginly increased from half life counterstrike and is nothing great. 
  for 
 newbies this game can get pretty difficult but u will get beter over time. but watch who ur playing 
 against online, u might get OWENDDD. 
  weapons sound good and are well balanced, but team vo's aren't really that bad.. just annoying. 
 after u go through the 'missions' to train u should b pretty good but really no reason to play 
 through it again unless on a higher difficulty setting. onlne mode is 
  addictive but a blast when playing against friends. cz seems to lag a bit more than cs so cs is 
 perferable online. 
  overall, this is a training tool.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Having not known much about this game until right before its release, I was a bit intrigued by 
 the idea of a single player Counter-Strike. I learned that it had been in development for quite 
 a long time under various different companies and it had been delayed quite a few times. Basically 
 there is three parts to this game, which I will review seperately.
  
  First I want to talk about the visuals and technology, which seem to be a factor for the games 
 such low score. Yes it is the same engine used in Counter-Strike, which is slightly modified from 
 the Half-Life engine. But don't expect Counter-Strike's dated visuals, all new content has been 
 created, player models, gun models, textures, and maps.
  
  Single Player (Tour of Duty) :
  This was the official single player that made the game. It's basically Counter-Strike against bots 
 with objectives, such as kill this many players, defuse the bomb, etc. I found it to be quite boring 
 and was happy when it was over.
  
  Single Player (Deleted Scenes) :
  This was the ORIGINAL single player developed by the geniuses at Ritual Studios, it's included 
 in the game, but as an optional install. Deleted Scenes has all sorts of long missions in various 
 places around the world, putting you into the eyes of everything from a SWAT Officer, to a special 
 ops agent, doing things such as rescuing hostages and defusing nukes. It reminded me alot of Counter-Strike, 
 but what you would expect of CS being a single player game. There are a plethora of sometimes logical 
 yet sometimes useless puzzles, which made me feel like playing Half-Life. Also if you ever experienced 
 nautiousness while alone in HL, you'll experience the same in this game.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Ah, what makes Counter-Strike the most played game on the internet, multiplayer. It's pretty much 
 the exact same as CS, but with major differences. Namely upgraded models and textures that were 
 converted from the Ritual made ones in Deleted Scenes, while they are not CSSource quality, they 
 are a nice improvement over CS 1.6. Next is the maps, all included are upgraded versions of the 
 most popular maps, everything from dust and aztec to italy. A few extra features that don't really 
 change the gameplay are the addition of two player models, the Russian Spetsnaz (CT) and the Midest 
 Militia (T) . Next is the high quality hostage models along with the hostage A. I. and facial expressions. 
 Hostage AI you say? sounds kind of silly, and it is, but it can be quite funny at times. Hostages 
 also get scared if you fire a gun near them or log a grenade a them, they can also be blinded by 
 flashbangs and smoke grenades, which cause them to hide in the corner and yell "I CAN'T SEE!". 
 They're also useful if you're a terrorist camping near them, as the hostages wave their arms and 
 scream when there's a Counter-Terrorist near by. One of the last and most nifty things in CZ is 
 the ability to pick up grenades dropped by dead players, so it really is possible to have multiple 
 grenades through the round without going back to spawn. A big thing I noticed was a tighter nit 
 community of players, and very very few cheaters. It seems people didn't want to waste their $40 
 copy of CZ and get banned.
  
  In conclusion, Condition Zero doesn't make an all to appealing single player experience, but it's 
 worth buying if you're a CS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  this has got to be the best online shooter ever!!!!!! it is the perfect mix bettween 
  ralistic tactics and weapons, and action makeing it an incerdibly fun game.
  
  I have not played 
 the origonal counter strike so that is why i think it is so good because 
  basicaly it is the exact same thing. If u dont own the origonal counter strike than buy it 
  
 but if u dont its not really worth it for the single player.
  
  All the single player is is a bunch of single player missions its not bad, but nothing compared 
 to the multiplayer.
  
  One thing is that it is very hard to get good at this game and u will die alot before u get some 
 kills and get really good.
  
  but dont let that make u not want to buy this awsome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bebop
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 15, 2005 12:24 am PT
Review:  Source was an interesting game. It has updated graphics, updated levels and sound. But once again 
 it is an updated version of the original. Still the best thing about this game is rag doll. Rag 
 doll is the best addition to this game, any multi player online shooter. The guns look better and 
 the action is faster. A great buy if you have the ability to play it. Good people online and once 
 again, with steam it is alittle difficult for some to hack. Which makes the game play even better. 
 But I think if ou have Counter Strike, you dont need to rush out and purchase source. Its really 
 the same game, just better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBot
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 7, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I did pay the $30 for this game, and was slightly disappointed. My money wasn't a total waste 
 though. The game does have bots, which is something I've wanted in a CS related game forever, ever 
 since CS 1.5 was upgraded. The AI on the bots is pretty real, however the Easy bots seem to be 
 really stupid (which makes sense) and the Expert bots seem to be too good (which also makes sense) , 
 so if you want more of a human feel I recommend Hard bots, since those seem to be the most balanced. 
 There are missions in this game, they don't follow much of a story line, they basically just being 
 you thru all the maps and have you complete objectives. For example on Office you may need to rescue 
 4 hostages, kill 6 enemies, and kill 3 enemies with the M4A1. You need to do all that and have 
 2 more wins over the other team to complete that map. In short, all it is is you playing on the 
 maps  nothing too special. Something I did like about this is you get to build your own team, 
 each time you beat a map you get a point, and with that point you can get another person on your 
 team, the more points a person costs, the better they are. You can have 6 people on your team. 
 
  
  Now, playing thru the missions you will ask yourself, what happened to the rocket launcher? All 
 the 'new' gun looks, 'better' graphics, sounds, etc. Well, all those were taken out of the game, 
 who knows why, but you can get all these in a download off Steam called Condition Zero Deleted 
 Scenes. This is where it's all at; he rocket launcher, more realistic guns and sound, real missions 
 that remotely follow a story line. It's beyond me why they took this out of the game they released, 
 it's so much more better, combine this with the bots, and you would have had an even better game. 
 Unfortunately you can't have bots with all the 'cool' guns and what not, just missions. 
  
  You also have online play, but why play this online? It's not different from CS, and hardly anyone 
 plays it. I only recommend it for LAN parties, where you and some friends can own some bots, but 
 online just seems pointless to me after seeing how close it is to the regular CS. 
  
  Graphically this game offers little to nothing new to the CS world, they look identical to the 
 CS graphics. The only thing that offers anything new is the Deleted Scenes, even those are spectacular, 
 and won't be the reason you come back to play the game. I think this is where they really messed 
 up, they hyped this to be an 'upgrade' over CS, but left many, like myself, dissatisfied with this 
 'upgrade'. 
  
  The sound, also, offers nothing new for me. The deleted scenes has some tweaks to it, like the 
 silenced weapons sound more real, and bullets hitting certain objects sounds as they should, but 
 nothing compared to what it should have been. 
  
  *Taken from my CS review and tweaked to fit this game* 
  I am adding a new section in for this 
 review, and that's for Steam. As most everyone may know Steam is a content distribution program 
 and makes getting patches and games a breeze. It has all but replaced the WON network, and now 
 players have a STEAM ID, rather then a WON ID. This has sped up the process of getting things fixed 
 in games. Since it is so easy for people to get them since it is all automatic. 
  
  It also has a friends list, which works a lot like AIM. You have a buddy list and you can IM each 
 other back and forth, even while in a game. You can also play parlor games against a friend; like 
 checkers or chess. Now, this friends list is cool, but it is down a lot, but lately that has been 
 changing and it has been up more. 
  
  There's also a nifty server browser that lets you add servers to a list, called your favorites, 
 so you can find them fast! It also lets you filter the servers with such thing as ping, map, and 
 game being played (i. e. Counter Strike, Day of Defeat) , even the number of players! 
  
  This game will only appeal to hard core CS fans, or people looking for a good FPS game they can 
 play off easily. It won't last very long for other people, picking up a CS type game for the first 
 time or expecting big upgrades over CS, as it doesn't do much. The missions lack a story line, 
 and basically is just you vs. all the terrorists trying to get out of somewhere or rescue someone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roleplayer2004
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is well known all over the globe as the No. 1 online game of all time. Ever since 
 Half-Life was launched in 1998. We've seen the game have a lot of different make overs but Counter-Strike 
 is one of the most realistic games ever created. So what has everyone expected for the new Counter-Strike 
 Condition Zero game to be like? Probably one of the best games of the year right. But sadly it 
 hasn't achieved that goal. But the end result is a very fun well designed game. Which has heaps 
 of different missions set all over the globe in which you have been assigned complete. 
  
  But this isn't the reason I gave this game such a respectable score. It's because of the new updates 
 of all the classic maps. de_dust, de_de_dust 2, Inferno, Office and about 25 more other maps. But 
 the artificial intelligence of the bots and the unpredictable strategies they use is simply mind 
 boggling. This is the way that Counter-Strike was meant to be played and the end product is spectacular. 
 Forget about Halo and it's AI. This is the new king of AI and how did the designers pull it off? 
 I wouldn't know.
  
  No more of having the lengthy online connections and not being able to connect into a game. Downloading 
 updates. Having someone on de_italy with a Magnium Sniper rifle shooting you in the head as you 
 go around a corner and your connection is lagging out or hackers stuffing up the whole game because 
 they can't get a kill because their too ****. You know have the luxury of playing Counter-Strike 
 the way it was designed to be played and enjoyed. Smooth, no hassles and at your own pace. You 
 have four difficultulty options for no matter how good you are from a beginner to expert. And expert 
 is just like playing online, running around a corner getting a head shot from one single AK-47 
 bullet. How brilliant is that.
  
  The bots are just as challenging as versing people online and a lot of the time you really can't 
 tell the difference. It's just simply amazing and the graphics and updates for the classic maps 
 are just spectacular.
  
  There's also a campaign type mode in which you get to choose your team members based on how much 
 much credit you have which you earn from completing each stage. Then you recieve a bonus credit 
 to put towards hiring better team members which have their advantages and disadvantages. Eg. Your 
 team member George you hired for the cost of 2 credits has a preferred weapon choice of a shotgun 
 and his co-operation is good, but his skill and bravery is bad. Which means yes the game is very 
 tactical and it'll take a lot of thinking and time to pass each stage until they're all completed. 
 Then you get a medal on the difficulty you completed the game on. Until you get all four medals.
 
  
  My recommendation to anyone who's a Half-Life/ Counter-Strike fan. This is certainly a must have 
 for your collection. Don't be put off by the one player story mode. This game is worth getting 
 simply because of the AI of the bots and the brilliant new update of all the classic maps like 
 de_dust and Inferno. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 9, 2005 1:44 am PT
Review:  Counter-Strike has been around for quite a while, and it is now one of the most popular online 
 multi-player games out there. Using the same engine as Half-Life, Counter-Strike, for those who 
 do not know what it is, is a realistic terrorist type game. You go about and defuse bombs, rescue 
 hostages, and even try to assassinate a VIP. But since that is the original Counter-Strike, more 
 focus will be toward the single-player counterpart, Counter-Strike: Condition Zero. After numerous 
 delays, is Counter-Strike: Condition Zero all it's cracked up to be?
  
  Counter-Strike: Condition Zero obviously revolves around it's single player feature. Basically, 
 there's actually 2 single-player games that you can play once you pop in the disc. There's a regular 
 Counter-Strike single-player, and a "Deleted Scenes" single-player, which was scratched quite a 
 while ago, but now it's available to play as an extra.
  
  Turtle Rock Studios is a new developer, and they helped develop the regular, brand-new version 
 of the single-player. They had also created the first ever CS Bot, which was actually something 
 very nice. But for the first entry of development for Turtle Rock, their single-player campaign 
 is mediocre at best, but from what Turtle Rock has accomplished with their bot, they can surely 
 do better with their single-player.
  
  As for the new single-player, to say, it's extremely short. If you're a veteran CS player, it is 
 possible to get through the whole single-player in one sitting. There is really no story involved... just 
 you and your computer controlled buddies causing havoc against the Terrorists, and from that, we 
 move on to the A. I.
  
  As a good thing, the A. I. is actually quite eminent. They actually know where to shoot, and they 
 use special techniques that online players in the original CS would never. If they hear footsteps, 
 they try to be silent and walk around to see what's causing the noise. They'll try to run away 
 if a gang of enemies are going after him, and they'll hide and shoot whenever necessary. It was 
 really outstanding how they acted with my teammates and enemies, and they knew exactly what to 
 do in that specific level. But, of course, they are not perfect. If in a de_ map (defusing bomb 
 map) and the bomb is planted, the bots will just stand there next to the bomb waiting for you to 
 come and defuse the bomb. Even if your next to the bomb or way across the map, the bots will not 
 defuse the bomb. You will have to unambiguously just kill yourself, as that's the only way for 
 them to defuse the bomb. Even at that, the A. I. is pretty much one of the few things going right 
 for Counter-Strike: Condition Zero. They handle hostages very well, and even use them as decoys 
 to protect their own selves.
  
  Counter-Strike: Condition Zero, evidently, has some pretty neat graphics. They have been updated, 
 so they look nice. Of course, comparing it to today's game graphics, they aren't as well done. 
 But for a game like Counter-Strike, the improvement of the graphics is quite well done. The weapon 
 models look real nice, and you can really see the detail within them.
  
  Obviously, Counter-Strike has been all about sound, and definitely Counter-Strike: Condition Zero 
 does not disappoint here. All of the sounds of the guns are as realistic as they can get, and they 
 sound clear and manifest enough to hear over and over again. The sound of crickets, and guns blazing 
 from far away are nice little touches that went very well.
  
  Of course, Counter-Strike is definitely all about it's multi-player. But for those who already 
 have the original CS, there is no reason to really be enthralled by the multi-player in Condition 
 Zero. There's no new stuff here, only with a few level updates such as cs_militia. Everything else 
 in the multi-player is the same old and inveterating stuff you would find in the original CS.
 
  
  As an added bonus, you'll be able to play the Deleted Scenes single-player of Condition Zero, and 
 for an added feature, it's extremely well done. Clear missions and extremely fun gameplay are one 
 of the few things in Deleted Scenes. But since it's in the same game as the other weak single-player, 
 Deleted Scenes doesn't really "balance" out the weak portions of the game good enough. If you can, 
 you should try Deleted Scenes, because it's definitely something worth experiencing.
  
  In the end, Counter-Strike: Condition Zero doesn't boast anything relatively new. You got the same 
 old maps, same old weapons, and the same old missions and objectives (excluding Deleted Scenes) . 
 The game's graphics is good, the sound is terrific, and even the Deleted Scenes bonus is something 
 worth checking out. But all of that combined still doesn't hold up to something that has been around 
 for quite some time. If your new to the CS world, this is a game worth getting practice off of. 
 But as for the CS veterans, which there are plenty of, Counter-Strike: Condition Zero will not 
 astound you like you did when you first played CS. Simply put, Counter-Strike: Condition Zero is 
 a game that should of been released a long time ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProudLarry
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 6, 2004 1:09 am PT
Review:  I'll go ahead and get my opinion on the Counter-Strike series out of the way first. Although I 
 did enjoy this game at one point, I did grow tired of it about 3 years ago, when it was only just 
 a mod for Half-Life. I found the gameplay just a little too repetitive for myself.
  
  Now for the review itself.
  
  This game is absolutly one of the worst gaming experiences, anyone 
 can ever have. When it comes to the main draw, the multiplayer component, there really isn't anything 
 that impressive or new about the game. You see, other than a few maps, and some new textures, the 
 game is IDENTICLE to the original, free, Counter-Strike. There just simply is no logical reason 
 for anyone to pay money for this game, just for the multiplayer. To give it some credit, the multi-player 
 can be somewhat addictive, but is to repetitive for me.
  
  Now that may sound bad. But would you believe that the single-player part of the game, the "Deleted 
 Scenes," is even worse? Well, believe it. The game actaully plays horribly. The AI is about as 
 smart as you living room's sofa, and makes the game a breeze to play through without much effort 
 on your part. Another annoying part with enemies is that the damage you deal to them, is horribly 
 unrealistic. You will regularly find yourself having to put two rifle rounds into their heads just 
 to kill them. This combined with the fact that ammo is extremely had to come by in the game, your 
 frustration level will go through the roof.
  
  To summarize: Don't buy this game for the multiplayer considering that you can get it for free 
 if you allready have Half-Life; and who doesn't at this point? Finally, don't buy this game for 
 the single-player. There is just simply nothing of redeaming value here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeEx3
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 13, 2004 1:10 am PT
Review:  Ok, this is the lowdown aka the summary, so sit here and read. This game is an update to the original 
 CS, with new graphics, maps, l blah blah blah. The graphics are very much improved, but still horrible 
 as usual. The game also now includes single player, which is hard and pointless, but is good if 
 you don't have internet access at the time. The weapons are the same, and the new ones are only 
 useful in single player. This game is a cheap update basically, I'm tired of these. I mean, Source 
 was a cheap graphics update. Come one, give us new weapons! Revolvers, M16s, AKS74us, different 
 shotguns, more pistols, those were all missing from this update. I don't know why I'm reviewing 
 this game so late, but oh well. Anyway, the gameplay remains unchanged, actually It improves a 
 little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanderstag
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 18, 2004 6:14 am PT
Review:  I thought the single player was annoying in that all you do are these 'matches', over and over. 
 There is no story line nor dialogue, for the most part. The "Deleted Scenes" has a story line but 
 it is way too linear for my liking. The graphics pretty much suck too. At least in comparison to 
 other games like Far Cry. (Does everything 'suck' if Far Cry is the standard?) Well the graphics 
 are nothing to run to the store to buy this for, let me put it that way.
  However, where this games shines is in the multiplayer. If you buy this game online from the developer's 
 website, you get a couple of other things such as the Counter Strike Source Beta and the "Deleted 
 Scenes". Playing online with a built-in voice system is pretty sweet. The number of servers vary 
 from 220 all the way up to 1300 with varying amounts of players within each. Just keep an eye out 
 on whatever server you're on, as some servers use Bots to play against the ?real? people. So when 
 you think you're doing good or wondering why some fool keeps sqawking on the radio and carrying 
 around a ballistic shield, all the while following you, it's probably a Bot.
  Typically the multiplayer is just the same as the single player except now everyone fights each 
 other and types or yells their comments or insults. Quite addicting, especially the deathmatch 
 server where you instantly respawn after you die. Versus waiting however long till the next match 
 start, which varies through gameplay and the clock. Usually these matches are scheduled to last 
 three to five minutes, with a countdown clock indicating time left. 
  Two objectives, rescue the hostages as a counter terrorist or plant the bomb as a terrorist. Naturally 
 the other side tries to prevent both from happening. There is a really excellent home movie of 
 this game titled "Iceworld" on another website. Bodies everywhere, all sorts of weaponry at your 
 disposal, and the vast internet to play with folks from all over the world. The maps vary from 
 everyone trying to knife each other in Lego Land, a western shootout, running around as mice in 
 a kitchen (don't try to grab that sniper rifle!) ... on and on. Multiplayer is very addicting.
 
  So thumbs down for single player and thumbs up for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gipper07
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2004 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why so many people don't like Counter-Strike: Condition Zero. The only reason I can 
 think of is that people don't want to pay $30-$40 for essentially the same game they have had for 
 4 years.
  
  There are some good things about CS: CZ though, and I will list them below.
  
  1) The graphics have been bumped up a little. I think they saw that nobody is still using a 
 computer running at 133Mhz anymore, so they made it a little more demanding (although almost EVERY 
 computer will run this game perfectly)
  
  2) There are a few new maps. The same maps that were made available with the XBOX version of CS, 
 are in CS: CZ for PC.
  
  3) The single player isn't actually all that bad.
  
  4) YOU GET TO PLAY COUNTER-STRIKE: SOURCE BETA!
  
  5) CS: CZ Deleted Scenes is quite fun to 
 play.
  
  6) It's Counter-Strike!
  
  I have been playing CS forever. I own Counter-Strike for PC and XBOX, Counter-Strike: Condition 
 Zero, and Condition Zero: Deleted Scenes. I also have the beta of Counter-Strike: Source. So I 
 am probably a little biased because I own all of these counter strike games. But I don't think 
 you can go wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-Dog
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 24, 2004 8:23 am PT
Review:  This review is based on Counter Strike: Condition Zero 1.2
  
  Conclusion for the lazy:
  
  For 15 I consider CS: CZ a decent buy and now with the promise of CS: Source Beta, the extra 
 levels, the improved models and textures its worth the cash. But essentially you're paying for 
 CS 1.7 and a so-so single-player experience. Strongest points are the bots and new visuals and 
 maps.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The 2 main things you get with CS: CZ are the "Deleted Scenes" (The Single-Player - Half Life-esque 
 gameplay) and the standard CS gameplay. I'll do each bit seperately:
  
  Standard CS: CZ:
  
  With this there is a "Tour of Duty" mode that basically takes you through every CZ level (Remakes 
 of the originals) playing as the CT's. This isn't as dull as it sounds as it actually pretty good 
 fun if you set it on a higher difficulty (I opted for Hard) Its not just win a round and its over, 
 ever map has different objectives such as "Get 5 kills without dying with the Bullpup", "Kill a 
 flash-blinded enemy and survive the round", "Rescue all the hostages" etc. this keeps it quite 
 fresh because you often find yourself using some of the less popular weapons or being taken down 
 an alternate route of winning that you wouldn't normally.
  
  The AI is excellent and really mimics online CS play as good as I could hope. Its down to the player 
 to complete objectives whilst they're alive, but if you die the bots will happily escourt the hostages 
 (More on them in a minute) or disarm the bomb. They respond to commands and give feedback on how 
 they're doing and what they see and hear. The hostages are also a lot better and will try and escape 
 if left unatended, run from grenades, take cover, cough in smoke, use ladders.
  
  Deleted Scenes:
  
  This is the actual Single Player game. Basically, it plays out pretty much 
 like any standard shooter, if you've played Half Life or in fact an FPS nothing here is particularly 
 new. Some levels are a lot stronger than others. I've only played through 4 but 2 of them seemed 
 to attempt to add a "stealth" element which really didn't work, the Russian level was excellent 
 though and had a great atmosphere and some decent shootouts. But unfortunately this part of CS: CZ 
 is slightly disapointing but it can keep you occupied if you want a quick and straightforward FPS 
 to tide you over until Doom 3 and HL2.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Thanks to the update CS: CZ no longer looks like standard CS1.6 - there's a whole set of new player 
 and weapon models that really make CS look a lot better. The Spetnatz and SAS models in particular 
 are my favourites and all the weapon models are great improvements. The maps themselves have also 
 recieved an overhall with lots more features that don't really effect gameplay but help add to 
 the ambience, some also have been slightly changed such as Militia has the ladders in different 
 places.
  
  Having said that, its still the HL engine and with Far Cry and UT2004 to contend with it isn't 
 the most appealing game to look at.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is consistantly good, with new weapon sounds in some places and particularly the bots 
 use of the voice com is effective and entertainging. Not much more to say in this department
  
  Conclusion:
  
  For 15 I consider CS: CZ a decent buy and now with the promise of CS: Source 
 Beta, the extra levels, the improved models and textures its worth the cash. But essentially you're 
 paying for CS 1.7 and a so-so single-player experience. Strongest points are the bots and new visuals 
 and maps.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: giantraddish
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 24, 2004 5:35 am PT
Review:  I bought this game only to get a early look at C. S. Source and I was pleasantly suprised (maybe 
 due to low expectations) .
  
  I liked CS, but I don't play it regularly. Lately it's gotten to the point that most people still 
 playing it are so much better than me it just irritating. For me, Condition Zero was a good way 
 to enjoy the CS game in more controlled environment.
  
  If you have tried playing with other attempts at CS bots you will appreciate how good the Condition 
 Zero bots are. They play like real players. They know their way around the maps, they charge, they 
 camp, and they can actually complete objectives (bombing, difusing, rescuing hostage) .
  
  What's really cool is that the bots take different approaches each round (just like playing with 
 live people) so you'll rarely see a map play the same way twice in a row. The replay value is as 
 good as online play.
  
  The bots aren't perfect. For example: the bots spam grenades with no enemies in sight doing far 
 more damage to your team than the enemy. But when I consider everything that's right I'm still 
 impressed.
  
  The "Deleted Scenes" are pretty bad. The nice thing about seeing them is that it proves Valve has 
 the cahones to go back to the drawing board if it sees junk. Raises my hopes for HL2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcalibrknight
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 8, 2004 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I give Condition Zero high marks for a number of reasons: my kids can play a challenging ladder-play 
 style of CS without the worry of cheaters, foul-mouthed teens filling the chat window online, or 
 "campers" extending a quick map into a 5 minute bore for those that died and are waiting for the 
 reset. The game can be customized playing either terrorist or counter-terrorist on all the old 
 maps any long-time CS player is familiar with. 
  
  My son and I played counter-strike when it first came out long ago... I ran a server at one point 
 and downloaded all the skins & models, read online CS sites daily, ran a website ourselves, etc, 
 etc. However, the cheaters trashed the game. It became so bad with cheaters and players talking 
 graphically about sex that we eventually quit. Policing the server and what my kids were exposed 
 to became a 2nd job. After a few CS-free years, we decided to give the single player version, Condition 
 Zero, a try. As a parent, this is the game that CS is meant to be played like. Great gameplay, 
 customization, very good AI with constant radio communication, and challenging levels make for 
 a very good time. My son and I can play CZ, and I don't have to worry of all the "issues" online 
 play comes with.
  
  If you like CS and want to relive some good times, pick up a copy of CZ (used is around $20 at 
 many local game outlets) , and download some customized mission packs on the official Steam forums 
 in the Condition Zero section.... you will be given a challenging time and a whole lotta fun all 
 over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Guitarplayer-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2004 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Review of Version 1.2 - Condition Zero now worth picking up! When looking at all these low scores 
 you have to realize that people were basing the reviews on the older versions of CZ and now with 
 the recent updates, Condition Zero is actually worth putting 20-30 dollars down and picking up 
 a copy. I'll get right down to the chase, if you're asking yourself why pay money for a game when 
 you can get Counter Strike for free? Well here are just a few reasons, Condition Zero has enhanced 
 player models, including 2 more new models that you can't get in the original CS. All the models 
 look far better and more realistic. The gun models, which are much much better looking, and sounds 
 have all been changed, the sounds for CZ blows away CS. They've also added several new maps, including 
 the 2 new maps from the recent CZ update, and they have modified a couple of the old maps. (including 
 new textures) They have made maps like Militia and Office much more fun and interesting. Don't 
 base buying this game on Gamespot's old review, they played the original version of Condition Zero 
 which only contained map texture updates. This is the reason why it got such a low score. Also 
 they have finished the single player CZ Deleted Scenes, which are extremely fun sp missions and 
 last along time. Trust me you owe yourself to buy this game.
  
  In fact here are all the updates that you can only get in Condition Zero not CS.
  Added new hostage 
 models and animations
  Added new hostage behaviors and dialogue
  Added crosshair customization (color, size, opacity)
  Added player location system
  Added exponential 
 fog in OpenGL
  Added in-game vgui progress bar for nav mesh analysis
  Upgraded de_inferno_cz
  Upgraded deagle view texture
  Updated cs_italy_cz with 32 spawns
 
  Upgraded weapon UI images
  Tweaked glock and USP sounds
  Tweaked snow walking sound
  Corpses fade out with cl_corpse_stay
  Grenades are dropped on death
  Improved player turning 
 right hitbox behavior
  Improved shield behavior
  Improved brass ejection behavior
  Bots can use silencer on m4a1
  Improved bot_auto_vacate behavior with spectators
  Career tasks 
 are reset on mp_restartround
  Improved tutor behavior
  hud_draw 0 doesn't remove blackout
  Scope blackout drawn in software mode
  Flashlight sound 
 no longer masks weapon firing sounds
  Improved text behavior in top-right corner of observer mode
  Round timer doesn't re-appear until 
 the round restarts when the bomb is defused or explodes
  Improved player model hands
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beezmnet
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 7, 2004 4:25 pm PT
Review:  After buying this game the day after it was released and already beating it, I can say this game 
 is not worth $40 what so ever.
  
  The game play is fun at first for single player, but gets boring very quickly. It is pretty much 
 so the same thing over and over  and well, over. You are just running around a map, you turn a 
 corner shoot a few guys, turn another corner shoot a few more. Thats just about all you do throughout 
 the single player mode of the game. Oh and dont forget the occasional defusing of a nuke or something 
 such as this.
  
  The game has gone through minor graphical changes. The textures are better and some of the models 
 and animations have been improved. Any smoke effects and/or fire effects in the single player mode 
 look like animated gifs downloaded from off of the internet and could use some major tweaks.
  
  The sounds are just about the same as they were in CS 1.6 and earlier. Explosions and other 
 small things have been improved, but not much to drool over.
  
  Overall, this game will not please veteran Counter-Strike players, it may impress new comers to 
 the game, but anyone that has been playing for any time at all really wont find anything too impressive 
 about Counter-Strike : Condition Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btnheazy03
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 28, 2004 1:52 am PT
Review:  After passing through the hands of several different developers, the used-to-be highly anticipated 
 but now universally ridiculed single player iteration of the world's arguably most popular online 
 multiplayer game has finally been released.
  
  But that doesn't necessarily mean it's a good thing. IMO, Valve finally decided to release the 
 game just for the sake of releasing it... If it took any longer, then people might completely forget 
 this game even existed, which would surely hurt it's sales even further, considering the fact that 
 the developers poured so much time and effort into this title. Okay, maybe not too much effort, 
 becuse if they did, then CS: CZ would probably have met it's originally planned release date.
  
  So, is this title worth buying? Well, considering the fact that if you have even the tiniest 
 amount of interest in Counter-Strike, then you would probably already have the retail version of 
 CS...
  
  My answer to that is NO.
  
  Paying full price for a bot and a sequence of scripted events isn't a very wise decision if you're 
 a causal gamer. My guess is the only people who would buy this game are hardcore, die-hard CS fans, 
 and people who don't own CS or Half-Life yet (which is like finding a needle in a haystack, pardon 
 the cliche) .
  
  Go get Call of Duty instead if you already have CS. And if you have both, just save your money 
 to buy a faster card, to preapare for the impending release of Doom 3 and Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden_1012002
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 26, 2004 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is not worth getting. It has simply everything which was on cs 1.6 plus its 50 bugs here. 
 I really wouldnt spend 50 bugs for a piece of junk like this. Luckily i played it in one of my 
 friends house, my friend somehow likes it (maybe is just a sad little gamer) , but i hate this game. 
 If u r expecting anything new from this game then dont, I REPEAT, dont buy this game. Its doesn't 
 offer anything but bordom. But if want to waste 50 bugs for a 6 years old game then go on and be 
 dissapointed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
