-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crashday
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/crashday/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combat races contain a certain level of amusement.
 cars crush and break apart quite nicely.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Racing is no fun at all.
 stunt tracks are rather plain.
 nearly impossible to find an online game.
 track editor is underwhelming.
 British voice actor + New York accent = hilariously awful comedy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.8
Critic Score: 6.3, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 721 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: ValuSoft
Developer: Replay Studios
Genre: Racing
Date:     Dec 20, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As the title advertises, Crashday has a fair number of car crashes, but the trouble is that it doesn't 
 have much of anything else. 

  If you were to smoosh together the FlatOut series of demolition racing games and Nadeo's TrackMania 
 stunt-racing franchise, then systematically vacuum out all of the most appealing aspects of both 
 titles, you'd have the basic equivalent of Crashday. It's not that the game is terrible, but so 
 little of it feels genuine or original; it's more of a cheap, hacked-together clone of the aforementioned 
 titles. And what's more, it isn't even a particularly good clone. The game's race modes lack coherency -- let 
 alone excitement -- and the stunt and combat modes fall flat.  

          No, you're not looking at Flatout 3 or the next TrackMania game -- it's just a cheap knockoff 
 of both called Crashday.     

  There's supposed to be a premise to Crashday, but it's anyone's guess as to what it is exactly. 
 Booting up the game's career mode simply drops you right into the middle of a backstory that features 
 up-and-coming racers in some cockamamie imaginary racing league. But the text doesn't explain much, 
 and the guy doing the voice acting is practically indecipherable. Imagine, if you will, a game 
 developer tracking down the man with the thickest British accent in the world, plopping him down 
 in front of a series of bad New York mafia movies, handing him a script, and demanding he talk 
 exactly like the gangsters portrayed onscreen. That's how awful the voice acting is in Crashday. 

  Once you realize the premise is best ignored and actually jump into the game, you'll find gameplay 
 that's just as clumsy as the voice acting. Racing in Crashday is exceedingly frustrating. Cars 
 are a floaty, slippery mess, sliding out and crashing into random objects on a regular basis. This 
 is an arcade racer, so no one's asking for a devout dedication to realism. But arcade or not, these 
 cars are not fun to drive, nor do they handle well. Of course, the trick is that you have to drive 
 especially fast because the other racers have a preternatural ability to use their speed boosts 
 at all the right moments and will always blaze past you if you screw up. So what you end up having 
 to do is memorize every nook and cranny of each race track just so you can figure out where to 
 use your boost and where not to use it. Another weird thing is that the game's sense of speed isn't 
 all that good. You definitely get the sense that your car is about to go flying out of control 
 at any second, but the visceral thrill of high-speed racing is basically absent.  

  Only the stunt and combat races are slightly better than the sense of speed. Stunt modes include 
 tracks filled with ramps, jumps, and loops, but there's a highly limited scope to the stunt track 
 designs. The game lacks the sort of "look at how completely insane these tracks are" vibe that 
 such games as TrackMania have all but perfected. They're not kooky or bizarre; they're just a bunch 
 of ramps and loops. And they're not even laid out well. The bonus is that the game does include 
 a track editor, but even its scope is limited, allowing for a few bizarre twists but not much more. 

  The combat modes come in a couple of forms. There are straight-up demolition races where the goal 
 is to just slam into opponent cars over and over again until everyone has exploded but you. Then 
 there are weapon-based modes that give you a Gatling gun and a missile launcher so you can go nuts. 
 These are, by far, the most entertaining modes in the game because, in stark contrast to the driving 
 physics, the game's crash physics aren't half bad. Cars break apart pretty nicely, and the weapons 
 aren't hard to aim or use, which makes wanton destruction a fairly painless process. The main issue 
 here is the limited array of tracks and weapons. It would be nice if there were more variety to 
 the destruction at hand. But sadly there isn't, and after a few plays against the computer, the 
 action does get a bit tiresome.  

  Multiplayer would theoretically remedy that issue, but even the multiplayer isn't without problems. 
 The primary problem is that there's nobody online to play against. Sure, the servers list lots 
 of games being played, but they're all being played across the pond by players in Europe. And the 
 European version of the game isn't compatible with the US version for some reason. So you won't 
 be able to play against any of them until Moonbyte patches one version or the other. We spent a 
 considerable amount of time trying to find a US-based opponent but only found one playable online 
 match during that entire span. To make matters worse, lag practically wrecked the experience. Trying 
 to play a crash race while cars skip and jump all over the track is just about the most obnoxious 
 thing you'll ever experience.  

          Crashing cars is mildly amusing, but racing is just no fun at all.     

  Apart from 
 the awful voice acting, the remainder of Crashday's production value is bit more laudable. As mentioned 
 previously, the crash effects are done quite nicely, and the cars deform and explode about as well 
 as you would hope. The car models aren't exactly impressive, but considering you're just thrashing 
 them over and over again, they don't need to look pristine. The tracks are easily the weakest point 
 of the visuals. The background environments are extremely generic, dressed up with bland-looking 
 towns and set pieces, as well as unattractive textures. They're not hideous, but they're definitely 
 not pleasing to the eye.  

  Of course, someone could try to justify the plain-Jane gameplay and total lack of originality found 
 in Crashday by simply mentioning that it's only a $20 game. Do you want to know how much a new 
 copy of FlatOut 2 costs on the PC? Yes, that's right, $20. And a copy of TrackMania: Sunrise? It's 
 the same price. Do yourself a favor and go right to the sources of Crashday's inspiration rather 
 than pay for a bargain-basement, bush-league version of the same basic gameplay concepts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ME_BOT
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe how under rated this game really is.!? This is the most addicting game I've ever 
 played in this genre! The smash up is awesome and the stunt course is very cool as well. With descent 
 graphics and a HUGE fun factor this game is one I play everyday! Don't knock it till you try it 
 this is a good stress reliever game! try this game out ... it will grow on you and keep you busy 
 for a long time as it is not a very easy game to master ... i. e .. hard!!! this was not reviewed 
 right at  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony205
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game is very, very cool. It surprised me at the begining.
  So:
  1. Cars: There are not very much cars in the game (12) but they are very cool. If you want more 
 cars you can download them. The tuning part may not be like in Carbon but it's still good and fun.
 
  2. Tracks: The tracks are insane! There are a lot of tipes from: stunt tracks, race tracks and 
 wrecking tracks. You can find a lot of things on the tracks: ramps, walls, bumps, mines, evrything!
 
  3. Modes: The main modes include: Wrecking Match, Stunt Mode, Pass The Bomb, Bomb Run, Race, Hold 
 The Flag and Test Drive. There are some mini-games which are short but veeery funny. There is even 
 a track editor. It's easy to use and lots of fun.
  4. Music: The music must be with the theme, it's ROCK.
  5. Crashes: The piece of resistance! 
 In any game I played, this game has the coolest crashes!
  Crashday-I don't know why GS gave it a 4.8! For me it's a great game and YOU shoul have it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirakak
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  The game is for crashing not for racing i think. Graphics are good for this game very good. When 
 i started playing it i saw that the game was awesome crashing but in career it kinda sucks, the 
 races on target time... on a crashing game??? I hate races they are hard, but wrecking cars is 
 easy. Game is good graphics and cool minigun and missles. Bad parts of game are racing and bugs. 
 Vinyls are cool because you can make an police car to streetrace car, but i think best parts in 
 Crashday is crashing and making a track. if anybody is thinking of buying Crashday then do it i 
 think that Crashday is the best crashing game ever. And for the end of the review i want to say 
 something bad and good about this game. Bad is that there is only few cars and another bad is that 
 when you drive into wall with a big car it will blow up, but when an opponent drives into wall 
 with a big car then it dont blow up. The another good is stunts. When you jump you can do tricks 
 and try to land nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnick2006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  This will be my third review i have written, so ill just get right down too it....
  OK. The name of the game is Crashday. It features your basic Campaign, Multiplayer, mini games, 
 and custom events. This game also gives you the power to create, manage, save, and race your own 
 custom tracks!
  
  Well, lets start with the campaign...
  Its probably one of the worst i have ever sceen. The game starts off on a menu which allows you 
 to pick which event you want to drive. After you have choosen your event, the game brings you to 
 "briefing" screen, where you are told what you must do to complete your mission. There are no cutsceens, 
 and no pictures to visually describe what you must do. The only thing you get, is an annoying voice 
 that tells you what you need to do, as text rolls down the screen. After you skip through the annoying 
 guy talking, you can then start your mission. The Missions consist of races, demo-derbys (with/with 
 out guns and mistles) , bomb runs, capture the flag, and a couple others.
  Im going to tell you right now, this campaign design is terrible. The only reason i played it was 
 because it unlocks cars and tracks for the custom games.
  
  Now lets talk about the mini-games. These are very fun missions that allow you to take a pre-chosen 
 car, and allow you to destroy it. There are 6 total mini games. Long-jump 1&2, Vehicle Blast 1&2, 
 and a checkpoint chase 1&2. The names of the mini games speak for themselves, I don't think I need 
 to tell you what you do in them.
  
  Single player (custom events) . This is where you will see the full potential of Crashday. There 
 are fully customizable lap-races, point to point races, stunt runs, hold the flag (kinda like capture 
 the flag) , pass the bomb (Hold the bomb for as long as you can, then give it to someone else before 
 it blows) , Bomb runs (drive a certain speed, if you don't, you blow up) , wrecking matches (demolition 
 derbies) , and the free-roam. All of these events allow you to choose weather or not you want weapons 
 or not. The weapons consist of single/double mistles, and a mini-gun mounted on the side of your 
 car!
  
  The multi-player is exactly the same as the single player events, just with real people. The average 
 number of people you come across in a single game is about 4-8. Any more and it becomes extremely 
 laggy. And any less, its just not fun.
  
  And now my favorite part of Crashday: the Map-Maker.
  Just about any map piece used in the campaign 
 can be used in the map-maker. When you get good at it, you will find that you can make tracks even 
 better than the campaign ones! Design it how ever you wish. If you want to make a race-track, make 
 one. If you want to make a demo-derby ring, you can make one. And if you just want to make a small 
 city, you can design one! All the maps that you make here can be used in custom single-player games, 
 and multi-player!
  
  So that's about the jist of it. Crashday is an extremely  that 
 is filled with exposions, flying car-parts, mistles, guns, and of coarse-crashes.
  
  Pros:
  Extremely fun single-player custom games
  Very Fun map maker
  Great multi-player
 
  Great textures
  Good explosions
  Fast and fun, a great game for all ages!
  
  Cons:
  Biggest and most repetitive problem: Game constantly crashes, especially during map-making.
  
 Models sometimes become Extremely de-formed after being hit by mistles.
  Game demands a lot of power from your pc, most are not compatable.
  
  Overall: Extremely fun, 
 filled with wrecks and destruction. The perfect game for the most competitive and destructive racer. 
 I highly recommend getting this game if your system can handle it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingceacser
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 19, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  in 2006 moon byt studios produced the arcade racer (well, it can't really be described as a racer 
 since it's focused on crashing) as an attempt to bring demo derbies to the modern day. Crashday 
 has great crashes, a few good car models, and some pretty nice sound .right when you boot up crashday 
 the exciting intro and the few modes and cars the game starts you off with will draw you in. The 
 cars are shiny and look nice brand new, but they look even better all wrecked up and destroyed. 
 graphic wise, the game has a good look to it. cars are shiny and reflection is all good. There 
 are a few bad textures but they're very hard to notice. Damage and explosions look as good as you 
 could hope for . The cars wreck up pretty nicely. The gameplay is o. k. no thanks to all the cars 
 being a slippery sliding mess cousing random spin outs and crashes. The sound is good. there are 
 plenty of liscenced tracks in there and the effects are done nicely. All cars have diferent engine 
 sounds and handle differently. While there are plenty of modes, not all of theme are good. Stunt 
 track is missing most of what makes stunt tracks fun, and capture the flag is annoying. After all 
 those problems there's not much left to the game. It is only 20$ but guess how much a new copy 
 of flatout2 is for computer, that's right 20$. And track mania sunrise? It's the same price. So 
 why spend more money for a bad copy of a better game? If you are going to buy it, check you're 
 stores return policy or consider renting it first., But before you buy, you can get a better copy 
 for the same price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfs_strKing
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  
  Now this game is one of the few that offer to the player huge freedom-you're free to wreck and 
 crash, customize your cars, build your own tracks-complete freedom to choose the action.
  This game features a Career mode, a Mini game mode, Multiplayer and Single event modes. Plus a Track 
 editor.
  Career mode is necessary to complete in order to unlock all cars and tuning components.
  You 
 start off by playing out a wrecking match with one of the faster cars like in most racing games. Then 
 you pick up your own car and start playing. You can choose from 3 available events, and as you complete 
 them you receive cash and reputation points. The cash can be spent in the shop for buying new cars 
 and tuning items. Once all 3 events are completed you unlock one more, and as you win that you get 
 another 3 new events, and so on.
  The Career is rather short, but it doesnt lack action. Every race is intense and full of crashes. The 
 whole thing is progressing around the creation of the Crashday tournament, where you have a voice 
 actor.... I think in the game he plays a manager... anyway, he gives you bits of the story before 
 each race.
  
  Mini games are few events that offer you a car and a track plus a challenge you have to complete. They 
 are fun and quick to complete and they're purpose is probably reaching higher and higher scores.
 
  
  Single events are where the action is customized by the player. You get to pick what race mode to 
 play, how many opponents laps, time, track. And of course what car to bring.
  The cars in this game are all fictional, with some resemblances to real cars.
  They are nicely 
 designed and look amazing, and break and smash in awesome ways.
  The game modes are "Stunt"-you have to do jumps and crashes, rollovers and many other moves to score 
 points."Wrecking match"-the goal here is to destroy you opponents cars."Race"-Pure racing. No crashes 
 necessary here. In fact its good to avoid them."Bomb run"-There is bomb on the roof of the car, and 
 you have to drive it through the checkpoints. The bomb has a velocity fuse and if the speed of the 
 car falls beneath the limit.... the car blows up. Each checkpoint adds more speed to the limit."Pass 
 the bomb" and "Hold the flag" are the other modes. In one you have to snatch the flag and drive 
 it through a number of checkpoints, and in the other you have to pass the bomb onto another driver 
 before it blows up.
  
  The game offers you a Track Editor where you can build custom tracks, and then drive freely around 
 them, or race on them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Well... crashday is not such a bad game as its been said ,but its worth the try... i mean go ahead 
 with the game its got something that many other games have not got...... ---Bone Crushing action...! 
 The graphics are good... but it does not meet the modern day-expected graphics. the music and sounds 
 are good. The game play is where it all ends....! All you have is just 8 X 3 levels... i mean... a 
 gamer expects something more than that... n the levels are divided into difficulties.. n some of 
 the Competition are not so fun at all... the Destruction derby is Fun, pass-the-bomb is fun.... but 
 circuit racing and Pass-the-flag is just a pain in the butt... and there is stunt performance... but 
 it does not have any juice at all... it could have been better. The cars available are just 12... n 
 only a few... in fact a very few of them are worth driving.... I basically think that the developers 
 ran out of ideas n ended-up doing only half of what they were supposed to do.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChimpanzeeUK
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I can't believe this game was even released. It is without a doubt the worst game 
 I have ever played.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I'm not bitter; Luckily I borrowed the game from a friend so wasn't unfortunate 
 enough to have actually spent money on it.
  
  It just seems like they never bothered to finish it. There are obvious glitches (such as an incomplete 
 part of a track where you can fall through the ground into oblivion) , the graphics are awful and 
 fuzzy and the physics are jumpy. I can't describe it any better: it just feels like they said I'm 
 bored now, shove it in a box and let's go home .
  
  I cannot urge you strongly enough not to spend money on this game, no matter how deep at the bottom 
 of the bargain bin you find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrawberryWiz
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  The graphics are just brilliant! I would give them a 9 for the amazing quality, yet more artificial 
 than realistic.
  
  The gameplay is also impressive unlike some critics tend to believe. I give it an 8 for being addictive 
 and fun, but lack of variety and the track editor being 2D yet better than some other game editors 
 I've come to known. And yes there are several things that could of been better.
  
  The sound is pretty good. It manages to blend in with the game, and the music track matches the 
 mood reasonably well. I'm not a very good critic when it comes to sound, so I might as well give 
 it a 7, because it's possible to do better, like in those Burnout games, and that this game has 
 a low score in which it doesn't deserve.
  
  Overall this is a pretty good game, especially for German standards. (Yes, I've worked out this 
 is a German game, or so I believe) . You must believe that I'm not stupid like I was a few years 
 back. I'm 21, and my intelligence is still growing from my maturity as we speak. And everyone has 
 a different opinion on what games are good and which ones are lame. So if you don't believe me, 
 than I'm not going to judge you, but I will be thankful if you do.
  
  So I will give this game a thumb up of approval. But if they only improved it a bit more, I would 
 of given it 2 thumbs up. But I still love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnarvster
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  After trying Test Drive Unlimited, and being extremely dissatisfied with the laggy performance, 
 i decided to try something else. Crashing. I downloaded the Crashday Demo, and was amazed at how 
 much faster the engine was. I had it running on full settings and full screen res 1680x1050, without 
 a hickup and it looked beautiful.
  
  Perfect game for a little older machine that cannot take the new sloppy coding of studios who think 
 their customers are rolling in cpu cycles. The Demo I tried had 2 modes, stunt drive and a crash 
 hunt. the stunt drive uses combos for scoring and has a slight Tony Hawk feeling to it, the crash 
 hunt is just basically driving around on a field trying to crash into other cars or kill them with 
 guns and missiles.
  
  I'm personally looking forward to the free ride in the full game, as i think that might be a fun 
 car driving experience.
  
  A good example of optimized coding, and a sense mindless fun :)
  
  http://mrgnome. wordpress. com 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono0
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 17, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Crashday is a great game. However, sometimes it gets kinda old, because you've seen and did it 
 all anyway.
  I mean, Come on! Sure crashing is really fun and cool looking, but doing this over... and over... 
 and over and over again for ages?! How about something else to do?
  
  But, there are about 7 Game modes there, Including online gameplay, which are very, very fun! I 
 mean, come on, theres nothing funner than blowing up your friends and laugh at them... until they 
 blow you up... But again, it might get a little bit repetitive...
  There are also guns there, Minigun &amp; Missiles... haha its just too fun to watch your enemies 
 blow up from a missile :D
  
  So; overall, This game has great potential but its WAAY too repetitive, and gets old quickly. If 
 you like races, Buy this game. If not really, than you might just skip this and play Test Drive 
 Or NFS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because it was cheap. I must say I didnt expect much for the price. I thought 
 it was a pretty fun game to mess with. It had me laughing pretty hard at times. I think its alot 
 like flat out, which I personally liked. The graphics are ok on it, I like some of the vehicles 
 that you get to race. Being able to use rocket launcher to waste some of the contenders is pretty 
 cool! I'm not sure I would recommend it to anyone, but if you are looking for a game you just want 
 to laugh for awile, go ahead and pick it up! =-} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gory-Gamer-25
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  the crashing and the stunts are fun but flatout 2 blows it out of the water this game was just 
 a big rip off of flatout and burnout got boring really fast and doesnt keep u busy for a very long 
 time i beat it in like 3 days!!! This game i considered a wannabe tried being like other crashing 
 games but didnt quite make it there. this game got really boring really fast but other games like 
 Flatout 2 are games that are fun and that will keep u busy for quite a while. I thought this game 
 was a waste of money and a waste of time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jannajjannaj
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Crashday is a briliant game! Lets start with that.
  
  You start a little campain (not verry hard) wich will keep you bussy for 5-8 hours. You can unlock 
 some cars for single player (in multi all the cars are allready availeble) Then you can practice 
 some maps, but even with a hard computer it isn't hard to win. There is the first lack. Its too 
 easy (against a computer) . The races are also boring, it just doesn't belong in de game. And with 
 this controls it isn't made for racing. The controls however, works great. Its easy to control 
 you car when in air or flying over small hills. Then comes the best part of the game. the multiplayer. 
 Its so addicting that I stopped with WoW to play Crashday. The problem with multiplayer like the 
 gamespot review mentions (hey say there aren't many games) isn't true. (maybe cuz i live in europa) . 
 But in the eavening there are at least 10 games. The graphics are not top, but are verry usefull 
 in this game. Beautifull damage effects, and nice cars. There aren't many Thechnical glitches. 
 Only a irritating bug that let crash multiplayer when you play multi.
  
  The game modes are all fun (with an exception of race) . The game mode i played most is Stunt and 
 pass the bomb. These games don't take long
  2-10 minutes. You can play almost all modes with teams (only blue and red availeble) So its worth 
 all your money. It depends... Do you like trackmania, flatout or any other demolition game. Buy 
 this one
  If you never liked this kind of games, you won't like this one to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megadupek
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  I bought the game whithout reading any kind of reviews. The screenshot on the game package of Crashday 
 just have been too nice... I had to take it home. It was cheap too. 20 EUR instead of the full 
 40 EUR. The stunts and car combat are really nice, but the racing is crap. It's simply too difficult. 
 Especially the time race mode. Graphics are cool, but not as cool as Flat Out 2. In General I wouldn't 
 recommend it to my friends.... damn why has the review have to have 100 words. argh argh argh argh 
 argh argh argh argh argh argh argh argh argh argharghargh arghargh argharghargh arghargh argh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1k0_88
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Crashday is a whole feast of recognition for old-school gamers. The tracks (and the feature of 
 building them yourself) make you think of the racing classic 'Stunts', the damage-model seems inspired 
 from 'Carmageddon, and the idea for weapons comes from 'Interstate '76' and '82. Originality is 
 nowhere to be seen.
  
  The graphics look very nice, and that's special in combination with the low system requirements 
 Crashday asks. Cars shine nicely, tracks look colorful and the textures are nice. There is but 
 one problem there: the viewing distance. I have that maxed out, just like the rest of the graphical 
 options, but if I drive far enough, some stuff just seems to 'pop up' all of a sudden.
  
  The game isn't very stable either. I had several lock-ups in the game after playing the game for 
 like half an hour. The game then simply shuts down! This seems to be a really bad case of scripting.
 
  
  The good thing about the gameplay is the nice way in which the cars crash. The crashes sometimes 
 seem realistic, but most of the time they are just too fake for words, thanks to the (what I call) 
 'Crash Control', the ability to flip your car in a totally unnatural direction to make sure you 
 land of your wheels (or other parts you like to land on) .
  
  Overall, despite the the occasional bad scripting and the pop-ups, this still is a game to recommend 
 to the old-skool gamers, als well as the next-gen gamers who want to see what's the fuss all about. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cookiemonster1
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Crashday seem to be a little Disappointment on the Career mode. But the Multiplayer is at least 
 a little bit more fun and players can create their own maps. I think it will be good for kids if 
 Atari put away the mild Languages on the Game. Little bit too much Smash and Crash on this game 
 and hey, Showoff Gamers ain't gonna like it but at least it has more than burnout can give. The graphics 
 is awesome and it doesn't even cause a little disturbances on the gameplay but at least few if 
 another is used on the same time. Crashday is good and the first PC demolition racing game which 
 is almost like Burnout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApocalypseBK
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The fact that this game was not even seen as befitting an official review baffles me. 
  
  To get straight down to the point crashday is as much high-octaine fun as you can have on the PC, 
 forget realism, forget official liscences official real life race tracks & 24 valve this and twin 
 turbo that. Instaed think fast crashes, spectacular smashes, think machine guns connected to passenger 
 side doors and basicly the most over the top high speed action you can cram into one game!
  
  Crashday does not bog you down with details, infact it almost lacks them. Instaed it focus 
 on fun. Basicly there are a set of game modes, a career mode, race mode, destruction derby style 
 mode, stunt mode and some fun mini game modes like longest jump etc.
  
  It puts you in the seat of one of 12 high powered sports cars, while non of them carry official 
 names and performance statistics etc. they are infact all accuratly modeled (cosmetically ) on 
 real life cars, you'll see fully kitted out Golf's and skylines, they might have a different name 
 but if you know your cars you'll know what your looking at. Dont expect them to hit 60 in the same 
 amout of seconds or handle the same though because this game is all about fun and everything else 
 is taylored to that end.
  
  Menus are a little fuzzy looking (although the cars look lovely in the background) and the cars 
 stats screens consist mearly of a few bars which depict performance levels simply by how full they 
 are, so if you want to know ewhat size engine you've got or if its turbo charged etc your gonna 
 be dissapointed.
  
  The game enables the player to jump in with the pick up and play game modes or go into the highly 
 enjoyable career mode which is basicly a big collection of races, stunt shows point to points and 
 the like. Along the way you earn money and respect points and use them to buy upgrades or unlock 
 new cars to buy. Upgrades also suffer from some lack of detail, infact you'll have to work out 
 what some do for yourself as there is little explanation in game, some are obvious others a little 
 less so, either way the body kits and wheels etc look great. I started out with a standard police 
 car, and about five races in i had a full body kit on, some huge rims, total re-spray (no police 
 lights either) and enhanced performance. The game lets you choose from a large selection of upgrades 
 and doesnt force you to hget anything ina ny order. Although it has to be said the selection can 
 feel, limited after a while.
  
  The graphics are a real plus for me, the cars look awesome, fat body kits, alloy wheels and some 
 of the best damage modeling i have seen in a game all adds to a spectacular game visualy, replays 
 look great and when you total an opponent or get totaled you get treated to a nice slow motion 
 view of the wreckage flying through the air or rolling across the turf. In fact you'll see it all, 
 glass smashes all over the pace, body kits come apart, debris flys of, the damage modeling is to 
 say the least spectacular. Sound on the other hand is remarkably poor, i hated the sound track 
 (personal preference of course) and the car engines are feeble to games like GT legends etc.
  
  The tracks are open ended and there is definatly a go anywhere any time feel, although naturaly 
 races with checkpoint add a bit of order to this, but stunt shows and crashfests give you total 
 freedom. Another fun feature is the fact you can have a minigun and missile launcher fitted for 
 some matchups.... crazy, over the top but cool no doubt.
  
  In summary if your looking for a fun, fast paced, over the top, spectacular smash fest where some 
 of the most beautiful cars get totaled in what can only be described as car war, then this is your 
 game. The substitute for such fun of course is and has to be realism (although the damge modeling 
 is pretty realistic to a point) .
  
  Take it from me: a car lover who has Colin Mcrae 2005, gt legends, GTR etc. this game levels up 
 there for its fun factor with the best of them all day long, its lasting appeal though is limited. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReapX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about crashing and driving. The crashing part of this game is awesome and I had 
 an awesome time with that but I didn't really like the racing. The problem with it is the checkpoints. 
 They were so small and the track was opened mostly so there wasn't anything stopping you from flying 
 of the track and missing the checkpoint. That part made the racing part extremely annoying but 
 all the other events were extremly fun.
  
  The music was the best. It had all the music I liked and it fit perfectly into the carnage of the 
 crashes. It made me want to crash more. Almost like an adrenaline rush.
  
  The type of events that's in this game are Racing Checkpoint (which I did not like) , Racing Eimination (fun 
 but still kind of annoying) , Stunt Show (One of the best with all the ramps and jumps and points) , 
 Pass The Bomb (Which was also really fun) , Flag Race (Like tag which was fun) and Destruction Crash (Which 
 was one of the best) .
  
  There is also a track editor in it.
  
  The graphics were good. Nothing new but still fine. I loved all the looks of the cars. The world 
 was really cool. Wrecking your car was fun but you ended up having a car that looked really bad 
 fast.
  
  This game is fun and you should get it if you don't care about the checkpoint and racing problems 
 I had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHillBilly
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  It seem the more that I play this the more that I like it. I ended up getting TOCA Race Driver 
 3 and CrashDay within the same week. I had crashday ordered 3 weeks prior it just took 3 weeks 
 to get here from the UK.
  
  When I started playing both of them I could never decide what to play. After about a week I stopped 
 playing Race Drive 3 completely. Once you get used to the game you will not want to stop. 
  
  Until I played it about 3 hours I was thinking it was kind of ordinary then you start to unlock 
 new cars and weapons. New game now, it is a BLAST.
  
  Types of events,
  
  Racing Checkpoint race
  Racing elimination Last one to pass the finish line blows up
  Stunt 
 Show Lots of ramps and trick to get a high score
  Pass the Bomb Time bomb pass to some one else before time runs out.
  Flag Race Check point race 
 with a big smiley face balloon on you car, crash into someone to take it.
  Destruction Crash up derby with guns and rockets.
  
  With the 1.1 patch you have analog gas 
 and brake support now.
  
  It also has a track editor so you can make your own tracks and stunts. You can use these online 
 also.
  
  Online is great also. The game will also download tracks that you do not have automaticlly if you 
 do not have the track that is being played (just a few seconds on cable modem) Everyone has been 
 polite and friendly, not much swearing also (major plus for me) . 
  
  The only thing that I do not like is the graphics could be alot better for high end computer users, 
 even with the setting all to high you still get notched corners on the track. Other than that I 
 would not change a thing.
  
  Give it a try well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bionicleman05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  I was so happy when I finally got this game, and realized it's the last copy in stock. But I was 
 even more happy when I started playing it! It get's me excited nearly all the time! Of course, 
 I wasn't very fond of cops trying to shoot me down, and receiving career level based vehicles that 
 aren't even as good as the ones I bought, because of their over-steer problems. But I only encountered 
 all that in 1 career level, so far. But believe me, this is a fantastic game! And if you have only 
 50 bucks of pocket money, use that to buy this game! I'd recommend it! And don't forget about the 
 track editor. It's a really good one, and it's soooo easy to use! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wangbin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  so crazy you like it ? so crazy you like it ? so crazy you like it ? so crazy you like it ? so 
 crazy you like it ? so crazy you like it ? so crazy you like it ? so crazy you like it ? so crazy 
 you like it ? so crazy you like it ? so crazy you like it ? so crazy you like it ? so crazy you 
 like it ? so crazy you like it ? so crazy you like it ? so crazy you like it ? so crazy you like 
 it ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaStitch
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This game was more than I expected, it's crazy stuff!!! There you are in the starting line, the 
 race is about to start and everybody looks happy. Just as they gave us the green light I was quite 
 impressed with the A. I., all the cars took off except one... the maniac rammed me to the side of 
 the road and THEN he took off! YEESH!
  
  The physics is great, and the damage done to your car can be hilarious at times. Like the car hopping 
 it's way to the finish line due to critical damage, or another car that seems to be running fine 
 when all of a sudden it spins out of control and, if lucky, starts to barrel-roll at high speed. 
 Ramming into another car is pure satisfactory, you ALWAYS try to find an excuse to crash into the 
 next Hummer coming 'round the corner. And if that's not enough, your car can come out of the garage 
 with a few additions. I won't spoil it for you but here's a hint : Don't be surprised if you see 
 a missle fly past you.
  
  Speaking of Hummers, there are also other cars to choose from. Some look so damn familiar except 
 the name isn't actually there, like the 4x4 Pick 'em Up. You'll look at it and say "You know... that 
 looks just like a Dodge". The developers were crazy at what vehicles they picked for us to drive, 
 I swear the one that looks like a Civic Type-R is the best. Especially when you start to modify 
 it.
  
  Oh... modify you ask? Yes sir! We have it all! Spoilers, Rims, Hoods, Vinyls, Paint job Front and 
 Rear Bumpers etc. Heck it's Need for Speed : Most Maniac here!
  
  The tracks are so bug, that you's swear you could build yourself a little town with highways and 
 all, well that's possible! Not only are there plenty of tracks to choose from but the Track Editor 
 lets you build a freakin' city! It's so easy to use and the problem with it is that once you get 
 to know how to use it... you'll be up 'till 3 am creating huge and crazy tracks.
  
  The graphics are something to be pleased about too, I didn't expect it to look THAT pretty. The 
 game is so well detailed that one of the exotic cars has an interesting message when you slam on 
 the brakes, trust me you'll keep doing so to have a laugh at it.
  
  The game deserves an 8.9, can't go TOO far as to there are a few things to note : Sometimes when 
 you watch the replay of any race you've played, it looks... strange. Meaning it sometimes looks 
 like it's lagging, and to think the replay is playing from your local hard disk...
  
  But thank god that's the only problem I noticed, I think all the game needs is a 40 MB patch and 
 then I would've given it a 9.1
  
  Excellent game for those of you who love TrackMania and TM Sunrise, this game will give you the 
 devil's smile in no time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: channel_1231
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  This has to be ione of the best games ever released. When you first set your eyes on the box artwork 
 you know its going to be good.
  Crashday, the title says it all. Using weapons of choice, you can blast your opponents to smiterines 
 or just ram them.
  Firstly, there are so many options. The best is the wrecking match, this shows of how good the 
 graphics are. The shaders show the light just right in the different times of day. The damage models 
 are tweaked to perfection, from windows shattering to different sized dents depending on the crash, 
 the scenery is just as detailed as the cars apart from everything out of bounds which is a bit 
 flat (which is a little disapointing) , even the opponent cars are detailed just the same. The AI 
 of the computer players are good as they avoid the weapons fired at them and acknowledge you when 
 you are near. The carrer mode is alright with lots of differents missions although there is little 
 or no sign of any story line. The sound is very detailed especially in 5.1 as you are able to hear 
 crashes and other sounds from miles away. Some of the crash sounds are repeated but are only sometimes 
 noticable. Finally, the multiplayer takes it to the next level as you can play with very experienced 
 players from around the world. Although the lag times can sometimes be a let down, (even on Broadband!)
 
  This game is a very advanced demoliton racing experience and you can see why the release date 
 kept being put back!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kukus1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Crashday is a specific game. The main minus is that it's horrible short!! Campaign you can pass 
 in about 1-2 hours!! so it lefdt only "skirmish" and online. graphic is very nice, cars models 
 are good, game is without license so nissan skyline r-34 gt is called - incubator V12 gt (f. ex.) 
 i think Trackmania Sunrise is more interesting, but it's only my opinion. Crashday is so cheap 
 that actually i am not sad that i bought it :D in my country Crashday cost 5$ :D: D original: D: D 
 I nearly forgot, the difficult level is very different, one tracks are very easy but some are extremaly 
 hard so.... the biggest plus of Crashday is that all thgings in the game u can change with Notepad: PP 
 so have fun: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jccgold
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  1 off all gotta say it was an excelente surprise. The kind of game i was expecting for years! 
 
  Gameplay: Kind of "arcade" drive mode in cars, like in same older games, but it lets us focus in 
 whats important. Crash our oponnents!
  Several view mode cameras, rockets, nitro, guns, all the kind of stuff to love :)
  
  Graphics: 
 Textures are not all that good, but gave a 7 score cause the maps are really really good. And lack 
 of quality on graphics will make it more compatible with low PC gamers
  
  Sound: F1 key changes music that is playing! Innovative here too, dont remember a game that lets 
 you do that.
  
  Value: Original, fast, ambicious, finally the game i was waiting. "War-cars", dont know why it 
 took so long to make this kind of game. 10 score
  
  Reviewers tilt: Score 10 of course. Multiplayer menus are simple in the good way, we can paint 
 our car and 2 seconds later were good to go.
  Before playing we can chat with each other, con thing is that there are a lot of bugs yet, patch 
 1.1 came to resolve some but Crash is a recomended game no doubt 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bboyart
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  The first few hours get's you exploring the diferent modes of game play. After hitting a few "walls" 
 you get the feeling that you all ready bean there and done that. Toward the end of the game the 
 high atmosphere comes down and there is no hype to the end. Yes, there are new sets with different 
 props but once you played certain mode a few times - you played it all.
  The controls in the game are "arcade" style. Allmost all traces of sim-racing are wiped-out which 
 is ok for this type of game. The analog controls should have been a little more usable.
  Cars and level design is pretty good, crashing the car and the slow motion of an exploding car 
 is great. Actualy those are the gretates moments of the game. 
  The phisycs engine which deforms the car when you hit something or something hits you is performing 
 it's job up to the taks. Something similar but less damaging should be introduced in to the Need 
 for Speed series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarlemBlues
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  When i got this i was excited because when i seen the screenshots i was amazed on how good it looked.. 
 but yes i know they weren't gameplay screens but when i was playing it i could see it looked the 
 same... car models are excellent... worlds/tracks are really really well done, but gameplay lacks 
 just isn't that fun after a while. It has a theme like Trackmania and Flatout and a lil Burnout.. 
 Trackmania features.. well you can look at the crazy pic's of the tracks... Flatout features Cars, 
 nitrous... Burnout Features loading screens, and when also picking your cars, just seems alot like 
 burnout... Sound is mediocre... music really sucks and to be able to hear your car loud you have 
 to put your speakers up really loud!!!! its kind of anoying when you have to do that because when 
 you forget... and listen to music or something its blistering LOUD!!.... Value isn't good i would 
 recomend you to download the demo to tell you what you think!.. framerate is pretty good... but 
 mainly this game is pretty much a game that you should look at and not even bother playing it.... 
 and to tell you its very hard.... when you hit a jump its hard to control your car but at the end 
 it is called Crash soo dont bother not to hit the jumps.... :) soo at the end of the day its pretty 
 solid but not as enjoyable in somewhat.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksonfdam
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  J anunciado  anos pela produtora Moon Byte, Crashday finalmente  lanado pela Atari e traz de 
 volta ao PC, modos clssicos de games de corrida/ao, que fizeram um imenso sucesso no passado.
 
  Imagine games de sucesso como Destrutcion Derby, Twisted Metal, Stunts dentre outros, com uma 
 repaginao atual, som de maior qualidade, efeitos visuais atuais, com diversos modos de jogatina, 
 e ainda vrios modos online. Pois ! Isso tudo  o Crashday. Mas ser que a Moon Byte Studios em 
 parceria com a Replay Studios conseguiram reviver esses clssicos do passado, e transformar vrios 
 games de sucesso em apenas um? Bom,  o que veremos nessa review.
  
  Jogabilidade
  
  Crashday  uma mistura de estilos. Uma variedade de jogabilidada raramente vista em games atuais. 
 Aqui voc ter desde corridas simples, passando por arenas em que voc usa armas para detonar os 
 adversrios, at pistas em que voc deve fazer mirabolantes acrobacias com os carros. 
  Se j no bastasse, voc ainda tem  disposio vrios itens de tunning para seus carros, e um 
 editor de pistas completssimo que voc poder construir desde pistas de corrida simples, at arenas 
 fechadas apenas para combates entre os adversrios. Ufa, acabou? No! Pois , alm disso tudo, 
 ainda tem minigames que vai de saltar o mais longe possvel, at pistas imensas que voc tem que 
 passar por todos os check-points.
  
  Na parte principal, o game traz no total 7 modos de jogatina que so:
  
  Stunt Show - Esse 
 modo pode-se dizer que  o carro-chefe do game. Claramente baseado no game Stunts, aqui voc faz 
 acrobacias insanas com o carro, mas com o tempo voc  obrigado a fazer upgrade nos carros, porque 
 seno fica por ltimo. Poderia ter sido mais trabalhada a fisica, j que por muitas vezes se torna 
 algo absurdamente irreal.
  Racing - Corrida comum, mas  extremamente dificil pela facilidade de destruio do carro. Fica 
 complicado chegar em primeiro com o carro inteiro.
  Wrecking Match - Twisted Metal Mode!! Cpia idntica do game, mas com um visual excepcional se 
 comparado com o clssico original. Peca por no ter variaes de armas, j que s existe metralhadoras 
 e lana-misseis e por isso fica um tanto sem graa com o passar do tempo.
  Hold The Flag - Um Modo bem bolado, mas que s funciona numa primeira vez. Depois da segunda ou 
 terceira vez, voc nem vai querer mais jogar ele. Consiste em pegar uma bandeira de um local ou 
 adversrio e passar com ela por todos os checkpoints do mapa.
  Pass The Bomb - Novamente uma idia bem bolada assim como a anterior, mas essa at que funciona 
 legal no quesito diverso. D um certo nervosismo e tenso, j que voc carrega uma bomba e tem 
 que passar para o adversrio antes que ela exploda.
  Bomb Run - Meio sem graa essa. Voc s tem que manter o carro intacto e fugir de um carro que 
 carrega uma bomba e caso ele te alcance, voc explode.
  Test Driver - Esse modo  timo para se treinar para todos os outros citados acima.  um test driver 
 em que voc pode fazer o que bem entender. Bem legal pra saber qual carro  melhor para determinadas 
 provas.
  J os Minigames so 3, todos meio sem graa diga-se de passagem: Long Jump, que voc pula o mais 
 longe possvel; Vehicle Blast, que voc novamente pula o mais longe possvel s que carregando 
 uma bomba com um timer e o Checkpoint Chase que voc tem que passar por todos os checkpoints.
 
  
  De certa maneira, os modos de jogo que o Crashday traz, j era o esperado para esse tipo de game. 
 Mesmo sendo divertidos, dinmicos e de ao frentica, se tornam enjoativos com o passar do tempo, 
 principalmente ficando bem previsvel o que a IA far em determinadas situaes. Felizmente a Moon 
 Bytes disponibilizou uma opo multiplayer, que voc ver mais adiante na review, e que traz todos 
 os modos singleplayer, para voc curtir com os amigos.
  
  Grficos
  
  O grficos do Crashday tem seus prs e contras.
  Comeando pelos contras, o game tem cenrios 
 at certo ponto detalhados e bem diversificados, mas com texturas abaixo da mdia de games atuais 
 na maioria das vezes. Talvez isso seja at bom para dar mais suavidade e fluidez durante as disputas, 
 mas mesmo assim continuam aqum do esperado. Creio eu que o motivo de usarem texturas no to bem 
 acabadas em vrios pontos, deva-se ao fato das pistas serem criadas atravs do editor encontrado 
 no game. Mesmo as pistas j prontas, elas ainda assim so criadas no editor, e talvez para no 
 ficar pesado na hora da edio, optou-se por deixar com texturas pouco ntidas. Por outro lado, 
 existe tanta variedade de cenrios, com muitas opes de rampas, espirais, loops, etc, que voc 
 nem vai parar para observar as texturas, e sim s vai pensar em se divertir.
  
  Agora os prs dos grficos do game so muitos. Comeando pelos variados tipos de carros, aqui eles 
 so ricos em detalhes, com texturas timas, e usam e abusam de polgonos, dando um acabamento excepcional 
 na qualidade de curvas e nuances de cada item deles. Um trabalho digno de uma grande softhouse! 
 O game traz opes de Tunning, e cada item escolhido transforma completamente o visual dos carros, 
 e mais uma vez nos mostra o belo trabalho da equipe da Moon Byte Studios juntamente com a Replay 
 Studios. T certo que poderia ter mais opes, tanto de carros, quanto de peas  serem compradas, 
 mas para um game sem muitas pretenes, o que ele traz j est de bom tamanho.
  
  Mas o maior destaque mesmo da parte grfica do game, so os efeitos visuais durante as colises. 
 Como o intuito do game  a destruio dos veculos propriamente dita, j era de se esperar um trabalho 
 minuncioso e bem feito por parte das produtoras. E realmente conseguiram!
  O game usa demasiadamente os efeitos de partculas, que mesmo com um certo exagero, do um toque 
 cinematogrfico s colises, principalmente ao se usar a tecla de Pausa do game (Q) que faz com 
 que a cena pare e a cmera fique girando em torno do carro, e caso queira, pode-se mudar o ngulo 
 usando a tecla W. Aqui voc ver pedaos de vidros voando para todo lado, assim como raspas de 
 tinta dos carros, sujeiras da pista, partes da lataria, fumaa, fogo, pneus, terra, etc. E isso 
 tudo junto cria um efeito lindo, que eu no lembro de ter visto em outro game.  um espetculo 
 visual incrvel voc ver a cmera girando por dentro das exploses, observando pedaos de vidro 
 e outras sujeiras paradas no ar! Realmente nota 10!
  
  udio
  
  Com toda certeza, essa  a pior parte do game. No que seja definitivamente ruim, mas a Moon Byte 
 Studios poderia ter caprichado mais no som do game, e nem seria to trabalhoso assim.
  
  Os roncos dos motores esto medianos, sem nenhum tipo de realismo. Claramente percebe-se que se 
 trata de um som literalmente sintetizado, dando a impresso de ter sido criado de forma caseira. 
 Talvez nem seja tao ruim esse fato, pois o game nao enfoca o realismo, e sim a diverso.
  
  Por outro lado, os efeitos sonoros, seja das batidas, das derrapagens, das exploses, etc, esto 
 num patamar acima da qualidade do som dos motores, como dito acima. Um dos destaques, sem dvida, 
  o som das colises: aqui voc ouvir nitidamente vidros se quebrando e lataria amassando (!!) .. 
 e tudo bem cristalino; Alis, cristalino at demais, porque a impresso que passa  que somente 
 os vidros se quebram, sendo que voc acaba observando o carro todo destrudo. D a impresso que 
 falta alguma coisa.. Talvez, a produtora devesse ter colocado mais variao de som durante as colises, 
 at porque nao basta ter uma qualidade boa, se no tem variao no som. Preguia da Moon Byte.
 
  
  Msicas... ! Ihh, as msicas! Pois ... So razoveis durante os menus do game e descartveis 
 durante o jogo em si, apenas isso. Ainda continuo achando que game de corrida, seja arcade, simulao, 
 de acrobacias, etc no deveria ter msicas, j que o gostoso  ouvir o ronco dos motores, o som 
 da borracha dos pneus passando pelo asfalto
  
  Multiplayer 
  
  A melhor parte do game  seu multiplayer.  bastante divertido voc correr contra seus amigos, 
 participar de um sesso de acrobacias, at mesmo uma prova para detonar os carros deles. 
  O multiplayer do Crashday traz todos os modos singleplayer do game, mas com um diferencial: aqui 
 se joga contra oponentes humanos, e a diferena  enorme em relao ao modo single, principalmente 
 pela reao dos oponentes, que d uma nova dinmica ao jogo.
  
  E uma notcia boa para a maioria dos internautas brasileiros: embora recomende-se, no  obrigatrio 
 uma conexo Banda Larga para desfrutar de divertidas corridas online. Fiz alguns testes com alguns 
 amigos de conexo discada, e o game flui naturalmente. Lag s aparece se tiver mais de 3 pessoas 
 conectadas, obviamente pelo limite da Banda de conexo. J para quem tem Banda Larga, pode-se criar 
 disputas para at 8 jogadores.
  
  Mas claro, nem tudo so flores: As vezes ocorrem diversos bugs durante partidas multiplayer, como 
 por exemplo carros andarem com metade do corpo para dentro da pista, carros que atravessam muros, 
 paredes, etc.. e at mesmo carros que parecem voar! Testei com a conexao discada, e ocorreram essas 
 coisas em alguns momentos. Testei com a banda Larga e tambm ocorre em alguns momentos. Por isso 
 afirmo que no seria problema de Lag, e sim bugs do prprio sistema multiplayer do game.
  Mesmo com esses problemas, que ocorrem as vezes, o Multiplayer dele continua timo, e bastante 
 divertido, e com certeza ser a opo mais usada por quem adquirir o game.
  
  Concluso
  
  Um jogo que esperava-se ser um espetculo visual, e obviamente de jogabilidade, cai nos mesmos 
 problemas dos grandes games anunciados com exausto e  meses antes do seu lanamento. Cria-se 
 uma espectativa imensa sobre o game, que mais atrapalha do que ajuda. Eu explico: essa imensa expectativa 
 em cima de um game, faz com que todos achem que ele ser um jogo excepcional, sem muitos bugs e 
 com tima jogabilidade, e qualquer detalhe dele que seja abaixo dessa espectativa, torna-se um 
 imensa bola de neve e o game passa a ser tachado de ruim, mesmo que ele seja razoavelmente bom.
 
  
  Isso tudo  um risco enorme para a produtora, que no caso do Crashday  a Moon Byte Studios juntamente 
 com a Replay Studios. Felizmente o risco passou assim que o game foi lanado, e apesar de no ser 
 um primor de qualidade, tanto no visual como no udio (que foi at prometido) , Crashday  indiscutivelmente 
 um game divertido, e talvez desde os clssicos Stunts e Twisted Metal, no exista um game nesse 
 estilo to divertido quanto Crashday.
  Com certeza se no tivessem feito tanta propaganda (durante mais de 2 anos) e divulgadas fotos 
 de altissima qualidade (aqum do que o game mostra realmente) , Crashday seria visto com outros 
 olhos, e at mesmo seria tido como uma game excepcional.
  
  Mas como dito acima, com todos os problemas que ele tem, Crashday  uma mistura de games clssicos 
 que fizeram muito sucesso no passado, e obviamente, nico. Com certeza  diverso garantida.
  Respondendo a pergunta no inicio deste review, Crashday poder se tornar um clssico da diverso 
 como os anteriores, mas isso acontecer apenas por que no existe - ainda - um game concorrente 
 no mesmo estilo
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallout_red
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I personally hate combat racing games but believe me, Crashday is different. Its not really innovative 
 or graphically impressive or completely realistic but a mixture of them. Simple, fun, friendly 
 and addictive.
  
  -= Gameplay =- 9: Cars are simple yet fun to use and handling is quite easy and a bit unrealistic 
 but thats the whole point... This is no GT4 or PGR3... no simulation... a pure arcade racing/combat 
 game. There are a lot of playing choices, from common races with checkpoints to traditional Deathmatch 
 where you shoot rockets among other things and try to destroy opponents (the rocket launching is 
 indeed satisfying) . There are also a bunch of crazy modes like Bomb Run, Stunt missions and Hold 
 The Flag!!! among game modes and all of them are unique and fun. Physics are nice yet have a few 
 glitches and enemy AI is moderate. The Controls are great AFTER you modify them and get used to 
 them. One cool concept of the game is "Freeze Camera" where pressing a single key freezes the game. 
 Destruction is plain fun. Good destructive cars and big and wide levels with ability of free roaming 
 are really entertaining.
  
  -= Graphics =- 7: This is not your typical GT or NFS: MW graphics, shadowcasting is weak, as well 
 as reflections and licensed models are decent with good destruction capacity, medium textures and 
 shaders. Light effects are good, if not great. The best part of Crashday's graphics is its effects 
 (Though the game could have used something like bloom effects) , the weapons and their effects are 
 nice yet some explosions are wierd. The particle effects are top-notch, specially after a big crash 
 Car parts and particles float around and using "Freeze camera" captures some hot moments. The game 
 in motion is acceptable with solid framerate needing low system requirement. Replays of the match 
 can be seen and saved, yet some problems and glitches (Specially while using slo-mo effects) lower 
 the fun. The car interiors are acceptable among other cameras. Watching good animated driver is 
 nice.
  
  -= Sound and music =- 9: Well, the sound department isn't Burnout class (How many times have I 
 mentioned Burnout?) , but good as it is. Cars sound decent, but not so unique. Other sound effects 
 are great and explosions sound almost realistic. Though this game does not have many licensed tracks, 
 the existing ones are great yet not much customizable, Rock and Electronic. 
  
  -= Value =- 8: The singleplayer is short and not really challenging with decent amount of maps. 
 The multiplayer is fun yet flawed. The map/level editor/builder is great and looks like an old 
 game I played (ES, SE or SD racing?) and is perfect for crafting your own levels. Its an addictive 
 game overally and everything from normal racing to carshing your rivals, from stealing flags/Planting 
 bombs ( I know I sound wierd but these modes are truly unique and fun) to crazy stunts, is surprisingly 
 enjoyable. There are also a few customizing choices for cars but nothing important.
  
  Crashday is a rare gem that almost everyone missed, critics dismissed and gamers forgot about. 
 It was more than a year ago that demos of the game were shown and Replay Studios promised a great 
 racing/stunt game. They missed the initial launch and... when everyone had forgotten, Crashday 
 suddenly surfaced. I tried it expecting a low grade PC combat racing trying to be Burnout and found 
 a lovely rare gem (Secret item found) .
  Atari should have done more work promoting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Boss2703
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  Crashday is a game that tries to copy Burnout 3. It succeeds in some ways but is let down by many 
 things. First thing are the graphics. The cars are vrey well modelled, their textures have reflections 
 and the damage system is good enough, but (and it's a big BUT) the courses lack any personality. The 
 trees are made from 2 low res textures binded together and it all looks lifeless, unlike Burnout, 
 where all the courses look very alive and coloured. On the plus side are the multiple race modes 
 and the multiplayer. You have guns at your disposal and it can get very messy and fun. A minus is 
 that the music is horrible. The artists are very badly chosen and the music can really get on your 
 nerves. Also there are some framerate and loading time issues on some computers, meaning that for 
 a 10 second stage where you jump on a platform you wait about 4 minutes at the loading screen, 
 and that can be annoying because I've played FEAR on my computer and I had no such loading times 
 and FEAR had some awesome graphics. In conclusion Crashday is not going to replace Burnout in my 
 heart and probably not in anyone's but it's worth a rental on a rainy day but for awesome fun I'd 
 still choose Burnout 3 or 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Have a Modern Stunt game on Pc was Unthinkable, but CRASHDAY, let you to the world of massive car 
 destruction, with very very great graphics, physics, gameplay, and take your breath out...
  
  The theme music of this game, is great. I can't stop listening to it. All teh songs on the 
 game are good, and get you more freezed on the game action.
  
  The cameras give you a whole new vision of a race game, inquite cameras, cockpit camera is too 
 difficult, but is a great experience. 
  
  The control style are totally different from Most Wanted, but is better for this type of game.
 
  
  The STUNTS Let you crazy, cause they are too fast.
  
  moderns cars, 4x4 trucks, concept cars, and more. Could you imagine breaking a lamborguini on hundreds 
 of pieces?
  The cars get totally destroyed, tires, glasses, body, engine, etc. everithing on the car get broken, 
 if you spank your car on the walls.
  
  I liked BURNOUT, but this game is better, cause it have more chalenges...
  
  Well, I like racing 
 games, and this is one of my favorites.
  
  Congratulations to ATARI and the other MARKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Up to date, there have not been to many car destruction, combat, etc. games that can deserve yor 
 time to be played. Well this game is the one. It is a very good combination of well designed graphics 
 and great gameplay, and gameplay modes.
  The gameplay has been set up very nicely by the creators, thus making sure you wont swear each 
 time something would have gone wrong.
  The graphics aretop of the line ". It is created so that it looks almost real. From some pictures 
 you wouldn't tell the difference of real from fake. 
  This game is something that shouldn't be left on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charbo00
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I found this game looking around gamespot one day, and I'm sure glad i did. This is one of those 
 games that doesnt get much publicity but is really enjoyable. I have been playing it for about 
 a week now and i like it way more than more mainstream racers like NFS or Midnight Club. It has 
 the same type of feel as Burnout and since they dont have Burnout for PC, this is the next best 
 thing. There are quite a few different game modes, including crashing, racing, King of the hill, 
 and others. There are also a few minigames to mess with, my favorite of which is a combo of long 
 jump and a timed race, and if you dont get to the ramp fast enough your car blows up. Another cool 
 addition is in the crashing/wrecking modes you can use machine guns and missiles to help you destroy 
 your opponents, and you can do more damage by hitting them on differant parts of the car. The cars 
 also take damage unlike most racing games so that is nice as well. I would definitely recommend 
 this game to anyone who like racing or car combat games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  After months of only staring at screenshots, it finally arrived!
  Put in in my drive, installed it and got ready to play!
  I decided to first play a single race 
 and fired it up.
  But what a disappointment when the race started,
  it has a terrible framerate (FEAR plays great on my comp) !!
  The countdown from 3 to GO was 4 
 times longer than it used to be.
  When trying to bring my car up to speed, I raced with +/- 2 FPS!
  I only got to race normally 
 on the edges of the map, where there was almost nothing to render! Man I was almost crying!
  The graphics of the game are nonetheless very good, and gameplay has no real issues (If it played 
 right) . The guns on the cars also give a nice twist to the stunt racing genre. But it's not a game 
 that can beat NFS or Burnout!
  I thought about the special track editor and began to make a track.
  The editor can be a little 
 frustrating cause changes from grass to road are not easy to find, and most of the stunts are made 
 for a specific type of road.
  If you had planned to buy it, play the demo first!! (try before you buy!)
  This could have been 
 a very good game, if they had only tweaked it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaarele
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Always fun to play. Even if you get tired of the single player mode (but you never don't) , then 
 you can play multiplayer, over the internet with your friends. There are so many game types and 
 stuff that I haven't even saw them all. I recommend you to play crashday! The game is much better 
 than NFS: Most Wanted, because you never get tired of it. Only bad thing is, that the game have 
 few bugs in it, but if the game close up, then you don't lose anything, because Crashday's events 
 are usually short. Takes about 3-10 minutes to play a race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guncizxxl
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  When first I tried this game, I was confused. Was this game what I've been waiting for? I guess 
 this is one of the "thought that it will be great but it wasn't" games. Although the graphics rock, 
 the sound is ideal and the crashes are cool, I think that there is a lack of opponents, it just 
 has this emptieness feeling. OK, the wrecking mode is the thing I use the most because there are 
 the best crashes, and the stunt mode, because the are these ramps & loops that make your car go 
 sky high and then with a blast crashes on the ground. But Flatout made crasehs look very real with 
 objects flying evrywhere, but in Crashday... its hard to describe, there is just something missing. 
 I can't understand what's the story telling about, I understood, that Crashday is some kind of 
 organisation that makes bets and arenas and the guy who's telling the next race is working for 
 some kind of bosses. It's very hard to understand.
  Although the game lacks something, it is great to play, and if there will be a sequel, I hope that 
 it will be better. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
