-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crazy Taxi
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/crazytaxi/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 5.6, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 291 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Hitmaker
Genre: Racing
Date:     Sep 30, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can find them, you'd be better off just grabbing a Dreamcast console and a copy of the original 
 Crazy Taxi. 

 The original Crazy Taxi from Sega's internal team Hitmaker was released in arcades in 1999, and 
 it was subsequently ported to Sega's Dreamcast video game console in 2000. Both versions of the 
 game were simple, fun racing games that let you play as a cabbie in search of fares to transport 
 to their destinations as quickly as possible, performing as many dangerous stunts (like narrowly 
 scraping past oncoming cars) as possible to earn extra tips from your impatient, thrill-seeking 
 passengers. Hitmaker went on to create two console follow-ups, the most recent of which is Crazy 
 Taxi 3 for the Xbox. Yet, for some reason, the very first Crazy Taxi game has just now been ported 
 to the PC, but considering how the port turned out, it probably shouldn't have been.           
 The introduction looks surprisingly good, but the game itself has frame rate problems.    

 Hitmaker put the "crazy" in the original Crazy Taxi by keeping the game's general graphical detail 
 low so the game could run at blazing speeds. Your simple-looking yellow cab flew through plain-looking 
 cities and picked up colorful but blocky and low-polygon passengers. And the PC version of Crazy 
 Taxi is just as colorful, and at the highest graphical settings -- 1280x960 resolution at 32-bit 
 color -- the game's introduction movie, which features in-game scenes, looks even better than the 
 Dreamcast version. Unfortunately, when you actually try to play the game at those settings, the 
 game chugs along even on a fast computer.   

  Actually, the game's frame rate chugs along at the minimum settings of 640x480 resolution, 16-bit 
 color, and the shortest draw distance, often slowing down or missing frames of animation entirely, 
 which completely breaks up the game's flow. Apparently, the PC version just wasn't optimized well, 
 which not only makes the game look worse, but it also severely compromises the gameplay. Like the 
 Dreamcast version, the PC version has both an arcade city map and an "original" city map to drive 
 through, and while the PC version has a brand-new "crazy box" minigame mode that wasn't in the 
 original game, you'll probably spend most of your time on the arcade and original courses. Both 
 the arcade and Dreamcast versions of Crazy Taxi had extremely smooth frame rates that really helped 
 convey the sense of tearing around a city at breakneck speeds. Though you'll occasionally be able 
 to play through some relatively smooth spots, you'll find that the frame rate will often take a 
 hit just as you're starting to enjoy yourself, especially if you happen to run into an oncoming 
 car and knock it over.           The minigames might occupy you for a while, but they're not all 
 that great.    

 However, the PC version does offer a few surprising new features, including a new soundtrack and 
 the aforementioned minigame mode. The minigames are generally rather shallow tasks that require 
 you to complete a simple puzzle using your taxi, such as knocking over a lane of bowling pins or 
 crashing into a number of oversized balloons to pop them. They're generally rather short, and they're 
 not especially fun on their own, though they generally don't suffer from the same frame rate problems 
 as the rest of the game. Otherwise, the PC version has a new rock and roll soundtrack that seems 
 fitting for the game, though it reuses the same voice samples for the game's four drivers, Axel, 
 Gena, Gus, and B. D. Joe, as well as the pushy, sometimes foul-mouthed passengers they pick up. 
   

  Releasing the original Crazy Taxi on the PC at this point doesn't seem to make much sense. Considering 
 that the game itself includes only the arcade and original tracks and the limited crazy box mode, 
 it's not certain you'll get much out of the game before you get fed up with its problematic frame 
 rate. Besides, the original game is over three years old, the series is now up to its third game, 
 and you can enjoy much of what made the original Crazy Taxi fun by stealing a taxi cab and picking 
 up passengers in a game of Grand Theft Auto III, Rockstar's multifaceted free-form action game, 
 which was released earlier this year for the PC. Alternately, if you can find them, you'd be better 
 off just buying a Dreamcast console and a copy of the original Crazy Taxi, since the 2000 Dreamcast 
 version looks better and plays better than the 2002 PC port.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Crazy Taxi is a simpistic racing game you should not mess up with, unless you are too good with 
 racing games or you like crashing things around.
  
  You will have to select one of the four characters given, take your ride and search for people 
 who want your services, and pay for them. The more stunts you do or the earliest you get there, 
 the more will be the money you earn. But it is not that simple: there is a timer in the game, and 
 you must earn as much as you can before it ends. Luckily, farest destinations will give you additional 
 time.
  
  There are also some minigames, in a simple puzzle style sometimes using a timer or a scoreboard. 
 They are a lot of fun to play in the beginning, but after a while they seem to lose their style 
 and become boring. So you would rather stay into the main game.
  
  But where the game really suffers is the visuals. The developers didn't balance between good visuals 
 and performance, giving only the second, while the frame rate is extremely low. So everything, 
 from the simpistic cars to the plain city and the square-headed customers is removing much from 
 what that game deserved. The graphics can be fixed with a higher resolution, but this will greatly 
 affect the performance of the game.
  
  Crazy Taxi is a funny game with a good concept, but there are many problems with it, so I suggest 
 to rent it or get a demo to take a look on your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGfred
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  TAXI!
  God, I love this game.
  
  This is truly a retro classic, and it's highly addictive.
  It has only a few characters to play 
 as, but the funny thing is, I don't give a monkeys! All I care about is flying around what appears 
 to be san Francisco in one of four unique and old looking taxis.
  
  The PC version has gotten a couple of bad reviews, but buy this on any console and you'll be satisfied. 
 The PC version does have some shaky controls, but you'll definitley get used to them. 
  The customers are slightly repetitive, and the game has little to vary in the soundtrack, however, 
 this is a great buy and well worth the 50-99p you'll probably spend on it.
  
  Hours of fun and amusement await you - as long as you can find the actual game. If you don't have 
 it, shame on you. Run to your nearest shops bargain bin and find it, dang nabbit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt9294
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
 play it play it play it play it play it play it play it play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  if your just looking for mindless hours of fun then crazy taxi is a good place to look, you select 
 drivers of different taxis and each one has their own unique style of taxi. The goal of crazy taxi 
 is to get as many passengers as you can in the time limit to their destination and making the most 
 money possible. I have never played the original crazy taxi just the PC one and if the original 
 is anything like this then I know I would definatley like it as this one has given me countless 
 hours of fun. The things that could be improved on in crazy taxi are less repetitive customers, 
 slightly better graphics, the ability to create your own taxi and yourself in the game and maybe 
 a customizable sound track to play during the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkid
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game! The trainings are very good, i like the music, especially a music. The best 
 of all is that i can do crazy things while transporting people and winning a extra money... All 
 the players are nice, but i prefer the girl, cause it rides faster and i can do more points than 
 the other players.
  
  I like 10 minutes with the girl doing crazy things and hearing my good music on the radio.
  
 
  What i can tell more about Crazy Taxi........... ha, yes. The graphics are 10* rated and the game-play 
 is good.
  
  In the crazy things, i like to jump.
  
  It's bad that i can't but more people in my taxi, or then, God!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  The first impression or rather the thing first thing you'll think of after playing this game would 
 be, "This game is stupid." or something like that. I have never really played an embarrassing driving 
 game before.
  The game's graphics are not the one which feel even a bit pleasant. All the time you'll get the 
 feeling of driving a big box rather than a car. The game is medium difficulty, but you'll probably 
 never get the time to understand it because most probably you'll go out and buy some other game. 
 The world is totally imbalanced and you'll never like to explore it more and more. Its totally 
 dumb.
  The sound effects are also pre-historic and juicy essence which immerses you in the game. 
  Don't 
 play this game unless you are crazy too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 2.8
Date: May 19, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  This is the funniest game since "Worms". It is an arcade game, NOT a sim! If you want the real 
 challenges of being a cabbie in the real world, look elsewhere. But if you want an excuse to do 
 some crazy driving with no gun or fist fights in a free roaming environment (like the "Driver" 
 series) , this is your game! You have your pick of one of four drivers, all of which are invinceable 
 so you can't wreck your cab no matter how hard you try! (Gus is the best. He says the funniest 
 things. "You're not hurt", "You're still alive", "It's under control".) You pick up passengers 
 and take them where they want to go within the time limit. They tip extra for crazy driving stunts 
 and dock you for hitting stuff. They also react in funny ways when you hit things. And if you want 
 some real fun, hit everything in your path until time runs out and they jump out of your cab no 
 matter how fast you are moving, or where you are. They will jump out of your cab in the air, under 
 water, in the subway tunnel, you name it. And yes, you can drive under water and there are jumps 
 everywhere! And when you smash a phone booth and send it flying, the broken phone booth stays in 
 the environment. You can hit it and push it all the way down the street, or leave it where it lands.
 
  SHOULD YOU BUT THE GAME?: Sure, if A) you buy it new (to avoid the glitches other reviewers are 
 talking about) and B) you are NOT buying it for a kid (see what I wrote for sound) .
  ADVICE TO GAME-MAKERS THINKING OF A SEQUEL: 1) get rid of the swearing! You guys are losing a big 
 chunk of your potential market, all because of 2 words that don't need to be in the game. 2) Get 
 rid of the stupid green arrow (or leave the cheat code in.) 3) make the drivers and passengers say 
 alot more funny things. This is key to the humor potential of the game. 4) give us more maps to 
 drive in. The "Driver" game gives you four per game. 5) unlimited driving time would also be nice.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The glitches other reviewers found were not in my copy. The car handles as well as any driving 
 game. The jumps and obstacles are great. Gameplay is very fun and silly. Again, like in the "Driver" 
 games, you can go anywhere you want, not just in a glorified circle or on a specific path.
  *Crash!*
  "Hey man, pay attention"
  "It's under control"
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are 
 a bit cartoony-arcade like, but they are fine. Again, this is not a sim. The graphics are good 
 enough that they don't take away from game play, and that's what matters. In fact, the graphics 
 add enough detail to make it a little more interesting. Definitely ps2 quality stuff.
  
  Sound:
  "If the comedian has to resort to swearing, then he hasn't done his job." Jerry Seinfeld. 
 There are 2 swears you will hear passengers say, d*** (german for penis) and dumb a**. This minor 
 detail makes it so that you can't play it with kids. If a sequal fixes this problem, I'll but it. 
 And if it dosen't, I won't. And if there wasn't a cheat code that turns off that stupid green arrow 
 and the geeky voice saying "You're going the wrong way, follow the arrow", there would be 2 major 
 sound problems. otherwise, the sound would be a perfect score. The passengers are riotously funny 
 when you hit things. They react in a bunch or different ways, adding a ton of fun and sillyness 
 to the game. The music is good background, just loud enough that you can barely hear it. My last 
 problem here is that every passenger says the exact same thing when you don't get them there on 
 time. With all the variety of reactions they do in transit, there should be more variety here too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Gameplay its very good. You're a taxy driver, you can break the law, what you want more? The sound 
 isn't bad, but it could be better and more varied. Grafics are good but not for a game like that. 
 This game is very fun, the people almost puke in the car! We make much money with some customers 
 but mainly with the green-darkness. The second it's better but, lacks something and i didn't know 
 what! Not good, not bad, but you could make better! I'm waiting for the next ... i'm waiting ... 
 i'm waiting ... i'm waiting ... i'm just ... waiting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyp7711
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  This game is good for a while, but as with many other games, it lacks replay value. You can play 
 this game a few times, but it does wear thin after a while, considerign you're doing the same thing 
 over and over. An interesting twist to the game would be The Simpsons Road Rage for PS2, but that 
 also becomes boring after a while, but I must admit, the idea that you're making progress on that 
 game makes you more persistant in playing the game.
  
  As far as I can remember this game was particularly popular, although I can't really see why now 
 I've played it. 
  
  I end with the closing statement that this game has no replay value, and you don't really feel 
 like you're making any progress by doing the same thing over and over again. Even a leaderboard 
 isn't enough to keep us going. Come on Activision! You used to be cool in the day and age of the 
 SNES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  i love the dreamcast version, but this is a pale imitation in comparisson.
  the gameplay is flawed on a keyboard and its much better on a controller, though ts fun to play 
 and cheap as its pretty damn old now so most p. cs will play it, the graphics are the same, but 
 ive only hear half of the offpsring songs on ,why cut out some of the best songs in the OST?, god 
 only knows, for me this ruins the arcade style experience of this game, and i really think you 
 need the console before coming cloes to buying this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idamel007
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  this game is poor, you can play one week only before you bored of him, the controls are mediocre, 
 the graphics too, the bad is so always have time limit and if You get the Passenger to their wanted 
 destination on time, the graphics can get you take you console or pc and shoot to the floor, this 
 game is the bad of all game of this tipe, This Game has Simple Gameplay and as Stated Harmful Graphics, 
 Candy Coloured Graphics For Sure, There is no reason to Play This Game on Your PC
  
  if you want spent time this game is a bad choice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy9
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  this is the crapiest game im rating ever cheap price thoug but that wont save them from the worst 
 mark ever 2 sitty hot wheels down speaking of hot wheels this is a very bad 1 quanity game 2 sitty 
 graphics 3 danm its slow on my cpu so this really sucks throw it burn just dont buy it hell no 
 dont buy this sitty game or you will be sentenced to life with 100 sitty hot wheel cars in your 
 mouth and 100 up your ass danm this is the sitty iest game on earth i even nomminate for sittyiest 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  amm crazy taxi is a nice game its fun to play it 
  if some one with you but alone its not so fun
  but this game is not so bad....
  i mean you 
 can play it and you wont gett board
  but if you will play on it a lot of time
  you will soon gett board
  because you picking up the same peoples because you have time limit
 
  so you dont want to try defrent people and then gett mesed up
  so overall its nice game and worth to play the game....
  but if some one with you its better 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L_is_Real2004
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:12 am PT
Review:  This is a very fun arcade game due to its original plot, unique gameplay, and arcade-style racing. 
 The home-version adaptation keeps the arcade-style very well and adds new very fun features, and 
 modes such as a timed runs, mini-games, and speed bursts. Unfortunately, it does stick a little 
 to close to the original in that it has the same very low detail graphics. The game was designed 
 when 128-bit graphics were brand new, and the PC version doesnt take advantage of new technologies. 
 If you are a Crazy Taxi fan, or just a lover of arcade-style racing, but don't mind poor graphics, 
 than you should definitely check this game out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
