-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crazy Machines: The Wacky Contraptions Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/crazymachinesthewackycontraptionsgame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More than 200 different puzzles.
 Physics system takes gravity, air pressure, electricity, and more into account.
 Easy to manipulate and move puzzle pieces.
 Plays in a window.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Modest visuals and sound.
 Some puzzles are too simple.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.9, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 111 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Viva Media
Developer: FAKT Software GmBH
Genre: Puzzle
Date:     October 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Crazy Machines is pretty similar to many other puzzle games on the PC, but the amount and quality 
 of its content makes it worthwhile anyway. 

  Crazy Machines isn't a particularly original game -- there have been many other PC puzzlers in the 
 past that have involved convoluted contraptions. But those who enjoy brain benders and creating 
 Rube Goldberg-like machinery will certainly appreciate this game anyway. The game offers more than 
 200 different puzzles, as well as a sandbox mode to keep wannabe inventors busy for quite a while. 

          If you like tinkering with Rube Goldberg-like contraptions, Crazy Machines should be right 
 up your alley.     

  The game's interface is clean and sleek. You'll see the work space prominently displayed in the 
 center, containing fixed elements of the experiment already in place. The items you have to work 
 with are listed in a sidebar to the right -- you can conveniently click and drag them to where they 
 need to go. There are also a few buttons in the bottom right corner, which are used for basic tasks 
 like resetting the lab setup or starting and stopping the action. Many items need to be rotated 
 or turned, which is done by hovering the mouse pointer over the item and selecting the option from 
 the quick menu. If you ever forget the function of a certain piece, hovering over that item in 
 the sidebar will bring up its description.  

  There are dozens of different pieces, all having unique properties. The game includes various types 
 of power sources, balls, wires, balloons, gears, conveyor belts, boxes, catapults, pipes, widgets, 
 and other knickknacks that you'd expect to find in a crazy inventor's lab. You'll even find unusual 
 items like steam pistons, working blimps, cannons, dynamite, and robots, all of which help to make 
 complicated work out of simple tasks. What's most impressive, though, is how the game seems to 
 incorporate logical physics into its experimental setups. Allow a balloon to drift too close to 
 an open flame, and it will pop. Heat up a boiler, and it will provide power to turn a steam piston. 
 Different types of balls will have different properties that reflect their weight and elasticity -- tennis 
 balls, for example, bounce high but don't have the same force in a collision as billiard balls. 
 The point is that the game allows you to use common sense as you try to solve the puzzles it throws 
 at you.  

  Crazy Machines starts off with very simple setups, effectively teaching you how to use the various 
 bits of machinery through the first couple of dozen experiments. As you make your way down the 
 list, you'll be asked to do progressively more difficult tasks. It's in these scenarios that the 
 game is at its best -- a handful of fixed elements on the work space and a lot of pieces to place. 
 In many cases, you may not have to use all the pieces at your disposal to do the job -- the extra 
 pieces are just there to throw you off. Solving the challenges can be rewarding. If there's anything 
 disappointing about the game's more than 200 different puzzles, though, it's that even later on, 
 there are too many puzzles that are overly simplistic, requiring you to only place two or three 
 elements down in obvious spots. It is possible that these are meant to offer a sense of accomplishment 
 after seeing a string of real troublesome puzzles. For those who are more experienced with these 
 types of games, however, the simple puzzles later on feel a little too much like filler. Two hundred 
 puzzles will still keep you busy for a while, and there's even a sandbox mode for you to design 
 your own experiments.  

          More than 200 different puzzles are included with the game, as is a sandbox mode for you 
 wannabe inventors.     

  As you'd expect from a puzzle game such as this, the graphics and sound aren't exactly cutting 
 edge. They're good enough that they don't detract at all from the gameplay, though. Crazy Machines' 
 interface has a metal workshop motif that ties in thematically with the rest of the game. You will 
 also find nice fire and electrical effects from laboratory pieces. Also, the game plays just fine 
 in a window, which makes it perfect to tinker around with while you're doing other tasks on your 
 computer. There are only three musical tracks in the game -- all of which are low key and soothing 
 to encourage thinking -- but you can opt to pipe in music from your PC's optical disc drive if you 
 so desire. The sound effects from the experiments are also generally decent -- it's obvious that 
 they took sound samples from bouncing balls and such.  

  While Crazy Machines doesn't take many chances or do anything we haven't already seen in a wacky 
 invention game, it does offer a lot of content and puzzles. The interface is good enough that it 
 never gets in your way, and the game is often challenging enough to satisfy, but not frustrate 
 you. If you enjoy the puzzle genre, then Crazy Machines is definitely worth a look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty much exactly like incredible machine, so if you played that you pretty much 
 know what to expect. The game has different layouts of contraptions and you have to add the right 
 parts to accomplish the goal the puzzle wants you to do, like hammer a nail into some wood planks, 
 or get a ball into a basket. Alot of the puzzles are very easy while some are difficult and require 
 you to experiment with putting a certain item in just the right spot like to knock another thing 
 over in just the right area. Some of the puzzles you use the items in ways you would not have originally 
 thought to use them. the graphics are just right, they are not good but get the job done and i 
 wouldnt expect a game like this to have good graphics anyways. The sound and music are alright 
 as well. I havent finished the game as of writing this review and im not sure ill be able to get 
 through the 103 extra challenge puzzles but ill keep going back to it to see if i can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Wacky machinery puzzle games arent exactly brand new, so you are probably not floored by Crazy 
 Machines: The Wacky Contraptions Game. Dont overlook this surprisingly addictive puzzle game 
 though. It combines a huge number and variety of puzzles with an excellent physics engine that 
 offers hours and hours of satisfying and in some cases, open-ended, puzzle solving. The production 
 values arent much, but the game never fails to offer a fun and interesting challenge.
  
  This game comes with a great price tag ($20 or less) , and for that, you get over 200 puzzles. About 
 20 or 30 of those are tutorial-esque type puzzles though, but that still leaves a lot of great 
 challenges. The degree of difficulty of these puzzles varies tremendously. The early ones are easy, 
 which makes this game a breeze to pick up and play. Some of them take just a couple of minutes 
 to solve. Others are much harder. Some are so hard that they take over an hour and over 100 trials 
 to get right. Most of them though are just right. Crazy Machines is a game that usually racks 
 your brain, but rarely frustrates you. I pulled my hair out solving some puzzles, but I only cheated 
 by getting help once. 
  
  The objectives of the puzzles themselves are never interesting. They are just pop this ballon, 
 turn on this light, or put the ball in this bucket. What makes them so interesting is the tools 
 that youre given, and the robust physics engine that you use to solve them. The realistic physics 
 allow you to be creative and solve problems using your intuition. Some problems have only one solution, 
 but some problems are open-ended. The game tests your understanding of concepts like friction, 
 electricity, buoyancy, and inertia. After you solve each problem, you get to view the recommended 
 solution. Very often, yours will be totally different. Sometimes, I was able to come up with a 
 solution that was actually simpler and more elegant than the recommended one. This was very satisfying. 
 True open-ended problems are so rare in computer games. This game has many of them.
  
  Theres not much thats special about the graphics or sound on this game. The game uses a 3D engine 
 and even has stuff like dynamic shadows. This doesnt do much for it though, because you cant 
 change the camera at all, and nothing is modeled in any kind of intricate detail. Sound-wise the 
 game is competent, and objects sound like you would expect. The music that is provided is nice, 
 but theres hardly any of it, and youll hear it looping very quickly. This is not a bad-looking 
 game, but the graphics arent the reason that you should play it.
  
  Theres also a sandbox mode where you can create your own wacky contraptions. This is a nice idea, 
 but unfortunately, theres hardly anybody out there to share them with. This game would have been 
 much better with some kind of community where you could solve other peoples puzzles.
  
  This is a nice change of pace game that you can play for hours, or just play for a few minutes. 
 Its solid physics, huge variety, and budget price tag make this a great choice for gamers who 
 are looking for an accessible and challenging puzzle game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsday
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game not long ago for my 9 year old. I thought he spent too much time playing Super 
 Smash Bros and wanted him to think a little when playing games.
  
  I installed it on my machine (as I normally do) and fired it up so I could have a game, get familiar 
 with it in case of future support requests from him.
  
  After 3 hours I reliased I had gone beyond the basic support training and was actually enjoying 
 the game. "Just one more" was the catchphrase of the night. I finished one puzzle and just had 
 to have a go at the next one.
  
  I finally installed it on my son's pc and he loves it too. Whats even better is when he asks for 
 help I can wander in and give him good hints on how to solve the puzzle. He doesn't get too frustrated 
 and I look like a superhero :) It occupies a lot of his conversation these days, and he has been 
 building his own "inventions" for me to try out. I plan on doing the same for him.
  
  One thing I would have liked in the game is the ability to try the current level again. Wheny ou 
 have finished it, you can move to the next one, watch a reply of how you did it, or watch a replay 
 of the suggested solution. It would be nice to tinker and think of even more ways to solve it.
 
  
  There are a couple of levels in the game that aren't thought out too well. eg, one of them already 
 works without you having to change anything. Some are very difficult, but generally well laid out 
 and you can get a feel for what the puzzle makers want you to do.
  
  Overall it's a fun and cheap gane, and a great way to get your kids thinking and spend some intellectual 
 time with them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supine
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  Remember the similar concept from Sierra ("The Incredible Machine") ? Well, here it is again - and 
 I'm happy someone took this consept to a new level.
  
  The best thing with Crazy Machines is the physics. It doesn't feel GRID-based like the old similar 
 games. With good physics and the freedom to fine tune position of objects makes it possible to 
 solve puzzles in a creative fun way. It's also a very cool option to be able to se how the solution 
 was planned to be solved afterwards. You often end up feeling that your own solution is more creative 
 than the plan. This makes the game feel a lot more rewarding. Thats the magic of good gameplay, 
 simple yet rewarding :)
  
  It's very hard to set a grade for sound and graphic to this game. It isn't essential here! The 
 developers of this concept know how to make it just right. I'm not missing better graphics or better 
 sound... though there could be more music in here..
  
  Solving a puzzle will take you 3-6 minutes average. And a few of them are a little frustrating.
 
  
  This is one of the few games where a level editor is essential for its Value. Make puzzles for 
 your friends and let your friends make puzzles for you. This can be done hot-seat on one computer, 
 since it doesn't take more than 10 min to make a small fun puzzle with this simple editor.
  
  This small game (in size) has enough content to satisfy you. It doesn't include lots of extra 
 bells and whistles, but it's JUST RIGHT and it works exactly the way you expect. Nothing more nothing 
 less. If you think this is a cool concept, then get it. I love this game. It isn't frustrating 
 in any way, yet very rewarding :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orian86
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Crazy Machines is like "The Incredible Machine" with a new physics and graphics engine. The game 
 is easy, although it can be frustrating when you can't get a part in the exact right place to get 
 a ball in a bucket for example.
  
  If you think logically you should have no problems completing all the puzzles, but when you get 
 bored or stuck you can always make your own. With that option you can build anything you like with 
 all the parts there are.
  
  I was surprised about the good graphics and physics engine, everything looks so real. Too bad its 
 not 3D, but that would be disastrous for the gameplay of course.
  
  I strongly recommend to turn of the "professors comments" because it gets very irritating. Enjoy 
 this game, and don't get too addicted! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
