-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crime Stories
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/crimestories/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Occasionally interesting plot twists.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Characters are insipid and annoying.
 Painfully translated and poorly edited dialogue.
 Ugly visuals.
 Ancient gameplay mechanics that aren't even implemented especially well.
 Martin Mystre is a terrible, terrible hero.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.1
Critic Score: 4.9, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 138 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Artematica
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 21, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rooted in archaic gameplay sensibilities and devoid of engaging characters or plot, Crime Stories 
 won't even appeal to the most vehement of adventure game fans. 

  Crime Stories is an appropriately generic title for a game as fundamentally uninteresting as the 
 Adventure Company's latest crime solving adventure. Based within the universe of a popular Italian 
 comic book called Martin Mystre, Crime Stories takes the titular comic book hero and thrusts him 
 into a drab and uneventful murder mystery of snooze-worthy proportions. Its adherence to ancient 
 adventure game mechanics doesn't help matters, but the fact that it can't even use these ancient 
 mechanics well enough to qualify as a decent throwback to an olden genre is all the more damning. 
 This game is a pixel hunt of the most redundant and boring kind, and nobody should waste their 
 time with it.  

          When was the last time you saw a professor of anything driving a car like this?     

 
  Crime Stories' hero, Martin Mystre, is a professor of something. What, exactly, is never made 
 entirely clear, but he's definitely of the scholarly ilk. Mystre lives with his wife in a New 
 York City townhouse with a caveman butler (and that's not just a descriptor -- he's literally a caveman) 
 named Java. Various pieces of archeological and literary significance litter his house. As for 
 the man himself, he evidently affords his life of luxury by solving mysteries. In Crime Stories, 
 Mystre is called to the scene of a grisly murder at the home of a famous professor named Eulemberg. 
 But before he can get there, he has to find the hidden key to his wardrobe, dig up the phone number 
 for his auto mechanic, and find his cell phone. Yes, the entire first act of this game revolves 
 around one of the great crime-solving minds of the world taking in upward of 45 minutes to get 
 dressed, find a phone number, and dig up his cellular. Priceless.  

  All along the way, Mystre makes nonsensical quips as you click on every piece of clickable furniture 
 in his house, forcing you to sit through endless strings of text about books, art pieces, and other 
 meaningless bric-a-brac while you try to dig up the necessary items to head to the crime scene. 
 To make matters worse, he does the exact same thing even once you've gotten into the actual crime 
 itself. Upon arrival at Eulemberg's estate, Mystre begins quipping nonsense about every piece 
 of everything he sees. The info is not even relevant most times. If you find a piece of evidence, 
 he won't necessarily tell you why it's evidence or what the significance could be. He'll just talk, 
 endlessly, about nothing. Suffice it to say, Mystre is not an enjoyable protagonist. He's just 
 kind of a self-important windbag with a painfully bad sense of humor and no real personality to 
 speak of. This isn't to say that any of the other characters you'll encounter throughout the adventure 
 are much deeper, but you spend the entirety of the game with Mystre, and by the second or third 
 act, you'll wish someone would just show up to kill him, already.  

  On top of Mystre's unlikable personality, the story has zero going for it. The first hour or so 
 following the investigation of Eulemberg's body is a bit intriguing, but the evidence you find 
 never seems to take you anywhere of consequence. Sure, there are some exotic locales and a few 
 interesting twists and turns, but you spend entirely too much time putting together clues that 
 aren't so much clues as they are extraneous ways to force you to backtrack over and over again. 
 One sequence requires a ticket to get into a club to pick up an item so that you can get more info 
 from someone you already talked to. To get the ticket, you have to go to a location to talk to 
 a person, go through all the lines of dialogue, then go back to your house to find a book for them, 
 bring it back, get the ticket, go to the club, find out the ticket doesn't work, go back to another 
 location to use a device to make a forgery (that you'll only know exists if you're paying extra 
 close attention) , then go back to the club again to use the forged ticket, just to get this one 
 item. And then the payoff for doing so isn't even satisfying or revelatory -- you're just sent on 
 even more annoying fetch quests.  

  It would be considered labyrinthine if the work itself weren't so by the numbers. Like any pixel 
 hunting adventure game, Crime Stories has you eventually finding everything you're supposed to 
 do by being thorough. If the mouse icon reveals a hot spot, click on it. Seventy-five percent of 
 what you click on will be completely inconsequential, but you've got to do it, lest you miss that 
 one obscure piece of evidence that gets you to the next chapter. That's nothing new for adventure 
 games like this one, but none of the ancillary items you click on are interesting. There's no clever 
 commentary about them, and they're not pleasant to look at. Everything's ugly and boring the whole 
 way through.  

  The biggest and most egregious flaw in Crime Stories, however, is its presentation. The dialogue 
 in particular is atrocious. In part it seems an abhorrent English translation is to blame (the 
 game was originally released in Europe some time ago) , but also the editing is simply terrible. 
 When characters speak, if their sentence goes on longer than the dialog box at the bottom of the 
 screen will allow, they will pause midsentence and then start the sentence back up a second later 
 when the next part of the line loads up in the dialogue box. It's as if every character has been 
 taking acting lessons from William Shatner, or something. There are also purposely inserted "ums," 
 "ers," and other conversational stutters that are completely out of place, breaking up the flow 
 of a conversation to the point where people are just speaking syllables and not even saying anything 
 remotely coherent.  

           Martin can explain, in detail, just about everything on this shelf. And he will, if you 
 let him. Don't let him.     

  Crime Stories' graphics at least feature 3D character models, but the designs are awful. Mystre 
 looks like a cross between Mickey Rourke as Marv in  Sin City  and Brian Setzer. Everybody moves 
 in a stiff and jerky fashion, and most times moving a character into position to converse with 
 another doesn't work right. There are sequences where Mystre will be standing with his back to 
 someone he's talking directly to. Also, the characters look muddy. They're highly pixilated and 
 are decidedly light on detail. Environments look similarly ugly. There are a few grandiose locations, 
 but the scale is offset by the blurriness and pixilation of the static backgrounds. It's just not 
 an attractive game by any stretch of the imagination.  

  You can finish Crime Stories in six or seven hours if you don't click on every single hotspot you 
 see, but you'll be done with it long before the mystery reaches its conclusion. Trying to sit through 
 Crime Stories' painful dialogue, patently uninteresting plot, and dinosaur-like gameplay is simply 
 an exercise in self-punishment. Even with the adventure genre as hard up as it is these days, don't 
 waste your time on a scattered mess like Crime Stories.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nothingsaid
Rating: 3
Date: May 8, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  My girlfriend loves crime mysteries. Books, movies, tv shows... she is a huge fan that of that 
 genre. I wanted to see if I could find a game that would fit her taste. Let it be known that I 
 would never buy a game like this for myself.
  
  We played the game together, kind of a family-event type thing, and it did keep us interested at 
 first. It was only half interesting, and not quite satisfying. I'm not usually a fan of the point-&-click 
 style gaming, but i guess as that type of game it was average. The plot was very Indiana Jones 
 with a Dick Tracy spin. Not thrilling at all. Puzzles were either too easy, or too hard, and not 
 very intuitive.
  
  Toward the end of the game, it bugged out and we either missed something too far back in to remember, 
 or it was flawed to begin with. I checked all the online walk-thrus and none of it helped. We just 
 had to quit.
  
  Very disappointing. Don't buy this game IMHO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kimmy1476
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  I should have checked the reviews. I bought this game in a moment of weakness, and I did not check 
 reviews of this game. The game was very dry and five minutes of game play seemed like forever. 
 The game was very choppy and hard to maneuver. Once in the game in certain spots the character 
 head would become elongated and distorted, this was through out the game. The overall game play 
 was horrible, you went from one place to another by map but it took forever. I thought that it 
 was going to be the typical point and click adventure..... Wrong. The character spoke some and 
 you read it was a mixture of adventure and a text game. This game was dull and was a waste of money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ankaara
Rating: 1.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for a new adventure game and picked up the box for this one. It's made by The Adventure 
 Company. I've liked every one of their games that I've played, so I thought this would be good 
 too. It's not. The box is very deceptive. It says the game is "a dark and disturbing tale of betrayal 
 and murder." It also says I will have "dangerous and exciting adventures." All lies. This game 
 is far from thrilling. The only thing that disturbed me is that I paid money for the game. I began 
 to get nervous when I installed the game and saw that the icon on my desktop has a very dorky, 
 ugly man. It looks like a game icon from the 90's. The game looks as bad as that icon. The character 
 graphics are terrible. The backgrounds lack detail. I can and do enjoy games with older graphics, 
 but there is no excuse for a game this new to look like this. The story seems pretty bad. I stopped 
 after Act II. The game is so slow and boring... the plot is nonexistant because you are spending 
 too much time looking for obsure items. Plus, any game where your main character has a butler who 
 is a cave man and can only grunt is most certainly not a "dark and disturbing tale." The worst 
 part of this game is the gameplay. Any time you click to look at something, you have to wait for 
 the main character to walk over to the item. He often gets stuck in a loop or stops moving alltogether. 
 He makes ridiculous comments on everything you can see... and the sad thing is, you have to click 
 on everything because you just might need it. The quests are ridiculously illogical and complicated. 
 To get your consultant badge, you must go to your house, enter the kitchen, grab some cleaning 
 solution from a cabinet, go to the basement, inspect the dryer, clean the front of the dryer, see 
 your clothes inside, open the dryer, find your pants, and then get the badge from your pants. Of 
 COURSE, that's how I expected to find my badge! ..... yeah. Puzzles should focus on the plot, not 
 on finding really dumb items. Bottom line... I could handle the terrible graphics if the story 
 and gameplay were fun. However, this game has no atmosphere and is impossible to play. Please don't 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdohaney
Rating: 1.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The game just did not have any vision or inspiration behind it. The graphics were shoddy, character 
 voices were annoying, and there was no logical reason for the mountains of info you were fed when 
 looking at all the interactive objects. For example, the first challenge is to find your keys.... hmmm 
 lets see... oh yeah make the house cleaner give them to you. That would be the logical solution, 
 but no you have to run around finding some idiotic offering to get the cleaner to give them up. 
 I think adventure games should stick to challenging adventures instead of challenging everyday 
 tasks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biskit58
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  this game isn't worth the time to play it. some of the things you have to do in the game make no 
 sense whatsoever. 
  
  also, i really don't need five minutes worth of commentary every time i examine a useful object 
 in the game, and i rrreeeaaalllyyy Do Not need ten minutes of it for objects that i can't even 
 do anything with. the voice overs suck and the dialogue is stupid and repetitious. the graphics 
 aren't anything to go crazy for and overall this game just blows. 
  
  this is the first really bad game i've ever purchased, so if you are even thinking about buying 
 it, think again, unless you want to waste several hours of your life regretting your purchase when 
 you could be wasting many more hours of your life playing a game you at least enjoy. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 22, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  I got my taste for solving crimes with CSI (as bad as it was) and Still Life. Crime Stories seemed 
 like an interesting mystery brought to me by the same company who published Still Life, so away 
 I went, embarking on a new adventure of the point-and-click style.
  
  The story revolves around the murder of Professor Eulemberg, with Martin Mystere as the detective 
 trying to put the tiny pieces of the puzzle together in order to find out what happened and who 
 did it.
  
  Strangely enough, the game puts you in Martin's shoes without making any sort of introduction, 
 but apparently, there is a whole comic book series based on his adventures. Martin seems to be 
 a bit of a mix between Indiana Jones and any CSI investigator: an expert in science, history and 
 the occult, he questions people, searches for clues and puts evidence together.
  
  We start the game as Martin awakes with a phone call, telling him the news of Professor Eulemberg's 
 death. The first part of the game is pretty redundant: you are stuck with the car at the mechanic's 
 and your closet locked, because your wife didn't want you to go out so you could rest. So, you 
 spend Act 1 finding a way to get the closet open and your car back. Why not put us right at the 
 crime scene from the start? I didn't see much point to this except to get acquainted with the simple 
 interface and the detailed environments with plenty of things to click and inspect.
  
  Add to the numerous "hot spots" the fact that Martin walks anywhere, and moving between scenarios 
 can take quite a while. I wish there were an option to make him run.
  
  As the investigation progresses, Martin will find himself tangled in a web of life beyond death 
 beliefs, seekers of eternal life, strange dreams and a whole lot of not-so-normal events. In his 
 investigation, Martin will explore everything from small messy studies packed with books and historical 
 artifacts to a gorgeous mansion, a strip club and a museum, archeological excavations on Aztec 
 ruins, even a small Mexican village. Later on in the game, you also get to play as Diana for a 
 short while.
  
  The puzzles in the game are mostly inventory-based, by combining items together, while others involve 
 using the right object in the right place. Some of them are just plain obvious, while others will 
 make you think for a while. For example, who would have thought that a mule was the perfect tool 
 to open a box of records? And before you file away that game box, there is an important clue inside, 
 so keep it handy. Overall, the puzzles aren't frustrating, but finding the pieces you need can 
 be, because it requires so much attention to detail to find and inspect everything in the backgrounds.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are a mix of high-res 2D backgrounds and 3D modeled characters. The backgrounds 
 are very colorful and detailed, with a great number of textures and color palettes for the different 
 areas in the game. They are quite stunning. The character models could have used some work though. 
 I found it quite odd that men had very protruding chins (especially Martin!) , and the animations 
 seem a bit off at times.
  
  The music is well executed and keeps the mysterious and somewhat tense atmosphere throughout the 
 game, without being overwhelming. On the other hand, the voice acting wasn't all that great. My 
 first quirk with it was no one seems to agree on how to pronounce the surname Mystere. My second, 
 well, I get the feeling that the people doing the voice-overs were actually waiting for the subtitles 
 in the game to appear. Because they pause... in the middle of the... sentences... like this. It 
 sounds pretty silly when you actually hear it. 
  
  The subtitles needed better proofreading as well, since there were plenty of capitalization mistakes 
 and some spelling errors, and at times some of the sentences seemed totally out of context, so 
 I assume the translation wasn't all that effective. Onomatopoeias are also in the subtitles, so 
 you will see plenty of "hu", "ah", "um", "mh" and "pfu"... Im not sure what a "pfu" is either, 
 but I think these shouldnt even have been typed in the subtitles.
  
  While there was plenty of room for improvement in Crime Stories, the plot itself is worth the 15 
 hours of explorative gameplay, especially if you are one not to miss a third-person point-and-click 
 graphic adventure.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=crimestories
  Walkthrough at: 
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/guide. php? g=crimestories 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelwings1818
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 10, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I could never have played this game without a walkthrough. Maybe I could of figured out like 10%. 
 Finding what you need takes a lot of searching the screen. Sometimes you have no idea what your 
 supposed to be doing. The graphics where decent, but nothing compared to some of the new games 
 like Dreamfall. The storyline was rather boring. I played this game in half a day. The music is 
 louder than the voices in some places. The humor in it isn't funny. It does have good camera angles 
 and no glitches, which is good. I never got into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDaddyGamePro
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has plenty of humor. The graphics are well made. It's very well stable for a computer 
 game. Sound is great. Camera angles are good. I haven't found any glitches on this game. Storyline 
 is very well made. The dialogue gives away that U. K. accent that keeps the game serious and funny 
 at the same time. Plenty of puzzles to solve. Murder mystery plot in the storyline makes the gamers 
 think about who did what. Game takes at least 10-12 hours to beat during the first attempt at playing. 
 The best part about this game is that the character never dies. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
