-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crimson Skies
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/crimsonskies/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.4, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 505 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Zipper Interactive
Genre: Futuristic Jet Sim
Date:     Sep 17, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's unfortunate when a fundamentally good game such as Crimson Skies is marred by persistent crash 
 bugs that affect each game session. 

 Occasionally, games defy genre classification. That's the case with Crimson Skies, which could be 
 called a flight sim, an action game, and at some points even an adventure. While games that mix 
 genres often turn out badly, Crimson Skies takes the most interesting aspects of each of its source 
 genres and puts them together into a fresh, original concept that has plenty of style. In fact, 
 playing Crimson Skies can be so much fun that it'll remind you of why computer games were probably 
 invented in the first place: to create absorbing, imaginative, alternate worlds to escape to. Unfortunately, 
 the game is also a reminder of how easily technical problems can defeat a promising design.   

 
  Crimson Skies takes place in an alternate past in which the Great Depression caused the United 
 States to break up into a host of regional fiefdoms engaged in constant skirmishing. Faced with 
 the breakdown of the railway system, these nations were forced to rely on aircraft for commerce, 
 and the skies soon became crowded with passenger and cargo traffic. As airborne trade grew, so 
 did the menace of "air pirates." Crimson Skies takes you through the exploits of one such buccaneer, 
 Nathan Zachary, as he and his cohorts gradually turn from being aerial bandits into public heroes. 
 Along the way you'll meet the other denizens of the Crimson Skies universe, including rival pirates 
 like Ulysses Boothe and several of Zachary's former love interests. It's a very rich and well-developed 
 universe.   

  The world of Crimson Skies is actually based on the popular board game from FASA (now part of Microsoft) , 
 and it's a loud, brash place. Microsoft and developer Zipper Interactive have done a great job 
 of creating an atmosphere for Crimson Skies that's similar to 1930s pulp fiction, between all the 
 game's daring exploits and its emphasis on adventure instead of pure violence. While Crimson Skies 
 is ultimately a game about air combat, it's structured so that the focus is just as much on daredevil 
 flying as it is on shooting the other guys down. To this end, you can even set up instant-action 
 missions where the objective is stunt flying.   

  In keeping with Crimson Skies' imaginative setting, the flight models for the various aircraft 
 are extremely forgiving. The planes allow for flashy acrobatic maneuvers without your having to 
 worry about concomitant airspeed, stall, and lift issues that are at the heart of any true flight 
 simulation. For example, while a Crimson Skies plane does lose a bit of lift when flying at a 90-degree 
 bank, turning the rudder at that attitude will send the aircraft climbing with ease (or diving, 
 depending on which way you turn the rudder) . The wide variety of bizarre aircraft designs is a 
 big part of the game - you can even customize your own - and these all have varying speed and maneuverability 
 characteristics. But all the aircraft you can fly share certain things in common that relieve you 
 of having to worry about such things as deciding whether you have enough airspeed for a loop. All 
 the planes are tremendously overpowered: No matter which plane you fly, you'll be able to climb, 
 dive, and turn with impunity.   

  The result is that you can pretty much dive into the action without having to worry too much about 
 the more demanding details of flight, and instead just focus on the basics - like where the ground 
 is or if you're about to hit a mountain. The game's emphasis is on fast, furious air combat and 
 performing difficult maneuvers. There are "danger zones" in most scenarios, such as bridges or 
 tunnels or some other restricted space underneath some obstacle. Successfully flying through such 
 a zone will shake a pursuer, and in the campaign it will yield a "snapshot" for the photo album/scrapbook 
 that documents all your triumphs. This running archive of your feats of skill is a clever way of 
 personalizing what is essentially a fixed, linear story.   

  Crimson Skies has a 24-mission campaign that tells the story of Nathan Zachary and his band of 
 pirate aces as they go from Hawaii to Hollywood to Manhattan in search of fame and fortune. The 
 campaign is where the Crimson Skies universe really comes alive and the skill of the production 
 team comes through. Each mission is preceded by a map-screen briefing with voice-over by Nathan 
 Zachary, in addition to plenty of dialogue supplied by his cohorts. The voice acting is simply 
 outstanding and among the best you'll find in a computer game. Both the story and the voices are 
 sufficiently campy for the pulp-novel atmosphere, but they also mimic the style of the time so 
 well without crossing the line into parody that you can't help but be impressed.    

 The game's graphics are excellent throughout, and they feature wonderful landscapes and clean, crisp 
 aircraft models. The colors are bright, and the effect is in keeping with the story, as it all 
 seems larger than life. Crimson Skies uses the variety of locales to keep the gameplay fresh, and 
 when combined with the story, it's enough to push you through the game without ever slowing down. 
   

  The missions are a combination of combat and derring-do. As you progress through a mission, you'll 
 generally be instructed to do something that wasn't in the original mission briefing, as unexpected, 
 scripted events arise. And performing a dangerous maneuver will elicit a comment from your wingmen. 
 The only problem with the campaign is that it's completely linear, so each mission will play exactly 
 the same when repeated. This can become a bit tiresome the fifth time through a mission if you're 
 having difficulty with a particular objective, because you'll hear all the same dialogue each time. 
 Your wingmen serve more as running commentators than actual support, since they can't be given 
 orders and are more useful in alerting you to threats than in dealing with them. This is all in 
 keeping with Crimson Skies' focus on action.   

  The game's multiplayer mode includes deathmatch, capture the flag, and zeppelin-to-zeppelin combat, 
 and it is supported on the MSN Gaming Zone in addition to being playable over TCP/IP, IPX, and 
 direct serial connections. The only thing that's really missing is the option to cooperatively 
 play missions from the campaign.   

  If the preceding descriptions were all that could be said about Crimson Skies, then it would be 
 a truly outstanding game. Unfortunately, in keeping with the disturbing trend in which games are 
 released prematurely and later patched after they're already available, Crimson Skies seems as 
 if it were taken away from a quality assurance team much too soon. The game has many serious problems 
 with its loading times and its stability, although the actual in-mission gameplay itself is fairly 
 stable and smooth. The problems emerge in between the actual missions, where an apparent memory 
 leak can often slow menu selection to a crawl. Transitions between game screens are also painfully 
 slow and prone to freezing and crashing. According to Crimson Skies message-board postings, some 
 players have managed to avoid these problems, but many others weren't so lucky - and all these 
 bugs affected several of GameSpot's test systems running the game. As a result, it's impossible 
 to wholeheartedly recommend the game unless Microsoft addresses its problems. It's unfortunate 
 when a fundamentally good game such as Crimson Skies is marred by persistent crash bugs that affect 
 each game session.   

  However, the worst bug in the game is its tendency to spontaneously delete saved games. Crimson 
 Skies saves your games under your pilot's name (you can create more than one pilot) and keeps track 
 of how far you've gone in the campaign, so if you finish the fifth mission, you just later load 
 that pilot's campaign and you get the briefing for the sixth. Incredibly, the game sometimes just 
 seems to delete these, forcing you to start all over with no chance of recovery. As such, playing 
 the campaign seems like a game of Russian roulette - you may or may not make it all the way to 
 the end, regardless of your skill.   

  Crimson Skies does an excellent job of taking the elements of flight simulations that have broad 
 appeal - the shooting and the fancy flying - and embellishing them with a great environment and 
 a good story. And it does all this in a slick and attractive way that makes even its corniest moments 
 appealing. So unfortunately, its technical problems end up taking away from what's one of the most 
 stylish games in years. If a patch were to resolve its various bugs, then Crimson Skies would be 
 very easy to recommend - but until then, buy it at your own risk.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jenolie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  The Crimson Skies universe is just plain cool. A huge dash of swashbucking and derring do but instead 
 of boarding pirate ships you are shooting down crazy planes and blimps. Set in an alternate universe 
 1937, the story had the feel of those old time serials complete with cliffhangers and cheesy dialogue... 
 which all works, of course. How cool is it to have your squadron of planes based out of a huge 
 blimp fortress? 
  
  
  For it's time it had pretty good graphics. Definitely not a simulation. It had hints of realism 
 but Crimson Skies is primarily a plain old arcade shoot em up fun. A combination of good old fashioned 
 dog fights and stunt piloting. All in all great fun, except for one level where I had to fly through 
 a gateway but crashed over and over again. But hey that's the only one minor minus in a hugely 
 fun and addictive game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 30, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot to offer people who like to play with old Planes. For myself though I found 
 it a little more frustrating to fly around in an old fighter plane.
  
  The game is centered around Zachary and his band of Pirate fliers. You need to accomplish all kinds 
 of missions from saving people to killing blimps and stealing some more planes. The graphics are 
 okay if you have the right equipment and the sound is also cool. I especially liked the way the 
 team talks to each other.
  
  The game keeps you busy for a while, and it surely is one in a class of it's own. I can't really 
 compare it to other similar games because I tend to stay away from them. I think it is an okay 
 game that is actually a bit of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenwidow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  When people think about computer plane games they think, flight sim, when people think flight sim 
 they think, extreme learning curve, difficult levels, lots of invested time. When trying to find 
 an easier game to approach, one tends to find console style, limited control, flight based games. 
 These games are usually very linear and easily memorized. What Crimson Skies manages to do is bridge 
 the gap between the traditional flight sim and limited console style flight games. There are some 
 requirements to play the game to its fullest potential, first, you must have a high quality three 
 axis joystick (meaning left and right, up and down, and twist side to side) . After that you have 
 to get used to the flight, left and right bank your plane (tilt wings) , up and down tips the nose 
 up or down, and the twist (z-axis) controls lateral (rotational) turning by controlling the tail 
 flap. Using these three axis you have an amazing amount of control over what your plane does.
 
  
  From the first level the game tests your ability to keep control over your plane, with tight tunnels 
 and obstacles to fly through and around. Combined with fierce dog fighting and a highly customizable 
 plane/weapon configure, and you are left with a challenging game with depth, that wont take you 
 twelve hours to learn the button layout.
  
  While the graphics are outdated by todays standard they were good for their time, and still provide 
 an entertaining and detailed world to fly around in. While in game voice acting can really get 
 bad, the pre/post mission voice acting is done well, and the story while only serving to create 
 new situations for you deal with, is also entertaining in a comic book kind of way. Missions are 
 robust, but dog fighting gets redundant by the end (constant flying around following an arrow on 
 your HUD) . On top are multiplayer game modes, death match, capture the flag and stunt flying, which 
 allow you to compete with friends on internet and though LAN. The plane element brings a new twist 
 to the multiplayer redundancy as new skills need to be applied to succeed, and place design becomes 
 critical, as opponents get better.
  
  Overall the game delivers a fun, albeit frustrating single player experience, and a unique multiplayer 
 mode, whos uniqueness serves as a good distraction from the first person frag fests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  If you want a realistic flight sim, you'll be dissapointed. If you want a combat flight sim, you'll 
 be dissapointed. This is a CIRCUS DOGFIGHT, pure and simple. The action just keeps on going. There 
 is nothing like shooting down an entire fleet etc of planes, zeppelins, buildings. It doesn't stop. 
 The game has other cool aspects as well. Not only will you be shooting down aircraft you'll also 
 be racing through the hollywood sign, picking up girls from trains, stealing experimental planes 
 etc etc. Graphics are well done, unless you have a computer that is 6 years old, you won't have 
 any problems. And contrary to the Gamespot review, as soon as you've patched the game, there are 
 no crashes/lock ups at all. At least on my comp anyway ;) . Sound FX are done well, bullets sound 
 like bullets and change as you go up in calibres. You wingmen will give you heads up on the enemies 
 position Bandit, ten o'clock high etc, and while it does get a little repetitive, it's still good. 
 The wingmen won't say anything that isn't already scripted however, so when you do this or that, 
 they'll say what they're supposed to, but that can't be helped. Forget about playing without a 
 joystick though, the game simply isn't the same otherwise. And if you've got a pair of e-dimension 
 3d glasses, all the sweeter! An awesome game that will make you keep shooting until your knuckles 
 hurt from holding on to the joystick to hard!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekingviper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favourite games. I only play on-line, it's to easy now on single play when you 
 have been trained by many clans. While playing this game you will make friends quickly, the people 
 on Crimson SKies (Cs) are very friendly, except for one guy lol, lets not get into that. There 
 are only 50 people now that play online, not many people play anymore, but this game is far from 
 dieing. I still remember the day that I bought it. I walked into EB on a school trip back in late 
 september, So this game is 6 years old now and I still play it. In this game there are 11 planes 
 or so that you can choose from, pick one that matches you, if you like power, take a Balmoral, 
 Fire Brand or a Kestreal with a 70. Cal Goliath Twin with you, and have one on your back turrnet 
 so your gun buddy can have some fun for people on your 6. If you want speed take the Bloodhawk. 
 If you want equal power and speed take the devistator. Personaly I would go with the Fire Brand, 
 its Big, Slow, But it pwns. There have been alot of changes since Cs came out, here they are, not 
 in any order, (this game is now played on Game Spy, not on zone. com, this game is now a 16 player 
 online, not a 8 player online, the latest patch fixed most of the bugs but alot of people get a 
 white screen of death and wont let them join the game, or a network error. Well This is all I have 
 to say about this game for now, just want to thank you guys for reading this, Game Spot for letting 
 me post this, and Zipper and Microsoft Game Studio for making this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psymon138
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 26, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  For me this game has been a major cause of "Bleary-eyed at school/work next day but God was it 
 fun!!!" Syndrome. Many people say its too hard, it is certainly hard, but unlike other games you 
 never get the sense the game has cheated you. If you fail a mission (which will happen a lot believe 
 me) this is not the sort of game which results in throwing your joystick, or younger siblings, 
 across the room. Often the time limits will be tight and the enemies many, particularly in later 
 missions, but with practice and a powerful nitro-boosted engine you will be able to beat the enemies 
 and the timer, or just outrun them. You just have to keep trying until you feel the utter elation 
 of beating the level after several tries. 
  
  True the early releases were buggy, but this has been largely cleared up and though the loading 
 is slow it is worth it. The gameplay is just pure fun, true the physics engine is pretty lenient, 
 but this shouldn't put you off unless you are an obssessive flight sim player. The graphics are 
 no longer top notch (i doubt they ever really were) but are servicable. You will see planes begin 
 to smoke, flame and explode as you pour bullets into them. The rockets are pretty good too, aerial 
 torpedos smoke heavily and move slowly, while armour piercers flash by so fast all you see is the 
 green trail. The sound is fairly good, bullets and explosions make satisfying bangs and the rockets 
 hiss as they launch, though a damaged engine sounds more chokey than you'd expect, like a robot 
 clearing its throat. Possibly the best aspect is the variety of missions you go through. Not many 
 are typical just dogfights, bombing runs or babysitting missions like I found in Combat Flight 
 Sim (the other game in the double pack i bought CS in) . You have to pull off daring rescues, audacious 
 thefts, attack a mountain fortress and on one occasion win an air race, all the while trying to 
 fill your scrapbook with piccies of you doing daring stunts.
  
  Another factor is the ability to use airframe designs you have captured to create your own aircraft 
 paintjob, weapons, armour and all. This gives you the ability to tailor a plane to a particular 
 mission you're having trouble with, or just design the best damn plane in the world. Of course 
 you do need enough money. 
  
  Though possibly the best bit of this game is the story and characters. The voice acting is brilliant 
 and fits the over-the-top theme of the game perfectly. This has got to rank as one of my favourite 
 games of all time, after a shaky start. And I will leave you with a quote:
  "Lets get one thing straight darlin', Errol Flynn pretends to be me!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OJ99
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  When it came out, Crimson Skies was battered by the critics, and rightly so. Shoddy graphics on 
 anything that wasn't top of the range. Lacking realism and frighteningly unstable. When I bought 
 this game, it crashed loading the first level 9 times out of 10, would frequently freeze and crash 
 to desktop on menu screens, the audio would get caught in loops and cutscenes would skip like they 
 were read from a scratched disk. Worst of all, the game randomly deleted save game files, meaning 
 you had to play Russian Roulette with the first level loading screen all over again. Frankly, this 
 games dreadful errors meant I gave up playing it altogether (though I did manage to complete it) . 
 Then, two years and a new PC later I tried it out again, having first downloaded the patches that 
 had sent out to patch up the holes and you know what? Its the most fun flight sim I ever played.
 
  With patches installed the game runs smooth as silk, no crashes, freezes, or disappearing saves. 
 I discovered I'd never actually seen half the cutscenes in the game thanks to the skipping. The 
 graphics come up a treat too, 'top of the range' two years ago is 'time you replaced it' nowadays 
 so its easy on the eye to be sure.
  It still lacks realism, its no Microsoft Combat Flight Simulator but it's not quite arcade either, 
 a great balance for a serious gamer who's not especially a flight sim nut. Crimson Skies is fun, 
 you're a womanising sky pirate in the alternate thirtys where the states ain't united, the whole 
 game plays with its tongue nicely in it's cheek. Take the voice acting for example, all the characters 
 are over the top and you can imagine the actors had great fun hamming it up considerably for this 
 game.
  Gameplay itself is yet more fun, flight control is greatly enhanced by a joystick as always but 
 you can throw your craft around pretty erratically without worrying too much about the laws of 
 physics. Just as well, seeing as there are loads of tunnels, bridges, hollywood signs to fly through 
 in the name of filling your scrap book. I've noticed that some other player reviews claim this 
 game is too hard, granted the level difficulty is a bit erratic, but flying is easy, with a little 
 care I guarentee you'll hit more mountains in 10 minutes of Flight Simulator than you ever will 
 in CS, there are one or two occasions when the odds seem ridiculous and you die severally before 
 realising your going about it in totally the wrong way (though you can skip missions after multiple 
 failures) . What CS really does is let you forget about staying in the air and concentrate on shooting 
 people down, which you do plenty of. There's never a shortage of targets, but you have plenty of 
 guns, cannons and rockets to choose from too. While the campaign is linear, there is often more 
 than one way to skin a zepplin in the individual missions, objectives are dropped on you literally 
 'on the fly' too, which all adds to the interest.
  It's not a great flight simulator but its not trying to be, I'd define it as a 'light simulator' 
 out to make you grin at the game rather than frown at the manual. Which it does excellently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemmox
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Este es un juego sencillo, sin complicaciones y facil de juegas, con mucha accion.
  Este juego lo compre en Sams Club en $8, yo pense que hiba a ser un fiasco que seria otro juegito 
 de simulacion de aviones, pero cuando lo instale en mi computadora y me puse al mando de mi keyboard, 
 me di cuenta que habia comprado un juego completamente divertido y adictivo. 
  Sinceramente se los recomiendo, es un juego super mega cool.
  
  Nota Especial: No se quien 
 esta tratando de perjudicarme, hoy ingrese a la pagina y me encuentro con 11 msg de GameSpot. com 
 en donde me dicen que borraron todos mis reviews. Yo solo les pido, que si en algo les molestan 
 mis reviews haganmelo saber directamente, creanlo que no lo tomare a mal, al contrario vere en 
 que estoy mal y mejorare, no que simplemente me reportan con los moderadores del sitio y ellos 
 segun me estan quitando puntos. Yo soy miembro desde ( Nemmox Member since Jun 7, 2003 ) y siempre 
 he respetado las reglas de la pagina, porfavor no me perjudiquen que yo no le hago mal a nadie.
 
  
  Gracias !!!
  
  P. S. Espero que no me esten haciendo estas cosas porque escribo en espaol; si escribo en este 
 lenguaje es porque hay muchas personas de habla hispana que entran a esta pagina y siento que es 
 agradable ver algunos reviews en su idioma. Les agradezco su atencion y su comprencion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: personaly_bob
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  Too many games attempt to be the PERFECT game. Very few succeed because only the packaging (graphics) 
 really seem to change. 
  
  My favorite games are still the ones in the vein of Privateer. Crimson skies is no match but the 
 story is entertaining, the graphics are fun, the skill level is easy. . . the difficulty is challenging. 
 Isn't that a good game?
  
  Of course you can fly. Why make a game that's hard to play?
  
  If you want to win . . . well, there's the challenge.
  
  Patience and learning are the 
 keys. If you want to win without question . . .
  
  Play Monopoly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolfhound
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 26, 2004 1:13 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun with Crimson Skies. The price is right now... You have to find it on EBay or 
 with a game pack... It's a blast! Some missions are pretty straight forward and easy, while some 
 of them are pretty difficult, if not almost impossible, but you have the ability to pass them by 
 if they make you frustrated. The walkthrough helps a lot if youre going through the missions. 
 I recommend giving it a read when you are having some trouble. Give it a spin. I havent had a 
 chance to play it head to head but that should be good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamodamo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2004 11:58 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I LOVE this game. This is one of those games that toally suck you into 
 the world in which they create and make you feel like your really amongst it. You are an air pirate 
 in the barnstorming era of aeroplanes. Out of your base of operations (a giant zepplin which is 
 like giant floating hanger) you fight for the people and plunder for yourselves. If there is a game 
 style to compare it to, it would be Star wars: Rogue Squadron meets Interstate '76) . You aquire 
 different aircraft throughout the game and can customise it with bigger, faster engines. Bigger 
 guns, rockets and even change the paintjob. Each mission, whilst all similar in most respects manages 
 to keep you engaged. There is always something different to do, there is always some crazy stunt 
 to perform (hijacking a plane midflight and rescuing a scientist from a moving train come to mind) 
 This keeps each mission interesting.
  The graphics, while starting to date now, are good. Everything is bright, colourful and recognisable. 
 The planes smoke when hit and catch fire. You can see the pilots getting out of the aircraft to 
 eject, (no fancy ejection seats here!) . The environments are various and well renderd. From cities 
 to islands, its all good. The other great thing is that on todays computers the fact that you can 
 run it full detail with no chance of slowdown makes the experience even better.
  The controls are quite intuitive, yet take time to master. Dogfighting around a volcanic island, 
 through caves and under bridges can get quite tricky!
  I think if there is one thing that really sticks out in this game, its the sound. There is something 
 about it, everything just clicks. The rousing music that changes as your recon mission turns into 
 a full-blown dogfight. The sound effects as bullets ricochet and ping of your fuselage.
  As you can see from this review, I couldn't reccomend this game highly enough. For anyone who like 
 a good adventure, action and a great story, get this game. The fact that its only about $20au just 
 sweetens the deal. There are few games that can just draw you in, simply by its charm. This is 
 one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ummagumma
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 29, 2004 7:41 pm PT
Review:  What a great concept for a game. Set in an alternate 1930's world where pirates rule the skies 
 in suped up aircraft, the narrative is unspooled through a newsreel look where the picture is scratched 
 up and the soundtrack full of hiss and pops. Cast as a daring-do leader of a pirate gang, players 
 will find that the control is tight and responsive, missions are interestingly varied, and there 
 is lots of opportunity to upgrade their rides with more handling, armour and firepower.
  
  Too bad everything is shot down in flames by a rapidly curving difficulty level containing nigh 
 impossible time constraints. I had been having a ball with the stylish presentation and sheer balls 
 of the game, until I hit the wall and never recovered. YOU try plucking a woman off a speeding 
 train with a ladder hanging from your underside while a squadron of enemies shoot you full of more 
 holes than a wheel of swiss cheese. Sheesh! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
