-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crime Life: Gang Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/crimelifegangwars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 At least it's only $20.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The gameplay is garbage.
 Basically broken combat.
 Ugly, ugly graphics.
 Weak control options.
 Isn't even awful in a funny or creative way.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.1
Critic Score: 3.5, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 373 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Dec 1, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Crime Life is just plain awful. Do yourself a favor and stay away from it. 

  The only word is "wow." Crime Life: Gang Wars is one of those rare games that is so mind-blowingly 
 terrible that seeing it in action is enough to make you crazy. With Crime Life, several questions 
 immediately come rushing to the front of your mind. How did this game get approved for release? 
 Didn't anyone realize that it looks like a slightly filtered PlayStation game? Does Konami actually 
 expect to turn a profit on something so terrible? But while the questions come easily, the answers 
 are hard to come by. There's more detail to be found in this review, but really, the only thing 
 you need to know about Crime Life: Gang Wars is that you shouldn't play it.  

          Crime Life: Gang Wars puts players in the role of Tre.     

  Crime Life: Gang Wars 
 tells the story of a dude named Tre. Tre's a new member of the Outlawz, a once-powerful street 
 gang that seems to have fallen on hard times, while its main rival, the Headhunterz, is flourishing. 
 You can tell they're "from tha streetz" by the way they use a "z" instead of an "s" in their names. 
 You'll take on the role of Tre and work on earning some rep in the neighborhood by getting in organized 
 street fights, sticking up jewelry stores, shoplifting, and all types of ill business. While the 
 list of options might sound appealing, one is barely different from the next, and the core of the 
 game is a very awful beat-'em-up with a few practically meaningless squad commands that you can 
 use to order your followers around. Sometimes rival gangs will pile up into a mess of swinging 
 limbs and weapons that showcase the game's bad artificial intelligence and ugly animation. Sometimes 
 you'll get to go one-on-one with a guy and witness firsthand the horror of the game's busted fighting 
 system. Regardless of the situation, the gameplay is uniformly bad. You're given two attacks, a 
 block, and a modifier button that lets you use a portion of an easy-to-fill adrenaline meter to 
 bust out special attacks that do more damage. You can press two buttons together to execute a throw, 
 which is funny-looking because the enemies fly away from you as though you were tossing an empty 
 cardboard box. When you've beaten an enemy down to a sufficiently low level, a skull appears over 
 his head. Pressing the space bar kills that enemy with a special fatality animation. Some of these 
 are neck breaks, or if you're holding a machete, you pick the guy up over your head and poke the 
 blade into him. Some of them are wrestling moves, like arm bars, which probably wouldn't kill a 
 guy no matter how hard you yanked his arm back. The combo system is uninteresting, and the moves 
 don't look good.  

  This is a mission-based game, and as you complete missions, you'll see cutscenes, both prerendered 
 and in-engine, that attempt to move the story along. But you're never given any solid motivation 
 to proceed. The ugly character models look even worse up close, and the prerendered cutscenes don't 
 look much better. The leaders of the rival gang are played by five of the six members of D-12 (Eminem 
 must have been busy recording voice-over for 50 Cent: Bulletproof that afternoon) , but you'd be 
 hard pressed to identify most of them, because there isn't much voice from them in the game, and 
 the awful character models don't look anything like the real-life D-12.  

  The control in Crime Life was passable on the Xbox, but on the PC it's another part of the mess. 
 The manual claims that you can just plug in a "Microsoft Common Controller," which is really just 
 a fancy name for the Xbox 360 controller, and the game will automatically reconfigure itself to 
 work with the pad and change all the in-game control references to show the buttons on your controller. 
 That's not the case, though. While configuring the controller, we were unable to map functions 
 to the analog triggers, even though the screen was showing a diagram of the Xbox 360 controller 
 and showing us exactly which analog trigger to press. Even after mapping half the controller functions 
 to the gamepad, the in-game controller messages still only referred to the mouse and keyboard controls. 
 Speaking of mouse and keyboard, the game is playable with those controls, but just barely.  

  Crime Life looks like a PlayStation game running on some sort of emulator that bumps up the resolution 
 and attempts to antialias the whole screen by making everything ridiculously blurry. The quality 
 of the textures is very low, the animation is bad, and the character models are downright ridiculous. 
 You'll even see some textures "swimming" back and forth in a couple of spots, just like in all 
 those classic PS games you remember from 1995 and 1996. On top of that, the camera isn't so hot, 
 so even if you can look past the game's visuals, you might not get a clean view of the action. 

          The fighting in Crime Life is practically broken.     

  The soundtrack in Crime Life: Gang Wars reveals its European heritage. While you'll hear a track 
 from D-12 on the title screen, the rest of the soundtrack is composed of a lot of bad foreign hip-hop. 
 But you'll have to go looking for it, as the game doesn't play music most of the time, leaving 
 you to bust out deadly arm bars in near silence. The speech is weak, and the rest of the sound 
 effects aren't so hot, either.  

  From top to bottom, there's absolutely nothing to like about Crime Life: Gang Wars. It isn't even 
 bad in an interesting or funny way. It's just garbage. We may never know how a game this bad made 
 its way onto store shelves, but one thing is crystal clear: Don't play this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Master73
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, let me talk about the game's story first:
  
  Story: Well, the story sounds good, like I had to raise myself into becoming a king. But its not 
 confusing, it sounds great... But at the ending, it seems messed up. You and your boys go in the 
 area and kill whats left, and a helicopter just flies, flashing at you and your crew.... Is there 
 ever a "To be continued?" part of the game? Well, there was never, and if another game was invented 
 called "Crime Life: Gang Wars 2", I perfer let one of your friends rent the game, and then if its 
 terrible, ask for a refund. 4/10
  
  Gameplay: Well, when I play that game, I felt that I would never become a world-champion gangster. 
 So what do I do? Try to take the crown. But with every boss, its too hard. Its like Gauntlet, only 
 that you start from easy to hard. So I rather get away from the game, likely you wouldn't start 
 to beat the game, it will never become easy. 3/10
  
  Graphics: Blah! The game looks very incomplete.... Even for Konami, they should view this carefully 
 rather then using their eyes, and say "Okay.... Lets sell these products".... Just like medication, 
 you go there and buy the medicine. Then after you take 1 pill, your dead. Then you turn into a 
 zombie, eatting all of the pills, and your back to life. Simple eh? Well, for "RAGE", you get a 
 red screen. When your drunk, your screen is weird and purple. But do this: uninstall the game, 
 and never play this game ever again. 1/10
  
  Rating: 2.5/10
  Classification: It should be thrown in the garbage and/or sold for only a dollar, which makes people 
 happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  As i play this game i enjoy it......................
  cause your first mission is a one on one battle with one of the outlaws but that person will be 
 your hommies or one of your ( companion ) after finishing some few mission and the game.....
  also you can fight and the street by other outlaws and also your hommies ( companion ) , but i realize 
 and the game even how long you fight and the street you cannot get that territories unless your 
 mission is to get that turf or territories cause i think if i fight very well and that street i 
 will get that turf but im bad to think that............
  cause i think this is like and the GTA: San Andreas and gang wars if win the three wave or you 
 survive the three wave you own that territories but is not....
  but any way this is a short story cause believe me or not i finish this game and become a don of 
 outlaws and three days............
  oh common what a short story, but any way the game graphics are slightly okay for not bad and also 
 not good for me............
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtillaTheHun
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  The game isn't worth 10 pound + but its fun kicking the **** out of the enemy.
  
  The gameplay ain't good the controls are silly and the combos dont even work unless your a higher 
 rank but then you cant execute the moves you did on the earlier rank.
  
  the turfs ( territories ) of The Hunterz / The Outlawz / The RFC they should have made it actually 
 Conquerable instead of only being able to conquer them with the story you cant go out and batter 
 the **** outta the rival gang and take their turf like that it Has to be allowed by BigDog ( Boss 
 of the Outlawz ) and it has to be allowed by the story otherwise you can keep killing and it wont 
 do a thing.
  
  The story is kinda stupid how they came up with that a new guy just comes in and at the end of 
 the game hes the don of the gang but he dies what the hell is with that the company who made this 
 should have actually allowed him to live and take the entire land / and aswel like The Godfather 
 game that was a good gang game you should have copied them a little bit or like Scarface even tho 
 they wasnt out yet but you should have thought of it first.
  
  the idea of thieving and and robbing shops and so on is kinda funny i admit but even if you do 
 steal this and that it dont make a differnce the outlawz base still looks like a giant wrecked 
 up bin.
  
  If it was like you conquer turfs and you make them better by stealing from either rival gangs territories 
 or that place i forgot the name of it where its not owned by any gangs and cant be owned by any 
 gangs.
  
  Playing this game will make people thing that fighting and stealing is a good idea and joining 
 gangs and stuff when it aint , all games now should make games that involve doing good for instance 
 if it were this , you would take over a turf and you would attack other turfs or rob the rich like 
 robin hood, the money would go to improve the turf and make the gang stronger with more population 
 joining them and better weapons for them to protect their territory.
  
  the spray painting on the wall was a good idea ill admit to get rep and to make the gang bigger 
 by spreading it along the roads and walls but when you quit and log back in everything is gone 
 ...
  
  putting all these famous rappers and these idiots like eminem and 50 cent they are bad influence 
 to the people you should put people like 2pac or some other smoother people these other ones are 
 bad and inspire people to do bad things aswel.
  
  all around the game needed Alot of work before it got out of its cage and into the shelves of the 
 stores for a price not even a circus dog would pay.
  
  the hole story is messed up and you need to complete parts of the story before you can do anything 
 else / if the company is actually gonna read any of these reviews then i suggest you think about 
 the next gang game you make hopefully you will make it a good game not crap like this you should 
 inspire the people to do good then maybe their wont be so many yobs and gangs causing trouble with 
 the civilians/ its all because of games like these you should inspire them by making these gang 
 games do good by conquering the bad and using the money to donate to charity or make the territory 
 cleaner / better / stronger.
  
  Out of all of this i suggest you dont bother getting this game unless you are Muppet who collects 
 gang games -_- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiebekliS123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 19, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  I played the game and for all a can say who likes that can play.. :) 6.5 its an real crime life 
 i think.. what can i else to say i dont know.. dam i hawe nothing to more say about it but i need 
 to write 100 word dam dam dam... this suck.. comon i cant think eny more. dam its not 100 words 
 i cant take it eny more! damt it was a 66 word komon this suck DAM DAMN i am from latvia and my 
 english spelling is so terrible i know i know dont tAKE it seriouse! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is very, very good!! if you like the Warriors game then you will def like this game.
 
  The way that you have to kill the other gang, take over areas, its just like the first few missions 
 of San Andreas.
  The story line of the game is actually quite good, it mixes action, betrayal and a whole lot of 
 neck bracking fighting.
  This game is def a must have as it will entertain you for many hours. If you give this game a low 
 mark or a bad review then you are not truly experiencing the game to the full! BUY THE GAME!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Just got this game, played a few hours into it. It has a stronge GTA feel to it, specially san 
 andreas but unfortunatly no where near as dynamic. Has a pretty controlled storyline and missions 
 but you do have some freedom. You are able too rob and shoplift, tag walls, fight other gangs with 
 your gang members, fight 1on1 and make bets and take other gang territories. The controls are a 
 bit sketchy and same with overhead view, you can tell the game was orginally made for consol, I 
 also dont care for the 1v1 fighting missions. Graphics are pok. If you need a time killer buy this 
 game and melt the cd's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drucom
Rating: 1.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Dreadful. Terrible. Appalling. Dire. Horrendous. Unspeakable. Atrocious. Abysmal. These are the 
 words with which I am forced to describe Crime Life: Gang Wars. To start this off, let me analyze 
 the actual title of the game. In fact, I'll go into more detail than that. Let me analyze the words 
 Gang Wars . If Konami thought that a gang war involved senselessly clobbering random individuals 
 to a messy, bloody pulp, then they are spot on with this game. The game is set around Grand Central 
 City (I must admit, the writers made FANTASTIC choices throughout) , a fictional American city. 
 You control Tre (Tre bizzare, more like it) , a new member of the once influential street gang, 
 the Outlawz (yes, purposefully misspelled with a 'Z' at the end. I guess this is supposed to be 
 funny, so 'LOL') . Basically, Tre must restore the Outlawz's former glory. But there's a catch (there's 
 always a catch, ain't there?) . There is a rival gang, the Headhunterz (again, with a 'Z') that 
 will make things hard for you. This usually involves sending volleys of their own gang members 
 to try to kill you. Obviously, 10 gang members can't kill Tre, as he (along with several parts 
 of the game) was developed jointly by a real life 'ganster' group, the hip-hop 'gang-banging' group 
 D12. Of course, they would know what the 'streets' are actually like, as they have had 'years' 
 of experience as gang members. So it's safe to say that this is an accurate portrayal of American 
 street life. Ehh, not so fast, bucko. Oh yeah, there's other gangs too, like a gang of Rastafarion-wannabe's 
 and there's also a barber-shop (how original, a barber-shop in a gang-related game. Apparently, 
 the barber is also related to the gang, in some kind of way. And he's old, and wise, too! Take 
 that, originality!!!!) , and two goof-balls that hang around the barber-shop, contributing absolutely 
 nothing at all to the game. There's a metro as well, and other stuff in the game, but it's too 
 much of a compost heap, so I don't remember much of it (mostly due to the sleep-inducing nature 
 of the game) .
  
  The graphics are pathetic. Indeed, Konami should be ashamed of themselves. One look at any other 
 2005 game will prove this. I'm inclined to believe the original Doom had better graphics than this 
 colossal garbage heap. The controls take some time to get used to, but not much. It's nothing revolutionary 
 here, so we'll move along.
  
  The sound is the only redeeming factor of this game (as it is not completely trash) , but I am forced 
 to give it 5/10 and nothing more.
  
  All in all, the game is one of the worst games I have ever layed my hands on. It is an embarrasingly-abysmal 
 compendium of overused clich&eacute; s and racial stereotypes. I am ashamed at Konami, and ashamed 
 of myself for actually spending cold, hard cash to buy what I now consider lies at the level of 
 the contents of my week-old ramen, lying in the bottom of my garbage bin. Do not approach this 
 game. It radiates stupidity (I swear my IQ fell 2 points after playing the game for but an hour!) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Crime Life: Gang Wars really was a over hyped game by Konami, i can't believe Konami could produce 
 this kinda s***!
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The Camera Angle, the Gameplay Mechanics, The Controls, everything is really crappy and half baked. 
 Although it doesn't takes long understanding everything but its useless. Get missions, beat up 
 people. Thats pretty much everything this game has to offer.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Probably make you wanna play it a little more but sadly it doesn't work. Even though the effort 
 in the graphics are good but stil this proves that good graphics are not the only thing needed 
 to make a good game,
  
  Sound:
  
  Belive it or not but the sound effects and the music is pretty good. Nice selection of rap songs 
 and the main theme song is pretty cool too.
  
  Value:
  
  Nothing needs to be said here.
  
  Overall:
  
  Just stay away from it okay? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior_Kid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game is a very addicting game and is a really good game. The fighting in this is brilliant. 
 When this game came out, I was thinkin' "I bet it's gonna be like the rest of those games. A few 
 friends and thousands of enemies" then when I played it, the first fight I had was a two on two 
 but then 5 of my friends came with pool sticks and everything and we pounded the hell out of those 
 damn HeadHunters. The fights even get bigger as you progress through the game. When ever your having 
 a turf war with the rival gang, there is usually thousands of people around at the same time. Like 
 the fights can get that big, where hardley anyone can drive on the road or walk on the sidewalk. 
 Some people will get involved in the fights, too, if they get hit or something. When the police 
 catch a fight, depending on how many gang members are in the vicinity, they will call for backup 
 and depending on how much gang members there are, a different amount of police will come. I was 
 having this turf war one time and it started getting really big, like I mean gang members were 
 rushing in from all sides. The police cought the fight and there were over 20 cops like rushing 
 into the fight. This wasen't no ordinary fight. What I did there, was turned a two on two fight 
 which is how it started, into a big huge riot.
  
  If you don't have this game, you have got to get it. Because this is not no Grand Theft Auto, which 
 is good anyway, or no Warriors or anything. This is Crime Life: Gang Wars. And no matter what you 
 think, in my opinion, this game should be called Crime Life: Gang Beatdown or Crime Life: Gang 
 Riots. Do your self a favor and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paktam
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Crime Life Gang Wars is much like GTA game series. The only different in CLGW is you cannot drive 
 a car or bike. This game control is quite okay. Although there is a problem to switch target when 
 shooting I think. Fighting each other never feel so much fun. The graphic is quite good. The sound 
 in this game is really nice. Especially the music. You'll hear nice quality of songs while playing 
 this game. Other than that, no bad language used compared to GTA although full of violent.
  
  You may spent about 20 hours playing this game. The movie is nice and lots of movie here. Once you 
 have started playing this game and you'll start addicted into it as what happened to me. Also the 
 storyline is almost the same to GTA San Andreas. About disloyalty. Where someone backstabbed you. I 
 think there should be somekind of medi pack to restore life than just get some food from Fat D's 
 restaurant to fill up your life bar.
  
  Weaponary in this game doesn't last long. After you have use them for a while they will broke down. The 
 best weapon is I think the "knive". It help you kills your opponent really fast. The special or combo's 
 system is quite good where you need to do 40 combo's to fill up your RAGE bar. If you like GTA series 
 games you'll likely like to own this game. So, don't miss it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-killaz
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  This Game Contain al lot of thing so I will tell you some of it :
  
  The Gameplay: The Game PLay is good but if they put is it more action and you can carry more than 
 two item it will be super and if you can make more combos and can steal car
  
  The Graphics: it Has poor Graphics in it some time you can't see where are you walking and what 
 are you hiting so this is a verry bad graphics for 2005 
  
  The Sound: All is got rap just only rap
  
  The Idea: It has a great idea by proving your self 
 out in your hood 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DegrassiSoulja
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I mean, I played this game, and it was iight, but it was just plain horrible. Every other game 
 I played that had blacks running the game, they were crunk, but this game is the worst. After I 
 beat it, I just told them, "Give me my dang money back." After that, I just went and bought me 
 a greatest hit game. Y do games that give u so much 2 do, but they end up crappin out at the end? 
 I mean when I was playing Def Jam: Fight for NY, I got what I wanted in a game, but Crime Life 
 is the worst game ever that has lots of black chracters. Also, the 1st mistake was, they had fake 
 gangsters. It gives black folks a bad name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitsie
Rating: 1.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I feel like getting an hammer and and a strong man to help me break this in a 1000000 peaces this 
 in't the best game it is the worst the developers should feel bad damn this game doesn't even have 
 a good story I would rather play a boring adventure game than this everything is badly done ewww 
 I can't believe it they will have to make a better game for a good apoligy this game sucks stay 
 away at all costs know where is my 9mm sorry gotta get my gun and have my revenge
  
  
  
  if you like this game you must be desperate for something i would rather install half-life 
 1 or 2 and search for fun mods! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurusigma
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  I was terribly disappointed of having actually paid for this game. I wish I never had. While the 
 atmosphere it sets you in, the hip-hop flava, and the soundtrack are pretty good, I'd have to say 
 that, in all due respect, it SUCKS. 
  
  Another reviewer wrote "otherwise good game ruined by crappy controls" and I would have to say, 
 really f*n crappy controls. Tried playing it with mouse / keyboard, tried later using my gamepad, 
 and first of all, this game actually expects you to have a specific gamepad with 2 movement sticks. 
 
  
  The camera moves around, making very little sense as to where you're aiming to go. I read another 
 review saying that aiming a gun was a pain, never really got to that point as I was, unfortunately, 
 determined to uninstall it and give it away to someone with too much free time. 
  
  The music is the only thing that's worth rescuing from this total piece of junk. And, I came to 
 the conclusion that this game is RACIST. I never thought anyone was actually allowed to release 
 a racist game! 
  
  Please take into consideration that I'm actually taking 10 minutes of my time to come here and 
 write a bashing review for a game that I will never, ever, spend 10 minutes on. 
  
  Konami, if you ever think of releasing CWGL 2, please PLEASE don't ruin it with hard to understand, 
 stupid and frustrating controls.
  
  Thank you for your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashb85
Rating: 1.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  OK I got this game but it not worth even rent it
  
  Very very ugly graphics with bad control
  
  You control your charcterfrom top not from behind 
 :)
  
  Its combat needs you to memorize what should you press on as old mortal combats as example space+left 
 click+right click+left click again to hit the man
  
  Not worth it & look for gamespot review of the Xbox edition
  
  I selected very haed difficulty 
 because I didn't play it even for 10 minutes so don't know how its difficulty
  
  I even tried to ride a car but didn't success & I don't knw if this is possible
  
  Finally 
 I removed the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Crime Life: Gang Wars, where you must climb through the ranks of your gang by any 
 means necessary.
  
  Editors Note: Ill be honest here. I played the game for 20 minutes. Thats all i could stand of 
 it. I came into the game expecting something great, GTAish, and fun, but I was let down hard. Read 
 on.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of Crime Life is absolutely horrid. The different things you need to do 
 in the game are all very similar, making the game very boring. The controls themself are just terrible. 
 The camera controls move too quick, disorienting you as you move around. The fighting controls 
 are overly simplified, and useless, along with most of the things you can do in fights.
  
  Story: You play Tre, a new member of the Outlawz street gang. You have to fight rival gang members 
 and commit crimes to raise through the ranks of the gang.
  
  Graphics and Sound: The sound isnt the worst, but its used sparringly, and it hurts the game. As 
 for the graphics, there livable, but could be much better and smoother.
  
  Replayability: No, just no.
  
  Final Recommendation: If, IF, you can get past all the problems, 
 maybe it'd be fun, but in the end, its just not worth it. Sorry folks, crappy review, but its a 
 crappy game, what can ya do? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
