-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Croc: Legend of the Gobbos
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/croclegendofthegobbos/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  2, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.2
Critic Score: 6.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 190 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fox Interactive
Developer: Argonaut Games
Genre: Action
Date:     Nov 26, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The operative word here is cute, on the order of Fraggles, M&M spokescandies, and the language of 
 R2D2. 

 The operative word here is cute, on the order of Fraggles, M&amp; M spokescandies, and the language 
 of R2D2. This conversion (from the Sony PlayStation) of a 32-bit Mario 64 clone stars Croc, a big-eyed, 
 anthropomorphic, backpack-wearing crocodile who has been raised by a race of ultra-cuddly Fry Guys 
 called Gobbos - a race now enslaved by the giant "King of all Villains," Baron Dante. Croc must 
 traverse the game's dozens of levels, liberating the entire race of Gobbos one at a time.   

 At your disposal is a handful of standard 3D platform adventure gaming tricks. You've got Mario's 
 jump to squash your enemies. You've also got a more original 360-degree spin where you lash at 
 the bad guys with your tail. You've got Sonic the Hedgehog's rings - only this time they're crystals 
 - that give you a second chance when attacked (get hit and you drop your crystals, get hit empty-handed 
 and you die) . You've also got lots and lots of platforms to jump on.   

 What we have here is a generic 3D platform game - but it's very, very cute. The supporting cast 
 reads like the list of extras from the Muppet Show. Big-nosed loping birdmen, strangely elfin animals 
 of an indeterminate species who attack by cartwheeling, and some of the most diminutive bosses 
 in the history of the genre. The rocket-assisted frog whose jetpack keeps failing lends the thankless 
 job of video game boss a new air of pathos. Unfortunately, the animation of each of these cuddly 
 characters is only nominally smooth, as they're all lacking in graphical detail what they more 
 than accomplish in the Puffnstuff department. And look behind the little guys themselves, at the 
 backgrounds beyond, and you'll not be surprised that this is a conversion from a 32-bit console 
 game, with flat, dull textures.  

 The linchpin of any successful 3D platform-style game is the camera angles. In order to make all 
 those difficult jumps with all the pitfalls that come with the third dimension, either the camera 
 must move automatically and miraculously line up countless good shots for you, or the game had 
 better have generous and versatile camera control options to be tweaked on the fly while the action 
 occurs. Croc has neither. Its over-the-shoulder perspective varies wildly during play, but always 
 seems to be lined up wrong. Sure, sometimes the camera is directly behind you, but more often you're 
 stuck looking at Croc's profile, or worse yet, the shot is skewed by five or ten degrees, making 
 accurate jumping all but impossible. Camera control is limited to a selection of one of two nearly 
 identical heights. Neither selection alters radial camera placement, which is subject only to CPU 
 whim. If you want to rotate the camera at all, you'll have to run in circles to trick it into place. 

 Camera problems are especially annoying when dealing with the game's bosses, most of whom can be 
 defeated with the same easy strategy. Yep, it's Boss Design 101: Run circles around each one until 
 a temporary weakness reveals itself, attack, and repeat until the boss is dead. As cute as they 
 are, it is a shame that the game's designers made these guys so easy to beat. The only challenge 
 in taking out 90 percent of them isn't a legitimate challenge at all, it's a design flaw: The camera 
 angles get so out of whack with all that circular motion, that you invariably end up with your 
 perspective 180 degrees out of phase, running toward the camera, looking Croc in the face as you 
 run into the unknown, with no way to see where the next deadly precipice or invisible wall lies. 

 As though camera rotation problems weren't enough, Croc also suffers from painfully loose control. 
 It takes long enough to be sure of the safety and efficacy of a basic jump without rotation being 
 such an issue. When your perspective is perpetually skewed 10 degrees in a random direction, every 
 jump is a leap of faith. Croc's response is sluggish and imprecise when he's on the ground, and 
 overresponsive when he's in the air. Put this all together and it must look pretty silly: a bipedal 
 crocodile nervously rotating in place for several seconds before jumping off a cliff over a floating 
 platform, only to make a sudden midair jag to the left and hurtle to its death.   

 At least Croc is long, or so it seems on the surface. With five islands to explore, for a total 
 of more than 40 levels, it seems ample enough. However, the levels are small, and the scenes usually 
 take just a couple of tries to complete. The level design isn't particularly inspired, either. 
 Croc's levels all seem dull and without any cogent sense of theme or mood. Some levels are grassy 
 (read: ground is green) , some are deserts (read: ground is beige) , and some are icy (read: ground 
 is white and slippery) . Regardless of color palette, type of animal opponent, or special effects, 
 each level is ultimately only an uninteresting and simple set of floating platforms and boxes to 
 jump on. Maybe there's a waterfall or something to spruce things up, but for all its cuteness, 
 Croc offers nowhere near the richness and thematic diversity of Mario 64 - which is both the parent 
 it plagiarizes and the standard it can't live up to.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: smasher501
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  Croc is a great game. If your 8 years old and don't mind braindead AI, annoying camera angles and 
 jumping off cliffs. Level design doesn't help and bad sound effects don't make this title better. 
 "Long" single player mode. No multiplayer. What happened to CROC WARS!? Uninspiring story.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Probably the most redeeming feature of this game is the concept of it. The 
 bosses are craftily placed throughout the game to appropriate skill levels.... even though they 
 are drop dead easy to beat. It features many levels over 4 islands, and if you get all the 'Gobbos' 
 you unlock a secret level. Unlock all the secret levels to get jigsaw pieces, eventually unlocking 
 the secret 5th island. So far so good.
  
  Graphics: 4/10
  Not good. I know this is an older game, but compare it to Quake 3 Arena and a whole lot changes. 
 Nasty looking textures with weird polygonic like shapes. All 'Dantinis' (the game's little evil 
 guys) are one colour apart from their eyes. Graphics freaks beware! Pixelated Gobbos are not a 
 good sight.
  
  Sound: 1/10
  This is where it gets real bad. Weird bones that float in acid stretch in and out make farting 
 sounds and croc's attack is a weird HASHPRAT kind of sound. Jumping sounds odd and jelly sounds 
 are unrealistic and there is almost no music. Dantini laughs are spine-chilling. In a bad way. 
 The best way to play this game (if you ever do) is with sound turned off. Or very, VERY, low.
 
  
  Level Design and Camera Angles: 2/10
  The worst aspect of this game. Camera angles. Often when trying to jump, you find yourself looking 
 at the front of croc. You have to run around and trick the camera to get it in the right position. 
 Touchy jumping controls make every jump a leap of faith. Level design is nothing out of the ordinary, 
 but is prevented from being rated as 1 because of a few interesting things thrown in. Levels all 
 go by the same formula.
  
  Overall: 3.5/10
  Nothing special here with this 3D platformer. Camera angles really kill it as well as sound mixed 
 in with the graphics. Much better to buy a Nintendo 64 and get some good platformers, such as Banjo 
 Kazooie, Super Mario 64 and the like. Don't buy this game if your over 9 or so years old.
  
  THE GOOD
  Nice concept. Interesting quirks and creative ways to beat bosses.
  
  THE BAD
 
  Horrible camera angles, weird jump control, level design, sound and graphics all put this game 
 down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eldramesha
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Coming on the heels of Mario 64 and Crash Bandicoot, Croc could have been a masterwork in game 
 design. Instead it is a fairly generic platformer with linear gameplay and a horrible, almost sadistic 
 camera.
  
  The premise is simple, take one anthropomorphic crocodile and have him raised by itty bitty fuzzballs. 
 Then have a standard gigantic evil reptilian badguy (with a cape even) and have him kidnap all 
 the little furballs. Then have the crocodile go after them.
  
  Croc graphically is not especially exciting though it is competent. The sound design is also good, 
 the tracks are upbeat and cutesy but a little stale.
  
  The camera is what fails this game, it refuses to play nice in any way, shape, or form and is the 
 cause of countless injuries and falls due to its inability to be precisely angled and the tendency 
 to suddenly and radically shift view point angle for no good reason.
  
  The gameplay while extremely basic and linear is exceedingly cute and charming.
  
  I would 
 recommend this game for children except that the camera would cause too much frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  The Croc is Fun, if you get the demo then you'll know how fun it is. The environments are cute 
 the music is great and the graphics are cool even though it is a 1997 Game. It is fun playing it 
 but it is a total letdown to know that since then there hasn't been any other Croc game. I mean 
 in 9 years this game could have evolved likethe GTA series! But the originall game is good thoughand 
 cheap too so if you're looking for a nice cheap good game The Croc Leggend of The Gobbos is one 
 of your best choices.
  
  EVEN THOUGH GAMESPOT IS THE BEST GAMING WEB PAGE I TOTALLY DON'T AGREE WITH IT'S RATING FOR THIS 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Games
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Gobos is a great game for people that like to think. Besides other games such as 
 metroid prime hunters that it is supposed to be excellent well is not due that is almoust as mostly 
 any other game created before the only difference is multyplayer is good but not quite now that 
 i have played it. Going back to the gobos the backround is very good and complete it is a very 
 quite good bla bla bla... It has different lvls and the objective is to save the gobo queen and 
 king going and pasing by various bosses and stuff. Great game recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 4.2
Date: Sep 16, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite good at first but gets repetetive and boring and hard. this game is about you 
 going around rescuing those furry things and running away from people and this is just some next 
 game, there are so many better games out, this game is just the worst and should be missed.
  
  There are many levels but you will never finish the game because this game is going to be up 
 against the hardest bosses youve ever been up against. this game has the most impossible bosses 
 ever, this games bosses cannot be defeated, even the end one, how do you beat that guy!? he jumps 
 on you, corneres you and then pummels you, no way out, no where to go, i wonder how you even got 
 inside something with no entrance and no exit no matter what. that does mean that i didnt complete 
 this gmae, and i dont think i ever will, this is just plain sad, i never leave a game unfinished 
 unless its unplayable and this is unplayable. this game is one of the worst.
  
  I was very small when i liked this but only because the crocodile was cute and i won it in a competetion 
 but i think that if i had paid for this, id be crying. miss this gmae no matter what. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
