-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Croc 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/croc2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 29, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 6.7, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 136 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fox Interactive
Developer: Argonaut Games
Genre: Action
Date:     Feb 29, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Croc 2 provides enough consistent gameplay to avoid outright dismissal, but it clearly lacks the 
 imaginative spark necessary to make playing it a memorable experience. 

 Originally released for the PlayStation, Croc 2 is the sequel to a generally forgettable 3D platform 
 game from 1997. As could be expected, the developers at Argonaut have improved virtually every 
 aspect of the original Croc for the sequel: The levels are larger, many new subgames have been 
 included, and the visuals are more complex and colorful. Unfortunately, as was the case when the 
 original Croc was released, similar games such as Spyro the Dragon 2 and Rayman 2 have already 
 set the current standard for excellence in the genre. And in comparison with those games, Croc 
 2 is a competently executed but uninspired also-ran.  

 Croc 2 adheres to the 3D platform structure introduced by Super Mario 64. You guide a cute character 
 through a series of connected hub worlds, each containing a number of areas and tasks that must 
 be completed to advance to the next world. Each level contains optional items that can be collected 
 to unlock secret areas and power-ups. To accomplish these goals, Croc can jump, butt-stomp, swim, 
 climb, and ride various vehicles such as the old genre standby, the mine cart, and six others, 
 including a giant snowball.  

 In the absence of any great innovation, Croc 2 needs to get by on its production values. The graphics 
 and sound are good but not especially memorable. Croc 2 is 3D accelerated and supports all the 
 latest visual gewgaws such as transparencies and lighting effects. Aside from some glaringly misaligned 
 textures, there's really nothing to complain about. The design is adequate to convey an air of 
 generic cartoon whimsy yet never really makes the game come to life in any kind of satisfying or 
 surprising way. From the lava world to the ice world, you've seen all of Croc 2's sights many times 
 before in other games.  

 Thanks to awkward controls, traversing Croc 2's unimaginatively eccentric environments is more trouble 
 than it should be. Two different control schemes are available, but neither one is particularly 
 successful. The first method lets you move Croc forward and backward and rotate him left and right 
 by pressing the respective direction on the keyboard or joystick. Unless you tap quickly, the right 
 and left turns end in a step forward, which can be disastrous in a tight situation or while attempting 
 to line up a precise jump. The second method simply lets you turn and move Croc toward whatever 
 direction you press. In this mode, there's no backpedaling. You have to press a separate key to 
 do a 180-degree turn. Both control schemes are overly sensitive and take a long and often frustrating 
 amount of time to master. Some of the early levels have timed tasks, and trying to learn the controls 
 under the pressure of a time limit is often more maddening than fun.  

 Croc 2's developer, Argonaut Software, hasn't solved the camera problems that plague this type of 
 game. The camera is often set too close to the main character and isn't always pointed at an angle 
 suited to moving Croc from one place to another. At some points in the game, generally whenever 
 you're forced to make precise jumps in a tight corridor, it's almost impossible to complete the 
 maneuvers without missing. The camera also lags behind you when you turn, which makes it overly 
 difficult to quickly perform a sequence of jumps at right angles to each other. The game supports 
 a free-look in the form of a pair of binoculars. Oddly, while it overlays a binocular cutout on 
 the screen, nothing is actually magnified. Instead, there's simply less visible area, and you can 
 only focus in a 180-degree arc around Croc. A more standard free-look would have been a better 
 idea.  

 Croc 2 does include one unique option called omniplay, which lets you split the controls between 
 two joysticks. For instance, one person can control the camera and jumping while another controls 
 everything else. It's a good way to share the game experience with kids.  

 By the halfway point of Croc 2, you'll have learned to tolerate the controls, circumvent the camera, 
 and make Croc do your bidding, more or less. The entire package is blandly professional enough 
 and provides enough consistent gameplay to avoid outright dismissal, but it clearly lacks the imaginative 
 spark necessary to make playing it a memorable experience.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: The_Breadcrab
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The first Croc was released sometime in 1997, and, while not groundbreaking, it was still fun and 
 sold well. So, there was a sequel. And, like most sequels, it was inferior to the first.
  
  You play as Croc, a crocodile, who in the last game saved the gobbos from Baron dante. Now, on 
 a beach, Croc finds a message in a bottle from his parents, saying they want their son to return. 
 So the gobbos build a catapult and launch Croc to the island where they are. However, the catapult 
 is facing away from the island, so how could he get there? Anyway, meanwhile, the dantinis resurrect 
 baron dante, and now he plans to stop Croc.... again.
  
  The gameplay is largely unchanged from the first Croc, and you have your tail whip, stomp, jump, 
 etc. The levels also have the same layout, with platforms, ladders, checkpoints, enemies, and items. 
 However, its just a lot more frustrating than the first Croc. Bosses are more difficult and confusing, 
 levels and objectives are different and more random, and items are more strangely placed. For example, 
 in the first Croc, in each level you had to rescue 6 gobbos, but in here, you do tasks for people 
 like find a guy's sandwich, chase a robber, and mine for minerals. Its wants to be playable, but 
 its just a huge mess.
  
  Also, there's unnecessary Hub areas between the levels where you can have nice and pointless conversations 
 with gobbos. There's also the unwise addition of a shop in the Hubs where you buy items with your 
 crystals. Sometimes you need something from the shop to advance further in a level, so its a real 
 pain to go to previous levels and get crystals so you can buy another clockwork robot or bouncy 
 lifesaver so you can continue. You can buy upgrades for your health bar, but eventually you can't 
 buy any more, and the shop's excuse is: "You can't buy any more. It's the law." I can't even imagine 
 what the developers were thinking.
  
  As I said, there are some mildly entertaining boss fights, but the vehicle sections are no fun, 
 because the controls are bad and the levels are boring.
  
  The graphics in Croc 2 are decent, even today, which offers mild relief. The sound however, makes 
 me want to cry. All the characters speak gibberish while a text box displays what they are really 
 saying. Also, one actor provides the voices for all characters, so the random mumbling sounds very 
 similar. You can see its trying to be cute, but your resulting annoyance is not so cute. The other 
 sounds and poofs also sound strange and sloppy.
  
  In the end, Croc 2 just isn't really worth it. If you havn't played Croc before, pick up the first 
 one. And if you really like that one, you might want to try this one out. But I'll give you one 
 warning: this Croc is not easy to deal with. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arogo
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  I remember growing up with Croc. Every lunchtime at school I would sneak down to the library and 
 try and nab a computer to play for an all-to-brief half an hour. Back then everything seemed wondrous 
 and I'll never forget the joy of getting past the first level. The game had obvious charm, and 
 had enough challenge to sustain my interest. However this charm started to wear thin as soon as 
 I entered Croc 2, and I'm beginning to understand why.
  
  The mean green villain Baron Dante has been resurrected (as you do) by his red polygonal minions 
 and is on the rampage once again, plotting evil against the cute, furry Gobbos. Meanwhile, Croc 
 has discovered- thanks to an encounter on the shore with a message in a bottle- that his long-lost 
 parents are searching for him. With the blessings of the Gobbo King Rufus, Croc sets out on a quest 
 to discover his paternity, and save the Gobbos form oblivion once again. The plot is recycled and 
 linear; the whole family dynamic does nothing to actually affect the way the story turns out. Also, 
 I really wish the characters would just speak English! Their constant squeaking and chirping is 
 endearing at first, but gets old fast.
  
  Croc 2 tries a different system to its predecessor when it comes to level selection. Instead of 
 dropping straight into a level, the game introduces Villages which act as hubs for your missions. 
 There are four Villages in total, Sailor, Cossack, Caveman and Inca. Each has their own personality 
 and quirky Gobbos to interact with. There are usually one or two activities in the Village you 
 can participate in to get some nice goodies. You can also visit Swap Meet Pete, who will sell you 
 various goods to help you in your mission. To buy these goods, you will need to earn Crystals in 
 each level.
  
  The levels themselves are a bit hit and miss. The first few are ordinary fair, get from A to B, 
 collect x amount of y, but some of them are nicely done and are worth doing again if you need to 
 earn more Crystals. The Amazonian waterfall level and the baby mammoth level were two such examples. 
 Also in each level are five coloured Crystals, often in hard to reach places. If you collect all 
 five, you are transported into an area with a Golden Gobbo, where you will have the chance to collect 
 the aforementioned trophy. The game splits itself evenly between simple combat, platforming and 
 puzzle solving. Unfortunately, the offset in this is that you can't save during a level, only in 
 a Village. You do have a certain amount of Hearts to get you through each level, and the amount 
 of these increases as you go on, but if you run out it means back to the starting line, punk. There 
 is also the odd vehicle level thrown in, but they're cheap and repetitive, downright boring in 
 my book. Bosses require a re-think in tactics and are interesting enough as a whole, but individually 
 forgettable. Like the original, enemies respawn, but usually don't present much of a challenge.
 
  
  Graphically, Croc 2 looks very nice. Most of the grainy textures and jaggies from the original 
 have been smoothed over. The bright colours and environments are attractive, although the harsh 
 yellow tones of sand can make your eyes water at times. The cutscenes look great and the game as 
 a whole is relatively bug-free. The camera is okay when you're running in a straight line, but 
 tends to go spastic as soon as you round a corner or jump on a rope. There's no way to control 
 this so you'll just have to live with it. Music and sound effects are okay, but I still think that 
 the characters would be so much more convincing, and indeed attractive if they just spoke English. 
 It's hard to take a boss seriously when their speech sounds like wind escaping a balloon. Each 
 level has its own music which is boppy and enjoyable enough, but not something you'd put on your 
 iPod. The controls work well but are a little unresponsive with jumps at times.
  
  And now for the biggest gripe of all, the difficulty. I am not kidding when I say it took me 43 
 days to complete one level in this game. 43 days! I'm not a noob or anything, I've been playing 
 platformers for years but this was just outrageous. It's off-putting when you've been going through 
 a game nicely and suddenly it throws a fiendishly hard boss like the giant Venus fly-trap at you. 
 This is a kid's game for goodness sake! The difficulty is way out of whack for some parts of the 
 game. The final level is really a combination of several levels containing some tedious puzzles 
 that annoyed me from the get-go. This is only made worse by the camera and the no-saving feature. 
 There's no mini-map, so levels such as the maze level are an out-and-out pain.
  
  Croc 2 is quite lengthy for a platformer, clocking in at 15-20 hours. This can only be a good thing 
 but you get the feeling that a lot of this is due to the games inconsistent difficulty. In case 
 you're wondering, collecting all the Golden Gobbos in a Village will open the Golden Gobbo level, 
 completing these four levels successfully opens up more bonus levels to do. However, these are 
 really irrelevant to both the game and the story and feel a little tacked on, although they do 
 give you something to aim for. The new gadgets you can use in the levels are disappointing, they 
 can help you jump higher and reach hidden platforms, but that's about it. The game has little replay 
 value once you've completed it 100%.
  
  Croc 2 was a dire disappointment for me. Not only was the story unfulfilling, the gameplay was 
 often frustrating and as a whole it just feels a little empty. For every new feature it introduces, 
 another inconsistency holds it back. Unless you're a diehard fan of Croc or you have a prodigious 
 platforming child, you're going to find it amusing at best, nigh unplayable at worst. And it's 
 a real shame considering the weight this title holds. As far as I'm concerned, Croc has officially 
 lost his mojo. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 1:24 am PT
Review:  Croc 2 is a really old game that not that many people know. If you have played the first then you 
 should know what's going on. Croc 2 is about Dantini coming back from his death, summoning enimies 
 about the Gobbo Realms. Croc is on his vacation when he finds a bottle. In it tells him that the 
 Dantinis are back. He get's some Gobbos to catapult him back to the island and then you start playing. 
 The game is quite big, with the new items and secret areas, this game is sure big.
  
  Gameplay is really good as one level, you're paragliding with a sort of mixed plane-i-chute, and 
 another is that you are being bossed around by an ant and you have to blow him up while doing his 
 challenges, and another where you are kart racing, and one where you are riding a snowball.
  
  Graphics are not that good because they look the same as the first which came out in 1997 and 
 they had three years to improve. The detail on the land is good though.
  
  Sound is not that great but it works because they still have the same sounds from the first, except 
 that Gobbos talk now.
  
  For about AU$40, this game does put great value for it. There is really good replay value as well.
 
  
  This is a great game but if you are wanting a really challenging game, this doesn't get it, it 
 is more in the fun part, I like the fun. With over 30 levels and also the alternate ending, this 
 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMa729
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has some humor which games the game worth playing. It is humorous by having some weird 
 missions such as saving a Gobbo's sandwich and saving a Gobbo's bird its plain funny i tell you. 
 the game play is good has about 4-5 levels in each world and there are i think 5 or 4 worlds so 
 which makes either 25 or 20 levels they are fun including the boss battles. the graphics is good 
 nothing much to say about that. the sound is good too has some catchy tune in the background. and 
 the value is good too. plain fun... but mostly plain funny. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
