-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crusaders of Might and Magic
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/crusadersofmightandmagic/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 23, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.4, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 111 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Action
Date:     Nov 30, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If the game were any longer, you'd start getting really tired of its numerous shortcomings and even 
 more frustrated that its good ingredients are only half-baked. 

 It's probably a good thing that 3DO's Crusaders of Might and Magic is so short. In its 10 to 12 
 hours of gameplay, you get a glimpse of its basically good intention: to enrich the third-person 
 action genre with some role-playing game conventions such as evolving character stats, spell casting, 
 and questing. However, if the game were any longer, you'd start getting really tired of its numerous 
 shortcomings and even more frustrated that its good ingredients are only half-baked.  

 While it's set in the interesting Might and Magic fantasy world, Crusaders can't actually bring 
 itself to tell much of a story. The hero Drake is supposed to have witnessed the death of his family 
 and town at the hands of the evil lord Necros and his Legion of the Fallen. But as is too often 
 the case in such games, you're left to read about these preambles in the accompanying manual rather 
 than actually seeing (or maybe even feeling) their impact in the game itself. The Drake you do 
 get to play delivers an occasional wisecrack but develops very little as a character.  

 The game starts as Drake feels himself drawn to a flying city and its leader Celestia, who signs 
 him up as a crusader and sends him off on a series of several predictable miniquests through equally 
 familiar environments. Drake traverses a dark forest, an elven mine, an ice world, and eventually 
 a stone stronghold as he rescues royalty and recovers lost artifacts, all of which leads up to 
 his final, predictable meeting with Necros himself. Although the designers have filled some of 
 the areas with the usual RPG cast of townspeople, unfortunately they have little to say and little 
 bearing on the game itself.  

 The gameplay engine is more promising than the story. While it isn't especially detailed or complex, 
 Crusaders does accomplish what many other third-person games don't, and that's to achieve a smooth 
 sense of movement. Drake has an engaging, fluid stride. That's a good thing, because the paths 
 to and through the five major environments are extraordinarily, inexplicably long. You will spend 
 tedious stretches of game time just sprinting between areas. Speed potions and level-ups quicken 
 the pace a bit, but still leave you with plenty of time to wonder what the designers were thinking 
 when constructing the game's endless paths.  

 When you finally get into combat, the engine performs well enough. Like Lara Croft, Drake climbs, 
 jumps, and does evasive flips, though not as gracefully as Lara does. Until Drake acquires a bow 
 later in the game, his arsenal includes axes, swords, and various bludgeons, all of which he wields 
 adroitly. Running overhead swings, lateral slices, and even crouching lunges are possible with 
 the right key combination. Drake's menagerie of enemies, mainly undead skeletons, ogres, and diverse 
 yeti, are not especially smart, but some of them use their shields very effectively, as should 
 you if you hope to survive. The combat does start piling on noticeably midway through the game, 
 which usually forces the hero to fall back and devise a spell-casting strategy. At its best, the 
 combat engine allows for some fun swashbuckling as you spear your way up and down stairwells or 
 dispose of a line of foes with leaping overhead chops, but the magic system actually gives the 
 game some tactical depth. Ten spells, such as healing, fireballs, freezing, and lightning, all 
 have three levels of power. Both the visual and actual effects of the spells are quite good. For 
 instance, a spectral ally spell casts a protective shield that holds off enemies while you fall 
 back and fire away. Snap freeze and glacial prison spells encase foes in nicely detailed ice blocks 
 while you chop away. Of course, mana fuels these powers, and it recharges itself during Drake's 
 long-distance runs. The only problem with the magic system is its cumbersome interface, which, 
 as with Drake's weapons, requires you to cycle through a growing arsenal before settling on the 
 right one. Doing so can be frustrating or even deadly in the heat of battle. There also seemed 
 to be some bugs in the combat system, which caused the game to crash occasionally.  

 Brevity and the basic competence of the combat engine keep Crusaders on the borderline of fun. Role-playing 
 game fans, especially followers of the Might and Magic series, will throw up their hands in dismay 
 at Crusaders' failure to make much of anything out of the plot and character. Finding half a dozen 
 objects and people and then going to fight the boss is all that passes for a story arc in the game. 
 There are no surprises, no substantial character growth or interaction, and no nuance to any of 
 the quests. Occasional bits of dialogue even satirize the role-playing game format a bit. "It's 
 always something," Drake quips when he discovers that rescuing a dwarf prince isn't enough to satisfy 
 one early quest. You'll wish the designers had employed some of that self-awareness in other parts 
 of the game. The loneliness of the long-distance runner sets in as Drake must perform marathons 
 just to reach the few goods shops and trade in what he scavenges from fallen foes. Character attributes 
 like speed, intelligence, and spell resistance are in the game, but it's unclear whether specific 
 actions boost them as you proceed or all stats just increase predictably whenever Drake levels 
 up.  

 In addition, the graphics engine is only decent. The blurry textures and exposed seams wouldn't 
 be so bad if some attempt had been made to lend the environments a little atmosphere. Instead they 
 look like blocky B-movie sets. And aside from the spell casting, nothing interesting ever happens 
 visually.  

 Essentially, you'll spend much of your time in Crusaders of Magic and Magic just watching Drake 
 wiggle down boring paths as you contemplate all the ways in which the game should have been better. 
 A smidgen of plot and character development, a pinch of real puzzles or surprising encounters - 
 anything of the sort could have spiced the mix to a more tolerable blend. But Crusaders seems to 
 fall into a growing category of game, which is basically inoffensive and even competent at times 
 but offers no compelling reason to keep playing. Crusaders fails to execute its good premise in 
 such obvious ways that it'll leave you frustrated and wondering at exactly what point a fine idea 
 becomes mired in blandness.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AelfricRaven
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Ah yes, Crusaders of Might and Magic. Now, the only reason I bought this game was because it had 
 "Might and Magic" in it's title, and how can you go wrong with a game made by 3DO? Right? Well, 
 it isn't that good, let me tell you right now...
  
  Gameplay: 5
  Let's see. Repetitive monsters, check; poor story, check; few and weak spells, check; weak questing, 
 check; lots of backtrack, check; no automap, check; pathetic last boss, check. Ok, the good point 
 is that the fight system is actually nice, and with spells you can have some fun because you'll 
 have to fall back for a bit since you won't be able to defeat some monsters with only a sword and 
 a shield. So yeah, it has some tactics, how about that.
  
  Graphics: 6
  The graphics remind me of Ultima IX, just worse. They are repetitive, and you can get lost easily 
 if you don't have a good sense of direction. But the spells have a nice visual, so that's a good 
 point of the game.
  
  Sound: 5
  It has a poor sound despite being a 3D RPG, in which you fight (unoriginal and few) monsters, and 
 like before, the spells actually do some nice sound effects.
  
  Value: 4
  The only reason I still have it's because it has the title "Might and Magic".
  
  Tilt: 5
 
  Meh, not much of a replay value to me... I mean, if it had an expansion or something, it could 
 get a higher score, and I would ignore some of it's flaws, but it hasn't, so nuts to that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick056
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  I HAVE WASTED MANY HOURS OF MY LIFE ON THIS GAME IT ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!! IT JUST HAS MANY GREAT THINGS 
 ABOUT IT AND I DONT CARE WHAT ANY BODY ELSE SAYS THIS GAME JUST  
 EVEN THOUGH GAMESPOT AND ALL THE OTHER PEOPLE THINK IT SUCKS BUT IT DONT ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS 
 PLAY IT AND ENJOY IT DONT DISECT ALL THE GOOD STUFF OUT OF IT JUST ENJOY THIS GREAT GAME IT ROCKS 
 IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IR ROCKS 
 IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS IT ROCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colderon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 21, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game grows on you a little. You start out thinking it might be fun, then after about an hour 
 or two the combat system is totally repetetive, the maps get confusing, and you want to beat your 
 brain out because you keep getting truned arounf. You find yourself looking more foreward to getting 
 the game over with and beat so that you don't have to play it any more. The only good thing then 
 is to say that you did it. The script can be a little funny at times, and the graphics aren't horrible. 
 This game is more of a two dollar buy that you play for a few hours just for a break from your 
 more serious games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
