-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crusader: No Remorse
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/crusadernoremorse/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.4, 8.7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 280 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 31, 1995
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In Crusader, only one thing is important: things blow up real good. 

 It's a rare treat when a game is so viscerally exciting that its shortcomings can be overlooked. 
 Such is the case with Crusader: No Remorse, a hyper-violent shooter from Origin Systems. Forget 
 the cheesy full motion video scenes and the obligatory bad acting. Forget the sometimes frustrating 
 controls which can send your character jumping across the screen without warning. In Crusader, 
 only one thing is important: Things blow up real good.   

 The game is set in a cartoon-like, Orwellian future. Individual rights are nonexistent, and every 
 aspect of daily life has come under the control of the World Economic Consortium. As a defector 
 from the WEC's elite Silencer force, you have lent your skills to the resistance movement. The 
 tone is set by the excellent packaging materials, which recall the halcyon days of the late, great 
 Infocom. Included is a Consortium handbook with scrawled notes from your resistance comrades and 
 a hilarious newsletter showing everyday living in this brave new world, both of which give depth 
 to the otherwise search-and-destroy nature of the game.  

 Avoiding the ubiquitous first-person perspective, Crusader utilizes a three-quarter overhead view, 
 similar to Relentless: Twinsen's Adventure or later entries in the Ultima series. From this vantage 
 point, you go through a series of lengthy missions, mostly just excuses to destroy everything in 
 sight. And destroy everything you will, once you take a gander at the glorious SVGA graphics. The 
 attention to destructive detail is mind-boggling. Shoot a Consortium chump in the back and he will 
 buckle appropriately, a pool of blood slowly forming beneath him. Shoot virtually any piece of 
 scenery and it will explode, igniting any unlucky bystanders who will run around screaming until 
 they collapse in a heap of ashes. The game may be amoral as all get-out, but it sure is fun.   
 

 Don't be surprised to find that Crusader is far from perfect. The quirky controls and somewhat disappointing 
 plot sequences can be distracting, and the missions are something less than a mental workout. Even 
 so, if you're the kind of player who enjoys laying waste to an enemy compound, Crusader's glass-shattering 
 ferocity is tailor-made for you.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: williamwillkil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  One of the best DOS games there is, in my opinion. The music is great, the action is great, the 
 animations are great, graphics are great and the gameplay is great. Although by saying great, I 
 don't mean that there is no problems within this game at all, because there are just a few, but 
 apart from that this game rocks.
  
  I first played this game when I was about 5 or 6 years old and I was immediately hooked to the 
 game. Everything just sucked me right into the game and from then on, I have loved it ever since. 
 Although it sucks that the only way to play it is on DOsBox, but I could always get an old hard 
 drive and stick windows 95 or 98 onto it. But if you can get DosBox and you have this game, then 
 play it immediately because it most definitely is worth it.
  
  For the time, the music was great and I really loved listening to it every time I played the game 
 and started shooting people. The In-Game movies are also great and they are really well done. It 
 really gets you into the mood of the game and it feels like you really are the character. 
  
  I like the storyline and I feel it is pretty well done for the time of this game. One thing 
 that I have noticed is that for the time, being a DOS game, it has incredible graphics. It just 
 blows my mind that they did so well. The graphics, in my opinion, are better than some modern games. 
 Even though this game isn't a FPS but more like a Top-down shooter, it still has better graphics 
 than some games.
  
  Of course with all this good stuff there is some bad stuff as well. Such as some of the controls 
 not working at times. The jumping isn't too good. Sometimes I want to jump over a bridge that has 
 been damaged, and my character ends up hitting something or not making the distance and then I 
 fall into some water and die. Stuff like that is really annoying.
  
  Sometimes the character doesn't move fast enough and he can get stuck quite easily which causes 
 some problems, but you can always get out. Not after some messing around with it though.
  
  All in all , the game is great. With a few tweaks here and there, it can be perfect. I just hope 
 that they make a sequel one day. That would be one hell of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  As an Adventure game this one was different in so many ways. Yes there was a lot of things to blow 
 up, plenty of bad guys to kill and a lot of maps to explore. The game was details was somewhat 
 blocky but doesnt draw away from the action. The controls could have used a little more work but 
 it got the job done. Like a Jerry Bruckheimer movie this game is all about action. Dont worry 
 too much about a plot because there was too much thought put into it. Sure there is games today 
 that are much better than this but for 10 plus years ago , this was one of best action games. P. S. 
 Does anyone else think that the main character looks like a Clone Trooper from Star Wars? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  
  I remember seeing this game in the stores when it was released. My fingers gently crept over the 
 back as I stared at the beautiful pictures that lay on the back, I remember thinking "Are games 
 supposed to look this good?" I ran with the box, over to my dad, and begged him for my wallet, 
 his eyes averted to the rating. I never got the game. For good reasons, Crusader has been considered 
 a extremely violent game, not in that you could mow every single enemy down with the result of 
 their blood pooling on the floor, but because you could slaughter innocent factory workers, and 
 destroy the surrounding environment with reckless abandon. Crusader was a generic action shooter, 
 but after playing it for awhile - 7 years after I first lay eyes on it - I found it to be a fun 
 entertaining joy ride.
  
  Look at the release date, look at the screenshots. You cannot deny it's simply gorgeous for it's 
 age. This was back in the day when pixelation was still a major eyesore. Every piece of machinery 
 you fill with bullets explode with a grand pyromania display. Everything is well animated and detailed, 
 even watching the sparkly lights as you teleport to another killing ground is amazing. Everything 
 is animated with life-like similarities, this is only flawed by the "hexagon" type grid movement 
 the game contains. Simply gorgeous, if you're looking for pretty people dying with pretty affects, 
 you won't be disappointed.
  
  Sound is another plus for this game. A well composed techno/rock soundtrack fits perfectly with 
 the destruction that ensues. Enemies wail and scream as they fall, civilians cower in fear, explosions 
 rock the building and create a slow rumbling, and the pretty gun affects have an equally pretty 
 boom. Not only is sound a great supplement, it's a necessary asset to your arsenal. Certain objects 
 are difficult to see in the environment, especially the loathed camera-automatic-weapon combos 
 that hide in the most clever corners. Listening carefully will give away the slow buzz the camera 
 makes as it rotates, so you can remove it as quickly as possible. The only annoyances that I suffered 
 was with the soundtrack, it does get very stale, and you'll be switching it off half-way through 
 your massacre.
  
  Probably the least fascinating aspect of Crusader is it's game play. Although it isn't bad, or 
 even average, if only the developers had added a more refined and interesting experience this game 
 could've made history. As you start out, you're armed with a single weapon, killing various guards 
 and bots will drop ammo, and sometimes - rarely - other weapons. Crusader is a pure shooter, nearly 
 everything you see can be destroyed, barrels, generators, phones, chairs, desks, it does provide 
 a fun diversion if you want to take a break from the average guard. But that's where it draws short, 
 you do this through the whole game, shoot to kill. You'll be hearing enemies scream at every corner, 
 civilians moan and beg each second. Despite that, you will have a nice variety of enemies to indiscriminately 
 mutilate. If you're looking for a big-gun-go-bang experience, you can't find anything better, or 
 more fun.
  
  Even if what I've said sounds a little negative, don't pass up Crusader, truly revolutionary in 
 it's own way, yet never recognized as it should have been. It's a short fun ride that'll take you 
 to some of the most brutal gunplay you might've ever experience in a video game, but it certainly 
 won't satiate the thinking
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
