-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crusader Kings
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/crusaderkings/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 10, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.4, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 340 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 28, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While casual gamers will feel overwhelmed, anyone with a love of history will appreciate Crusader 
 Kings' rigorous attention to detail and epic scope. 

  Tired of Europa Universalis? Paradox Entertainment hopes that you're not, because the Swedish developer 
 has just issued its seventh variation on the critically acclaimed real-time game of grand strategy. 
 Crusader Kings may turn the clock back to the early medieval era, but the design focus is still 
 solidly on historical accuracy. While casual gamers will feel like they've been plunged into a 
 maelstrom of names and dates, anyone with a love of history will appreciate the rigorous attention 
 to detail and epic scope.  

          Playable kings with dozens of personality traits make this the most human game in the Europa 
 Universalis series.     

  Those who enjoy historical biographies are also in for a treat. Befitting its name, Crusader Kings 
 places a great deal of emphasis on historical personages. So while you still play through three 
 campaigns -- the turbulent aftermath of William the Conqueror's victory in the Battle of Hastings 
 in 1066, the Third Crusade of 1187, and the onset of the Hundred Years' War in 1337 -- filled with 
 the usual economics, diplomatic machinations, and military campaigning, you do so as an individual. 

  So if you want to try your hand at keeping the Muslims out of Jerusalem in 1187, you might step 
 into the stirrups of England's King Richard I, or don the robes of France's King Philippe II Capet, 
 or take over the beleaguered court of Guy de Lusignan, King of Jerusalem itself. There are thousands 
 of authentic characters and virtually no limit on which king you can portray, as long as he is 
 in feudal Christendom -- Muslim states, the papacy, and Christian orders like the Knights Hospitallers 
 are included, but they aren't playable.  

  Every person in the game features characteristics that wouldn't be out of place in an RPG. In addition 
 to the four basic attributes of martial, diplomacy, intrigue, and stewardship, there are 26 character 
 traits, plus another two-dozen education and special traits and over a dozen diseases.  

  Each of these quirks has positive and negative effects. King Malcolm III Dunkeld of Scotland, for 
 instance, is vengeful and suspicious -- nasty tendencies that make him appreciate nave rivals 
 who are forgiving and trusting. He was educated as a martial cleric, which means that he's skilled 
 when it comes to diplomacy, intrigue, and the military. William I of Normandy is on the other side 
 of the fence, with a laundry list of positive attributes that make him energetic, wise, merciful, 
 and valorous. Of course, such features make him the natural enemy of those who are lazy, reckless, 
 and cruel cowards. He's also a bastard, though, so other nobles naturally dislike him and his prestige 
 takes a hit. And then there's Constantine X Ducas of Byzantium, an indulgent but knowledgeable 
 ruler who is unfortunately afflicted with a clubfoot that reduces his chances of marriage.  

          Of course, even kings are mortal, so you have to prepare for the inevitable by fathering 
 heirs and building a strong family dynasty.     

  All of these factors come into play in every aspect of the game. If your vassals are at the other 
 end of the personality spectrum, betrayal and revolt in your provinces is a constant threat. Conflicts 
 are also accentuated when rival kings have different interests. Don't expect to be arranging too 
 many marriages, or successfully suing for peace during times of war, if this is the case.  

  Traits aren't set in stone, however. As in previous games based on the Europa Universalis engine, 
 you are regularly confronted with situations that require you to make some choices. Many of these 
 incidents personally involve your character, and you are asked to react to events such as a pretty 
 wench catching your eye or your son riding horses hard through the woods. No matter what you do 
 in these situations, you win and lose. Give in to your passion with the wench and you wind up with 
 a bastard and the lustful trait. Hold back and you might never father an heir at all. Encourage 
 your son's physical activity and his health and fertility scores go up, but so do his chances of 
 illness and developing the reckless personality trait. There are so many events and potential choices 
 to make that you really get the sense of molding a character, much like in a role-playing game. 

  Each individual's place in history is further cemented with a massive web of familial relationships. 
 In addition to its role as a strategy game, Crusader Kings also functions as a de facto encyclopedia 
 of European feudal dynasties in the Middle Ages. You can open up your king's main screen and then 
 explore all of his formal connections by clicking on icons representing his parents, wife, sons 
 and daughters, vassals, potential successors, and even court hangers-on. These relationships are 
 so broad that you often begin clicking at one end of Europe and soon end up at the other.  

  Start clicking and it's hard to stop, too, since you are creating your own dynasty as you go. 
 It is absolutely captivating to follow the progress of bastards born from lustful assignations 
 that you permitted as well as the careers of heirs once they assume the throne, and the success 
 of arranged marriages, and so forth. There is more of an earthy tone here than in any of the preceding 
 Europa Universalis-styled games, and as a result gameplay is much more grounded. It reduces the 
 overly formal epic sweep of those earlier titles to a more manageable center that adds a needed 
 touch of soap opera humanity to some of the most momentous events in history.  

  Still, some problems have been held over. Although this style of epic strategic gaming has never 
 been more approachable, Paradox repeats many old mistakes. A tutorial has once again been ignored 
 and the manual is woefully inadequate at helping newbies get into their first campaign. There are 
 no solo campaign objectives aside from simply surviving long enough to build prestige and a strong 
 family dynasty. Unlike Europa Universalis II, there are no immediate, stated goals on which you 
 can focus while getting comfortable with the immense depth of play, the number of historical personages 
 with which to deal, the daunting main map screen with over a thousand provinces, and so on. It's 
 nice that Paradox encourages an open-ended, almost sandbox style of play, but this philosophy is 
 too extreme, leaving newcomers adrift in an intimidating sea of kings, counts, and courtiers.  
 

  Also, multiplayer still isn't what it should be, largely because of the subpar Valkyrienet matching 
 system. Considering the significant number of people out there playing these games against the 
 computer, Paradox should be doing more to develop an online community to play them with other human 
 beings.  

          This complex map should look familiar to anyone who has played one of the six previous 
 games based on the Europa Universalis engine.     

  The Europa Universalis engine is also starting to look and feel old. Backward compatibility is 
 nice -- especially here, since you can port saved games into Europa Universalis II for a full 800 
 years of historical gaming goodness -- but we've been looking at essentially the same map since the 
 start of 2001. And while it is a clean and attractive map, it would be nice to see the engine finally 
 move into 3D territory. Sound quality remains impressive. The musical score is overly bombastic 
 and somewhat out of place for this era, although at least these martial tunes sound great. Atmospheric 
 audio effects are better than ever. Open up the character screen to get information on the king 
 and his vassals and you're greeted by the sounds of hushed whispers as the courtiers gossip. Have 
 trouble with the plague or malaria and voices calling "Bring out your dead!" swell up ominously. 

  Nevertheless, Crusader Kings is an impressive addition to the Europa Universalis family. The addition 
 of playable characters adds a welcome human touch that both broadens the historical scope of the 
 game and makes it friendlier to newcomers to the series who want to attach faces and personalities 
 to the names and numbers.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: King_NUmero
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 5:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I got a bit overwhelmed, as it is rather fast paced, and I left it 
 alone for a couple weeks. I went back to it out of boredom one day but I read the manuel first; 
 and this really helped. READ THE MANUEL!
  
  The secret and downfall of this game is keeping your vassals happy. If you keep them happy you 
 can sit and build up your Counties, Duchies, Kingdom peacfully or can go to war with the strength 
 of your vassals armies. But if your vassals are unhappy then this game becomes tiresome very quickly 
 with having to quell numerous rebellions which come at inconvenient times (during a foreign invasion) . 
 When your kingdom gets large enough it gets to be too difficult to keep everyone happy and you 
 end up spending all of your time trying to keep your vassals in line. This game is fun for building 
 up a small county into a moderately sized kingdom (ex. County of Rama into the Kingdom of Croatia.) 
 
  
  Overall a good game but not for the casual gamer. This game takes a while to get the hang of and 
 will take numerous hours of gameplay to get through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvatarBlue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has become my second favourite Paradox game. I just love the whole character system, 
 the rivalries, the intrigue the way in which you can take a single country and become the King 
 of the realm.
  
  Whats more you can do it by force, or if you are more stuble, by marrying off your sons to those 
 wicked daughters of rival lords. Let them have sons of their own and finally they will inherit 
 enough titles in the realm to proclaim themselves kings! :D
  
  I just love the whole concept. I think what most people will find difficult to gather is that you 
 dont need to conquer things to win. Also if your character dies the game doesnt end. Rather your 
 bloodline continues and the aim is to gain prestige and titles for your descendent so that one 
 day they will be the ruler elite of the country. Its so rewarding being able to dish out titles 
 and rewards to sons, siblings and loyal courtiers. Inbetween doing your godly duty and going off 
 to the crusades for some head bashing!
  
  Furthermore, the way relationships are handled is straightward with the powerful and flexible event 
 system.
  
  This game is a real gem in this age of past paced shooters, bland MMORPGs/rpgs and wrist aching 
 RTS games.
  
  An absoulte godsend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Crusader Kings, retailing at a low budget $10 bucks from an online store, has become one of my 
 favorite games of all time.
  
  The rich history and attention to detail is incredible, though not to be taken as an overstatement. 
 The gameplay is virtually similar to the older installments of Europa Universalis series, and if 
 you are a fan of those games I'm sure you'll find this game equally worth your time. The low system 
 requirements, coupled with the game's design built for management freaks and Napoleons of all sorts, 
 generates a rich and immersive experience.
  
  Get past the somewhat daunting learning curve by playing around with the game. There's also a quick-start 
 tutorial on Youtube somewhere if you need further help. I learned all of the game's mechanics in 
 a surprisingly thirty-five minutes.
  
  I have only a few problems with the game. Updated to the latest patch, Crusader Kings isn't quite 
 plagued by game crashes as much as it use to but it still can be a small nuisance. Pop-notifications 
 can be annoying, but there's an option to hide them or simply alert you the same message in your 
 game log. The graphics are outright bland and compose of a simplistic 2D interface. 
  
  That said, Crusader Kings isn't a game in which you set out to conquer the known world, but a game 
 that takes and needs a slow-paced manner to truly enjoy and to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josefstalinat0r
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 12, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Immersive and far reaching historical realistic game play, detailed and comprehensive 
 dynasty building scheme, endless series of events and challenges for role player and gamer alike.
 
  
  The Bad: Unimpressive graphics and sound, rare but irritating glitches and crashes, basic and uninteresting 
 battle system, fairly steep learning curve.
  
  When it comes to historical strategy games, you would be hard pressed to find one as all encompassing, 
 as intricate, and as difficult, as Crusader Kings. Be ye a role player, a history buff, or simply 
 a gamer seeking something that deviates from the norm, Paradox's medieval adventure is definitely 
 something for your consideration. Be warned, however, Crusader Kings is not for everyone, and can 
 be considered one of the greatest Hit Or Miss games to grace the PC.
  
  Crusader Kings places you in the role of ruler of a medieval County, Duchy, or Kingdom, and sets 
 you upon the task of building a medieval dynasty to last the historical time period from the Battle 
 of Hastings in 1066 to the fall of Constantinople in 1453. Your success is measured in Prestige, 
 Wealth, and Piety, as well as the sheer size of the realm you bring under your control. Though 
 one may start with considerable power and wealth by taking the reigns of a pre-existing Kingdom 
 like the Holy Roman Empire, England, or France, the true reward comes in rising from a lowly count 
 or duke and usurping the Capets or De Normandy's to lead your own dynasty to glory. Crusading to 
 the holy land to convert the heathens to your faith, ending the schism by returning the Orthodox 
 under the Pope, or simply eliminating the remaining pagans in Northern and Eastern Europe all provide 
 alternate entertaining avenues for your resources which may go to waste at home during times of 
 peace. War with non-Christians is also much simpler as it does not require the player to establish 
 a claim on the other player's land titles (which cost prestige) nor does it lower the reputation 
 of the player, which makes his vassals disloyal and wary of his unstable and warmongering intentions. 
 This does become irritating and unrealistic at times, but can be lowered by assassinating a few 
 members of the court as examples of those who resist the ruler's rule. With a bit of tweaking, 
 it is also possible to make the player's own character bear his last name, for those who want to 
 make their indelible mark on history yet more pronounced.
  
  Modding is very important to this game, and marks one of its hidden perks. The fact that paradox 
 cannot seem to match the fan community in its ability to perfect and enhance their creations should 
 not discourage one from purchasing their games for that very reason; the good fellows at the Paradox 
 Community Forums are what truly make Crusader Kings an epic experience. Though great in its own 
 right, the various graphics enhancements, alternate scenarios, utilities (such as the invaluable 
 bride finder) , and the mods which allow play as Muslim and pagan rulers raise CK to the next level. 
 Most of the flaws such as instability and inability to play as non-Christians are immediately nullified, 
 and the positive side is made only stronger. This can be somewhat overwhelming to the casual player 
 who is not willing to invest the time necessary to comb the forums for these improvements, let 
 alone spend hours speeding through the centuries to build their dynasty, but for those with the 
 willpower and patience, it elevates Crusader Kings to the level of any PC classic. With a potential, 
 yet flawed, conversion utility to classic Europa Universalis II at the end of the Crusader Kings 
 campaign, the adventure can continue through EUII and through Victoria and Hearts of Iron II as 
 the twisted and unfamiliar world spans 950 years of history.
  
  Crusader Kings is not without flaw. As previously stated, the system of claiming titles and reputation 
 can be come irritating and unrealistic, and the battle system once implemented is based almost 
 entirely upon number of troops, with minimal attention paid to the army's composition. As with 
 any paradox game, instability rears its ugly head, though the yearly autosave can usually offset 
 this. For a casual gamer, seeking instant action and gratification from their games, Crusader King's 
 flaws will overtake any positives it may deliver.
  
  Overall, Crusader Kings does mark one of the best of Paradox's series of Historical Strategy games. 
 The balance of simplicity and detail is unusual from a company known for its love of overwhelming 
 learning curves and detail. If you are looking for a historical game that requires considerable 
 investments in time and effort, or a realistic look at the medieval world, Crusader Kings is a 
 must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 28, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is at first glance, doesnt attract the eye. And also i have not given its worth to it 
 and have put it some place in my shelf after my first impressions. (15 mins look out) .
  
  When i am out of game, and bored to death from other ones.. i have given this one another chance. 
 I was surprised! Very impressive game balance and engine is hidden beneath this monster!
  
  Now, let me start by saying, this game is ran by claims. You need to have a claim on some land 
 before you grab it, and claims require prestige which you earn in a variety of ways.
  
  You have to keep your vassals loyal, often rewarding with some title (Which means to give land) 
 you have to maintain a good courtier list. An d assign them for the prosperity of your kingdom 
 as well as spy operations.
  
  This is a very different dimension when you let the game possess you. You completely understand 
 claims on land, titles, prestige and to be a king.
  
  The flaws of the game are: (IMO)
  - Battles are general and you have little influence on combats as there is no tactics implemented. 
 You send the army and the larger the army, the better the chance to win.
  - you have no option to build siege engines and such stuff.
  - Bride finding is pain in the rear, 
 (which is important as it is the only way to inherit land) Would have been great if your courtiers 
 would offer you a suitable bride and save you from a whole tons of search.
  - Graphics are too cartoonish
  - Sometimes the in game text is not explanatory.
  - Muslim countries 
 are not playable.
  - Tech investments are complicated and hard to follow.
  
  The rest is, perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godiba
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Es el mejor juego jamas inventado, ojala desarrollen crusader kings 2, solo faltan mejores graficos, 
 un final mas motivante a que solo te muestren una lista y te digan ganaste (alguna imagen o algo 
 asi no estaria demas) y poder elegir a los musulmanes, quizas desarrollar mas el tema de las cruzadas. 
 El tema de las mujeres en el poder tambien debio ser una opcion y que cuando estas gobernaran el 
 marshal pudiese tomar los territorios en nombre del reino, y no para formar un nuevo condado, que 
 no solo el ejercito liderado por el rey o por ejercitos sin personajes pudieran tomar territorios 
 en nombre del condado, ducado o reino.
  Los parches que se fueron desarrollando muy acertivamente, cada uno mejoro elementos escenciales 
 del juego. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Crusader kings is a game set during the crusades, hence the title. Crusader Kings is an interactive 
 strategy game based on the Europa Universalis engine that focuses on the feudal kingdoms of medieval 
 Europe in the time period of 1066 to 1453 A. D. This game was at first a little confusing and hard 
 to get into, but given time and patience I was able to enjoy its many facets to medieval politics 
 and an open endedness that allows you to play the game as you wish. In Crusader Kings, you basically 
 assume the role of a medieval lord, with the goal to be the most powerful ruler throughout Europe. 
 With conquest, intrigue and diplomacy you steer your realm, and like in medieval politics it is 
 crucial to mix chivalry and treason, nepotism and loyalty. To achieve your goals you need to guide 
 your family through a multitude of aspects including the intriguing politics of medieval times. 
 Let's go back in time and take a look!
  
  Let me start out by saying all instances that are explained are scenarios that I have personally 
 experienced in my time playing Crusader Kings, and I am sure that there is a huge amount of content 
 that I have yet to discover. That is how deep this game can be! Also Crusader Kings doesnt really 
 give you any trial runs or a tutorial so for basic game play tips read the manual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hallasnicov
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  When you first start playing Crusader Kings, it looks sooo confusing. There is a lot of things 
 that you ought to control and know about, and a lot of rules you should learn (I haven't learned 
 them all myself) . There is a very thick manual, which you can read if you want to, i didn't. Luckily 
 you can have fun and understand a lot of this game, just by using your common sense.
  
  You start of as a king of a small European country, and you then has to make your way to the top 
 and lead your country to glory and prestige. This you do by marrying your heir into to another 
 royal family, conquer new land or please the church in some way (by far the easiest) . There are 
 two factors called prestige (your power) and piety (how pleased the church is) , this two factors 
 decides how high you are in the rankings of Europa's royal families. The goal of the game is obvious 
 to be number one, which is a time-consuming business, but when you're first at the top the game 
 gets a little dull and goalless. You just roam around with your troops conquering new land, and 
 marrying away your children and grandchildren. Then you end up doing the same things about 1000 
 times, and that's a timewaster for you!
  Even though the game turns out very hard or very easy depending on which country you decides to 
 rule, it's still a little boring
  At first this game looks very funny and addicting, and it is. But when you have tried all the different 
 features, there just ain't very much more to do, and that's a little sad.
  
  So buy this game if you want a really great, different Real-time strategy game, that doesn't have 
 to last forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mk1234
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big histroy buff especially about the Middle Ages and Crusades so I was very excited when 
 I heard about this game on Gamespot. I purchased the game and the first thing that I noticed was 
 that the instruction manual was very inadequate. For a game that is very complex they did not provide 
 much help. The game itself once I got past the massive learning curve, is very rewarding. I really 
 enjoy the amount of detail they have put into the game. It is not a fast paced game so for those 
 of you expecting to hack up a few levels it isn't gonna happen. Be prepared to spend a lot of time 
 with this game. Another problem I felt with the game was the look, the Europa Universalias look 
 is starting to get a bit dated and also the combat model is still lacking it feels like you have 
 no control over the outcome of the battle. Also the whole thing is too dependetn on the vassals. 
 You could sped more of your time fighting your vassals than any other enemies. Overall this game 
 is a very challlenging game but if your a history buff you'll appreciate the attention to detail. 
 If your not a histroy buff but are interested in this type of game Medieval Total War is probably 
 a safer bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirDibblet54
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  I will start of by saying; this game is not for everyone. It requires a certain type of person 
 to enjoy hours of game play of this type. If you have played any of the other of the Paradox strategy 
 games (EU2, Hearts of Iron or Victoria) and enjoyed them, Crusader Kings is a must have for the 
 collection. At first I wasn't too sure if the game was as good as I had heard, it is not as nearly 
 as fast paced as Hearts of Iron and it seems overwhelming to the novice. But after a few hours 
 of game play I discovered that playing this game can lead an immediate addiction. Politics play 
 a huge role in the game, as a Count, Duke or King you lead your homeland through triumphs and defeat. 
 Your victory is dependant on having an heir to your title and using all the tricks available to 
 obtain more land and power. An assassination can help you to inherit an empire, or can lead to 
 a destructive war. Character traits determine if your heirs will be leaders or puppets. Will you 
 heed the call of the pope and crusade in the holy land or will you fight back the barbarian horde 
 from the east? Its up to you; if you have a love of history and wish to immerse yourself in it 
 then I suggest trying out Crusader Kings. Be warned it requires a massive amount of patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  I reviewed this game after 10 hours of play and gave it a 7 because of the lame manual and no tutorial. 
 But then, for the first time in my gaming history I'm coming back to write a completely different 
 review. 
  
  I've been playing this game for a month now and It's climbing at the top of my favorite-game-of-all-time 
 in an alarming pace. 
  
  It's a shame that Paradox is such a looser when comes the time to write a good manual and a tutorial 
 cause the game itself is such a great game and it will surely discourage a lot of casual gamer. 
 But once you know what to do, it's really easy to play. You'll have to do a little research, go 
 over the net, over the forums to know what to do (look for the "for beginners from a beginners" 
 on the AAR report of the paradox's formum) . And then you'll have to invest 7-10 hours of gameplay 
 in order to really understand all the aspects of this game. But once you've done that, you're rewarded 
 with a unique and unparallelle strategy game filled with intricate and multiple ways of waging 
 war. This game is really, really unique. 
  
  One thing you might want to do is make an AAR (After Action Report) after every session of game 
 you play which basicly consist of writing down what happened in the game history wise. You'll soon 
 discover that you're writing down your own history like historian did and that you'll become more 
 and more attached to your familly line even discovering fun after-the-fact facts like having the 
 descendent of an old enemy being now in line to take the throne of you greatest allies or having 
 the child of step-step uncle being the key to keep your empire alive or take over another liege. 
 
  
  If I could write down the reward beind the learning curve I would but I guess you'll just have 
 to trust me. And really do write the history of your familly wether it's just a couple of line 
 per Liege to describe what they have accomplished or lost during their time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricardonunes16
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  Podemos fazer varias coisas, o mais brilhante e mesmo o facto de podermos conquistar, aniquilar, 
 combater ate a morte dos nossos proprios exercitos k podem ser expandidos quando e ate quando queremos. 
 enfim mais um jogo brilhante, k foi desenvolvido por um grupo fantastico de pessoas k levam-nos 
 ate nos mais um jogo brilhante, poderia ser um pouco mais desenvolvido mas ixo pode ficar pra proximas 
 ate a proxima e espero k nao seija demorada por ixo continuem um bom travbalho\
  
  nao se esquecam k este jogo e muito bom e por essa razao a concelho pra todos os jogadores de jogos 
 do tipo deste pra k joguem por`que e muito 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2005 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Some things the company review might not cover.
  
  THE GOOD: 
  - Can play as a King, his Dukes, or a mere Count.
  - Genuine strategy, to RTS or other crap that 
 is too common.
  - Lots of effort went in to historical accuracy.
  - Can play as the Byzantines! 
  - Watch your characters develope as time goes on.
  - Most of 
 the game
  
  THE BAD:
  - Cannot play as the muslim factions (not that I would, but others might) .
  - Vassel loyalty 
 is almost too important, and too fickle.
  - Your territory can change hands through things like marriages. 
  - Too hard for Christian factions 
 to war against each other. (Causes too many penalties)
  
  THE UGLY:
  - Horrendous attrition penalties.
  - Constant crashes (on my pc at least)
  - Relationship between 
 ruler/vassels. Ruler has very little to no control over his vassels, or their armies. A ruler can 
 control the vassel's armies but with a huge (and constant) loyalty penalty.
  - Ruler takes a prestige hit when attacking a province rebelling against him.
  - Constantinople 
 referred to as Byzantion
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
