-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crysis Warhead
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/crysiswarhead/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The action is focused and intense.
 Amazing visuals that look--and run--better than before.
 Improved AI makes fighting aliens more fun.
 Team Deathmatch has been added, along with a number of great multiplayer maps.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A little too linear at times.
 A few remaining AI quirks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 17, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.5, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 4,167 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Crytek
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Sep 16, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warhead is a fantastic stand-alone expansion to a superb shooter, and should be played by anyone 
 who likes games with guns. 

  All of the claims you may have heard that Crysis could only run on nuclear-powered supermachines 
 were greatly exaggerated. But if for some reason you worry that this stand-alone companion to the 
 ultragorgeous first-person shooter will bring your PC to its knees, you should know that it's highly 
 scalable and ran smoothly on a number of machines during our testing. It also looks better, with 
 clear attention given to the game's artistic sensibilities and the lusher, denser environments. 
 But rest assured, developer Crytek has enhanced more than just the graphics engine. Vehicles are 
 more fun to drive, firefights are more intense and focused, and aliens do more than just float 
 around you. More emphasis on the open-ended environments would have been welcome, but a more exciting 
 (though shorter) campaign, a new multiplayer mode, and a whole bunch of new maps make Crysis Warhead 
 an excellent expansion to one of last year's best shooters.  

           These big boys are back, and will still give you a chill. Literally.      

  If you 
 didn't play Crysis, Warhead's story may be initially confusing, given that you hit the ground running 
 with little exposition. You play as Sergeant "Psycho" Sykes, the brash Brit who was a bit player 
 in the original game. Psycho tends to play by his own rules, always willing to ignore orders and 
 jump into the fray if that's what the situation requires. The story runs parallel to the events 
 of Crysis, though his strident attitude -- and a dramatic cutscene near the end of the game -- definitely 
 make this Psycho's tale, even if the actual plot remains the same. In any case, you and your US 
 Special Forces team are investigating a tropical island besieged by North Korean invaders. However, 
 your greatest menace comes in the form of aggressive aliens that turn the luxuriant jungles and 
 glowing beaches into a frozen wasteland. You and your teammates, clad in nanosuits that grant you 
 special abilities such as super strength, temporary cloaking, super speed, and additional armor, 
 confront both threats across a variety of large environments.  

  Psycho's brazen confidence does more than just establish a gutsy protagonist: It sets the stage 
 for a more focused and intense series of battles that keep the pace moving more smoothly than before. 
 Warhead still offers some of the same kind of sandbox levels, but thoughtful enemy placement and 
 map bottlenecks keep downtime to a minimum. You can approach assaults on beachfronts and Korean 
 encampments in a number of ways, so if you're a stealth enthusiast, you can employ your suit's 
 cloak setting and sneak in, or attach a silencer to your sniper rifle and take out your human foes 
 from a distance. If you would rather employ hit-and-run tactics, you can jump into the heat of 
 battle, cause a ruckus, and use your suit's speed function to zoom away. However, Warhead is clearly 
 focused on the guns-blazing approach, gently nudging you into full-on encounters with its mission 
 objectives, character dialogue, and level design. When you reach primary and secondary destinations, 
 you'll get besieged by large numbers of enemies, both human and (later on) alien. Given that human 
 foes also don nanosuits, they're not necessarily quick to fall; as a result, these sequences are 
 exciting and challenging, and you'll need to use your suit abilities and cover opportunities to 
 your advantage. The easily triggered explosions of enemy vehicles and hazardous barrels further 
 intensify these pockets of activity.  

  A number of set-piece battles confirm this slight shift toward action-packed mayhem. Your first 
 encounter with a hulking alien war machine may not have the same impact as a similar one in Crysis, 
 but it happens earlier than you'd expect, and it establishes the alien presence with adrenaline-fueled 
 drama. That battle is a wonder, as is a later defensive mission that has you fending off a series 
 of aliens, and requires you to shift focus frequently and use every weapon in your inventory. Another 
 great sequence is a train level that, at first, seems much like similar sequences in a number of 
 other shooters. You can stay on the train and use turrets to gun down the opposition, as expected -- but 
 you can also jump off and engage the opposition at any time, giving even this near-cliche sequence 
 plenty of replay value. A linear journey through an underground mine is the obvious misstep in 
 regard to level design, given that it never so much as hints at the open-ended action that makes 
 Warhead a superb shooter.  

           Better vehicle handling makes for better action.      

  If you played only that level, 
 you also wouldn't see the host of improvements that power the action, particularly the improvements 
 to alien artificial intelligence. The general design means that these robotic rivals will occasionally 
 still be floating around above you, but they have more obvious smarts now, and they find ways to 
 pummel you with ice pellets while remaining just out of sight, staying on the move, and using cover 
 more often. Human enemies also seem more aware of their surroundings, flank you more often, and 
 activate their nanosuits' armor to minimize damage. They also use the limited visibility that the 
 jungle affords them quite well, hiding in brush to stay just out of sight. There are some remaining 
 problems, particularly if you take potshots from a distance. Occasionally, the AI won't react when 
 you snipe at an enemy, and foes using turrets will sometimes let you walk right up behind them. 
 On the whole, however, Warhead makes clear improvements over the original in this regard, which 
 in turn makes for better combat overall.  

  Vehicles feel sturdy, which is just as well, because you'll be driving them often, either to cover 
 ground more quickly, or just to take pleasure in mowing down enemies with your mounted weapons. 
 You can have a good deal of fun blazing a trail through the jungle while showering your foes with 
 steel death, and the destructible environments further exaggerate the devastation. A scene in which 
 you speed across the tundra in a hovercraft is done particularly well, offering a good sense of 
 speed but pushing you into enemy hotbeds, giving you the chance to stop and fight or zip away with 
 a quick glimpse of Koreans riddling aliens with bullets.  

  The improved vehicle handling is also noticeable on one of the new multiplayer maps, on which two 
 teams battle in -- and out of -- the tanks and helicopters scattered about. This is good stuff, and 
 it showcases Warhead's new Team Instant Action mode, a mode noticeably missing from the original 
 Crysis. It's just good old Team Deathmatch, but it's done well, and the maps are improvements on 
 those of the original. Snipers are still a threat, but the size of the maps are better suited to 
 deathmatch battles, and more thought and care seem to have gone into small but important factors, 
 such as weapon-cache placements and player spawns. The Instant Action and Power Struggle modes 
 are still accounted for, and many of the original maps return, offering a large suite of online 
 options that make online Warhead combat more appealing than its predecessor. Note that unlike Crysis, 
 the expansion requires the online component to be installed separately, and isn't accessible from 
 the single-player game.  

           Here they come! And this time, they don't just aimlessly float above you.      

  Both 
 online and off, Warhead is a beauty. As mentioned before, the game looks better than Crysis, and 
 it runs better too. A test machine that struggled a bit to run the original at high settings ran 
 Warhead smoothly with the same settings. Yet as much as you may have heard about Crysis' technical 
 prowess, you'll still be impressed when you feast your eyes on the swaying vegetation, surging 
 water, and expressive animations. Don't overlook the improved art design, though, which surpasses 
 the original's oft-sterile look thanks to several striking vistas, such as one featuring an icy 
 naval vessel stranded in the frozen tundra. The audio is almost as terrific. Various creaks and 
 groans make heading down a narrow glacial pathway all the more harrowing, and weapons sound appropriately 
 powerful. The voice acting is strong, and the understated soundtrack sets the right tone without 
 ever getting in the way.  

  Warhead's single-player campaign should take you no more than six hours or so to complete, but 
 not only does it invite multiple play-throughs, it costs only $30 -- and doesn't require you to own 
 the original. In other words, there is no reason why anyone with a capable PC shouldn't play Crysis 
 Warhead. It's more focused, it's more intense, and though it doesn't provide as much of the sandbox 
 feel as Crysis veterans would wish for, it still delivers on every other front. Play this game. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (254 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LGTX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:50 am PT
Review:  I guess I'll start this review with a little bit of self-experience. I played Warhead almost a 
 year ago, as soon as it was released, because I was eager to see a fixed-up Crysis ready to earn 
 good scores at last. I'll talk about what was good and what wasn't below, but for now, I'm just 
 going to say that after a year of playing different kinds of shooters I found myself missing the 
 open-world and wide-range abilities of Crysis, Not even Far Cry 2 helped it. So now, in 2009, I 
 decided to have another go. I have to say that it was one of the most surprising and refreshing 
 replays ever. 
  
  Warhead was announced shortly after the release of the original Crysis. The developers for the 
 new standalone expansion were the newly formed Crytek Hungary, and their main goal was to transform 
 the tranquil gameplay of the original into something more fierce and dynamic, up to those days' 
 standards.
  
  I'll express my feelings about the original in short. It was fun, innovative, with amazing visuals, 
 but it felt too much like an experiment. There was an open world full of destructive environments 
 and adaptive AI, and there was us, thrown into all of that without a general purpose, without motivation. 
 The absence of interesting moments made the game boring to most gamers, to 
  those people who were used to having fun rather than creating it. Warhead promised to pick up the 
 pace and deliver a little bit more linear experience with extreme variety and spectacular moments. 
 As a matter of fact, it did.
  
  Let's start with the story. It is parallel to Crysis in fact, and follows a memorable character 
 from the original, Sgt. Sykes, nicknamed "Psycho". When he and Nomad got separated, with the latter 
 beginning the infiltration of the alien vessel, Psycho was assigned to a high-priority mission 
 to locate and retrieve a KPA container, loaded with presumably a nuke. As it turned out (I don't 
 consider this a major spoiler, but just in case, it's a later plot point) the container merely 
 held an alien exoskeleton, which by some miracle didn't self-destruct by death. So it was a critical 
 element in obtaining at least some information about the species.
  
  The gameplay is generally unchanged. We get huge sandbox levels, and we get the nanosuit. The suit 
 lets us utilize different modes, like strength, armor, speed and invisibility. They all drain a 
 shared energy source, so you'll have to think tactics. The weapon arsenal is a little modified (New 
 skins for Scar, AK and Shotgun) , and there are notable changes. We get 3 new weapons, but we lose 
 another 2 from the original. We'll be introduced to a semi-automatic grenade launcher, dual weldable 
 Uzis, and a state-of-the-art Particle Accelerator Cannon (PAX) , which makes the portable nuke form 
 Crysis feel small. By the way, both the nuke and the alien M. O. A. C. energy weapon are omitted from 
 Warhead (And the multiplayer counterpart, Crysis Wars) , which seems like an odd move considering 
 the developers wanted variety. Then again, the only guy with the alien cannon was Prophet, and 
 he got lost. 
  From other new elements, we get some new vehicles (A heavily armored APC, something between a tank 
 and a Humvee, and a weaponless Hovercraft featured in a great pursuit level across a frozen ocean) , 
 probably better optimization, a slightly changed color gamma (the screenshots showed a slight sepia 
 tone, but I didn't feel any difference from the original when I went through it) , and 3rd person 
 cutscenes. The latter are done a little unrealistically, models bug around and clip all the time, 
 and close-up textures look embarrassing for something bearing the name "Crysis". But of course, 
 I should be quiet considering my lower-than-low end rig, which is even a more of an embarrassment 
 to Crysis.
  
  The basic formula on which the game worked was total freedom, but Warhead adds some critical elements 
 to that statement. There really are multiple ways to handle a situation, but almost all of them 
 are excluding stealthy murders and try as hard as they can to give you a hundred explosions per 
 second. If you thought that fuel barrels were overused in Crysis, you will laugh at this one. Those 
 things ar everywhere, backed up by explosive fuel containers, constant bomb runs and planes/VTOLs 
 crashing down from every direction. Instead of using a clever way to make the game interesting, 
 Crytek just turned it into a rough, but quite steep rollercoaster, which is just as fun as any 
 other Call of Duty. 
  
  I probably shouldn't be writing this paragraph, as every mortal alive knows how unparalleled the 
 visuals are. CryENGINE 2.5 does little to improve it, but reworked explosions and access to maximum 
 settings for DX9 users appeared to be enough. My rig wasn't enough to test the optimization, there 
 are more noticeable poppings and better LODs though.
  
  The music has been re-composed for some action verses and a more livelier melody, which can't be 
 bad. Psycho does his voice acting job bearably, but all other characters (which are mainly angry 
 friends and even angrier KPA generals) recite with a monotone and boring voice.
  
  All in all, as an expansion, the game is good, and delivers unique experience, but generally it 
 bears minimal difference form Crysis. If you are new to the series, Warhead is your best bet both 
 by price and quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awwitz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 3:43 am PT
Review:  It's Crysis the second time around-or is it? Well, as it turns out, it's a game that goes along 
 the first one (kinda reminiscent of the Half-Life series with the Blue Shift and Opposing Force 
 expansions) . But this game really hit more than a wall of greedy expectations, it topples that 
 wall with a barrage of great graphics, enhanced game play and a new storyline that expands the 
 first Crysis game.
  (STORY)
  It's Psycho's story this time around; he's main man and it's all about him and what he's doing 
 during Nomad's escapades. It turns out he's done a lot more enjoyable things than Nomad has. He 
 meets all sorts of weirdness, a lot more enemies and new types of enemies. He even gets to have 
 a few wild 'wild rides' that's greatly satisfying and memorable for his and the players' part. 
 There's this small war in Korea; everyone who's played the first game is already oriented with 
 this bit of the tale, but there's more to the events that are happening in future Korea: a conspiracy 
 is stirring and the whole world will eventually be affected with all of it. It's up to a small 
 band of nano-suit wearing soldiers to stop this localized event to spread globally. Then there's 
 the aliens, and the plot is inevitably turned around. All these and more when playing this game, 
 and it's worth the price alone.
  (GRAPHICS)
  Crytek really put their butts into this game. On full graphics capacity, this game really is one 
 realistic adrenalin-jerker. The motion blur, the character animation, the huge environments, the 
 ambiance, the weirdness are wonderfully painted in this game. There are more animals this time 
 around; gives the player a sense of life that the island lacked on the first game. Nature is really 
 alive in this offering. The weapons animation are rendered well, and though there are a few things 
 that may trouble the frame rate and presentation, it's forgivable. One can't really distinguish 
 between cut scene and actual game play anymore, it's that beautiful.
  (SOUND)
  It's better this time around because every sound is enhanced. They even added other ambient noise, 
 though I don't really know which of 'em it is, I just know their there. I would really like to 
 commend their work on the soundtrack, it's so 'action-y', if you know what I mean. They're a mix 
 of heroic music and nu metal. I just love to listen to the soundtrack played on the menu and the 
 credits. They inject a feeling of being challenged and a feeing of accomplishment. It's all good, 
 and noisy.
  (GAMEPLAY)
  It's definitely faster than the first game. The firefights are more intense and the weapons are 
 all like crazy dope-users out to unleash hell on those alien scum. Even the pistols look and sound 
 extremely menacing. Along the standard weapons first featured in the original Crysis are a new 
 arsenal of weapons that'll leave the players stunned and excited. Weapons can now be upgraded and 
 tweaked many times; I wonder why Nomad never got these special things in his inventory (Psycho 
 gets all the good stuff) . Movement, action, the nano-controls all feel different this time around. 
 'Combos' are now used frequently using the nano-suit 'special features', so expect that droning 
 monotonous voice to whisper 'maximum...' many times. Or turn it off.
  (OVERALL)
  I clapped my hands when I began this game. The larger things in the Crysis universe are featured 
 here and so, the best things to date are here. I loved the rocket-launcher; it's faster and it 
 looked to deal more damage since there's emphasis to destruction here. I had a great time playing, 
 and so would you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: congretto
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  incredible graphix, sound effects and AI. Can play it again and again. and you still end up with 
 something different each time. Had many difficulties in running Crysis because you needed to have 
 a high end machine to fully enjoy it. But this time they made it. I have a radeon 3650 on my lappy 
 and I still get very good fps at high quality thanks to the improved game engine. I played almost 
 all of the shooters in the history since '92 but none of the games made so revolutionary changes 
 in gaming ( Warhead is the sequel but I count it as the most optimized version of Crysis ) ( by 
 the way, Doom 3 was a real revolution too but not such close to reality because of the level designs 
 but you feel like you are walking on a beautiful island rather than playing a game in Warhead ) . 
 The only thing I think would have enriched the game is a suit mode where you can move faster than 
 your enemies (this is not a weak point just a suggestion) . Other than that the game is perfect. 
 Rating this game lower than 9.5 would be a terrible mistake for experienced gamers like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_mop265
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 7:07 pm PT
Review:  where to begin.........
  this game hands down is one of the best games ever
  every one that has played it that i know says it is amazing
  i'll start out with the pros
  
 PROS:
  
  -Graphically this is the best ever. I got this game on gamer and 1400x900 and it rocks the house. 
 Like few games are so great i just stop and stare and look at the game. The water the first time 
 i saw it with the foam I was like... WOW. The explosions, the sun, geometry, amazing! Like I've 
 never seen anything so good
  
  -Game play in this game was good. You can play it as a stealth game if you wish, or a straight 
 out shooter, a tactical shooter, whatever. Really if you want to you can just blow up the building 
 with the guys in it and that's does the job which brings me to the next point
  
  -Destructibility. Some times on a bad day i just destroy a house, put a load of gas tanks by it, 
 shoot them.. BOOM. never gets old
  
  -story. well didn't play Crysis so don't know how they tie together but it was pretty good, i taught 
 it was predictable but, I've kinda developed an bad skill of predicting what comes next
  
  alright that's give me the 9.5 pretty good huh? well this is the small quirks that chopped the 
 last .05 off
  
  well the physics engine was only at gamer but... things just didn't crumble like i threw a magazine 
 at a roof and it stayed in one piece which that might just me asking too much but really why?
 
  like i think UT3 has stuff like that so why doesn't warhead?
  
  another thing is that before i updated the drivers it would crash a lot. like go from playing perfect 
 to seeing my desktop.. or worse by reboot screen
  not cool
  
  great game and your all probably wondering how much i spent on this system only $550
  so you 
 really don't need a crazy $1000 system to run this good
  
  overall amazing game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RefuGeelas1983
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2009 10:42 pm PT
Review:  only 3 wordsthis game rocks" cant wait to see whats after this game :) Crysis has wowed me from 
 the first glance and it had a major role to play when it came to upgrading my PC. That's why i 
 have put together my own rig on order to play this game to its full potential. The future is very 
 bright for Crytek and their games. if they keep making them like this, you bet your ass ill be buying 
 em :)
  i can only imagine what the future holds, and how 10 years from now you will be looking at Crysis 
 the way you look at 007 on N64 now. I mean i remember looking at the James bond game and thinking 
 wow these graphics look awesome. Now i look and think damn what a difference. I give mad props to 
 the people that have created this game, and i love how they just kept it on PC, For once PC users 
 have a game all to them selves YAY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  another great follow up to the graphicly impressive game of the year. i loved the first crysis 
 and being able to play it again on the other side of the island and as the other person psycho 
 is great. i personaly preffer the voice acting in this game to the previous but i think this is 
 a personal opinion. and one that doesnt matter too much because the voice acting is great.
  
  The controls and the fps so to speak is slightly easier and more improved so to speak as the 
 engine has had a year to patch etc.
  
  this is a whole new section of the game and you explore the other side of the island and see the 
 disasters unfold while playing a differnt carachter of the team. theres nothing differnt entiely 
 here you still have the exelent nano suit and the great choice of guns. if you havent played crysis 
 this game is defently worth trying although i would advice trying the first one first.. so to speak.. 
 its good to know that these guys can produce such a fun game and it looks amazing if you feel like 
 shooting some bugs (big ones.. bigger than crysis... in places ... rof .. i always do this!) pick 
 this game up for sure its intense in places and if you love fps then this is one you cant miss..
 
  
  dead. space. next... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maf17
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I didnt like the original Crysis. While the first half of the game offered some 
 outstanding gameplay, the second half switch to beating off hordes of aliens was a yawn, and didnt 
 allow you to use the stealth qualities of the nanosuit which were such fun when you were taking 
 out bemused Koreans in the first part. And then there were the bugs! Warhead at least improves 
 on both these aspects. The game moves much faster than its predecessor, is less clunky and more 
 seamless and you can utilise the nanosuit all the way through. In game bugs are almost absent, 
 although the loading bugs are still quite active ( it was nothing to have restart the game 4 or 
 5 times as each dfifferent bug presented itself during loading) . I also think the game benefits 
 from having the quirky Psycho rather than the pedestrian Nomad as the playable character. I could 
 certainly relate better to the iconoclastic Psycho and his dislike for Yankee gung-hoism more then 
 the straight up and down the line Nomad, and it made the game much more interesting and immersive. 
 On the down side, its too short ( I managed to draw it out beyond 10 hours by replaying certain 
 sequences at progressively higher difficulty levels) , and I was underwhelmed by the paucity of 
 new weapons offered (only the gauss rifle, which was great, a grenade launcher, which was quite 
 useful, and a machine pistol, which wasnt, plus nanosuit disabling grenades, which since they tend 
 to fry your own suit as well as the enemy, are of somewhat mixed value.) All in all, though, a 
 game well worth playing, and hopefully a pointer to a vastly improved Crysis 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tane666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:12 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is more linear than original Crysis, but I kind of liked it more (Although I liked 
 Crysis because it wasn't linear like most of FPS are) . I can't clearly say why I like it more, 
 there's really nothing so big changes made.
  
  Little for the plot: I don't play games for plot, but it's good to have it behind the game, makes 
 it easier to get into game. In Warhead, it's simple enough to follow without problems, and enough 
 to give the feeling what you need to really enjoy.
  
  There's few scenes where you work with your allies (just short time thought) but it's nice to have 
 something different for time to time. There's also phase where you stand in train and shoot Korean 
 forces with machine gun. Boy how I enjoyed that!
  
  Something what made me also happy, is new dual-wield with pistol or sub-machine gun. Not really 
 useful, but it was nice to be allowed to do it... What Rambo feeling I got when charge in Korean 
 base with 2 pistols, shooting everything which was moving, throwing grenades. That causes explodes 
 all over me and enemies screaming and running out of cover.
  
  There's not just good stuff. I didn't like new aliens. They feel more like humans, not jumping 
 around like they did in Crysis. Just staying in ground and shooting, making them easier to destroy. 
 Some cases still got feeling, like being in some film when saw alien jumping high and rushing to 
 me.
  Also more enemies with super suits, like mine, which is kind of good, but lost the feeling of being 
 kind of mortal "super hero" when heard Koreans yelling "what is that thing" when get near them.
 
  
  This is Crysis with small improvements, but can't say there's no drawbacks too.
  Game is just slightly better than original Crysis, so I gave it same 9,5 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is about the same story of the original Crysis, but instead of the man: "Nomad", 
 you're playing as Psycho, which is on the same mission.
  
  It's disappointing that the sequel has a pretty weak story, because it's: "Been there, done that" 
 but it has fewer bugs and glitches it looks practically the same, maybe just a few texture's look 
 better but nothing more.
  
  But on top of all that it has a really awesome multiplayer, better than the original Crysis online, 
 if you ask me.
  
  All the weapons are back, which is awesome, but they added a few more which my personal favorite 
 is the grenade launcher but it feels kind of weak sometimes because it's range isn't that big.
 
  
  
  It's pretty cheap too, so if you have a strong computer, and want to buy an awesome FPS than you 
 really should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerryatricrejec
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead feels incredibly similar when you first start the game, as it should be after all 
 Crysis was pretty brilliant so who wants anything different. Warhead offers a linear story which 
 isn't a bad thing given the game is very fun to follow.
  
  Linear games can bore you to tears but Warhead offers a great blend of action and atmosphere with 
 enough potential to replay. However, one can't help but feel the story has been told and so when 
 Crytek try another sub-story within the original... well it just doesn't work.
  
  The cut scenes are quite often long-winded and 'cheesy' but I'll forgive that because the environments 
 looked better than the original and the Aliens were a little more fun to actually play against. 
 Crytek successfully polished the details but I would have preferred something different. We already 
 know how the good guys got along so maybe Warhead should have focused on you playing as one of 
 the scientists or perhaps the bad General?
  
  Graphics:
  Probably the best overall graphics around (Farcry 2 still takes the foliage crown)
  Sound:
 
  Very good - great work on the surround and stereo headphones work well
  Gameplay
  Fun game. Cool environments and some new weapons. The story is a little sad compared to the first 
 Crysis. Much too short for a fully priced game which offers much of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashaiba91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  Amazing first person shooter.
  
  Graphics are amazing, I can run it on maxed out on my i7 920 and GTX 260 with 1680x1050 resolution 
 with decent FPS.
  
  The gameplay is great, amazing weapon effects and easy to use. only needed 10 minutes to get comfortable 
 with the game and player. Could be the best first person shooter i have ever played. you never 
 get bored and everything in the game is fast so no time for sleeping, you have to be active in 
 the game constantly.
  
  All this falls short with the story and plot. i don't know why i am doing most of the missions 
 and objectives, seems as if my goal is too kill as many enemies as possible and wreck havoc. I 
 know i am fighting north korean army and i will eventually fight aliens, apparently. thats about 
 it. the story is blank. I have never played Crysis 1 so maybe that had to do with it, but they 
 should have still put a solid story in.
  
  I am not really deep into the game much so maybe there is a story but theyre trying to get people 
 comfortable before the real deal comes in. we'll wait and see
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:41 am PT
Review:  Psycho's adventure on the other side of the island has very tight gameplay. The Koreans are at 
 it again with the weird aliens. Crysis has one of the best alien stories around in my opinion. 
 Aliens that can freeze the environment and nanosuits that can make you do incredible things. If 
 you have played the original crysis then you know what I am talking about. The gameplay in crysis: warhead 
 is very tight and pacing is better than crysis. Psycho has to find out what the Koreans are up 
 to and also protect a precious cargo from the hands of Korean soldiers from being re-engineered 
 or so. There are new guns, vehicles and varied environments and the aliens have a new way of protecting 
 themselves. As usual, visuals are top notch and sound is superb with surround sound.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Environment design: 9.0
  Overall visuals: 9.5
  Character animation: 8.8
 
  Story: 8.8
  
  Overall the game is very good and worth checking out. When I wrote this I was playing with catalyst 
 9.1 then 9.2 came out and improved the framerate because I was wondering why the game was not using 
 so much of my Quad CPU power. i changed my score from 8.5 to 9.0
  My specs are Phenom X4 @2.6
  HD 4850
  3.2G RAM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DestructobotMk3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Crysis was a groundbreaking game that unfortunately got drowned in all the brouhaha about how billion 
 dollar supercomputers were needed to run the game at playable frame rates. This not-completely-deserved 
 reputation is among several issues developers Crytek have attempted to debunk in this intense, 
 action-packed follow-up, showcasing the adventures of the British soldier Psycho, more-or-less 
 parallel to the events of the first game.
  
  The original game allowed for a deliberate method of playing, where it was perfectly viable for 
 players to cloak, infiltrate the enemy encampment, and pick them off stealthily and silently. Stealth 
 is still an option in Warhead, and for most part a viable one, but it is far more likely for players 
 to just run-and-gun their way through this game, a six- to eight- hour series of intense firefights, 
 frontal assaults and in-your-face attacks.
  
  Part of this has to do with the main character this time, the tough-talking, wisecracking Psycho. 
 His mannerisms in the impressively-directed cutscenes lead us to identify with him as a no-nonsense 
 protagonist who prefers the most straightforward approach to any situation.
  
  Warhead is essentially a series of moments, lovingly crafted to raise the nape hairs. Standout 
 encounters include a swiftly paced, nearly out-of-control hovercraft ride through frozen environs; 
 a thrilling defensive mission in which a small squad fends off a horde of attacking aliens; and, 
 most of all, a standout final boss set-piece sequence which brings the (unfortunately short-lived) 
 action to a glorious climax in a hail of gunfire, perfectly befitting the character.
  
  Visual fidelity is through the roof. All the usual suspects of particle effects and shaders from 
 Crysis are present in full force in this follow-up, with some additional eye-candy also on offer. 
 Notably, the names of the detail settings have been revised to 'Mainstream' ,'Gamer', 'Enthusiast' 
 and so on, so that gamers can reconcile the overall build of their systems to one of these presets 
 fairly intuitively. The engine is not necessarily better-running, but traces of optimization are 
 present all around. Regardless, moderate-to-heavy tweaking with config files should enable most 
 gamers to be up-and-running with playable frame-rates.
  
  The sound doesn't grab attention to itself quite obviously as the graphics, but impressive production 
 values are in evidence here as well, with a majestic, sweeping score accentuating key battle moments, 
 solid sound effects and ambient noise, and competent voice acting. The actual lines spoken in the 
 game, however, are in urgent need of refinement, at least for the next game.
  
  Warhead is a worthy, albeit abbrievated follow-up to a standout game. True to the spirit of the 
 original, gamers will need to carefully tweak the engine to their needs to run it in an acceptable 
 form, but this level of initial involvement is rewarded by what are surely the most impressive 
 action sequences witnessed this side of a Half-Life game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 1:03 am PT
Review:  Last year, Crysis broke quite a number of records in the PC gaming world. It set a new standard 
 of graphics, physics and AI which made other titles seemingly diminished. In my review back then, 
 I criticized Crysis for its heavy toll on frame rates, loose story-telling, unaccounted alien droid 
 outbreak and so forth. To be fair, the frame rate problem solved itself once Path 1.2 was released. 
 Even though the other problems remain, it holds true that Crysis is still a thrill ride from start 
 to finish, peaking at the jungle warfare with the North Korean soldiers.
  
  Crysis Warhead returns with almost everything you want more. The developers were also wise to cut 
 out the annoying flight sequence from the original which was relentlessly bombarded by both critics 
 and gamers for its control hardship. Crysis Warhead shines again with human-to-human warfare. Like 
 the first, Korean soldiers demonstrate much higher AI than the alien droids and that's why they 
 are so fun to kill. The suit grants us a range of variety in killing them. My personal favorite 
 has always been the cloak & shoot tactic because it feels so gay to slay a garrison of hostiles 
 coming out of nowhere but in front of their noses.
  
  I really appreciate that ammo pickup has now been automatic. In the first Crysis, environments 
 looked just so realistic and detailed that sometimes it can be punishing for our eyes to find enemies' 
 dropped guns and pick up their ammo manually particularly in the dense jungle. This time around, 
 we can just cross the trail of corpse we left behind and pick up their supplies automatically. 
 That is a great relief. Med kits have become old fashioned (replaced by Halo style auto health 
 regeneration) and auto pickup of ammo is consistent to the hopes of keeping the action hot for 
 sure. But it could be even better if the log telling us what we just picked up does not fade so 
 quickly.
  
  Furthermore, several new vehicles and immobile turrets are introduced in Crysis Warhead such as 
 the APC and minigun turret. Armed with a minigun, the APC easily phases out the bulldog while armor 
 isn't a thing to worry about either. The minigun turret packs a tougher punch than its machine 
 gun counterpart. Even so, when used against, turrets are still nothing to be afraid of if you put 
 the nanosuit to good use (notably speed or cloak) or you just snipe the gunners in the head from 
 great distance.
  
  Psycho is a much better character than Nomad. Nomad was a faceless soldier who displays very few 
 his own tempers besides his obedience to orders. Psycho, on the other hand, shows his face quite 
 often and is a more human hero overall. He may be a bit high about himself as a British but I like 
 how this soldier is portrayed considering that it is just a game rather than a racist propaganda.
 
  
  I made an upgrade to my PC between the time frame Crysis and Crysis Warhead were released so it 
 might not be fair for me to comment on whether improvement was made but it suffices to say Crysis 
 Warhead runs really decently on my rig. I could run 1920x1200 @ 40 fps consistently so it's very 
 sweet. I don't think it needs further explanation how beautifully Crysis Warhead is rendered.
 
  
  One demerit of Crysis Warhead is about its length. I was on a holiday and it merely took me devoted 
 days to complete game on Normal difficulty. I did quite a lot of exploration too so it must take 
 even less time for speed runners who only care about the mission objectives. But I see that Crysis 
 Warhead wasn't sold as dear as a new game so it's fairly acceptable for this shortcoming.
  
  All in all, Crysis Warhead is the right step forward from its predecessor. It is very action-packed 
 and exciting. I recommend it to shooter fans wholeheartedly. But I'm afraid it's too good you won't 
 like to play the original (and pick up ammo yourself) after tasting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRailton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead puts you in the Nano Suit Exoskeleton of Psycho, between the events that Nomad was 
 dooing in the original Crysis. 
  
  Warhead is better in some ways than Crysis. Warhead has improved graphics, weapons, and vehicles 
 compared to the original. 
  
  This story in my opinion is way more simple than Crysis. Psycho's ride crashes and he runs out. 
 And he is given a mission to do some stuff, blah, blah, blah. ( Sorry, just don't want to spoil. 
 ) 
  
  This game is good for any gamers who want to sneak around, be explosive and slaughter everyone 
 with awsome weapons, kill enemies with hand to hand combat, or use awsome combos of your Maximums 
 to DESTROY! 
  
  I would not recommend this game to anyone above the age of 70 for this may give you a frickin' 
 heart attack.
  
  Graphics: 100%
  Sound: 95%
  Awsomeness: 90%
  Originallity: 100%
  Price: 95% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coco_nutz18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  It's Good. What the h*ll am i sayin' here... it's the best
  still the best game (shooter) for me. great continuation of storyline.
  psycho is a hard-headed 
 bastard, while nomad (from the first installment) is a mysterious "mission-first" guy. it's kind 
 the look the same (crysis and crysis warhead) but it feels a lot different. action is more intense. 
 fighting aliens is like kicking some bad ass. it's good because it runs more smoothly in my machine 
 compared to the first one. it still runs good in high quality. it feels good, it's like your inside 
 your machine because the environment is raw, like a real tropical forest. but beware! you could 
 be sucked in for hours in front of your pc. well, it's worth your time. but don't worry to much, 
 you can finish the game in about 10 to 15 hours (but surely, you'd still go on for it for another 
 round. who cares, if you have the time, right?) . though it still leave you hanging, the good part 
 is we can expect for a third installment. go on! get sucked-in! oh! there's another thing, theres 
 a new vehicle in here. check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teaox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 9:28 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead, a stand-alone game that is parallel in the events to the original Crysis.
  We play as Sergeant "Psycho" Sykes, we begin in the harbor airstrike and move to the other side 
 of the island and the end is the bridge between the stories. No spoilers further.
  The story is overall fantastic, too short though.
  Then comes the multiplayer counterpart, Crysis 
 Wars.
  F-A-N-T-A-S-T-I-C!
  The multiplayer has changed in a major way since Crysis, the Power Struggle mode is upgraded , 
 and more fun. There are more new maps to IA , now for the best: Team instant action. Something 
 that should've been in the original Crysis. The multiplayer is like I said, fantastic.
  
  Pros:
  Epic story.
  Epic graphics.
  Epic multiplayer.
  
  Cons:
  A too short story.
 
  No Sandbox editor.
  a few glitches and quirks in the AI.
  
  THE SCORE CLASS:
  
  Graphics: 10
  Story: 8.5
  Multiplayer: 10
  Replay value: 9
  
  Overall: 9.4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game about 10 mins ago. I really enjoyed what Crytek did here. Even though 
 this game is a trilogy, they basically gave us an expansion to the first game, instead of the 2nd 
 installment of the series. This game does not expand past the events of the original Crysis. Instead, 
 you take control of another member of Raptor squad - Psycho - and you get the opportunity to see 
 what he was up to while he was split up from Nomad, the playable character from Crysis. You get 
 some new weapons options, but the game plays just like the original. This is also a stand alone 
 game, and does not require the original Crysis to be installed in order to play it. If you played 
 Crysis and want some new material before the 2nd entry in the trilogy comes out then I would definitely 
 recommend this game. You get to play as Psycho, and even get to find out how he retrieved the alien 
 you encounter towards the end of Crysis when you finally make it back to the ship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absinthe-abuser
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  If you liked Crysis, you will properly like this one too
  But they cut the Freedom a little to get more scripted, movielike Events in this one... I buy Games 
 to play them, not to watch scripts...
  Ok, there are not that much Cutscenes like in CoD4 or something, 
  But you ll see where the trend 
 is going to, if you compare Crysis (1) with Warhead... 
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
  
  The Physics again are 
 great, the Graphics are too, but i think it looks a little more unnatural than Crysis. Why do they 
 get back from nearly photorealism in Crysis 1 to this Plastic-Look? Of course the Shaders are sharper 
 and maybe there s another Detail-Layer Texture over most Models but reallife looks more like the 
 first Crysis, i think ^^
  
  Another annoying thing is the absence of an Editor... Crytek promised one to get along with a patch... 
 Nothing happened so far... ... Of course you still can unpack some Models and put them into Sandbox 
 2 of the original Crysis if you want.
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
  
  So, if you still havent 
 played any Crysis Game, grab the First part.
  Crysis: Warhead also is a great Game, though. 
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saadmalik95
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:52 am PT
Review:  As good as the first one or maybe even better. Crysis Warhead Dominates everything. If you want 
 to drive, Snipe or just blow up stuff Crysis Warhead has to be your choice. Its amazing environment 
 will never make you want to close ur PC. You will never stop playin it. The story is also not bad 
 although it is short. Its graphics are one of the best. So is the sound quality. It just never gets 
 boring rather it gets even better. The aliens make the whole experience even more amazing. Its the 
 best game for anyone who has a computer worthy of playing Crysis Warhead.
  
  Operating System Windows XP Windows Vista
  CPU 2.8 GHz or faster for XP, 3.2 GHz or faster for 
 Vista Intel Core 2 Duo @ 2.2 GHz, or AMD Athlon 64 X2 4200+
  Memory 1 GB RAM for XP, 1.5 GB RAM for Vista 2 GB RAM
  Hard Drive Space 15 GB of free space
 
  Graphics Hardware 256 MB video memory, NVIDIA GeForce 6800 GT/ATI Radeon 9800 Pro (Radeon X800 
 Pro for Vista) or greater NVIDIA GeForce 9800 GX2 or ATI 2900XT 512MB
  Sound Hardware DirectX 9.0c compliant card (DirectX 10.1 compliant if applicable)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead happens at the same time as the first Crysis storyline but your playing as Psycho. 
 You play as Psycho on the other side of the island while Nomad is beating up the Koreans and the 
 aliens.
  Crytek have made another great game. Crysis Warhead has awesome graphics using DirectX 10 which 
 is amazing. 
  This game has some new weapons and new vehicles. You get to carry 2 machine guns which look like 
 Uzis. 
  You have to play the first Crysis to know what is happening in Crysis Warhead because this game 
 is a parallel storyline to Crysis. Playing as Psycho is heaps cool and in some parts of the game, 
 he is so funny. 
  Crysis Warhead is definity for any Crysis fan and its a great game. You need a good PC to play 
 this game and Crysis. I recommend this game to all gaming PC users. Crysis and Crysis Warhead are 
 the best PC games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacob669
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  i was very interested in getting this game because lots of people said that there was a high replayability.... 
 truely there was only one part of the game that i had a lot of fun just blowing the crap outa ppl... 
 but i wont spoil it ...
  what i am trying to say is that most of the game was really annoying and i wouldnt really want 
 to re-play it. and the part that i would replay, there is no way to like, instead of guns blazing, 
 go cloak and kill them from the back... ah guess im a sucka for big booms :D
  
  overall crysis warhead was low quality because i have only 1 gig of ram...
  if you have 1 gig 
 of ram, and can run the first crysis 30-40 fps... you will run warhead 20-30
  my computer specs are 
  
  2 processors running - Intel (R) Pentium (R) D CPU 2.66GHz
  1023 
 MB of RAM - i know i know this game needs 2 gigs.
  Microsoft Windows XP Professional
  NVIDIA GeForce 8600 GT (GeForce 8600 GT)
  
  i get this game 20 fps lowest detail when i am 
 not in combat...
  as soon as i get into a firefight i drop to 5-10 fps... if you decide to get this game i HIGHLY 
 recommend at least 2 gigs of ram
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakkoda24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved the original Crysis. Ability to go stealth when under fire from hordes of enemies 
 and pick them off one by one is very satisfying. Even more, I was that much more excited to play 
 Warhead, with Psycho being depicted as, well, a psycho. But when I safely secured that container 
 and killed Colonel Lee, I was extremely disappointed to see that that was the last cutscene. There 
 are so many questions left unanswered. Was Prophet ever recovered? What happened to the rest of 
 the KPA members? And Where the hell did that enormous alien space ship go? I do not want to see 
 Crytek drag this out into a Final Fantasy-like franchise with 39 expansion packs. They tried to 
 outdo the original but left too many open doors. In one sentence, I was unhappy with the amount 
 of content that was supposed to mirror Nomad's adventures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 5:20 am PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are realy good and what game are boring or 
 just realy bad
  i allways buy those new pc games and try them 
  im almost played every new pc game.. so if i give 9-10 points its have to be a REALY good game 
 and u shoul buy it or even try it =)
  someone give games 9-10 points just to easyly, i give those points only for masterpieces..
  and 
 i dont write big review i give now only points and thats because my main language is not enghlis 
 so its brety hard to write.
  so my enghlis is not so good that i can tell every nice or bad things in games.. so i use only 
 points =)
  i hope everyone understand that and if not dont take it personaly i just try to give my own opinion 
 those games whitout words.. 
  i think brety many just look those numbers? ;) thx to undertanding
  
  
  Graphic 9/10
  
 
  
  Sounds 8/10
  
  
  Gameplay 6/10
  
  
  GameValue 6/10
  
  
  no new things.. and its brety short.. not so well made than first crysis.. Story is Boring! final 
 fight its just the same than first crysis is.
  
  gameplay is fun and graphic is nice. good game but need something more to be a realy good game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatpersia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 9:21 pm PT
Review:  
  Its the normal first person shooter game same as the others. it just a bit different with the environment 
 and aliens at some stages but over all its fun to finish the single player which doesn't take you 
 long I finished it in about 10 hours.
  
  The difference was that you could drive various of military vehicles and fire from their machine 
 guns but i could not try a tank ( just smaller vehicles) .
  
  That is all about it.
  
  The Usual game. The Usual game. The Usual game. The Usual game.
  The Usual game. The Usual game. 
 The Usual game. The Usual game.
  The Usual game. The Usual game. The Usual game. The Usual game. 
  The Usual game. The Usual game. 
 The Usual game. The Usual game.
  The Usual game. The Usual game. The Usual game. The Usual game.
  The Usual game. The Usual game. 
 The Usual game. The Usual game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skar3d
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Crysis warhead is the standalone expansion to Crysis, a very good game and one of my personal favorites.
 
  
  They fixed SO many of the problems with Crysis in this game, now you get to work with other soldiers 
 and even another nano-squad.
  Crysis always felt lacking because you were an elite ops TEAM, but you worked alone almost the 
 entire game!
  Enemies seem much smarter. Remember the morons that would stand in the open and watch you shoot 
 them? No more. Enemies look for cover behind rocks, buildings etc. Many enemies have been made 
 easier/harder as needed. Korean nano toops no longer take a clip to kill, maybe 10 shots. The small 
 aliens are also easier while the larger flying ones are more difficult going from 2 gauss shots 
 to 4 to kill. The cut scenes are amazing with the 3rd person view, Psycho is a character.
  
  The engine IS optimized, some people say the game runs worse, I went from running the game 
 on high in original crysis to enthusiast (maxed out) with lagging only on intense parts with a 
 decent system (9800gtx+ 3800dual core (LOL) 3.2 gigs of ram, an older mother board and it all runs 
 on 1680x1050. It bogs down because of my cpu so if you want PERFECT play at highest settings you 
 need a better cpu than what i have. 
  
  
  The BAD things are the game is so improved from the first it feels like a different game. And its 
 WAY TOO SHORT. This game deserves a 10, but there needs to be more game. I beat single player in 
 around 6-8 hours.
  
  Im installing crysis wars as i make this review, but the multilayer will be solid with a tdm.
 
  
  
  Graphics 11/10 (can that happen?)
  gameplay 10/10
  sound 10/10
  fun o meter 10/10 
  length 5/10
  overall 9.2 rounded down to 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K-lord
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:18 pm PT
Review:  The game brings us to a real battlefield with unlimited gaming experience.
  The player have to encounter with both humans and aliens in order to fight through the game.
 
  Most humans [Koreans] are weak with normal military outfit. But also we find some though soldiers 
 with vital armour [exactly the same as ours] . Aliens, they are our major enemies. We will encounter 
 different species of aliens during the story. We need to combine both tactics and strategies with 
 useful weapons to face the game well.
  Its not hard to play the game, because life automatically regenerate, and with ultimate body armour
 
  you become indestructible if you act perfectly.
  Nothing to say, just play and see, No doubt you will like it...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soupheaton311
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the first Crysis you have to buy this one. It is my favorite first person shooter 
 on the market. It is action packed and very diverse. You can either kamikaze in with guns blazing 
 or sneak from behind while stealthed. Also, Psycho is funner to play as than was Nomad from the 
 Original. I would recommend it to anyone who plays Bioshock, Halo, or Fallout. I think it is better 
 than all 3 of these. Also if you are into more realistic military style shooters such as COD this 
 game will suit you well. You are part of an elite US Special ops force battling the North Korean 
 Army, with a sci-fi twist. Downside= It only looks great on a great system, and if it doesn't look 
 and sound like it was meant to it losses a lot of appeal compared to other games. Also DO NOT let 
 your kids play it! While you can turn the blood off, these are some foul mouthed soldiers we are 
 playing as. Have fun.... I give it 2 thumbs and 2 big toes up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logesh_v
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:18 am PT
Review:  One of the best games ive ever played... awesome graphics, superb soundtrack, extreme action gameplay, 
 makes this game a must have for anyone.... iam not a big fan of first person shooters... but now 
 after playing this game am a fan for this game.... the frozen island is awesome... and also the soundtrack.... the 
 weapons are great and fun to play... i wud like to play this game in ultra settings if i have tat 
 kinda system.... such amazing graphics............. i liked the island missions and also the ending 
 missions... the frozen empire is almost the best ive ever seen. makes as though i was in a frozen 
 island... the sounds is extra ordinary i may say... each sound is crisp and clear.... the gameplay 
 music is also excellent. wat makes this game the best is its extreme graphics . the storyline is 
 good... the gameplay is not boring at any stage and is interesting to play all the missions. 
  this game is a must have for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriffinLord602
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead, could simply be described as a solid expansion to the original Crysis. Not only 
 do the graphics maintain the reputation Crysis made for itself, but it also improves the performance 
 of displaying these visuals. I think this was one of the main appeals to Warhead, was that lesser 
 computers would possibly be able to play this game. Everything on the graphic side was fine. I 
 think the scale of certain battles were incredibly satisfying, and with the graphics on high settings, 
 it made the battles seem deeper.
  Gameplay in Crysis was simple enough, but if you haven't played the first Crysis, then getting 
 used to the different suit modes will be the only task you will need to concentrate on. By learning 
 to use the nanosuit properely, you will find that you play the game more effectively, however, 
 this is not a bad thing, its just one of the only learning curves you will endure throughout the 
 game, as everything else is quite straightforward, as an FPS should be. Enemies in the game are 
 quite smart, though at times, there are some instances where I found that enemies will just stop 
 moving, despite you being infront of them. Except for this, they are admirable, and will react 
 to noises you make, even though they might not be able to see you. So they aren't that bad. Despite 
 this, compared to the first Crysis, I get a feeling that your nanosuit is 'overpowering' compared 
 to your enemies, even though some ofy our enemies also have nanosuits.
  Like the first Crysis, Aliens are a focus in this game, and the AI for them as definately improved. 
 I found that most of the deaths I would enudre, was because of the aliens, their intelligence is 
 much greater, and they use the battelfield to their advantage a great deal more. They also incorporate 
 teamwork, by having a certain type of alien shield the ones who are not able to create shields. 
 So unlike the first Crysis, they seem to include tactics in their fighting.
  As you may know, the story in this game is parallel to the first story. In my mind, this was a 
 good and bad thing. The good was, that you were able to find out about different characters, and 
 have a deeper understanding of the Aliens, than the knowledge only obtained from the first game. 
 However, I felt as though this game was a way to 'milk' the Crysis franchise, and this stuck in 
 my mind throughout the game, because despite more story being added to Crysis, I think that the 
 length of the campaign in this game shows that they only intended to make money off it, instead 
 of providing a top quality story.
  However, they may have done this, so they have more information to connect to the Crysis sequel. 
 I don't know. But that is only a theory.
  There is also multiplayer included with Crysis Warhead, named Crysis Wars. This includes a new 
 mode called 'TIAction' which is basically a team deathmatch. Despite the simplicity of this mode 
 being added, I find that multiplayer has improved just because of the new maps and that mode. Maybe 
 because I was tired of playing 'just' power struggle, and instant action (deathmatch) in the first 
 Crysis. But these modes still make it to the expansion, and are improved with maps to play on.
 
  Overall, I think this game is worth the buy if you've bought the first Crysis and have enjoyed 
 it, however, I would deter someone from playing this game if they have not played the first Crysis, 
 as the story is laid out in a way, that it expects you to know what's going on. However, if your 
 a player who just wants a good multiplayer experience, I could probably recommend it, in saying 
 that the visuals, and strategic combat combined, make the shooting very entertaining. I have given 
 this product an 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:18 pm PT
Review:  he Crytek fulfilled exactly what it promised: the first one almost launched a new Crysis 1 year 
 after, but with the risk to create a frustration in the players who waited something of new in 
 the game, as new functions in the clothes, the new jogabilidade, scenes, etc. In the Warhead truth 
 if it seems more an expansion, that in fact is, but without the necessity of the original game. 
 This can be the glory for that they had been astonished with Crysis and it plays still it until 
 today, and on the other hand can be a cold water bucket for that they waited that Warhead was an 
 entirely new game. Now it is the expectation of the third edition of the series. It will be again 
 more than the same, or it will be that they go to change something in the game? At last, this we 
 will only know in 2009. On the other hand, for being practically an expansion, exactly without 
 using the original game, Warhead it really gained an expansion price, and still it comes with a 
 DVDbnus" with the Crysis War. It is really impossible not to congratulate the Eletronic Arts 
 for the price given to the game, that is of R$59,90. Price just for oneexpansion". 
  Pro: 
  * it is Crysis 
  * amazing graphics
  * performance above of the waited one in relation 
 to the previous game 
  * frenetic action most of the time 
  * an expansion stand-alone 
  * a record alone of Multiplayer 
  * low price
  
  Cons: 
  * more than the same 
  * sufficiently 
 short 
  * some bugs of script 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_Oatmeal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:59 am PT
Review:  The first Crysis game was released in the nightmare month of November of 2007, and was praised 
 as a technological powerhouse and an exciting, new first-person-shooter exclusive to the PC platform. 
 Crysis Warhead is classified as a "standalone expansion", in that it doesn't require the original 
 Crysis to play. Packing an explosive new 6 hour campaign with a more meaningful story this time 
 around, better gameplay pacing and AI, optimized graphical performance, new weapons and vehicles, 
 and an improved multiplayer component, Crysis Warhead feels even more expansive and polished than 
 the first game. Any PC owner worth their salt shouldn't miss out.
  
  You play as Sgt. Sykes, call-sign "Psycho", a Delta Force operative who's been dropped on to an 
 island off the coast of Asia to investigate the disappearance of a group of archaeologists, as 
 well as the North Korean military's sudden interest in the island. Detailing the early events of 
 the first game, things quickly went wrong as members of your team and many KPA soldiers are killed 
 by an unknown assailant. Shortly thereafter you find out from a rescued CIA member that the archaeological 
 group uncovered what are more-or-less aliens who had been living underground for some time, explaining 
 why the North Koreans invaded the island.
  
  The whole aliens thing is certainly cliched, as is the rest of the storytelling in the first Crysis. 
 Surprisingly, all of the problems with the disjointed and poorly presented story have been addressed 
 in Crysis Warhead. Third-person cutscenes, generally improved script writing, and intriguing tape-recording 
 flashbacks about Psycho makes for some epic cinematic moments to forward the story, something that 
 the first Crysis desperately lacked. Anyway, the story actually starts off about a third of the 
 way into Crysis in which Psycho is called away from his teammate Nomad (the protagonist of the 
 first game) to execute a dangerously important new mission. The North Koreans are transporting 
 a huge container believed to contain a nuclear warhead, and you've been asked to identify the threat 
 and intercept it, as well as incinerate every KPA command post from here to Japan.
  
  Like with Crytek's first franchise, Far Cry, Crysis Warhead is about giving the player a specific 
 objective and allowing him to tackle it in whatever manner tickles his fancy, but with the aid 
 of a multifunctional Nanosuit. Unlike the first Crysis game, the emphasis is focused on constantly 
 pushing the player forward into each battle, or dropping him right into the middle of the fray, 
 and making him use his Nanosuit abilities experimentally to complete the objective how he sees 
 fit. This results in vastly better gameplay pacing that's more action oriented and entertaining, 
 whereas Crysis always encouraged the player to use stealth to travel really long distances and 
 sneak into enemy positions, rather than as an effective combat strategy. This would certainly explain 
 many peoples' dislike of Crysis, saying that it was "boring". Well, if you play Crysis Warhead 
 and you get bored of it, then God help us all...
  
  With the focus on using your Nanosuit abilities to fight in varied, well-balanced combat scenarios, 
 rather than traveling from objective to objective and digging in to fight off enemy reinforcements, 
 Crysis Warhead gets away with being quite a bit more linear than the first game; however, this 
 isn't a fault. In fact it works in the game's favor, keeping the action tight with no boring bits 
 in between to drag you down. Vehicle sections also don't feel out of place or poorly balanced either, 
 which anyone who's played Crysis would be thankful for. All this comes together to make Crysis 
 Warhead and absolute blast to play, and you'll keep coming back for more thanks to the improved 
 and unpredictable AI (especially for the aliens) that makes each fight that much more intense and 
 satisfying.
  
  As for weapons, your Nanosuit's powers haven't changed at all. You still have strength mode to 
 jump really high and throw enemies 20 feet, speed mode to run faster than you'll feel safe doing, 
 stealth mode to turn Predator and get the drop on the opposition, and the standard armor mode to 
 absorb more punishment when the need arises. You can carry an entire armory of explosives and firearms, 
 the latter of which can be equipped with an assortment of attachments in real-time like silencers, 
 grenade launchers, flashlights, and several different kinds of scopes for any situation. The new 
 weapons include a revolving grenade launcher, a machine pistol, and a shockingly powerful hand-cannon 
 that you get to use at the very end of the game. There's also some new vehicles, but they play 
 a much bigger role in multiplayer than they do in singleplayer.
  
  I for one didn't believe Crytek could possibly optimize the CryEngine 2 anymore than they already 
 have, so I was completely stunned to see how much better Crysis Warhead runs than Crysis. The graphics 
 have improved, but not significantly. There's some nice new textures on weapons to make them feel 
 less bland, and there's some great new lighting contrast, giving the game a more tasteful and artistic 
 look, but in general everything remains the same (which is obviously a good thing) . The water physics, 
 particle effects, sharp textures, lush environments, and lighting model are as spectacularly brilliant 
 as ever. On the performance side of the spectrum, while the maximum frames-per-second I can get 
 has improved only a little, what's really amazing for me is how the frame-rate stays solid throughout, 
 even in the most graphically intensive moments of the game. My computer was top-of-the-line last 
 year and could barely handle Crysis, so this is a joyous day for me indeed. While the performance 
 improvement will certainly differ from person to person, it's still no question that Crytek did 
 the impossible and has made the CryEngine 2 perform better than ever.
  
  The multiplayer in Crysis Warhead is worth mentioning at the very least. It's actually installed 
 as a separate program called Crysis Wars, which I think is a very good idea that developers should 
 copy. All that's really been added since the first Crysis is a team deathmatch mode, along with 
 the new vehicles and weapons, but much better networking code and anti-cheat protection help make 
 the already fun multiplayer much more tolerable and enjoyable for everyone. The Power Struggle 
 game mode still combines the best of large-scale combat with Nanosuit-abusing insanity that's hard 
 to tear yourself away from.
  
  I don't care if it's called a standalone expansion, Crysis Warhead is the whole package. It really 
 improves on the first Crysis game in every way possible, thanks to the efforts of Crytek's new 
 Budapest development studio. It's a thrilling, cinematic, gorgeous, and high-quality first-person-shooter 
 experience that's hard to find any faults with. If you had any doubts about Crytek up until now, 
 slap yourself in the face and go play Crysis Warhead; you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_Gamer_94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  A year ago...
  
  Last November was the release of the highly anticipated Crysis. It turned out to be a game that 
 would be known to make 9 out of 10 PC players shrivel up and weep in a corner, all because their 
 PC gaming systems didn't have enough graphical power to run it on maximum settings. It wasn't just 
 a damn good looking piece of software, underneath those hot lustrous visuals came a game that had 
 the game play to match the looks, especially with Crytek's Nano Muscle Suit ability system, which 
 allowed you to swap the suits special functions on the fly. So a year has gone by and still Crysis 
 is one of the best looking video games to have ever graced the market, but hold on, Crytek aren't 
 finished yet. They are back with a standalone expansion for Crysis, which comes with more action 
 and a graphics engine that is still smoking hot, but is slightly friendlier to the PC user, that 
 can only mean good things for gamers who were sitting in fear at the original's requirements.
 
  
  Story
  
  Crysis Warhead has you taking control of a British soldier who goes by the name of Psycho. He was 
 vaguely in the start of the original Crysis, but because of Nomad (the main character from Crysis) 
 getting split from the squad; you didn't get to see what was happening to him, now you can. The 
 stand alone expansion pack takes place at the exact same time as when Crysis was set. This means 
 that the story will be a lot clearer to the player if they have played the original game. If you 
 haven't then basically the story is quite simple to grasp. The Koreans have managed to get their 
 hands on an alien artifact that was discovered on an unknown forest filled island. The United States 
 are after a piece of the unexplained phenomenon, so have sent in a squad to investigate and seize 
 the artefact. The story in Warhead is the same, but told from a different perspective, Crytek state 
 the Psycho is on the "other side of the island" to Nomad.
  
  Crysis Warhead = action, guns, suit powers, less walking and more action!
  
  From the get go 
 the game clearly shows that Psycho is well. crazy. He's a lot more of a "in your face" type of 
 guy compared to Nomad. This could also explain how Crysis Warhead is too. Crytek have decided to 
 make the game somewhat linear compared to the original. I don't mean that it's stupidly linear, 
 as in the likes of Call of Duty 4, because you can still explore vast amounts of area filled with 
 trees, but it feels as if the paths placed down are focused on getting you to the next point. But 
 in sacrifice of that, Crytek have decided to boost up the action. From the opening cut scene you'll 
 be straight into fights with soldiers, tanks and helicopters. There's none of that empty world 
 feeling in Warhead compared to that of Crysis, mainly because in the original, while you was travelling 
 to the next location, there wasn't really many chances to get involved with combat along the way. 
 To put it into an easy equation for you, Crysis Warhead = action, guns, suit powers, less walking 
 and more action!
  That doesn't mean the game has lost the ability to make good use of the nano suits powers. It still 
 gives you the option to either run in all guns blazing, or go all Sam Fisher on their arse and 
 take them down while using the suits built in "Cloak" ability. The game doesn't sacrifice anything 
 in return to give the user an action packed adventure. Everything that was in the first game is 
 here, only pumped up. The only people who will not like this are probably the people who liked 
 exploring around in Crysis, and certainly Pacifists too.
  
  Beginners....
  
  If you've never played Crysis then you won't have an idea of how the Nano suit plays a vital role 
 in the game. From the start you can use any of the four abilities. By pressing the correct button, 
 the game will bring up a menu and you just have to move your mouse in that general direction to 
 select. There are actually five options in the menu because the fifth one allows you to customize 
 your weapons, but will get on to that shortly.
  You'll probably use those abilities quite often as they are very helpful in some way or another. 
 Each one has a specific function to use in battles against the Koreans and alien scum. "Maximum 
 Strength" will give you more power to throw things and jump higher. "Maximum Speed" gives you faster 
 speed. "Maximum Armour" gives your body a tougher shell so it can take more damage, the final one, 
 "Cloak" will make you invisible for a short period of time. None of these powers feel tacked on 
 or pointless, so there isn't one that you won't use. Selecting the fifth option in the wheel makes 
 it so you can customize your weapon. The weapon you are holding will move up towards the camera, 
 and then tabs come off with options to equip scopes and accessories onto the weapon. You can add 
 a lot of things on to certain weapons, but some are pointless, like having a sniper scope on a 
 shotgun, that's not really going to do any good unless you just want to spy on Koreans urinating 
 in trees, yep that's in the game!
  
  ....... experts
  
  So if you are one of these people who have played Crysis, then all this will sound familiar to 
 you, so apart from the increased combat contact, you're probably wondering what else is new. Since 
 the game isn't a sequel, it's an add-on, Crytek haven't really done anything majorly different 
 to the series. The A. I has been improved, making you get the sense of been overwhelmed at times, 
 ever with your suit powers, they aren't scared of trying to flank you, or get away from you if 
 they think you are a danger close up. There's also points in the game where they are so many Koreans 
 swapping you, all with one thing in mind, trying to blow you away. It's moments like these that 
 really do show off the suit powers. The biggest A. I improvement award will have to go towards the 
 aliens, who feel less dumb and monotonous this time around, overall it makes for some exciting 
 combat, which probably hasn't been seen in a game since F. E. A. R and the first Crysis.
  It's also good to note that you don't have to pick up ammo now with the pickup button, as long 
 as you aren't on the hardest setting, ammo will just automatically get picked up when you walk 
 over it. It was a small problem in the first game that became annoying, but Crytek have fixed that, 
 like with a lot of other little bits of problems that affected Crysis.
  
  Crysis Wars: Fall of the Men
  
  Apart from a selection of new weapons and enemies, another 
 new thing is the renamed multiplayer mode, now called Crysis Wars. It's a more thought out multiplayer 
 compared to Crysis and it shows too. They've finally added team death match that goes by the name 
 of Team Instant Action, along with the two other modes from the first game, Instant Action and 
 Power Struggle.
  The greatest thing about playing Crysis Wars is the fact you get to still use all your suit powers 
 from single player. It helps in great deals when face with so many opponents, getting attacked 
 by a rocket? Just stick on maximum speed and burn rubber, sniper got your head in view? Just slap 
 on cloak and casually walk away. It makes the take on normal death match more interesting and exciting. 
 If you are like me, you might find yourself playing the death matches more than Power Struggle. 
 Power Struggle is a Battlefield inspired mode that isn't explained that well. It wasn't a patch 
 on the fun that is supplied with the death match action and it's not like you are missing out as 
 vehicles are also in death match too.
  
  Crysis, a nuclear game?
  
  This is the part of the review which doesn't need any sort of introduction. I think anyone who 
 is into PC gaming knows that Crysis was an absolute stunner to look at. A year has gone by and 
 Crytek have improved on the visuals and also made it so that even the poorest of PC gamers can 
 still at least have a crack on the game. The graphic settings in the game have been renamed from 
 the typical Medium, High, and the only for the hardcore Very High, instead it has them named Mainstream, 
 Gamer and Enthusiast. It's true that if you plan to run it on Enthusiast at a decent resolution 
 then you will need a powerful computer system, but if you are lucky enough to own a system like 
 that you'll be greeted with some damn fine eye candy. Even if you can't run the game on top settings, 
 you might be able to run it on some of the lower ones with a decent frame rate, even if you aren't 
 getting the flashiness, you're still getting a shooter with some very good gameplay.
  
  Crysis the Da Vinci
  
  It's just not the graphics that look draw dropping. The game also has 
 some very nice set pieces that really show of the game's artistic approach. It loses some of the 
 generic surroundings and fills it with lush environments and settings. This again shows off more 
 in the later stage of the game where you are fighting the aliens in the harsh cold environments. 
 There's nothing to complain about the audio and soundtrack. The guns sound like guns, people scream 
 and the voice acting is pretty well done. The music fits in nicely, giving you some slow tunes 
 for the brief moment you are not actually shooting someone, to faster upbeat music when the gunfights 
 start blasting out.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Fans of Crysis are probably jumping with joy and wetting themselves when I say Crysis Warhead is 
 a better game in every possible way than the original. That's saying something since Crysis was 
 a great game. It might not be as long, lasting around the five hour mark, but you do get a great 
 multiplayer experience to go back to once you are done with the campaign. The gameplay also allows 
 replay value or if you are a graphics whore, you can just go back to the game to make yourself 
 excited. It's also got a bargain cheap prince of 14.99 from certain places. I don't really know 
 what else I can say to make you go buy it. You should buy it if you can run this beauty as it's 
 probably going to be one of the best shooters to hit the PC this year; they aren't going to be 
 many others that challenge Crysis Warhead's throne.
  
  --------------------------------------------
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sounds: 10
  Gameplay: 10
 
  Multiplayer: 9
  Storyline: 8
  Impression: 10
  
  Score: 9.5
  Gamespot Score: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gFog34
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  After total disappointment with X-box360 games and feeling a bit stupid for being sold with all 
 that "next gen console" hype I am finally upgraded my video-card to 9800gt and bought this game. 
 
  What a pure joy, like a breath of fresh air. I am so tired of all that brown tinted, dark console 
 games. It's so refreshing to play a character nicely equipped with something high-tech and in the 
 same time believable and stylish instead of being a cartoony looking guy, with a head smaller than 
 his boot and a ridiculous chainsaw as a weapon. And this is a first game that looks like a virtual 
 reality and you feel you are not playing game but you are really there. It's also a plus the game 
 let you make a choice what kind of game-play you want. You can set an easy level and go through 
 the whole game giving no release to a trigger of a machine-gun. That way is a bit boring on my 
 taste so I have gone through a half of the game without a single shot and a single bullet hit me. 
 I like hideous and clever style and the game gives that choice. On my way I did myself a pleasure 
 of turtle hunting, rock climbing and also a dodging of a shark that kills you if you try to swim 
 out of the area. It's like a nice mini game inside of the main plot. 
  This is a first game that have not a good graphics. Graphics it's all about consoles. This game 
 is a digital painting. A realistic painting. So many great art innovations and inventions. It's 
 really a direction I do hope the games will follow and it's too bad I will no more be able to play 
 other games. The only thing you need to do to feel the beauty is turning off post effects. I honestly 
 don't understand why those effects are implemented. They makes the game looks like a console. Blurry 
 or overexposed. 
  Aside of the game is probably best looking one I can say I want more. More versatile environments, 
 more natural looking materials and textures ( sometimes they are not very good) , more visual realism 
 in rocks and foliage, more versatile and natural looking ground cover, more populated and colourful 
 underwater. I want characters with signs of life and emotions on their faces like my forever beloved 
 Alex Wane. I want a true virtual world in which I would find my own way to entertain myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellifort
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  It's incredible how Crytek make their games so beautiful. Cryengine2 is awesome, really, and Crysis 
 Warhead shows it the better way: Perfect physics, perfect graphics - better than Crysis - and run 
 even better then the first version! The AI, either the Koreans or the aliens, are smarter and make 
 you think more to take them down. Psycho seemed to be stronger for me, don't know if i'm playing 
 better than i used to play with Nomad or what, but Psycho seems to resist more and be more powerful. 
 The new weapons skins are more fun, the new mines are something that shouldn't be there, the vehicles 
 are better to drive and that plasma weapon is something that gives a nice end to the game. 
  
  Storyline a little confused, i confess that i didn't really understand the "black parts", but 
 a part that marked the game for me, was the one that Psycho says that there are some rules that 
 he DOES follow! A crazy hero that has some virtues, that plays fair.
  
  At all, a game that really worth playing, that makes you amazed with the incredibly real universe, 
 and even changing just a little bit from the first version, makes you think about another version. 
 Let's wait for what could be a Crysis showing what happened with Prophet maybe. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheapshot72493
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I get Crysis Warhead for Christmas I heard from a couple people that the single player although 
 short was good. I tried it out I saw the reviews so I assumed that the multiplayer would be my 
 the thing that would make me want to play the game after I beat the single player i assumed correct. 
 The multiplayer was fun and hard despite me going 9-1. Mutiplayer it's pretty good but it could 
 be better why. One of those multiplayer games where you spawn then it takes a couple minutes to 
 find someone then if they kill you you're right back where you started. But the singleplayer alone 
 is a good enough reason to buy it fun missions with a big varitey of things you can use. The storyline 
 is good also graphics are great. The things I dont like about the multiplayer are...
  people camp in vehicles
  alot of bullets to kill someone 
  superspeed gets used to much
  
 maps aren't great
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  I understand most of you are Crysis fans. I, for one, wasn't much of a supporter. I thought the 
 gameplay was drab, and other than the fantastic visuals, the game had shortcomings everywhere.
 
  
  I'm glad to see that changed with Warhead. Now the game has a more bombastic feel to everything, 
 as well as feeling a bit less restrained.
  
  Now, let's get this out of the way. The performance increases on Warhead have nothing to do with 
 code optimization, that is, you won't be able to run it on older machines. However, the optimization 
 lies on the streaming methods, which means that the same machine that could run a common jungle 
 at 40 FPS, can now run the jungle with myriads of soldiers and ice effects at the same framerate. 
 Tl; dr: You get more bang per frame.
  
  Graphics, of course, are still fantastic, and are exploited nicely throughout the game, especially 
 on the mines. The finale is glorious, and your jaw will drop at what Crytek has accomplished.
 
  
  The main character has a bit more personality, which is enhanced by some in-game cinematics that 
 help build the meager yet interesting story. The levels are neatly designed and now offer more 
 pathways than the original. There are some new weapons, not much in that department, but it will 
 suffice. It is an expansion pack after all.
  
  And that is my only peeve. It feels like a new game, with sufficiently improved visuals, new characters 
 and a different approach to gameplay. Until it ends. And it ends all too soon.
  
  Despite this, the game is good enough and open enough for you to feel like playing it again either 
 at a higher difficulty setting, or by taking another route (or both) . So, kudos to Crytek for making 
 this game deliver what Crysis should have been. Next time, just try to make it on the first time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  This game i got as a present for my 17th B-day from my best friend.
  
  I opened it the same day i got it and immediately noticed the cool video in the beginning. The 
 game is exactly the same if you already familiar with the series by meaning of gameplay although 
 there's no connection between their plots: You and your US Special Forces team are investigating 
 a tropical island besieged by North Korean invaders. However, your greatest menace comes in the 
 form of aggressive aliens that turn the luxuriant jungles and glowing beaches into a frozen wasteland. 
 In this game, however, the developers took in mind that everyone who plays this game know about 
 the events of Crysis. So since you know the beginning and the end all the matter is the journey.
 
  You play as Warhead is a much more cinematic game than its predecessor, partly due to third-person 
 cutscenes (they were totally absent in Crysis) . 
  You play as Sergeant "Psycho" Sykes, the brash Brit who was a bit player in the original game. 
 Psycho tends to play by his own rules, always willing to ignore orders and jump into the fray if 
 that's what the situation requires.
  The gameplay is mostly the sane however this time the game is more focused, it's more intense, 
 and it doesn't provide as much of the sandbox feel as Crysis veterans would wish for. The Graphic 
 is still the most amazing graphic to date as well as the sounds still provide a good work, The 
 voice acting is strong, and the understated soundtrack sets the right tone without ever getting 
 in the way.
  The weapons would be familiar if you already played Crysis. There are very few new weapons such 
 as the AY61 which provide the new style of automatic handguns, the grenade launcher and a new special 
 gun in the end of the game. Also there is now a smart use of mines against armored vehicles as 
 well as EMP grenades against nano suits (beware!) . The game feature 2 types of new vehicles such 
 as the ASV and Hovercraft. 
  However all these still doesn't provide a fresh atmosphere in the game and you still feel playing 
 the original crysis. What's more, only the last 3 levels starting to be interesting.
  The SP campaign is very short you may end it within 7 hours on Delta mode. The game has only 8 
 levels and all of them (except the last) may considered to be shorter than a normal level of Crysis.
 
  
  The improved vehicle handling is also noticeable on one of the new multiplayer maps, on which two 
 teams battle in -- and out of -- the tanks and helicopters scattered about. This is good stuff, and 
 it showcases Warhead's new Team Instant Action mode, a mode noticeably missing from the original 
 Crysis. It's just good old Team Deathmatch, but it's done well, and the maps are improvements on 
 those of the original. Snipers are still a threat, but the size of the maps are better suited to 
 deathmatch battles, and more thought and care seem to have gone into small but important factors, 
 such as weapon-cache placements and player spawns. The Instant Action and Power Struggle modes 
 are still accounted for, and many of the original maps return, offering a large suite of online 
 options that make online Warhead combat more appealing than its predecessor. Note that unlike Crysis, 
 the expansion requires the online component to be installed separately, and isn't accessible from 
 the single-player game. 
  
  At last the SP campaign may be defined as "more of the same" however of course the 'same' is the 
 best from crysis but considered it to be a side-off game, it does a good job. The MP mode is better 
 and improved from Crysis MP and you can burn hours over there. So if you played Crysis you may 
 get my recommendation on buying this one too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpfish
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to write too much for this game. My Crysis review will/has covered the tech side 
 of things but suffice to say it's still STUNNING in every regard. Crytek have really paid attention 
 to the details with their engine and both Crysis games prove that PC exclusive games can get almost 
 everything right.
  
  PROS:
  
  .Player has feet/arms and a sense of real physicality in the environment - none of that 'floating 
 camera' thing that goes on in almost all other (LAZY) FPS games!
  
  .Extremely ergonomic, i. e mouse and KBD control is like a dream... this shows Crytek KNOW how to 
 make PC games
  
  .Amazing graphics including models, lighting and textures, effects and art direction
  
  .Cinematic 
 and immersive, action packed and both exciting and scary
  
  CONS:
  
  .Not as open world as Crysis
  
  
  Now that last point, it divides people, but what we have 
 in this game is a very pretty, very dynamic and very well executed PC FPS game. The gameplay itself 
 however is pretty much what we've got from all the TOP FPS games in recent years... while maybe 
 lacking that extra magic that HL2 EP2 has for example (that game being a truly excellent example 
 of story, characters and immersion even with it's far inferior graphics) .
  
  What I'm saying is, with a decent PC, you are bound to enjoy Crysis warhead if you enjoy 'most 
 other' FPS games, plus you get great eye candy, stunning physics, amazing sounds and some epic 
 moments too.
  
  For those who love the original Crysis (10/10 from me) , this game can feel all a bit linear and 
 without the genuine sense of addiction to creating your own action that the first game had.
  
  In Crysis I lost count of the amount of times I managed to play out a scenario *MY* way, and 
 each time was enjoyable and awesome. Also the graphics were perhaps a touch better in the original 
 game due to the level design itself, a real sense of the 'real world' that no other game has managed 
 yet. In short, Crysis was a very good game for immersion and stunning to play because of it's graphics, 
 physics and gameplay choices. This game (Warhead) really only has the former 2 points, and less 
 chance or time to really appreciate them as you could in the original game.
  
  Many will prefer Warhead's more focussed/action oriented theme and it's certainly still amazing 
 in the FPS genre. Crysis original however, is like a whole new direction in FPS games and to get 
 that 'full immersive feeling' back I guess we are going to have to wait for Crysis 2. Hopefully 
 Crytek will stick to the gameplay of the first game (at least before the 'core' levels which turned 
 into linear stuff like we see in warhead) and not be tempted into making 'yet another shooter' 
 with linear action.
  
  This game is still stunning on almost all levels and frankly makes most other FPS games (on any 
 system) seem like cartoons that aren't worth your time. And that's NOT just about the graphics 
 but the feel of playing (it's perfect, and has no control problems or other such stuff a lot of 
 PC games these days are messing up) .
  
  An easy purchase you will not regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpdolphins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  hey guys at last i finish the crysis warhead. its really good game with some insane graphics like 
 we watch in crysis. the game is good so much fighting not like before we walk alone in crysis on 
 some places the weapons are good and one thing when i play the crysis at second last stage my pc 
 was heat up and the systems power supply is heatup so my pc is going to restart and i have a coolermaster 
 600w powersupply and its give me a fake now its fine but the graphics are to heavey i have nvidia 
 8800 gts 512 its good i play the crysis on it at very high graphics cuz i have also 1024 x 4 means 
 4 gb so its going rough but the game attacks on my power supply but the game is very awesome and 
 the graphics is much beautiful game like before on some stages i feel i am inside of this game 
 thanks cry tek and ea who give us this game to play. thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeatMith
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  If you're not playing on a fairly high-end machine you're really missing out - if there was ever 
 a reason to upgrade your rig this is it .
  Warhead is an even more beautifully presented game than the original , and seems to be a little 
 better optimized ... But let's face it everyone already knows how pretty Crysis and Crysis: Warhead 
 are .
  But how does it compare to the original ? Well it is a great game , like the original . Whilst 
 this time around it does certainly feel a bit more linear , not a corridor shooter by any means 
 and you still have options on how to approach a goal however this time around the head on approach 
 seems to be encouraged . Not that Crysis could be considered a "tactical" shooter it does seem 
 to be more so than Crysis : Warhead . Good or bad thing ? Neither , what sought of gamer are you 
 ?
  The storyline is a little more interesting than the previous installment and the character you 
 play as really seems to grow on you , which is good as there really aren't to many new toys for 
 you to play around with , but the couple of new guns are pretty fun .
  Definitely one I'd recommend ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  For some reason, only 3 out of 7 people agreed with my Crysis review. I gave it 7.0 and commented 
 on the lacklustre performance in the alien portion of the game. Rest assured though, Warhead does 
 nearly none of that. This is definitely a game worth your money. If only they could shave $10 off 
 it, I'd readily give it my recommendation.
  
  Technically, there's no fault in Warhead. The graphics have been maintained from the original, 
 with better optimisation for less powerful PCs. I ran middle-high settings on my Core Duo + 8800GTS. 
 The soundtrack fits the game just right. The voice acting? Splendid. As with the original Crysis, 
 there's much interesting dialogue going on between your character & commanding officer. Now that 
 your character is a Brit, it just gets better. Also note that every level starts out with an audio 
 tape related to the story, although I didn't grasp this at first.
  
  The gameplay is that of Crysis. The weapon customisation system we all love is there. The guns 
 feel real. The only real problem with the weapons is that with constant ammo stockpiles, you'll 
 always stick to that super-powered sniper rifle. This lack of variety got to me during my second 
 playthrough. A complete one will last you about 8 to 10 hours, hence my complaint about the length.
 
  
  The AI is sufficiently good enough as to not make this game too easy. I think that people who complain 
 about the lack of interactive AI are expecting too much. As it is, I can think of barely any shooter 
 that has better AI than Warhead. (Keep in mind, I said shooter.) Your enemies are varied and challenging. 
 There's the "being mobbed" situation, as well as that "one big boss fight". What's interesting 
 are the setpieces where you get a chance to cooperate with AI teammates to complete your objectives. 
 You do wonder what the game would be like if there were more sequences like that.
  
  As advertised, Warhead has a plot that occurs simultaneously with the events in Crysis. We won't 
 be getting any further along that story until "Crysis 2" is out. It's worth checking out. Something 
 I appreciated in Warhead is the cutscenes that put you into the shoes of your character. This is 
 a personal taste, but I couldn't help but sympathise with him as he drowns a Korean in frustration. 
 That said, there are a couple of holes in the story of Warhead, particularly after the part where 
 you complete your journey on the train. Still, nothing that would ruin the rest of the game.
  
  So was it worth it? That depends on your pocket. Paying full retail for a game that is short 
 on singleplayer content (even shorter than CoD 4) does affect my judgement. I daresay you would 
 be missing out if you didn't play Warhead, but try to wait and see if you can get it cheap. Then 
 it'll be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedd1282
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no 
 challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally 
 no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange 
 Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no 
 challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally 
 no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange 
 Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no 
 challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally 
 no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange 
 Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no 
 challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally 
 no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange 
 Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no 
 challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally 
 no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange 
 Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no 
 challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally 
 no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange 
 Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no 
 challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally 
 no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange 
 Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no 
 challange Totally no challange Totally no challange Totally no challange 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartek21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead uses imo the best game engine created so far (others might disagree) , however the 
 game engine is amazing with the visual quality of images and the physics produced. For instance 
 the water is crystal clear and when diving under it you can see the 'god rays' and distortion effects. 
 The trees and buildings are destructible, and not destructible by a few different animations, but 
 individual parts (frame of housing and roof) all being separate parts and the way the object break 
 is always different due to the amazing physics. The objects in warhead are not 'rooted' to the 
 ground like in fc2 so if you throw a grenade near them they will move or fly away (due to each 
 object have its own physics properties) .
  The graphics in the game are the best I've ever seen (and I have played a lot of games) . The textures 
 and objects details are just amazing, especially the faces of people are exceptional they even 
 have pores!! Just look at the quality of the engines graphics and you will be blown away by how 
 far computer games come have.
  
  The game play in crysis warhead is brilliant. You can to a basically do thinks how you like to. 
 For example you can snipe the KPA from a safe distance, or you can sneak into their base and set 
 up claymores and detonated c4 and use it from safe distance, you can march right in with the shotgun 
 and rifle and take them out as you please what ever floats you boat. You also have attachments 
 for your weapons which allow you to quickly swap between a silencer or laser pointer, grenade launcher, 
 different scope which ever you believe is needed for that situation.
  The AI in the game is intelligent in the sense it will find you with a decent efficiency, so if 
 you sniping from far away, they will eventually pinpoint your location and sneak up on you, or 
 if your hiding in their base hoping they wont find you  think again.
  
  The game also uses variety in the enemies between the aliens and KPA as well as a bit of variety 
 of the missions. For example there is a hovercraft part and a train mission where you're on the 
 train passing A LOT of KPA on the way.
  
  The improvements this game has over the original Crysis; more action, no where near as much time 
 spent running from one place to another, more in depth protagonist, a few more weapons; the addition 
 AY69 machine gun, grenade launcher, mines, claymore (single player) and the nano suit grenades. 
 Also the game supposedly optimised the game engine for the higher system, which some people claim 
 is true and others say untrue, I personally get another 6-7 fps on the enthusiast settings compared 
 to the original crysis with the very high settings.
  The game also brings variety to the game play instead of just fighting KPA, KPA, KPA, KPA, alien, 
 alien, alien like in the original crysis, now you fight KPA, KPA, KPA, Alien, KPA, Alien, Alien, 
 KPA, KPA etc and some part your even versing both KPA and the aliens which imo is a good thing.
 
  
  With the game you also receive the Crysis Wars disc which is the multiplayer part. The multiplayer 
 is essentially the same as the original with the addition of the team instant action option. The 
 multiplayer is also outstanding with a few different modes from death match to power struggle which 
 will satisfy people for a long time who are into multiplayer.
  
  The negatives to this game imo are the short single player which only lasts a few hours, however 
 the game is half price at $30 so this does make up for it. The other negative would be the hardware 
 requirements of the pc required to play the game. Even though most people will be able to run the 
 game at 'minimum' to 'mainstream', the game does not look good until you have the 'gamer' options. 
 The highest options are the 'enthusiast' which requires a powerful pc to run.
  For example on the enthusiast settings I personally get around 25-30 fps on 1680x1050 with an Intel 
 core 2 extreme @3.45ghz, 4 gig of ram and 2x 9600gt in SLI. Now I know my computer isn't the most 
 powerful however it is only to show how much processing power is required to run the game.
  
  All in all I believe the game should get a perfect score because it has improved on the faults 
 which the original crysis suffered from, has additional content and is half the price of the original 
 (also is a stand alone game) at $30.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RTHKI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the original Crysis, there are no parts of this game I skip over every time I replay it. 
 Even though the single-player mode is pretty short, it has a lot of replayability.
  I am not big on online shooters so I can't comment on Crysis Wars.
  My computer is nowhere near 
 capable of running Crysis or Warhead on high but even on low this is one of the best-looking games 
 I have played on PC.
  The game isn't to difficult but still can be challenging.
  
  Graphics:...10
  Sound:...10, great sound effects and soundtrack
  Replay:...9, wish campaign 
 a little longer but great fun to play over and over
  Game-play:...10, shooting North Koreans never gets old; aliens are a lot more fun also
  
  Crysis 
 Warhead is a great game, especially if you have the computer to run it, and is definitely worth 
 the $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flybynite73
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  Its almost like being in a movie. The visuals are awesome! Instructions are clear & to the point. 
 However, even on a high end machine, it takes a while to install, so be patient! I can now even drive 
 vehicles with keyboard & mouse. Plus multiplayer is powered by Gamespy. Only caveat: the new patch 
 seeker only downloaded version 1.1, I had to go to EA to manually dl 1.2. A small point but, can 
 be frustrating. Otherwise, action abounds. Best part is cutting down palm trees with the chain gun. Sound 
 & acting are firstrate. Remember, in order to play multiplayer, you must install the Crysis Wars disc. Crysis 
 is not needed in order to play this"expansion". Yes, there are two discs in the package. AI has improved 
 over Crysis. KPA will flank you & take you out. Using the nanosuit is fun & & the different modes 
 really make difference. Hmmmmm, I wonder when the next episode will be coming out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siddarthshetty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Super game but finished in 6 hours which is very sad i needed to spend more time in it..... Psyco 
 rocks in the game...
  This game is one of the best with new weapon and changing nano suit is super.. there is lot of improvement 
 then crysis but story line goes bit same way, we are waiting for next crysis pack..
  the story goes similar to crysis but shooting aliens start at the begining itself a new pistol 
 is added to the weapon list also the ammo will be plenty unlike crysis
  Super game but finished in 6 hours which is very sad i needed to spend more time in it..... Psyco 
 rocks in the game...
  This game is one of the best with new weapon and changing nano suit is super.. there is lot of improvement 
 then crysis but story line goes bit same way, we are waiting for next crysis pack..
  the story goes similar to crysis but shooting aliens start at the begining itself a new pistol 
 is added to the weapon list also the ammo will be plenty unlike crysis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_vlad
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  This is a really great game. It is a parallel story of the original Crysis game, which was also 
 a great success. In this game you face some kind of aliens released by your enemies against you, 
 which turns against everyone.
  
  The graphics are incredible. You absolutely must play this game in high graphics with the high 
 end requirements. Everything seems incredibly real.
  
  The AI is pretty good. In hard mode your enemies will show some opposition. But recently an advanced 
 AI patch for Crysis appeared. It significantly makes your enemies smarter.
  
  The story is overall pretty good, but as I said it is much too short. I would have fought the aliens 
 for a lot longer. So to compensate I finished it 3 times :D.
  
  One of the coolest things in the game is the suit. It can give you super strength, super speed, 
 super armor. I love the maximum speed mode. I just run around and kill enemies. Also the super 
 strength mode is usefull for punching enemies.
  
  Great game. It deserves a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAMAFACE
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  A solid shooter for anyone looking for a sci-fi shooter with balls. I my opinion it's better than 
 the halo series will ever be. Now you are now thinking what the heck ? halo is pretty great BUT, 
 THINK AGAIN ! Crysis Warhead is a masterpiece because a better story driven campaign that takes 
 place from Psycho's perspictive , and who also has to fight more challenging aliens plus more cool 
 guns with attachable scopes, silencers, etc, PLUS IN MULTIPLAYER YOU DON'T NEED TO HAVE TO HAVE FRIENDS 
 TO PLAY MULTIPLAYER LIKE IN HALO 2 AND 3 . In halo's series it's pretty dull , obivious Master 
 Chief coud of kill the Guilty Spark in the Halo 1 but, he didn't which was totally weird. Espeacily 
 the fact CRYSIS WARS IS FREE ! So, really don't pick Halo 3 PICK CRYSIS WARHEAD! Also the totally 
 awesome abtilty to turn invisble, have more muscle, run extra fast, maxuim shield power is wicked 
 ! GRAPHICS JUST TO GOOD TO BELIEVE JUST OUTSTANDININGLY GREAT ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomaskedhero
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  I admit that is a very charming nd addictive game. I mean graphics, sounds, for me the language 
 varieties, and the main character is really a psycho one. But...
  
  I played Crysis, and after I played this, even the producers are fellow Turkish (not Turkish citizen, 
 but Turkish) ; this is a much more boring game than Crysis. I installed the game, played and after 
 some time, I never wanted to play this again!!! Why?
  
  First of all, the missions lack of interesting things. It is like a normal FPS, just you find some 
 gun, shoot at robotic creatures, or suited and non-suited Koreans, and sometimes you take a vehicle 
 and drive it all over the place until it explodes. Vehicle is not an interesting thing, it was 
 in the old Counter-Strike too!!!
  
  It doesn't bring any new to the Crysis, not even in story, not even in graphics or varieties. Sometimes 
 you hear that stunning and lonely NOMAD character in the original game is a bad and unskilled soldier, 
 that dissappoints you.
  
  -SPOILER-
  
  You are being kidnapped by Koreans, being interrogated by a very very clich general, you wake 
 up in an ice field. Well, waking up in an ice field, and seeing everyone frozen might be interesting, 
 but, hello??? We have seen this surprise in the original Crysis, and it was in a much more beautiful 
 place, with a much more beautiful story.
  
  -SPOILER ENDED-
  
  Well, shortly, like Farcry 2, it lacks of story, and nothing original in this expansion. Expansions 
 must be better for players to enjoy, but it is a lot worse! It is just an ordinary shooting experience 
 with nice graphics and sounds. Even in your very first hours, you don't enjoy, after the aliens 
 appeares, you enjoy a one hour or two; and it starts being boring again. Doesn't worth your money. 
 Just buy the original Crysis, if you have one, buy Farcry 2, it is better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Citteh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  When I played Crysis the first time, I was scared to hell if my PC could ever run the game, because 
 of the graphics. But I could somewhat run it with a medium-high setting and it went smooth (sorta) . 
 After I heard that Warhead would come out and they would make the game easier to run on zee PC, 
 I was happy.
  When I played the game though, I found out that there wasnt much difference, in fact, in some cases 
 the game ran smoother in the original game than Warhead, even when the graphical options were pretty 
 much the same.
  
  Well anyways.. In case you're not aware of it, Warhead is a spin-off that takes place at the same 
 time as Crysis, but with Psycho as the main character. We'll see what things Psycho goes through 
 while Nomad is goofing around on the other side of the island, from a mass attack of aliens, riding 
 a train, tanks etc.
  
  As a Crysis fan I was expecting a high paced game just like the original Crysis, and that is what 
 I got. The gameplay ain't that long thought, but it is enough to feed a fan (me) for a while until 
 Crysis 2 comes out sometime in the future. The gameplay is much easier than in Crysis and I do 
 see an improvement in the alien AI (Atleast now they dont fly around like goofballs and you end 
 up using all your ammo just to hit the damn thing) . The cutscenes are rather nice as well, just 
 like in the original game.
  
  So all in all, I really liked it, despite the game still hogging up a lot of the computer's ressources. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zweh5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  first time i thought this is the sequel of the first crysis hmmm....
  
  the graphic is awesome, feel like real especially the light. when you are inside a cave you just 
 see a bright light at outside. when you are at outside the cave is very dark. i'll give 10 of 10 
 for graphic.... sound is great too better than the first one... i like the view of US carrier stuck 
 in ice. enemy is 50-50 of alien and korean, nice.
  
  what disappoint me are the night vision is useless i can see clearly when in dark. second, i want 
 the enemy speak korean in hard difficulty, i dont want play the highest difficulty because the 
 nanosuit seem like useless. how come the replica nanosuit from korea is better than the original 
 (US) ??? nonsense
  
  what will be the next crysis? 6 hours of prophet? i hope the next crysis wont disappoint me too
 
  
  sorry for my language, english is not my primary language, im just want to share my experience 
 for this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: primatequeen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  well it's the second game and we know how the story will end anyway..
  but to be honest the I was surprised by the ending because I thought that freakin' spidery-creature 
 will die..
  but so it is the beginning of another Crysis..
  waiting for the next one here..
  i love the last weapon (i forgot the name) that is so freakin' 
 awesome ..
  but what a pity to use it for such a short time i could play hours with that toy muahaha
  so 
 i guess the next game will be Prophet right ?
  i hope the next game will have a lot more features like (I don't know) camping *ur killing me* 
 or talk and disguise as the Koreans or anything ..
  but everything is perfectly okay to me..
  emmmmmmm
  i' dont know what to right anymore....
 
  any ideas??
  anyone? please help me!!!
  oh does this game has secrets too?
  that would be fantastic , if you find something amazing please tell me i wish i could do more stealth 
 i wish i have one of those nano suit at home..
  i want to use it to skip classes hhahaha
  that will be AWESOME..
  I'm done
  over and out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vesko37vesko
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  well i've completed the original crysis and the gameplay is really the same thing accept that when 
 you're duel wielding weapons you must press both of the mouse's buttons 
  is it something wrong with my machine (3331 mb's ram intel core 2 duo 2X3ghz and 8800 gt) because 
 warhead doesn't run smooth the original i could play on much higher settings and with great frame 
 rate but this one is unplayable when i turn my mouse something happens and the frames drop to about 
 5-10 otherwise everything else is almost the same the sound difference is that you're getting orders 
 from a chick not from the captain (or whatever he was) and that you here psycho's shouts when he 
 takes damage also another problem is that the game kicks you out (on the desktop) a lot
  i loved the original but this is nowhere near impressing me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyyyDylan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead a great game but not without some flaws.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics for this game are terrific, definately the best you can find right now besides Crysis. 
 Crysis does have better graphics but comes at a higher price for hardware to make it look like 
 screen shots the developers released.
  
  Though the graphics are great there are some shortcomings to them. First off the draw distance 
 for most foilage is very bad. Not to the point where it will make the game unplayable but it is 
 definately an annoyance.
  
  Now its time for the real meat of the game the Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is a open level shooter. You can accomplish your tasks in a variety of ways and not 
 get yelled at by your commanding officer for straying from the "textbook of war". The gameplay 
 plays like any other shooter but what sets its self apart from the rest of the pack is the suit 
 that your character wears.
  
  Your suit has Five different functions they are:
  Shield: Makes any damage you take be taken out of the suit energy before your health
  
  Cloak: 
 A predator style of cloak that lets you sneak around enemies
  
  Strength: Makes you super strong allowing you to jump 4 times as high
  
  Speed: Makes you very, 
 very fast compared to who you fight
  
  Weapon Modification: Lets you modify your weapons with a variety of thing, from silencers to under 
 barrel g'nade launchers 
  
  Now back to the accomplish your task anyway you want to. I have had so much fun replaying all the 
 games levels just by taking a different approach. One time I will go in guns blazing while the 
 next I will attach c-4 to my car launch it off a cliff into the enemy base and detonate the c-4 
 when the car hits the ground.
  
  The game leaves you wanting to go back through to see how many ways you can accomplish a task such 
 as going from point A to point B and killing (or not killing) every one along the way.
  
  My only main complaint about the gameplay is that some of the vehicle levels feel a bit force, 
 one in particular made me sigh with relief after I had finished it. While others made me wanting 
 more of it (without spoiling to much it involves two trains) .
  
  Overall this game is a must for anyone who likes FPS' and is a sucker for good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theavenger95
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Since I've finished with the original Crysis I've been itching to get my hands on a sequel, and 
 finally, after about a year's wait here it is, Crysis Warhead. I was disappointed to hear that 
 it would only be a parallel story of the original form a different characters point of view not 
 because i wasn't wondering where Psycho went the whole game just i was excited to see what happened 
 after the exciting ending of the original. 
  But that's okay cause so far this one is going just as good.
  The free form game play is fun 
 and innovative, allowing you to take on every scenario you encounter a million different ways, 
 but unfortunately, much like the last Crysis, that's only for the first half of the game. After 
 the great freeze, it becomes more of a straight foward path, but I haven't finished the game yet 
 but it seems a lot shorter than the other because it took me barely over an hour to reach the freeze 
 part when it took me like 5 or 6 to get to that part in the original
  The best thing about the game is the gameplay and how you can take out an enemy
  You can use 
 stealth and turn invisible (my favorite) , sneak up to them slowly, and kill them silently
  you can snipe from afar
  you can charge up to them and butt them with your gun in strength mode
 
  you can throw almost anything out them or if they are in a building, bring the walls down around 
 them
  shoot there gas tank if they are in a car or hit it with a rocket launcher
  it is truly endless and i can go on and on and on
  the graphics are still good, but not as impressive 
 as last year's were because of the higher standard that there is now
  it is supposed to be easier to run with better visuals, but i dont really notice it and find it 
 harder than the last one to run
  you can check my review on the original Crysis
  i got nvidia 7950 gt 512mb
  2gb ram
  intel core 2 duo 2.13 ghz
  250 gb of hard drive
  can 
 run on "mainstream" level smoothly, which is like medium, bu if i wanna go to high i will lag greatly 
 in fire fights
  at least you don't have to have windows vista to run ultra high now but i cant really do it anyway
 
  the sound is excellent and so is the guns
  blowing stuff up is awesome and physics are pretty good
  pretty much everything is destructible 
 which is good, but too bad you can just go blow through mountains
  I would give this game an 8.8
  great game i recommend it if you don; t have the first Crysis, 
 or if you do, but the original seems the exceed this one
  (i haven't played multiplayer yet)
  thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  at least this game do not pretend to be multilayer like the 1st part, and as single player this 
 is an excellent game, the story line is a bit lame, the interactions of the characters could be 
 better, but overall compared to other games we get this days this is top nutch, i had fun playing 
 the mission till the end - although was not able to finish with out cheat - still was a blast... 
 i wish there where more Koreans to fight then Aliens, the alien thing get a bit old after a while... for 
 some reason the grafix seem to be less pretty then the previous part was, in fact the ice scenes 
 are nearly ugly, at the same time i have no gain in frame speed... and i do play on max settings. 
 so considering how bad other games are this days this game deserves a 9 easy, i think it is worth 
 what they asking for (even trough i my self did not pay for this game) , its a well spend day or 
 2 depending how much you play in 1 sitting
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enviovore
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Well I was quite disappointed with the lack of a proper resolution at the end of the first game 
 so I am still feeling that same dissapointment only now I am $50 poorer. As awesome as this game 
 looks and has been to play, I am still left wondering why they bothered. Nothing new really, besides 
 different coloured aliens, and a new gun that you get to use for about 2 minutes. The story doesn't 
 add anything to the overall plot and no important new characters are introduced. On the plus side 
 it runs slightly better than Crysis.
  
  Just hoping the third part of the series has somewhat of a story to it, maybe we find out what 
 happened to Prophet, where the aliens came from or why they have decided to inhabit this particular 
 island. In my opinion, graphics and physics are no substitute for a decent storyline. Maybe I should 
 swap gaming for reading or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Le_Colonel
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is the sequel to the much acclaimed game Crysis. Though not really a sequel, since 
 it's set during the same time frame of Crysis, this is a standalone expansion.
  
  Graphics: The Phillipines have never looked better, and neither has a frozen jungle. Crysis Warhead 
 looks even better than Crysis (yes, it's hard to imagine) and runs much smoother. Asides from the 
 occasional pop-in this game puts all other game engines to shame.
  10/10
  
  Story: As I said previously, this game is like an action movie. The story doesn't play an essential 
 role in it. There is more of a story than the original, and the voice acting is decent. Though 
 the story is really just an excuse to go to exotic locations and have epic set-piece battles.
 
  
  7/10
  
  Gameplay: If you've played Crysis, you'll feel right at home with Warhead. The tight controls and 
 most of the same weapons are still here. But there are a few nice additions to your arsenal. There's 
 now a small smg that you can dual wield, a grenade launcher and a sweetass armored personel carrier. 
 The firefights are intense, especially when the tree's and tin shacks are falling down around you. 
 You'll often have allies fighting with you, who still aren't geniuses, but are still good shots. 
 It's pretty awesome when you have a VTOL flying overhead, chaingun blazing. The game also has some 
 gigantic bosses, who just look awesome and just leaves you with chills going down your spine.
 
  The enemy AI still seems fairly unchanged from the original (which was pretty good) however they 
 don't seem to get stuck as easily now.
  All the weapons feel powerful, and there's nothing more satisfying than picking up an enemy by 
 the neck, turning on maximum strength and throwing him into his comrades.
  On the downside is the games length. The campaign will only take about 5 hours to complete although 
 its 30 $ price tag will help you forgive and forget the games' shortness.
  
  8/10
  
  Summary: If you enjoy First PErson Shooters and have a computer that can handle it, you owe it 
 to yourself to play this game. Stunning graphics, solid gameplay, decent story and incredible battles 
 round out an excellent expansion, which is better than the original in almost every way.
  
  9/10
  
  (Note this review does not cover any multiplayer aspects of this game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  All in all this is a great game. The ending was much easier than I expected, I figured I was at 
 some interim Boss when suddenly the game was over. As a stand alone game it's a lot of fun to play 
 for the same reasons Crysis is so I won't repeat everything I said in that review.
  
  I was a little dissapointed that the story line didn't really parallel the Crysis story line. I 
 was expecting to do the missions that Psycho was off doing in Crysis. Like escorting that scientist 
 we found in the city building, or flying teh VTOL at the end etc... That would have been really 
 interesting.
  
  I had a hard time following the flash backs and getting to know more about Psycho. I was less attached 
 to him than Nomad in the first game. Kept me from being as imersed as I was in the first game.
 
  
  Any, great game to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocodog13
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  this game is stupidly short... when i saw the huge boss thing i though "awesome! this game is starting 
 to be pretty cool!" so i shot at it for about 15 mins, it died, credits rolled. the 7 missions 
 feel more like 3 (tutorial, 1st level 1st boss) . if you actualy want to play a game dont buy this, 
 theres almost nothing to play and what there is is pretty standard as fps go. yes the grafics are 
 good but they dont make up for the fact that this game is hella short. i would definatly recomend 
 geting a demo or cracked version before paying 15 for it. even if you do end up buying it dont 
 install the version from the disk if you already have a cracked version or you will end up in the 
 DRM/Securom nightmare most people experience with this game IE the game activating its self almost 
 randomly, you get 5 activations, one 1 used when you install the game, then another when you run 
 it on a new user or if you have to re install windows or if you upgrade your pc, people have even 
 reported having an activation used when a usb HDD was installed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuFazzZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that the moment i heard the guy saying "MAXIMUM... GAME", i knew i had to deal with 
 a best-seller.
  The truth is that if i hadn't played Crysis , the scenario of Crysis: Warhead would seem strange 
 to me. There is not enough explanation of the previous storyline, meaning that it gets you right 
 into action without knowing why and who you are. In my opinion, the gap of the storyline between 
 the two games is something that could have been avoided with a fast and simple intro.
  Of course, the advantages eliminate this little flaw. All the pros of the Crysis are transfered 
 into Crysis: Warhead plus some small additions which add variety to your gameplay. Amazing graphics, gameplay 
 etc etc , features many FPS will envy for many months more.
  The game guarantees the fun and the excitement of its "ancestor" , but unfortunately in a small 
 scale. The game is relatively short but i admit i played bit by bit so it didnt look like a snapshot 
 to me.
  Of course i suggest you buy it 100%, unless you didnt like Crysis.
  +1 for EA.
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper0324
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Like Crysis, Crysis Warhead gives player a open and beautiful world to explore, to conquer. However, 
 Warhead is much more intense and engaging, filled with much more action, which definitely is a 
 big plus to this expansion pack.
  
  The graphic is just absolutely astonishing and photo realistic with lot of variety. (with some decent 
 hardware of course) Sometimes you will try to cimb up a high ground just to look at this beautiful 
 island, well maybe looking for sniping position as well. Other than the environment just look "nice", 
 player can have a lot of interaction with the environment as well. Most of the trees, buildings, 
 objects on the ground are destructable, or at least will fly around when you toss a grenade near 
 it (watch out for the debris when you are having fun!) .
  
  The physics is very descent for a video game. The explosion and the way debris flying around looks 
 really real. When a car's tire got shot it will lose control. Rocket projectile got displaced when 
 shoot through tree leaves. There are many other little things in Crysis Warhead will make you want 
 to try differnt stuff just want to find out "hey if I do this what will happen?"
  
  Of course the physics is still far away from true reality. Some times you get minor problem such 
 as a piece of debris will get stuck between two things and just vibrate their with noisy sound 
 forever. But after studying four years in engineering for my college. Hell, all those physics and 
 fluid dynamics involves so much hard math, and what Crytek had done in Crysis Warhead definitely 
 should be highly appreciated.
  
  Sound effect is very well done as well, all guns sound dofferent. With a 5.1 speakers it will make 
 you feel like you are actually in the game. One thing I like Warhead more than Crysis is its music, 
 I personally found Warhead's music much more well done and engaging. I personally dislike the English 
 voice acting, after a while they sound repetitive and stupid, but that is why I suggest you to 
 turn the Korean voice acting on no matter what difficulty level you are playing at. (which is actually 
 very easy to do) I found Korean voice acting much better. Well the fact is I don't understand what 
 the heck are they talking about, but I think it is actually a big plus to me. It feel much real 
 when you are fighting an enemy that yell out command in something you don't understand.
  
  Recently lot of games have beautiful graphic and astonishing sound effect, but get mediocore gameplay. 
 But for Crysis Warhead the gameplay is actually the big part that is going to grow on you. With 
 the open world and your nano suit, you can proceed every mission in complete different way. You 
 can walk in an enemys base's front door like you are a terminator, and use your speed and armor 
 option to make big chaos in the middle of the enemy squad. That stradegy is usually pretty risky 
 but with hell lot of fun. 
  
  If such style doesnt fit you, you can try to jump in the base from the side with your strength 
 mode, and then use your cloaking option to pick out enemy one by one. Or you can climb up a close 
 by mountain and snipe out a lot of enemy before you even went into base. Or you can use strength 
 mode to toss an oil drum into the base, blow it up so it draw away all the guard at the front gate, 
 then walk in with no problem. The list just keep going on and on and on... One more big plus, you 
 can alway toss a chicken at your enemy, which is alwasy fun (no kidding)
  
  The story of Crysis Warhead is nothing really special, but due to all the intense action, you will 
 never get bored by the plain story. Especially in some of the big battles, you will get amazed 
 by the presentation.
  
  With the beautiful graphic and variaty of interaction you can do with the environment. Crysis Warhead 
 really make you want to play it again and again just to explore different places and find different 
 approach to each mission, or sometimes you will just turn on the game and look at the enjoyable 
 tropical scenery. Crysis Warhead is for sure a hardware demanding game, but with the increasing 
 popularity of multi core processor and better GPU. I would certainly hope sooner or later every 
 one in the PC gaming field can enjoy both Crysis and Crysis Warhead. Crysis series is one more 
 giant leap for FPS games.
  
  Note:
  My operating system:
  Intel Q6600 Quad Core
  3.1 GB DDR2 Ram (due to 32bit Windows XP limitation)
  BFG nVidia 8800GT OC 512MB.
  Creative 
 Soundblaster X-Fi ExtremeMusic with Logitech X-530 Speakers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is the videogame equivalent of a summer action movie, and while it's more action-heavy 
 than its highly acclaimed predecessor, it still retains its brains. Like Crysis, Warhead is a sandbox 
 shooter that gives you large amounts of freedom as to how you approach each tactical situation. 
 And there are plenty of tactical situations, because Warhead seems aimed at those who felt that 
 Crysis was a bit too slow-paced and cerebral at times. But while it doesn't quite match the over-the-top 
 insanity of a Call of Duty game, Warhead does prove that Crytek can deliver an intense action game. 
 
  
  Warhead is a companion game to Crysis, with a story that runs concurrently to that in the first 
 game. An alien artifact has been discovered on a tropical island, and after the United States and 
 North Korea race to seize it, an alien invasion erupts, flash freezing the island and putting the 
 world at risk. The difference is in perspective; you now get to play as British Sergeant Michael 
 Sykes, aka Psycho, the blowhard from the first game. Warhead takes place on "the other side of 
 the island" that Crysis takes place on. If you played that game you already know the beginning 
 and the end, so what matters here is the journey. 
  
  
  
  
  The opening cinematic establishes the kind of character Psycho is, and the kind of game Warhead 
 will be. With aplomb, he leaps off of cliffs into moving trucks, manhandles North Koreans, and 
 generally sneers at danger. Warhead is a much more cinematic game than its predecessor, partly 
 due to third-person cutscenes (they were totally absent in Crysis) , but also because it feels like 
 Crytek openly borrowed a page or two from director Michael Bay. This goes right down to the overwrought 
 emotional scenes to the driving musical score full of Japanese takio drums and soaring movements. 
 
  
  Like Crysis, the heart of Warhead is its combination of sandbox gameplay with the nanosuit, the 
 high-tech body armor that can give you superhuman strength or speed, or cloak you from detection. 
 Used correctly, the nanosuit lets you basically be the alien Predator from the movies, and the 
 open nature of the levels means that you can dictate the terms of the battle. It's a blast to hurl 
 grenades at long range at a squad of bad guys, then use speed to close the distance, strength to 
 pick up a survivor and hurl him into his buddies, and then to finish them off with a few rounds 
 of rifle fire. You can cloak and sneak right up to your opponents, or have them follow you only 
 to cloak and then change direction. It's all up to you. Combine that ad lib style of gameplay with 
 the generally smart AI, and each play-through of Warhead can be completely different. 
  
  Seriously. The emphasis is on large battles, whether you're assaulting a beach resort full of North 
 Korean troops, barreling down a road in an APC and shooting up the villages you drive through, 
 or defending a group of soldiers from alien assault. Crytek reduced the downtime between battles 
 to a bare minimum; you're often no sooner out of a fight before stumbling into another one. And 
 sometimes, you might even drag one fight into another. That happened quite a bit during the alien 
 levels, when the aliens attacked me with numbers that forced me to engage in a running battle. 
 I'd have one group chasing me only to stumble into another. And, yes, the alien battles in Warhead 
 are a lot tougher than they are in Crysis. Gone are the short, linear sequences; now you're in 
 the sandbox with the aliens, so it's a fast-paced cat-and-mouse game of shoot, move, and cover. 
 The aliens dart around; they like to pelt you from a distance. There are also some new alien types, 
 including a new shield alien that protects his buddies; you have to take him out first in a fight, 
 which isn't easy. 
  
  You get some new toys; my favorite is the six-shot grenade launcher that provides some personal 
 artillery, as well as a submachine gun and equipment like antitank mines. Still, for the most part, 
 many of the weapons remain the same, though the lower difficulty levels now allow you to automatically 
 pick up ammo by walking over it, which is more user friendly. And your most potent weapon remains 
 your nanosuit; used smartly, you can survive just about any situation. 
  
  While shorter and slightly less epic than Crysis, Warhead still provides a fun ride. Crytek definitely 
 learned some lessons and have applied them to Warhead. I also like how Crytek has a lot more fun 
 with the frozen paradise that the island becomes once the aliens freeze it. There are definitely 
 some memorable scenes, like when you're piloting a hovercraft and hitting jumps off of frozen waves. 
 Or how the brittle, iced-over jungle shatters when the bullets fly in a firefight.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh4yo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is a standalone expansion to the original game Crysis, that came out about a year 
 ago. In the game you play as Sergeant Sykes, aka 'Psycho,' where you experience the events that 
 went on the other side of the island, parallel to the time line in the original game. Being an 
 expansion, the game is logically shorter, about 4 - 6 hours, depending on your skill, but it's 
 much more action packed and intense than the previous game, which could give it the edge of being 
 better than Crysis.
  
  The plot itself does not shed enough importance to the original game, but it gives you enough sense 
 of being there and executing given missions and objectives such as rescuing a downed pilot and 
 hunting down a North Korean container, supposedly carrying a nuclear warhead, hence the name of 
 the expansion. The game uses cutscenes, which are used to good effect at forwarding the story at 
 a faster and more understandable pace. If you haven't played Crysis, there isn't so much of a necessity 
 of knowing about the events in that game, since the ending of Crysis Warhead does not do any significant 
 change in the overall Crysis storyline. 
  
  In contradiction to the previous game, the nanosuit is not placed into the spotlights. The nanosuit 
 itself is a special designed suit that you wear and it gives you superhuman abilities, such as 
 increased strength, increased defence, increased speed or a special cloaking ability that makes 
 you invisible. You can use only one ability at a time, and the usage of them is limited by a special 
 bar that is indicated below your health bar. This gave Crysis a different variety of gameplay, 
 you could have sneaked through different enemy locations and retrieve intel without being noticed 
 or stormed through the territory, killing everyone that stood against you. It's not like that in 
 Crysis Warhead. While you still have the option to use all these abilities, the game's waves of 
 enemies and fast pacing makes it almost logically mandatory for yourself to be constantly in attack 
 mode. Which is a good thing, since the action is intense and fun. 
  
  A sufficient array of weapons is given to you to choose from, where you can hold only two main 
 weapons and a pistol. Since this is an expansion, the number of weapons is not fairly large, but 
 you'll find yourself sticking to a good weapon for a long time through the game. Feeling of the 
 weapons is just right and there haven't been any changes to them, which is a good thing, since 
 they still do give you a powerful feel when you wield them, some more, some less. The AI you face 
 is boiled down to two types. The North Korean army and the aliens you encounter early in the game. 
 The alien AI is improved, where they take cover from you and attack in more organized groups. The 
 North Koreans on the other hand aren't so much advanced and will only slightly annoy you when you 
 won't know from where you're being fired at. But in the end, you making yourself invisible gives 
 you the edge over them sometimes. The AI difficulty will increase towards the end of the game, 
 making the experience even more dramatic and intense, but you'll still be able to finish the job. 
 Overall the combat is the best point of Crysis Warhead, even more satisfying than the graphics, 
 since your main focus will be on killing waves of things than looking at the pretty scenery.
  
  From a graphical standpoint, the game can still be beautiful to admire, if you hardware can 
 support the maximum settings, but the developers have done a good job at toning down the demands 
 for the minimum reasonable computer requirements, that still make the game look pretty decent. 
 Every other component that makes up the environment you play in, is fleshed out decently and gives 
 you a nice organic feel to the game.
  
  While the original Crysis showed off more of its graphical advancement and nanosuit concept, Crysis 
 Warhed simply shines in action and combat. Even if you haven't played the original Crysis, this 
 is a must buy for any fan of the first person shooter genre, adding the fact of the low price, 
 superb graphical and physical environment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  Without any doubt, Crysis was one of last year's best FPS games & enjoyed huge success, maily because 
 its unbeatable graphics & action packed campaign. So EA decided to further make use of the Crysis 
 game concept & created two games: Crysis Warhead, the single player experience parallel with the 
 events in the original game, & Crysis War, the multiplayer component. We'll talk here about Crysis 
 Warhead.
  
  Storyline:9/10
  
  Now Warhead's story takes place in the same Korean islands as in the original game, & also follows 
 the original line closely. This time though, we won't play as Nomad anymore... we'll take control 
 of our favorite character, Pshycho, the crazy brit. The events happen parallel with the ones in 
 Crysis, so it's something like the FEAR-FEAR Extraction Point tie. Thing is the tie of events makes 
 sense, you'll sometimes remember yourself completing a certain objective with Nomad in the original 
 game while being reminded of it in Warhead by Command. Also, Warhead is a much more cinematic experience 
 than Crysis, featuring some greatly done cutscenes & a couple of nice flashbacks. The story ain't 
 much of a wander, but the pleasant way it is told made me rate it high.
  
  Gameplay:10/10
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as in the original Crysis, so I won't 
 talk about everything all over again. Good thing is that there are some real improvements which 
 stand for a better game experience. As you start, you will, of course, fight koreans. Their AI 
 has suffered some improving, so that they won't be the sitting ducks they were in Crysis anymore. 
 Of course, hell, it's a sandbox game, so it still can't be compared with the AI quality in FEAR 
 for instance, but still it's an improvement. Now a thing that made the combat experience in Crysis 
 quite dull was the fact that the koreans died much too hard. You could empty a whole clip into 
 them before they fell, & that sucked the fun out of it. Fortunatelly, things are different in Warhead: 
 two or three shots means a korean dies artistically & a headshot is a headshot, no matter what. 
 Now in the second part of the game, after the ice & the aliens come out, things get a bit rusty, 
 cause still fighting aliens is not much fun, but this too is improved from Crysis, where the aliens 
 would just hover over the landscape & stare down. But I have to say, the alien bosses are fun to 
 fight, & the final boss is... not much of a boss, against your superweapon... whatever. Speaking 
 of weapons, there are some new cool additions: the grenade launcher is always a fun way to make 
 them koreans fly, the new assault rifle is quite useful... then there are some new customizable 
 parts as well, the superweapon by the end of the game & also some quite annoying emplaced turrents 
 which blind you & take a great amount of energy out of you. But if you're the one using them, the 
 tide turns. Some new APCs which totally smoke everything with their cannon, & if a minigun is emplaced... let 
 the fun begin. And having mentioned miniguns, I gotta tell you about this rail-shooting experience 
 halfway through the game... best of its kind. Shooting koreans, blowing up vehicles, buildings & 
 gas stations while mounted on a minigun on a train running down the tracks... pure awesomeness.
 
  
  Graphics:10/10
  
  If you thought you can't see better graphics than the ones in Crysis, think again! Warhead not 
 only looks a lot better than the original Crysis, but also runs significantly better... & if that 
 ain't awesome, I really don't know what it is. The textures look better & more detailed, the lanscapes 
 are incredible, everything is just so fotorealistic & perfect. Ok maybe the only thing I have to 
 say against the visual aspect of Crysis is, once again, the fact that the day/night & weather cycles 
 change much too sudden. Now it's totally dark, 5 minutes later the sun is high up in the sky. Seven 
 more minutes pass & it's raining as hell. OK I understand, maybe there are ecuatorial influences 
 there in Korea, but not get off... Good thing is these aspects really don't bother. You'll be too 
 amazed by the graphics too see anything wrong.
  
  Sound:9/10
  
  As for the audio in Warhead, I've got a lot of good things to say. The sound effects sound incredibly 
 real: gunshots are really gunshots, & the environmental sounds are excellent. The music is okay 
 most of the time, it doesn't bother you, & quite surprisingly, in some sections it is really well 
 placed in the context & goes along fantasticly with the game's action. The voice acting is mostly 
 great, the americans sound good, Phycho does an excellent job & he's easily one of the funniest 
 characters in the history of videogames. And he also has a personality, so you can really get attached 
 to him. Unfortunatelly I can't say the same about the actors used to voice the koreans: they have 
 once again done an awful job, managing to sound like some dumb retarded asian guys who are trying 
 to immitate the american accent. They really manage to het on your nerves, but look at the bright 
 side: you'll LOVE shooting the hell out of them.
  
  Overall Impression:10/10
  
  Overall, Warhead is a hell of a continuation for one of last year's best shooters. With the most 
 intense & explosive FPS experience ever done, the game is comparable with Half Life 2 Episode Two. 
 You can complete it in 4-5 hours, but at the end you'll feel you've had the greatest time ever. 
 Believe me, it's totally worth it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  After the huge success of Crysis, Crytek come up with another fantastic game, which is Crysis: 
 Warhed.
  
  In fact, the expansion takes places in the other side of the island, where another battle between 
 US army, Koreans and monsters evolves. Sergeant Psycho (nickname) , and Sean O'Neil team up to destroy 
 everything standing on their way for the sake of their missions.
  
  The gameplay is as good as it was in the previous game. There are even more weapons to use, which 
 are greater I've seen too far. And of course the customizations of these weapons are unlimited, 
 too.
  
  Furthermore, the enemies are now smarter. They are not easily defeated, but that's the real substance 
 of the game. There is more action, andrenaline, race than ever before.
  
  A point of the game which is also improved is the multiplayer. Changed a bit, you can finally play 
 in a team (and I am really glad this request of the players has not fallen on deaf ears) and the 
 maps are at least satisfying.
  
  The graphics of the game are amazing. Luckily, this game improved its visuals (which were also good) , 
 without asking for the latest graphics cards and drivers. And as in the original Crysis, the sounds 
 are stunning.
  
  Warhead is definately the expansion we, players, have asked for. New multiplayer, good scenario, 
 pleasant weapons. Enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happydappyman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was extremely fun the first time threw... but after you finish the game and maybe play 
 threw one level again it just gets very boring. when i first got this game i was surprised at how 
 badly it ran on my computer because this was supposed to be easier to run than the original and 
 i could run that one on ultra. This game i could only run on medium but i recently downloaded some 
 graphics drivers that seem to have helped or fixed this problem. other than that the game was great 
 better story however short and i loved the new weapons. the game still runs slowly on some parts 
 such as the cold levels at which point i had to turn some settings down to make the game playable. 
 I liked the fact that their was LESS aliens i did not like the aliens from the first game they 
 were not that fun. if you liked the original game then get this game now, just don't expect it 
 to last very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _distorted
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  Indeed the Graphics detail makes one wonder if He/s playing something ahead of it's time or just 
 at the verge of a Revolution.
  
  The benchmark of the details set it, the post-processing is simply amazing. Simply Ambitious.
 
  
  Once the game starts off, it feels like Far Cry all over again, but gently and sweetly the Storyline 
 sweeps one off his feet.
  
  Sadly, it's very short of a game compared to the predecessor, but unlike the rumors that it would 
 not be anything more than what Crysis was truly died with the release of it.
  
  Maybe it's about time that people start off upgrading what they are using at the moment, trying 
 the game on multiple platforms with different specifications, it's disappointing on some, but then 
 again once I take a look at the time and date, I say to myself "Maybe it IS time to move ahead 
 and stop the complaints"
  
  Simply great is all I can say. Nothing EXTREMELY FLASHY, but it's exciting as ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Crysis warhead is jammed packed with allot action packed goodness. There's at least couple of new 
 things different than the original like dual Uzi type weapons that don't work so well and the flp 
 weapon that shoots nano and normal grenades which can take out a single Korean squad. There's also 
 some new vehicles like an armored car that's like a tank and it has 2 different types one that 
 shoots fast and weak and the other that shoots slowly and strong, which works faster. There's also 
 a hovercraft as a new vehicle, which isn't new exactly since I saw that in multiplayer in the original 
 crysis game. The whole single player campaign feels like a movie because some of the scenes are 
 like 3 to 6 mins long. I do say that like physco as a playable character he's much better than 
 old boring nomad. The aliens this time around had an overhaul and seem to attack more often than 
 floating off in a distance. They also have some new tricks up their sleeve like shielded little 
 aliens things which I find weaker than the Koreans and orange types of giant spiders and flying 
 guys which take allot of glauss shots to take down. This time around the giant spiders seem to 
 be allot weaker now since you got that grenade launcher. The multiplayer is lots better since you 
 can hardly see the cloak now because you don't see any blue line's and stuff. 
  
  Overall crysis warhead will have you begging for more and you will find yourself amazed how much 
 more settings you can get it to work on. Graphically
  (I have lots more to say, but i can't fit it all in this review so i end with) (buy this game) .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkgilli
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  The good:
  
  Graphics are eye popping. Framerate was smooth throughout as opposed to Crysis. 
  
  The nanosuit 
 is still fun and innovative to play with.
  
  
  
  The bad:
  
  A barely perceptible plot, with the most awful diaglogue in any game I've played recently. Please, 
 try to have some intteligent diaglogue instead of using expletives as a substitute. 
  
  Combat is run of the mill. Shoot North Koreans, shoot aliens, repeat. Nothing special there.
 
  
  The best feature of the Crysis game, the nanosuite, was not utilized to it's full potential. Too 
 bad.
  
  Way too short for the money. Wait for it to go onsale.
  
  Bottom line:
  
  The only reason to buy this game is the graphics. They are really beautiful and detailed. Other 
 than that, if you don't have a computer to take advantage of the graphics, I wouldn't recommend 
 the game. Not much else there other than a run of the mill shooter and awful diaglogue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I liked Crysis Warhead a lot and will play it again. Taking place all outdoors except for an underground 
 tunnel and caves, this game rocks with details not seen in Crysis: same trees, but better explosions 
 - a lot better!, trains, trucks, jeeps, hinds, VTOLs, APCs.
  The end boss level is also easier than the one in Crysis so it doesn't get in the way of the story 
 and there is more cut scenes so the story flows better and explains things better. plus that's 
 where the gritty and dirty side of war is shown.
  I didn't like the black scene flashbacks. They didn't seem to add anything (and you actually don't 
 know how they relate until the last one at the end for the game) , plus they are boring as there 
 is no visuals. I didn't think they helped explain Psycho's personality.
  There is also one scene here we see Psycho is actually sensitive. I thought that played out a bit 
 too long and didn't get the feeling that he really got vengeance on the mind when he left. Perhaps 
 he stayed professional. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alhenriq1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Since this game is only an expansion, I guess you can't expect it to be as long as the original, 
 but it's still a great game. I definately liked how they optimized the performance of this game 
 since the last one. I was able to play it on my Dell Inspiron 1520 on all medium settings for the 
 entire game except the snow level. Make sure to defrag after installing though. I enjoyed Warhead 
 more, the levels are a lot more fun (more jungle, less alien) . However, if you played the first 
 one then you have pretty much seen it all. They did add a few new things, like characters, weapons, 
 etc. (I actually liked the original weapons better, lol) . The story was better in this one. It 
 had the intensity one would expect to be associated with Psycho. It had some pretty cool cutscenes 
 and it was interesting how certain parts of the story overlapped. Overall the game was worth the 
 $30, I just wish it was longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1DdL3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Crysis: Warhead is a very nice game. I personally loved it and enjoyed every moment with it. I was 
 a fan of the first one and by the moment i started playing i was sure i m gonna like the expansion. Truth 
 to be told my system is quite old with my CPU at 2.6 gHz and a nVidia 7600 GT and 2 giga byte ram 
 it's getting quite old and not capable to play with full graphics most of the new games. I ran on 
 the same system both Crysis and Crysis: Warhead and i was able to raise the settings of the expansion 
 a bit while it was running smoothly. The AI I think it is the same as the original game but i may 
 be mistaken, also I haven't played Crysis in a long time to notice if the big alien machines were 
 just floating around or actually shooting at you. Either way in Crysis: Warhead if you find the right 
 gun for every opponent you can kill them easily that's why I've put difficulty at easy not rarely 
 I've found myself dying a thousand times while playing a game on normal difficulty but in Crysis: Warhead 
 I can manage to even advance to Hard Difficulty (Even thought I am not playing it much at this moment) . The 
 gameplay is the same as Crysis the exact same buttons, no differences very easy all buttons are 
 around your movement keys placed exactly were someone would want them. Now to the part that made 
 me feel really bad was it's duration. It was really short on my opinion, well maybe that is because 
 you were only filling some spots in the story with Psycho but I'd really love it to be a little 
 bit bigger. I personally finished it in 8 hours I understand that this is an expansion but it must 
 have been a lil bigger. Even so, I loved the game it was a very pleasant experience and I would certainly 
 suggest it to someone that hasn't tried it. But not without playing Crysis first, because if someone 
 starts with the expansion he/she would be really lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R4ptor_
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Graphics looks more polished than Crysis even though the framerate is 15% higher on my rig. Level 
 design is better imo and the balance between foot/vehicle/train combat is just right. The action 
 flows smoothly and keep you on your toes.
  
  The only negative comments I have is that its pretty linear and there are still a few AI issues, 
 but it wasn't substantial enough to keep this from being one of the most fun FPS's I've played. 
 
  
  Sure, it's not as revolutionary as Crysis when it came out, but I was much sadder when I finished 
 this than finishing Crysis. I want more! I want more!
  
  I really hope other companies will use this engine since the amount of visual immersion it can 
 provide coupled with some good ideas and perhaps improved AI will give us PC gamers some unbelievable 
 FPS's for the next few years! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss33
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Firs thing first Warhead is not comparable to Crysis from some major pionts.
  
  Let's first talk about good pionts.
  One good thing about the game is enhanced visuals, and simply 
 i can say it can bring your PC to it's knees !!
  driving is also much better than Crysis.
  
  But here are the facts.
  
  you play the game as Psycho, he is British and throughout the 
 game he tries to express it. it's like "I am british MUPPET".
  dialogues are ridiculous as well as storyline. No relation to original Crysis at all.
  
  And 
 also AI is not good. A lot of times when Korean soldiers saw me they did nothing. oh of course they 
 did one thing good,,, staring !!
  it happened a lot of times to me, they just stare and dont shoot.
  
  and finally the worst of 
 all ,the game is awfully short. in my first time, i think i finished it in 6 hourse.
  
  But consedidering all i said before, you can still enjoy crysis Warhead .it's a great FPS, but dont 
 expect something new 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iwatchitall
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is a great extention to the original, and gives a lot more closure as to why Psycho 
 showed up on the aircraft carrier with that alien in the original. The railway part was by far 
 my favorite level. I never stopped playing start to finish which says everything about the game. 
 The only weak link is my system desperately in need of a quad core and a 4870x2. It improved on 
 all the tiny annoyances of the original in a few ways, like walking over guns for ammo after you 
 have the gun, duel wielding, more scar ammo to actually make use of that gun, the music was better 
 than the original and I now want the soundtrack, a great story right from the beginning and it 
 never slowed down, and like the original, I didn't want it to end, leaving me thirsty for more. 
 Glad there was no VTOL, I hate flying that stupid thing, like in the original. Most of all, they 
 gave me exactly what I wanted in a storyline based on Psycho, as though, if I were to make a game 
 based on Psycho, this is what it would be. Thank you Crytek you have redeemed PC gaming for another 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rashaed
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  As you know, Crysis Warhead (CW) is the stand alone expansion to the award winning game Crysis. 
 CW is like playing Crysis but beefed up and in fast-forward. Its a non-stop ride into a crapload 
 of turmoil and you will love almost every minute of it.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  There have been a few tweaks to improve sound effects. Some added KPA speech, more sound coming 
 from the aliens and some new explosions. The guns sound the same but that's a good thing: nice 
 and powerful. Same goes for the new weapons in CW. The sound track is the biggest change in the 
 sound department. Gone is the oriental music as it has been replaced with more action movie music. 
 It fits very well into the game but the default is a little loud so you may want to turn it down 
 if it is distracting you. Voice acting fairly well done too. You will find Psycho a funny guy to 
 listen. One thing I noticed in CW and in Crysis is that the characters know when to curse. It makes 
 for great dialogue.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Just when I thought that it couldn't look any better on Windows XP, Crytek has outdone themselves. 
 CW looks AND runs better than Crysis. The same "attention to detail" has been put into CW to bring 
 very real environments. From the beach resort, to the swamps, to the inside of the frozen energy 
 sphere, CW a technical wonder. And like I said, this is on Windows XP with a single 8800GTX! Explosions 
 and gunfire are a significant improvement from Crysis while textures and facial animations are 
 unchanged. In my opinion, the Half-Life series has always set the bar for graphics in all FPSs 
 of that year. But Crysis and CW have taken that title with a KO so Half-Life 2: Episode 3 and and 
 Half-Life 3 will have some pretty high expectations. Valve: you guys have some work to do!
  
  Story: 8/10
  CW runs parallel to the to events of Nomad in Crysis. The story has a faster 
 pace and has some cool cut-scenes to show you not only Psycho was actively fighting (because he 
 didn't do squat to help in Crysis) but that he was also better than Nomad. On a side note, there 
 are more radios to listen to so you can hear how the world is reacting to the events on the island.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  GOOD: CW has almost non-stop action compared to Crysis. Because of this you will make good use 
 of almost every weapon in the game. Most of the the new guns are a blast (pun intended) to use. 
 Of course you still have the nanosuit which adds a whole level a fun by itself with all its features. 
 And CW will be more challenging as the AI for the aliens have been improved so mind your health 
 when fighting them . The same goes for the KPA nanosuits as there will be plenty of them to fight 
 off as well.
  BAD: Since CW is so much shorter than Crysis, the levels are shorter and more linear. Sadly, only 
 first and last levels are the traditional large "sandbox" like in Crysis so the stealth approach 
 is rarely an option. Although you get to drive most of the land vehicles, you cannot access a tank 
 anywhere in the game. That's a big loss since the tank run (Onslaught) is the best part of Crysis. 
 But the vehicle run and train sequence are pretty good.
  
  Overall 9/10
  CW is a worthy successor to Crysis. CW is well worth the 30 bucks it cost to have this game in 
 your collection. The game seems fairly stable as it has never froze on me (although it has shut 
 itself down twice) . I look forward to Crysis 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shekswin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  ITs a brilliant yet unbelievebly small game. After playing an amazing game 1 of crysis i expected 
 a bigger battle. Though the graphics truly are well designed we gamers need more. I sincerly hope 
 the next part of this triology has a more challenging ambience... But all in all a good game with 
 all the elements of a hit!!!!!! i didnt enjoy the game 4 1 simple fact ... it took me less time 
 to complete it than to download it!!!!!!!... so all gamers .. play this amazing game.. but be aware.. 
 it ends b4 u can improvise!!!! so wat else ... about the aliens and the koreans ... if u play well 
 enogh in most cases either the aliens will kill the koreans r vice versa.. but that would kill 
 the GAME.. so kill the aliens with any gun u want .. GAUSS is best 4 small aliens n with a correct 
 aim 4m u the missile laucher is handy at times.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Static-7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  When I heard about Warhead I nearly jumped out of my seat. I had finished Crysis twice and I wanted 
 it to continue. Finally another one. This game is everything Crysis should have been (Don't believe 
 that it's more compatible with your system It still kills your PC) . There are so many awesome things 
 about Crysis Warhead. The graphics is wooooow. The jungle and tropical beach setting will never 
 get old. You won't find better. The only thing that's dumb about Warhead is that you can finish 
 it in between two to four days if you play continuously. This game is a MUST buy and definitely 
 a masterpiece. They have introduced some new characters into the game that make it a little more 
 interesting. You have a couple of new weapons and one special weapon close to the end, it's awesome. 
 It makes the game that much more fun. Can't wait for the next installment. Another five star game 
 for Crytek. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  You would generally expect that a expansion especially a stand alone expansion would offer something 
 more than its predecessor. However if you were expecting such a thing from Crysis warhead then 
 you might be a little disappointed. The expansion is everything the original was but very little 
 more. The graphics, game play and weapons are pretty much the same. And the new campaign is a bit 
 too short for anyone to really enjoy the Crysis atmosphere one more time.
  
  There are however some new content. Mostly weapons and new types of enemies and a few more vehicles 
 as well but i felt that there was much too little time to really try out the new content as they 
 come a little late in the game.
  
  Overall this game is still a very good one and is worth every minute you play. And it a game that 
 sticks to its roots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxiesf
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  I was thoroughly disappointed in Crisis Warhead. The single player was way too short and had none 
 of charm of the original. Also, WTF happened to the storyline??? At the end of Crysis your commander 
 takes off to fight the aliens. In Warhead there is only a passing mention of him in a cutscene 
 (which are poorly acted and way too many of) being MIA and that the rest of your team is dead.
 
  You play Psycho for entire game, and are forced to listen to his annoying quips.
  While there were 2 new vehicles (hovercraft and armored transport) the vehicle element of the game 
 was strangely absent. No Tank battles, no VTOL whatsoever. 
  You don't even get a tank to drive until the end of the game, and it is not really even usable 
 there because of the way the level is layed out. And there is no level into the alien hive, which 
 was beautifully designed in the original.
  Lame.
  It is like the developers took all the best parts of the original game and chucked it out the window.
 
  As for the multiplayer, it requires a completely separate install, and didn't seem to be any different 
 from the original.
  All in all, not worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamzashah
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  i great game supurb action game but we want much much better then this i great game supurb action 
 game but we want much much better then this i great game supurb action game but we want much much 
 better then this i great game supurb action game but we want much much better then this i great 
 game supurb action game but we want much much better then this i great game supurb action game 
 but we want much much better then this i great game supurb action game but we want much much better 
 then this i great game supurb action game but we want much much better then this i great game supurb 
 action game but we want much much better then thisi great game supurb action game but we want much 
 much better then this i great game supurb action game but we want much much better then this i 
 great game supurb action game but we want much much better then this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caligua_65
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Great little shooter. I liked the fact that it was a "quickie." Sometimes, playing a shooter that 
 takes forever to finish just plain gets old no matter the storyline or how great the graphics are.
 
  
  A couple of issues - it crashed on me 2-3 times and sound broke up on occasion. Otherwise, a visual 
 and audio treat. Played with 5.1 headphones and combined with the visual fireworks made for an 
 all consuming experience.
  
  I haven't played the team-match portion yet, but I'll definitely be playing the stand-alone game 
 a few more times before it goes into my retired bin.
  
  Also hoping that all the cretins that are stealing it via BitTorrent won't dissuade CryTech from 
 making any more of these games. Last interview I read said they were pretty fed up with all the 
 thievery.
  
  Now, on to Far Cry 2!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  First thing's first: if you enjoyed the original Crysis, than Crysis: Warhead is right up your 
 ally. If you haven't played Crysis, then Warhead is an excellent opportunity for you  it's better 
 in almost every way. Of course you'll need a state-of-the-art PC just to make it run on the "Mainstream" 
 settings, the game's equivalent to "medium".
  
  Warhead's story takes place simultaneously with the story of Crysis, on the other side of the island. 
 While in the previous game the player took the role of Nomad, a soldier in an elite squad wearing 
 a powerful "nano-suit" that allows him to run faster, jump higher, deflect bullets and generally 
 beat the snot out of the KPA (Korean People's Army) and some aliens. This time around, you play 
 as Psycho, another member of the same team, who's wearing an identical "nano-suit" of his very 
 own. Although there isn't much difference between Nomad and Psycho gameplay-wise, as a character 
 Psycho is much more developed and easier to relate to than Nomad (he has an actual face) .
  
  Being an expansion pack, Warhead is unavoidably compared to Crysis, and rightfully so. One 
 of the major complaints about Crysis was that, although fun, the action sequences and combat was 
 spaced too far between, with a lot of empty area in the middle. It seems like Crytek really listened 
 to the fans on this one, because Warhead is just one big streak of adrenalin filled battles one 
 after the other. Even the aliens are now much more fun to fight than in the original game. They 
 seem to be smarter and harder to hit, now that they dodge more often and have a cool new ability 
 to generate an energy shield around them. The KPA encounters still provide for better firefights, 
 but now the aliens present a real challenge instead of just a mild nuisance.
  
  Another thing that's improved over the original game is the driving. Anyone who played a Crytek 
 game before (Crysis and Far Cry) knows that vehicles are almost impossible to handle and the driving 
 itself is very unintuitive. However, in Warhead, driving a vehicle is easier than ever, and the 
 mandatory driving levels can be quite fun, especially the hovercraft sequence that requires Psycho 
 to navigate quickly on a rough terrain. It is safe to say that Crytek learned from their past mistakes 
 and tightened up the driving controls and physics, making driving vehicles a fun and exciting way 
 of dispatching enemies, instead of a chore.
  
  And now for the highlight of Crysis Warhead: The graphics. To put is simply, the game looks great. 
 The lush jungle environments are so detailed that every tree seems like an individual design; even 
 the patterns on a small turtle's shell seem to have the right texture. I know all of this is true 
 for the original Crysis, but this time it seems like Crytek pushed their Cry engine even harder. 
 As a result, Warhead is an even better looking game than Crysis. It's hard to point out exactly 
 where the improvements to the graphics are, but it seems like the entire game is just a little 
 more lifelike. Shadows are sharper, the facial animations of both Psycho and his Korean enemies 
 are more varied, the icy environments look a little bit more real and complex; there are a lot 
 more frozen KPA soldiers and random vehicles and objects scattered around the wasteland, which 
 gives off the feeling that jungle has been taken over completely by the aliens in a matter of seconds 
 (a feeling the first game lacks) .
  
  All those graphical enhancements are all fine and well, and add a lot to the experience that is 
 Crysis Warhead. That is of course if your PC can run the game on the medium settings with a decent 
 frame rate. It seems like all of these minor changes in the Cry engine somehow boosted the game's 
 requirement to new heights, making it almost impossible to play it on anything higher than medium. 
 My PC was able to run Crysis on high, with a stable frame rate, but could not go over the medium 
 level of settings on Warhead, and even those made for a very choppy gaming experience. It is too 
 bad that insane system requirements prevent the average gamer from experiencing the best Warhead 
 has to offer in terms of visuals.
  
  Being an expansion pack, Crysis Warhead is not a full length game. It does not overstay its welcome, 
 and can be finished in a day or two, depending on the difficulty level chosen. Granted, the game 
 ends a little too soon, and one more level would have been nice, but all in all Crysis Warhead 
 is a true action game for all the first person shooter fans out there. While it does not deviate 
 from the original formula, it is still a refreshing experience over other FPSs, since it does offer 
 the unique abilities of the "nano-suit" and nonstop, fast paced action. So if you loved Crysis, 
 and crave for more "nano-suit" action  Crysis Warhead is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sigsworth
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  When developing a game purporting to be about an actual military unit, it helps to, you know, actually 
 know something about the military. The most annoying thing about this game is the radio "chatter" 
 that is completely unrealistic. Someone actually says "over and out" during the game. The second 
 most annoying thing is the subplot between the main character and one of the supporting characters. 
 Who cares? It adds nothing to the game and ultimately is completely meaningless. Next on the annoying 
 list are the cutscenes. They are, in a word, rotten. They look like they were directed by Uwe Boll. 
 
  
  On the plus side, the gameplay is identical to the first game, which is to say, unsatisfying. The 
 nanosuit is a brilliant idea, poorly executed. The action scene in the opening to the game is not 
 reproducible by the player because of the unwieldy user interface for changing suit modes. That, 
 and the power runs out very, very quickly. The only way to make it enjoyable is to edit the configuration 
 files. At least in this game they left out the interminable floating around in the alien spaceship. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrEaK411
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This is what Crysis should have been when it came out. Warhead has amazing effects which are way 
 smoother than and look more amazing than the first game . I loved the first one just like many 
 others but with the high specs it really hurt the game the most. With Warhead they saw what they 
 did wrong and fixed up all those high spec bugs from the first one. Anybody with a new"ish" computer 
 can play this game with decent playable frames. The game still gets bogged when your under heavy 
 fire though, so the more powerful your pc is the better (Duh!) . The on-line mode called Crysis Wars. 
 I find this to be WAY better than the first ones multi there are so many maps it makes the gameplay 
 less boring. The main story line is a well-developed plot worthy to be in the list of games with 
 Awesome story-lines. The story is of Psycho from the first game. With there being more cutscenes 
 the story is very well understood so you get what's going on. And they should stick with him for 
 the next installment of Crysis. Well thats it for my review and thanks for reading it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JXLpixel2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely amazing, enhanced graphics, new multiplayer modes. This improves on an already outstanding 
 game. The game play is perfectly balanced so if your a newbie to the FPS genre you can comfortably 
 slide into place. While at the same time it keeps experienced gamers on their toes. Multiplayer 
 has recieved a makeover when you buy crysis warhead, it comes with a new platform for linking. 
 Crysis wars is a stand alone component to the game, instead of acessing multiplayer from warhead 
 (as you did with the origanal) you install a different program, when you get tired of the campaign, 
 but still want to play multiplayer you can just unistall warhead, a must for multiplayer fraggers. 
 The campaign is shorter in this expansion than the full game it still has the same story telling 
 prowess, with the in depth plot line it doesn't disappoint those who've played the first crysis. 
 Although the final battle lacked a little substance I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys 
 shooters, or would like to try one out. keep your eyes open for the next expansion pack crysis 
 has so much more to give. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbisco25
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  this the game crysis should have been, with more expolison. better effect in fact every thing is 
 bigger and better. i love the first crysis but the high spec and sometime slow pace hurt the game 
 alot. but with this one they saw the mastake with crysis and made them right. if you have a good 
 pc you should get this game a ture AAA game. downside the game dose slow down a bit when the action 
 gets a bit hot. so the more powerful pc the better. their is a online mode called Crysis war. which 
 is ok but it not the best in the world they have add some new match to the game and also some new 
 maps which is good news. i also think the story is much more better. more cut scence which a better 
 acted and pyscho IMO is a better character then nomad. they should keep with him for the next one 
 and not nomad. so all in all this the game you whant for your pc. go get it now you whant be disppointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  As far as "expansions" are considered, Crysis: Warhead really did a great job of telling the story 
 of Psycho and his actions on the island during the events of the first game. 
  
  Since this is a stand alone expansion, there's really not a whole lot new expect the story. There's 
 a few new vehicles but entrenched weapons but overall it's pretty much the exact same, which should 
 be expected. Expansions are meant to carry on the STORY and no add a bunch of new toys and such... that 
 is what new VERSIONS are for. 
  
  All in all it was fun to play through. Some say it was to short, and yeah... it certaintly isn't 
 nearly as long as crysis but once again this is the standard of expansions. However, the story 
 is very solid and I did enjoy it. 
  
  Now I did encounter some bugs on the way, mainly random crashes to desktop but they were not frequent 
 nor did they prevent me from progessing. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  You would think that after a great game that was Crysis, Crysis Warhead would be a great game, 
 and it is easy to percieve this vision by reading Gamespot's once again way off review or by looking 
 at a majority of the user reviews. but i am here to tell you that this game is not what those people 
 say it is. it is different in a bad way that makes for a average, lackluster, good looking shooter.
 
  
  Graphics
  The Graphics in Warhead are the best thing about the game, and you can get it running smoothly 
 on the gamer setting on a decent PC, but not anything amazing, and the game still looks great, 
 which is a feat in itself. Good job on this front Crytek, too bad it goes downhill from here.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Now. what you have heard mostly is that this is just Crysis with more action which sounds good 
 right? it does on paper, but when you actually play the game, it does the action part, but the 
 freedom and depth of the 1st Crysis isnt there. What you get is a simple shooter with a cool suit 
 and some vehicle sequences, but this is a much more standard, on-rails shooter. The people who 
 said it best was PC Gamer, who actually gave this game a 7 also, and said "there is actually a 
 level where you literally on rails." and they are right. sure, there is some new weapons and enemies 
 that are tougher, but what makes up a game is how fun it is not how much little new things you 
 added. While we are on the note of Enemies, let me say that this game provides no shortage of cheap 
 deaths. there were so many times when i would just be walking and then POW! im dead. argggh. i 
 hate this kind of stuff. 
  
  Another note that makes this game not very likeable is the cool third-person cutscenes that you 
 see, but YOU CANT PLAY. what were they thinking? Of course people want to play and not watch some 
 stupid cutscene, a very bad decision on Cryteks part.
  
  Overall its up to you but i trusted the good reviews and came out very dissapointed, and was expecting 
 a much better, longer (it is very short, i mean Painfully short) , and deeper game, instead we get 
 a slapped on generic FPS. Good action, but this game is just not executed well-enough to be a good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macedonia_sucks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is a pure average game, the gameplay is average the AI is so stupid they should 
 have put the AI from F. E. A. R. and the story... I cant find it, the dialog isnt good enough. The 
 improvements are the dual sub machine guns, the grenade lyncher... cannon , the EMP grenades, the 
 vehicle mines ant the great claymore, there is a new experimental weapon, the new armored vehicle 
 and the hovercraft, and the alien dont stand still to get shot and there is a new green alien the 
 rest is the same. I wanted to see something more brutal from Psycho he needs to live up to his 
 name not cry like a baby he does this in one of the cut scenes. I still want to see BODY DISMEMBERMENT 
 and I want to fly one of the enemies helicopters, its short, its not as optimized as they say and 
 many other things the secret ending is the worst ,a giant frog instead of the alien wow they really 
 worked on that one. In the end the game is not anything special but its OK and if your PC can handle 
 it play it and sorry for my bad english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The events in Crysis Warhead run parallel to those of the original game. Those of you that played 
 the original remember the dialogue where Nomad asks "Psycho where have you been?" and he answers 
 "Nomad, you have no idea"
  
  You play as Sargent "Psycho" Sykes. Your mission is to track down the main general of the North 
 Korean soldiers on the island. He is transporting one of the aliens off the island, and must be 
 stopped.
  
  CW improves the graphics scale greatly. More lower end machines (which is still higher than a higher 
 end 7800+ series GPU) can run this game better than the original. However there are still many 
 instances where so much stuff will happen at once that the frames per second will start to bog 
 down.
  
  Enemy AI is sometimes incredibly stupid. Now that you have Crysis xp under your belt you have mastered 
 the ever-so-great "nanosuit" and can just flat out destroy your enemies. Well than again you dont 
 really have to try because the AI can be down right abysmal at times.
  
  Bugs are horrendous in this game. Textures will blur almost every where you look. You can just 
 fall over and die because of a CRATE falling on you. Thats right the same person who can punch 
 vehicles, jump dozens of feet, and stop bullets... can die by a glitch of a crate falling on you.
 
  
  Overall there are plenty of exciting moments in this game. And the graphics are still very impressive. 
 Overall 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kailii
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 17, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  In other words, Warhead is totally messed up, even more than Crysis how hard to believe this sounds 
 anyway.
  
  We still remember how sudden and unsatisfying Crysis ended (Part 1, a. k. a. the evermilking cow) , 
 it simply felt not right to leave the islands to the aliens when we just kicked their mothership 
 in the... ocean.
  Back then Crysis was critisized for being a very short game, and many suspected a quick follow-up 
 by EA to milk the cashcow again.
  
  I was among those critics, but when i finished Warhead today (i also started playing today) i could 
 not believe how wrong i was with my expactations - as i was not pessimistic enough.
  
  First of all Warhead is a stand-alone expansion, meaning it is sold at a higher price compared 
 to a regular expansion. Did i talk about cows already? Right.
  
  Second, it's way too short. 7 levels in total - 6 if you dismiss the tutorial one.
  
  Third, 
 what's new? Mostly the new anti-alien gun which you acquire at the end of the last level. It does 
 not need ammo like that special weapon in Crysis, is equally bad to use and totally ineffective 
 against the final boss encounter. Besides that there are a couple ineffective weapons and a few 
 more vehicles to ride - offset by the fact that there is nothing like the "VTOL level" in Crysis. 
 You're better off on foot. OK, there is one exception to that rule, but i can't tell you as it 
 would be a spoiler, ruining the endgame.
  
  Fourth, absolutely no bug fixes. NPCs float high up in the air, helicopters chase and kill you 
 dispite being in perfect cover and cloak mode 300 meters away, and there are no improvements to 
 the AI at all.
  
  Fifth, the story does not make any sense. We know we got to play Psycho instead of Nomad this time 
 around, meeting up in the storyline when we present Nomad our captured alien aboard the carrier. 
 Well. Actually Warhead ends before we can present our little finding, and one game level centers 
 on a crashed and frozen aircraft carrier which is not the one from the final levels of Crysis.
 
  
  Sixth, the graphics. We have been told Warhead would not tax our machines like Crysis did, which 
 means we could expect smoother gameplay (a higher frame rate) . On my gaming rig Warhead really 
 runs better than Crysis, i estimate up to 50% more frames per second.
  If there was any optimization to the graphics engine i do not know, but at least part of this advance 
 came through mission design: The amount of drawable objects has been reduced drastically, maybe 
 to around 20% of what Crysis had to draw regarding polygons.
  
  Seventh, mission design and balance. I do not want to sound rascist because i simply am not, but 
 Warhead looks like some many games from Russia: Every designer and programmer has got some great 
 ideas, but when you finally link them together you get a real patchwork mess.
  For example most levels are overloaded with lootable weapons and ammo, maybe 5 times as much as 
 in Crysis, but during and after the "train level" i really depleted my stocks to the point where 
 i would hunt down anyone with a rifle and 20 bullets to Alaska and back.
  
  I stated 7 points of argue, Warhead offers that few gaming levels. When the hype is gone and one 
 realizes what the bucks got, it is time to wonder what games you will play in the future.
  Maybe a possible "Crysis: Warhammer" will consist of only 3 levels of play, or the highly anticipated 
 "Crysis: Warmonger" will require you to get a credit card from a well known banking establishment 
 in order to be played.
  
  Your decision of course. But mine is clear: Warhead is a strict and final NO! Are you a cow?
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Crysis: Warhead is such a stunning and beautiful game, its almost impossible to say all the right 
 words.
  Obviously the developers and programmers have truly outdone them selves. The game's graphics and 
 sounds make the gamer feel like he/she is in the game in real time.
  In the icy frigid whiteout areas one almost can feel the frigid cold enveloping them. The rain forests, well 
 again you can almost feel the rain drops on your body.
  The game is just so perfect that I highly doubt a patch will ever be needed. The graphics are so 
 beauyiful even on the lowend settings, they are just fantastic. Sound is utterly fantastic as well 
 bullets wiz by you and at times you forget its a game and look around to see if your hit ! Keep 
 your towel handy to wipe rain drops off your nano-suit mask ! New weapon types, lots of ammo laying 
 here there and everywhere make the game super fun to play. The games flowgraphs are seamlessly perfection. I 
 have played the game four times noow with "Delta" game settings. The AI our almost human with reguards 
 to being smart, no more AI stuck between walls and rocks. The gamer has to have a plan because the 
 AI are unforgivingI surely hope that the Crysis gaming developers do not let Crysis, or Crysis: Warhammer 
 fsall by the roadside and keep adding on to this stunning wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kipparoglou
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  All of the claims you may have heard that Crysis could only run on nuclear-powered supermachines 
 were greatly exaggerated. But if for some reason you worry that this stand-alone companion to the 
 ultragorgeous first-person shooter will bring your PC to its knees, you should know that it's highly 
 scalable and ran smoothly on a number of machines during our testing. It also looks better, with 
 clear attention given to the game's artistic sensibilities and the lusher, denser environments. 
 But rest assured, developer Crytek has enhanced more than just the graphics engine. Vehicles are 
 more fun to drive, firefights are more intense and focused, and aliens do more than just float 
 around you. More emphasis on the open-ended environments would have been welcome, but a more exciting 
 (though shorter) campaign, a new multiplayer mode, and a whole bunch of new maps make Crysis Warhead 
 an excellent expansion to one of last year's best shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadworlDsurfer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  For fans of the original Crysis, Warhead delivers another path through the explosive events of 
 Crysis. The new campaign feel right at home next to the original story. Warhead also brings some 
 new weapons and vehicles such as the grenade launcher, machine pistols, and the hovercraft into 
 the fray both in campaign and in multiplayer. Warheads multiplayer expands on the original Crysis 
 with more maps and the addition of the Team Deathmatch mode which was surprisingly absent from 
 Crysis. Although Warhead is an "expansion pack" to Crysis the original game is not required to 
 play Warhead which feels like a whole new game in its own right. Though action packed the new campaign 
 feels very short. I was able to blow through it in just over 6 1/2 hours on normal difficulty. 
 For players of the original Crysis this game is a must have and could even be recommended for new 
 players as the multiplayer feels much better than the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is follows the same story as Crysis 1. With the slight difference that we are now 
 playing as Psycho (the guy who was in nomad's squad at the beginning of the first game)
  
  The game is pretty solid. Great visuals, a bit more upgraded since its predecessor... outstanding 
 AI and terrific audi and music.
  
  Its a great pack of quality that also includes an "extra" which is the online play, and it handles 
 to be pretty fun and addictive. Its more like a "battlefield game style" really.
  
  The bad thing about Crysis WH is that someone could finish the game in a blink of an eye. Too too 
 short. 7 hours maximun if you get the "adventurer feeling" to explore every single corner of the 
 island.
  
  Another remarkable thing was the fact that this game runs a bit better than crysis 1. It was like 
 Crytek team polished the graphic engine or something and you can also play it with the VERY HIGH 
 graphic performance in any Windows XP. Unlike Crysis 1 where that feature was locked unless you 
 had a Vista OS.
  
  All in all, delocious game, awesome graphics, great great quality of everthing, but... too short.
 
  
  You should ask a friend to borrow it a couple of days to finish it. I dont really think its worth 
 the purchase. Perhaps... becaouse of the online... but i leave that to your choise people.
  
  
  cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Story: Your another soldier in your suit. Kill the koreans and the alies.
  
  Missions: Drive to a spot kill everything there, hack you name it you do it.
  
  Controls: FPS 
 style controls. 
  
  Features: AMAZING graphics, awesome sound 
  
  AI: NOT the best AI i have seen but they are pretty good. They work against you and learn your 
 ever move.
  
  Graphics:. Best graphics again this year. The enviroments on the cryengine are the most detailed 
 ive ever seen and will continue to stay that way.
  
  Audio: Sound really makes this game. While the explosion animations are not as pretty as you would 
 like them to be the sound really makes this game.
  
  Requirements: Mouse and Keyboard
  
  The Good: pretty good sequal, Great graphics and audio
  
  The Bad: A little to short.
 
  
  The Ugly: n/a
  
  Replay Ability: Medium. 
  
  The Bottom Line: Is a great expansion that any Crysis fan should be playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Well it's back for another go around Crysis Warhead is back and basically just about as good as 
 the first one and some ways better than the first. I thank anyone who played Crysis and loved it 
 will defiantly want to play and will love Crysis Warhead.
  
  The story to me is better then the first basically because it seems to have a lot more depth in 
 it than the first one did. The game is rather short but not to short and it's so much fun that 
 you'll want to play through it a few times. I did and I'm still playing it to and its fun to play 
 it on different difficult levels to.
  
  This time around there is a lot more action going on so it isn't hard to find one. The gameplay 
 is great and the music soundtrack is also really great. The graphics have improved and looks stunning 
 and really nice you really notice stuff like the explosions and lighting textures and stuff like 
 that. It really ran great on my computer but it seemed to lag just a little bit on the snow levels 
 but it wasn't real bad so it wasn't a problem. 
  
  Crysis Warhead it a really great and fun expansion pack to Crysis. It defiantly is worth you're 
 money to you'll really enjoy it once you get into it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starsailor_IT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  The game doesn't disappoint. It's basically better than Crysis in any aspect. About the single 
 player adventure, the new protagonist, Psycho has a much deeper/realistic personality than Nomad 
 and the plot is less banal and better written. There is more action and less moments when you get 
 bored from the lack of new situations, the soundtrack is GOOD and not just the same loop and graphics 
 are better, from explosion to lighting to texture, everything looks better. The only flaw is that 
 it is short (but this is an expansion, not a full game) , and even though the vehicles are better 
 balanced and more, it is still a pity to not be able to use flying ones through the whole game 
 and finally that it is not true that the single player adventure is been so much optimized so that 
 it runs with the same settings and machine, better than Crysis. It basically runs the same, maybe 
 a bit slower. Also to mention some maybe too frequent game crashes on Vista, surely they'll be 
 fixed with the first patch. Anyway these are all minor flaws. 
  The GREAT thing about this expansion is the multiplayer DVD, Crysis Wars. A lot of optimization 
 has been done here, everything works nicer and faster, especially the big maps like Beach run much 
 smoother than in Crysis. Bugs have been removed, vehicles handling improved, everything seems faster 
 and better looking.
  So, considering the affordable price of $30, Warhead is surely an amazing game to buy, with basically 
 the same system requirements of Crysis and a LOT more fun and things to do. Definitely recommended 
 to anyone with a high end pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aksoss
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Crysis warhead is one of the best fps's of this year. O
  
  On the negative side, the story is even more awful than its predecessor, crysis. The characters 
 and the dialogue are cheesy, Psycho is more like Mental, and he declares his britishness as if 
 anyone gives a rat's ass. And the imagination of the scriptwriters still can't move beyond aliens, 
 though the programmers have made them real fun to fight. 
  
  On the plus side, well...
  The graphics of the game are simply awesome. Sometimes you just gotta stop in the middle of a firefight 
 and admire the vistas: the sunset, the jungle, the frozen wastes; the nanosuit simply rocks as 
 before; the gun fights are superfun.
  
  All in all, the guns and the explosions and the koreans and the aliens and the lush green jungle 
 and the tundra and the nanosuit pack up enough pizazz to make warhead a super-exciting experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Released just under a year after Crysis stunned the entire gaming community, Crysis Warhead is 
 everything the fans were hoping for. It's packed with more of the same exhilarating open ended 
 gameplay that made Crysis such a joy to play, along with a more focused, action oriented level 
 design, and visuals to die for. It's a slightly less epic ride and it carries a few of the quirks 
 of the original (regarding enemy AI) , but it's an outstanding action game nonetheless that delivers 
 on all fronts.
  
  Warhead's story runs parallel to the events after the midpoint of Crysis, but this time the action 
 centers around the character Psycho, who was a bit part player in the original. Psycho is a no-nonsense 
 type of soldier who isn't afraid to disobey orders and do things the way he sees it. And while 
 he has no problem defying the establishment, there are certain codes of ethic he does respect. 
 He also cares a lot for his partners and friends and will go beyond the call of duty to protect 
 their lives. Part of the back story in Warhead centers on a past incident involving one of Psycho's 
 close friends, something that allows the game to dig deeper and develop the Psycho character. There's 
 also a particularly important artifact Psycho must prevent the Koreans from acquiring, a mission 
 that will stretch itself through out the entire game. Though the story is a bit confusing at parts 
 and isn't as developed as the story in the first game, it doesn't detract from the experience and 
 it's fairly enjoyable even if it somewhat prevents the game from reaching the same epic heights 
 of Crysis.
  
  The open ended gameplay on the other hand is back with a vengeance. Though the level design in 
 Crysis Warhead is bit more linear this time around, you still have all the freedom in the world 
 to tackle missions in any way you want. Be it guns a blazing like Rambo or stealthy like the Predator 
 (my personal favorite) , you'll always be able to come up with something different every time you're 
 in a firefight. Perhaps you want to sneak into a camp undetected and hit everyone when they least 
 expect it. Maybe you want to setup a few land mines, sit back and lure your enemies towards them, 
 laughing as their bodies fly into the sky. You could also soften the opposition first by sniping 
 them from a distance. How about hijacking one of their vehicles and giving them a taste of their 
 own medicine? Or maybe all that's too fancy pants for you, so you just activate your maximum strength 
 suit function, walk in with your chin held up and choke them to their deaths.
  
  What's best, the gunplay has been improved from the original game. As good as the gunplay was in 
 Crysis, there were times when you'd hit a regular enemy several times from close range and he'd 
 still be hard pressed to fall down. That's not the case in Warhead (at least from my experience) . 
 Enemies absorb a realistic amount of damage which makes for less frustrating situations, even when 
 faced with dozens of enemies at a time. That's not to say Warhead is easy, because it certainly 
 isn't. The combat in Warhead can sometimes be much more intense and you'll have to make smart use 
 of all your abilities and weapons to make it out of a battle alive. But with the refined shooting 
 model, every gunfight feels like a fair fight. If you want the best possible experience I strongly 
 suggest you play the game on the Delta difficulty, as it offers the highest level of immersion 
 due to the intensity of battles and the fact that Koreans actually speak Korean.
  
  Unfortunately one negative aspect of Crysis that remains on Warhead is the occasionally buggy AI. 
 First of all, on the vast majority of situations the AI in this game is spectacular. Koreans will 
 try to flank you and will run to take cover if they feel overwhelmed. They will also make good 
 use of grenades as well as run away from yours. And should you warn them of your presence too early, 
 they will come out and look for you. But there are times when it's as if they'll stop making use 
 of their brains and just stand there gladly taking that nice bullet you sent to their heads. This 
 is especially true when you're sniping them from afar. Sometimes they'll run to take cover, but 
 other times they'll just stay in their positions even as they just witnessed one of their buddies 
 get killed right beside them. It's a minor annoyance on the whole and it doesn't happen too often, 
 but when it does happen it's very jarring.
  
  On the other hand, the alien AI has been vastly improved. While in the first game aliens mostly 
 charged straight at you, here they'll exhibit a more complex behavior, flanking you and doing their 
 best to take cover or stay out of your weapons range. This makes the alien firefights a challenging 
 proposition and you'll want to make use of all your heavy weapons when you encounter them (especially 
 since you'll always fight them in large swarms) .
  
  Vehicle handling has also been improved, but what's best is that you'll never be forced to use 
 a vehicle if you prefer not to. This is certainly a good thing since many people complained about 
 the vehicle sections in the original game. It's also another example of the open ended gameplay 
 the game offers. On certain occasions you will be prompted to use a vehicle or sit a top of one 
 (such as a train ride) , but you're totally free to ditch the vehicle and complete the mission on 
 foot, something that I found to be a very entertaining challenge.
  
  The campaign in Crysis Warhead could be completed in little over five hours if you decide to stick 
 to the main path, but you're always free to wander around searching for hidden goodies or just 
 do some sightseeing. It's shorter nature make this experience feel somewhat less epic than the 
 campaign in Crysis, but rest assured it's a thrill ride from beginning to end.
  
  Warhead is also the perfect game for sightseers. One year after it's debut, there's still nothing 
 in the gaming world that comes even close to matching the technical prowess of the Cry Engine 2. 
 This is the very best looking game out there, no arguments. It's incredible how close Warhead can 
 come to looking photo realistic with all the settings turned all the way up. But make no mistake, 
 as much as a technical marvel as the game can be, it's backed by a terrific art direction. The 
 game delivers stunning sights one after the other, so much that it will be easy for you to deviate 
 from the main campaign and just sit around enjoying the beautiful vistas. Be it the lush jungles, 
 beautiful sunsets, frozen tundras, underground mines, everything is packed with meticulous detail.
 
  
  You probably want to know how well it runs too? One of the most hyped aspects of Crysis Warhead 
 was that it was a more optimized game and would run much better on PCs that struggled with Crysis. 
 If you've searched online for information on this subject you'll find some very mixed opinions, 
 with some claiming it runs much better, while other saying it runs exactly the same. What I'll 
 say is based strictly on my personal experience. First of all, my setup consists of a Core 2 Duo 
 @2.4GHZ, 2GB of RAM, a 256MB Geforce 8600GT, and I was running the game on Windows XP. Not a high 
 end setup by any means, but decent for all of my games.
  
  I played the original Crysis with all the settings on High (except Shadows on Medium) at a resolution 
 of 800 * 600 with an average of 30fps. With Warhead I was able to turn all the details to "Enthusiast" 
 (Very High) , except for Shadows which I kept on "Mainstream" (Medium) and Objects which I lowered 
 to "Mainstream" (I had it on High in Crysis) , at the same resolution of 800 * 600, and I was still 
 getting an average of 30fps. What's best, even when the framerate dipped, the game still felt very 
 smooth. With Crysis anything around 20fps felt too laggy, but with Warhead the slowdowns weren't 
 really felt until the framerate dipped into the mid teens.
  
  So to sum it up, in my experience Warhead did run significantly better than Crysis. Mind you, Crytek 
 can't work miracles and if your PC was choking with Crysis it won't magically run Warhead at max 
 settings, but odds are you'll experience a much smoother experience with Warhead.
  
  Switching the attention to the sound department, Warhead also delivers here. Guns and vehicles 
 sound realistic and the ambient sounds are always there to keep the atmosphere alive. Warhead doesn't 
 feature the same orchestral score of Crysis, but rather a more techno soundtrack. It does the job 
 alright, though I preferred the orchestral sounds of the original. The voice acting is great. Psycho's 
 voice sounds a little more subdued than in Crysis, but his voice work is nonetheless terrific. 
 The same goes for all the other characters in the game, something that helps sell the story during 
 the cutscenes and audio diary sections.
  
  Crysis Warhead is every bit as amazing as Crysis. It's more focused on frenetic action, yet it 
 still allows for a cerebral approach, while serving us the most delicious graphics outside of a 
 Pixar studio. If you haven't played Crysis I recommend you play that game first, but by no means 
 let Warhead pass you by. It has all the pizazz and intensity of a blockbuster movie and will keep 
 your adrenaline pumping long after the credits have rolled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa4lyfe
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i am wondering is this game gonna be good so i get it and play it and low an behold its....
 
  
  AWESOME!!!!
  
  I have split it in to 3 things
  
  
  Graphics:
  Its amazing how crysis' king of grfx Throne is taken by its own "follow up" or "son" if u will 
 becuz this game is absolutely breathtaking! its amazing how this time around it looks very nice 
 on just Med settings.. not to mention when u crank it up to high or .. if u can go to very high!
 
  
  10/10 (its crytek wut do u expect?)
  
  Sound:
  Very nice sound and every time i heard that alien sound... holy S_it !!! The game now has a new 
 main character known as Pshyco and that guys acting is phenomanol! Some of the sounds sometimes 
 are kind of ... well not good
  
  9.5/10
  
  Gameplay:
  This game is surely the succesor of the original Crysis becuz they made the story very exciting 
 and much more action! The story is preety small and u will be done this in 6-8 hrs. Theres a multiplayer 
 which i havent played. The vehicles control really nicely and there is acctually a really fun hovercraft 
 mission!
  
  9.5/10
  
  Overall:
  A very solid game and a pure successor to Crysis with almost everything done better and nicer.
 
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Pay no attention to the complaints about dumbed down GFX. Warhead looks great, and in general, 
 runs better on a wider array of hardware than Crysis did. The storyline has been substantially 
 improved by making the US vs NK part of the conflict more central to the story than in Crysis. 
 Aliens? Yea, they're still there, and very important to where you go and what you have to accomplish, 
 but not to the extent of Crysis, or as in the case of the unlamented Trigents in Far Cry. Gameplay 
 is fairly scripted; you're not going to be able to stray off the assigned path too far, but this 
 game ranks up there with COD4 in respect to it's how scripted shooters should be done! The only 
 real nitpick I have is apparently the game is designed to only use 256MB of video RAM, so unless 
 you install a custom system. cfg file in the game (as detailed at the Warhead guide at tweakguides. com) 
 it chugs on many systems. Use the tweak to make the game use all your video ram (especially on 
 top end cards or cards in SLI) and it runs like gangbusters. CryTek regains a lot of the gamer 
 cred it lost with the too hardware intensive and alien ridden Crysis. Unlike many.......... this 
 sequel is definitely better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentenced83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game surpassed my expectations ! i loved the original Crysis but this one is even far more 
 better !
  
  it ran better better on the same pc (not by much) , but it lagged a lot in the snow levels ! the 
 shooting seems so real and the sound effects and soundtrakc are pretty amazing. , loved the scopes 
 ,, the AI should be better a bit , The gameplay is better than the original (there are some of 
 the best levels in gaming history )
  
  The alien levels are a bit boring compared to the other levels . the controls should have been 
 (especailly with explosives and detonators because i couldnt use the detonator until i've thrown 
 all my charges : ( .
  
  and by the way its not that short .. iam going to play again on the hardest difficulty because 
 there's so many ways to go past the levels .
  
  Now this game deserves the crown as the best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bOse92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Crytek managed to amaze us one more time with the Crysis Warhead the second game from the Trilogy 
 .
  This time u play Sergeant Sykes , also known as Psycho from Crysis , the battle takes place on 
 the other side of the island where the Koreans have managed once again to put their nasty hands 
 on some "hell" things.
  Although the game is more shorter than the last one , 5h or less ( i finished it in 8 h ) i did 
 all the seconday quests and did not played the game on Maximum Speed as some guys here did .
  If you ever wondered what Crysis Warhead has new , here are some features :
  
  +
  Improved 
 Graphics
  Improved AI
  Improved Optimisation 
  The game is far more intensive than the first one 
  No Trigger Problems 
  This time the Koreans 
 die from 1 bullet in the head 
  Improved Terrain
  Better Storyline
  Separated Multiplayer mod , Crysis Wars 
  New mp Modes : TIA , IA
  New Mp maps 
  Improved 
 vehicles controll
  
  
  -
  Some new bugs that u must get familiar to :
  Falling through the map
  Sudden desktop crash without errors
  Weapon sound bug on Mp mode 
 
  Some spawn bugs on Mp mode
  
  
  So those are the + and the - that Crysis wars and Warhead comes with , i don't want to spoil the 
 game's Storyline so enjoy the game and cya on the servers . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Review deck
  Intel Core 2 Gu0 E8400 1333FSB
  4GB DDR2 Ram 800
  Gforce XFX 8800GTS 
  VISTA ULTIMATE 64Bit
  
  Looking back on my review of crysis last year which I gave a score 
 of 6.0, is Warhead simply more of the same ?
  
  In a nutshell, yes and no. Warhead continues the story where Crysis left off, and on first blush 
 the game, surroundings and settings are very similar to the previous installment. However it seems 
 the devs have taken on board a lot of the criticisms of Crysis and with Warhead put right a lot 
 of wrongs.
  
  Warhead is a pretty short game and can be played through in about 6 hours, which makes me question 
 its value for money. It is much more of a linear walkthrough than the sandbox of crysis. That said 
 it is still a very good game. 
  
  Hitpoints on mobs have been improved so its easier to take them down, although you still do have 
 to shoot them 10 times in the head before they die.
  
  There has been the introduction of a couple of new weapons and vehicles, but other than that the 
 game doesn't depart much from the original.
  
  Graphically, it seems the textures have been reduced so it doesn't look as good as crysis, and 
 generally the game still runs quite poorly with awful framerates even on a decent rig, unless all 
 the settings are set to moderate and anti-aliasing is turned off.
  
  Sound seems much improved on Crysis too.
  
  The story is great and there are some lovely cutscreens.
 
  
  
  Essentially I find this a much more fulfilling experience, highly enjoyable and quite addictive 
 - you wont want to put it down until you have finished it. Essentially it is what the original 
 Crysis should have been in the first place.
  
  Stability - there are still a few bugs left over from crysis and Ive found a couple of memory leaks 
 where Ive been stuck in a 3D Wireframe.
  
  As for multiplayer, we all know crysis online play sucks and hardly anyone plays it.
  
  
 
  Graphics 9
  Sound 9
  Gameplay 9
  Stability 9
  Value for money 6 (short game & poor multiplayer)
  
  Overall 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead just another shortened-Crysis with different story. I can't believe that GS gave 
 9 to it while Warhead just added a new storyline.
  
  Pros:
  1. Brand new story starring Psycho.
  2. Impressive graphic, gameplay like Crysis
  
  Cons:
 
  1. The storyline is too short and the ending is so sucks. The original Crysis is wayyyy better 
 than this.
  2. No much difference with Crysis, the storyline is the only thing that is different. Thus, making 
 it is meaningless for those who played Crysis
  3. Require powerful PC like the original. Mainstream PC (Intel C2D, 8800GT) suffer severe lagging/freezing 
 (below 10 FPS) even in setting 800x600, Mainstream.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  for those played Crysis:
  don't get it. it just dont worth to buy.
  
  for those haven't played 
 Crysis:
  get Crysis and forget this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt_xx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  We all remember nearly a year ago dumping hundreds of dollars into our computers so we could put 
 that little setting on Crysis up to "Very High" (or you dont remember because you are a jobless 
 13 yearold, or a casual gamer) . In any case, that "Very High" option has been promptly changed 
 to "Enthusiast"! I consider myself a "Enthusiast" as I put almost every setting to that level and 
 click apply.
  The first thing you notice as you begin your adventure is the noticeable graphical upgrade. Having 
 a year to look at massive public data, Crytek has tweaked and push their wonderful engine to a 
 new and much more efficient level of eye-watering, studio-quality goodness. Throughout the game 
 you are stunned by scenes that make you look out your window to compare whether you like the graphics 
 in the game or the ones outside better (and sometimes you are surprised to wonder when Real-Life 
 will upgrade to DX10) . However you will choose Real-Life's framerate and stability because Warhead 
 is littered with irritating sporadic crashes and frame drops. 
  This does not detract from the gameplay, which they have somehow increased 10 fold. I cannot identify 
 what they have done, but I believe it is a mixture or character animation/sound/reaction tweaks 
 and level design that makes Warhead much much more fun than its predecessor. 
  The story is not more of the same, it takes the view of the character "Phyco" who, when your playing 
 him, does not seem as irritating as he would be. Phyco's attitude and moral dilema's add a little 
 bit of spice into the story that Crysis missed with its happy lil protagonist nomad. 
  Overall, while quite short, Crysis Warhead is a great standalone expansion and will provide at 
 least 10 hours of action packed enjoyment. Any who complain "More of the Same" and "Not worth your 
 time" obviously haven't invested enough money into their computers yet, because just watching the 
 in-game cutscenes are enough to keep you entertained. Pick up a copy for 30$, its worth it
  -My Rig-
  2GB DDR2 RAM
  2.2 ghz AMD Athalon X2 4200+
  XFX 8800GT Alpha Dog Edition (512mb)
 
  320GB 7200 RPM SATA HD
  not top of the line, not mainstream, but I played it on "Enthusiast" settings
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooya_d
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  good and bad:
  
  bad
  1. too short
  2. this is not an expected end.... what the hell happened to those aliens ?
  
  3. no new enemy.
 
  
  4. storyline was weaker than original game
  
  5. what the hell was in that box ?
  
  good
  
  1. better vehicle handling
  2. great new weapons
  
  I think they made a mistake 
 keeping you in the dark (again ) in expansion You expect to solve many problems before game ends......
 
  I hope next crysis reveals them all unanswered questions :
  
  1. what do aliens want ?
  
  2. what happened to prophet ?
  
  3. what happened to the box and what is in it ?
  
 
  and one more thing ......
  in the original game they talked about some ancient source they were working on...... it was very 
 nice if they could tell us what does it have to do with aliens.
  
  anyway.... this game is good for new comers..... and I think it is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remusgd13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Great game playing, great feeling of the weapons and of the action. In addition to Crysis, the 
 game engine is slightly improved and the game runs smooth even on weaker machines ( I don't have 
 the strongest PC ) so I appreciate a lot this.
  About the game : a lot of enemies and ways to take them out. I played with the normal difficulty 
 setting and it felt like superman making things right. I like that you can choose the style of 
 combat more than in the previous Crysis. 
  There is only one great physics bug :D. In stealth mode if you move fast/jump you run off of energy 
 quickly - ok. But, towards the end of the game you end up traveling with a train, and although 
 you are standing still with stealth mode activated, the energy runs out instantly. So the train 
 scene physics actually doesn't calculate that you are standing still related to the vehicle you 
 are travelling with, so you don't waste any energy, but calculates the loss of energy in relation 
 to your moving versus the Earth :D - stupid ,this is elementary physics :) . But, let's say it makes 
 the scene more interesting because you are forced to fight :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  crysis warhead is the second crysis game to be realesed but its not the sequel to crysis but it 
 shows what happened to physco nomads british friend. the story is better then the first one it 
 has new multiplayer and some new features. much has not changed from the first one but there are 
 two new weapons like a new sub-machine gun and a granade launcher which is cool. the main change 
 is to see the locations that physco experinced like a lagoon and a jungle that actually looks like 
 a jungle. you can carry more grandes and a new nano-suit grande. in the first crysis you wanted 
 to be stealthy and a ninja. but in crysis warhead there is not much stealth but gun fire like go 
 to a base and kill everyone you see. the main issue is that its much much much shorter no offense 
 to crytek but since the first one was short they could have made it a little longer. there are 
 also new vehicles like a awesome hovercraft and and big vehicle that i dont know whats it called. 
 the multiplayer has changed with a new team instant action. the gameplay is the same but its still 
 super fun and the aliens are more fun to fight. the graphics are better but the engine is not better 
 optimized but its worse if you could play crysis on very high you can play warhead on medium with 
 some high. so if you like crysis you'll love warhead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catchies
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I can't imagine anyone anticipating the release of this game more then me; But what a let down... 
 The only thing different from this and the first one; Two new guns! That's it, that is all that 
 is different! No new aliens, no new scenery, no new Koreans. Come on how hard would it of been 
 to make a couple aliens atleast be a different color, anything? 
  
  Another thing that bothers me... Everyone comments on how great the graphics are, I don't see what 
 all the fuss is about. The motion blur is a nice touch i'll give 'em that, but the graphics look 
 grainy; kind of like watching cartoons on an old TV. I know what you are thinking, but my resolution 
 is set to 1920X1200, all the graphic settings are as high as they go. I have two Xfired 4870x2 
 cards, 790FX chipset and SB750, so my hardware is more than adequate.
  
  The worst part is, even if you try to kill everyone in your way, and take time to fight; you'll 
 be done in about 5-7 hours.
  
  
  My final thoughts... If you own the first one, play it again and skip the expansion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is a brilliant game like its predecessor. No other expansion offers you so much fun 
 and action. The gameplay has remained same, a bit difficult this time , thanks to smarter A. I. Graphics 
 are much sharper and beautiful. Sgt. Psycho turns out to be an interesting character, infact much 
 more interesting than Nomad. One would love to see him more as the main protagonist in future edition 
 of the Crysis Trilogy. But then the system requirements again turns out to be a joke. Still on high 
 end machine the game struggles to run in high settings. Still no matter what, it is still one of 
 the best games to hit the market till now, maybe FAR CRY 2 might give it a competition. Also there 
 were some buggy issues with the retail version. The multiplayer also offers some new great options 
 which were missing in the previous game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0nGalt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  Graphic Settings = Gamer
  Nvidia 8800gt 512mb
  1400x900 resolution.
  Amd dual core 2.3ghz
  4g of corsair ram
  ------------
  With a 'last years' machine I played 
 this at second to last preset settings, basically like crysis (1) . It ran with almost no issues 
 with the rare occasion that sometimes if there was a checkpoint and TONS of action it would hang 
 for maybe 1-2 seconds.
  
  The graphics seem even more impossibly awesome if you can image it. For some reason I was hung 
 up on how the rocks looked... dont ask me. 
  
  The physics are just as good as before and still make me grab my head in wonder. Blowing up cars 
 and building is just like a movie. 
  ------------
  
  The story was much more in depth and character driven, phycho is a cool character who they try 
 to develop into a kind of principled soldier and the they do a pretty good job there. I also loved 
 how they almost immediately put you in the action. It felt awkward at first but after a few minutes 
 of playing I was back into playing it like a pro. I played it on normal settings and it was EASY 
 I highly reccomend playing at least hard if you want any challenge at all. It was almost sad how 
 fast I plowed through the enemies. 
  
  The best improvement I can point to is the fast paced get aways and assaults they place you in. 
 Crysis (1) was more stealthy (even though you could choose to do otherwise) , it did have get aways 
 and assaults but this is waaaaay better. They really did a great job.
  
  BUY THIS GAME! You will not be disppointed. I plan on finishing this artwork 1-2 more times over 
 fall break. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxTuakisxX
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is simply a blast. Period. Initially I was skeptical about the short play time as 
 many mentioned about but when I heard the Multiplayer is improved and it cost 40 bucks in my local 
 store (thanks to conversion rates) , I said, "Why not ?"
  
  --------------------
  
  Graphics = 8/10
  
  Still bar none to almost any other game in the market even though almost 
 a year old by now. 
  
  Crysis Warhead runs better and still looks great. The only downside is that they optimized the 
 engine hence while it runs better for most people, the Enthusiast mode is no longer as awesome 
 as the original Crysis very high.
  
  Still unless you are really anal about it the game for most of the part runs really well and with 
 the intense action, you won't spend much time worry about the graphics.
  
  --------------------
  
  Gameplay = 10/10
  
  I finished the game on Normal in 5 hours and 
 6 to 7 hours on Delta. But do not let the short duration fool you, it is a THRILLING ride throughout, 
 the only real boring part was the tunnel navigation but even then it is still more intense than 
 the navigation part of Core.
  
  For those who think even Easy or Normal is too hard perhaps should start playing more FPS games 
 to improve because imo, even Delta was a tad easy. I can use the SCAR for almost 4 to 5 missions 
 because I rarely use more than 2 bullets to drop a KPA soldier. Most of the the time, 1. So learn 
 to aim and use your suits abilities.
  
  The new weapons of course also allow more variety in dispatching your enemies. Personally my favoured 
 guns in Warhead for Delta difficulty are the, AY69, Gauss and Grenade Launcher. And I used it all 
 the way after I made pass that Ice carrier mission. The nade launcher is really fun and powerful 
 and half the fun is to learn to use it without a crosshair in Delta !
  
  ----------------------
  
  Sound = 9/10
  
  Another winner here. The new sound track is pretty 
 good with Airfield Hero and the Hovercraft being the best. The weapons themselves sounds solid 
 and chunky and explosions are appropriately crisp as well.
  
  -----------------------
  
  AI = 8/10
  
  Slightly better than the Crysis counterparts especially given how they tweak 
 the Aliens better. KPA are still a little dumb though. 
  
  Detonate a barrel in Airfield and they all gather around it then use my grenade launcher to take 
 out 5 or 6 KPA in a roll but hey it would be extremely difficult in Delta if you don't exploit 
 that. :p
  
  ------------------------
  
  Replayability = 8/10 
  
  You got Crysis Wars. And Power Struggle is still a blast though I notch Crysis Wars to at medium. 
 While I normally run Crysis Warhead at max settings. 
  
  Because the maps are still huge and with so many players per side, you will want to squeeze out 
 all the frame rate you can get in Power Struggle.
  
  -------------------------
  
  Scalability = 8/10
  
  Crytek has finally dumb down the requirements for Crysis Warhead for 
 the less fortunate but to me it is an acceptable trade-off. 
  
  I can run everything on max for Crysis and Warhead smoothly if I tone down the shadows and I certainly 
 don't mind some FPS gain in Warhead. 
  
  But the fact that Crytek made the game more accessible is a huge bonus, because Crysis used to 
 be seen as a "rich man" game, we don't want that don't we ?
  
  -------------------------
  
  Verdict = 9
  
  Although Crysis Warhead is pretty good, it still has some kinks to work 
 out. Mainly due to glitchy AI. It is possible to see KPA collide into each other and fall down, 
 much to my amusement (observing in cloaked mode of course) . And it is still a little too easy even 
 on Delta.
  
  The greatest complaint is the short game duration for SP ! I clocked about 12 hours total with 
 Normal + Delta play through. But then again, how many FPS are honestly long anyway in SP ? But 
 for 40 bucks it surely clocks as much hours, as say COD4 (around 6 to 7 hours as well) which retails 
 for 60+ in my country.
  
  So it is pretty much a good deal considering the multiplayer while less action-packed than COD4, 
 it is more cerebral and EPIC in Power Struggle.
  
  -------------------------------
  
  
  So I say get it. Whether are you an FPS newbie, harden player or Crysis vet. For you guys, 
 30 dollars at RETAIL is a BARGAIN. Even if you haven't played Crysis before, Warhead is a relative 
 inexpensive way to start.
  
  In all a stand alone game that is excellent and will garner great anticipation for the sequal, 
 Crysis 2 or World in Crysis.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackhawk96
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Like I said amazing they outdid themselves, I think that the biggest change was the cutscenes becasue 
 they had a LOT more emotion and absolute immersion that a game should have in a cutscene. Especially 
 the one where his fellow comrade died and he ended up drowning that korean, although the breathing 
 and sounds from psycho where just plain weird. I played the game on hard and i'm glad I don't think 
 I want to do it on the hardest where you have no sights that might be to much to be fun, but it 
 might be worth it I don't know. uhm... also the improved graphics i didn't really notice even though 
 i played it on the highest graphic settings but I don't really pay attention to that stuff (I'm 
 to immersed in the gameplay) . But I think you should definitely by the game it was so worth the 
 5.5 hours of my life. And It was definitely better than the last game and really should get some 
 recognition so people come on no more 4.0 scores you suck do 8 or above I would do a 11/10 if I 
 could.... hypocrites 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmos9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to agree with Gamespots 9.0 rating, because this game is what Crysis was supposed 
 to be. The game graphics were amazing and ran excellent on my PC (which ran the original Crysis 
 like ass when maxed out) I would have given this game a 9 or higher but I feel i was robbed by purchasing 
 the original Crysis in it's unpolished state. Although this game is better, all around, it really 
 is just more of the same. This game reaches the expectations I had hoped for from the original 
 far too late.
  Still it's a great game and worth buying. It should also be noted that this game is probably more 
 enjoyable if you haven't played its predecessor. The game is essentially your average expansion 
 as far as what it sets out to do. The game features a new parallel storyline, a few new locales, 
 new enemy types, and two new weapons. These two weapons are probably one of the more fun additions 
 to the game, the Grenade launcher is a blast (no pun intended) and the dual machine pistols are 
 a run-and-gunners wet dream. But the game just feels like a heavily modded version of the original 
 game. However, for those who want to run around jungles and tundras in a supersuit punching, shooting, 
 and just demolishing Koreans and Aliens will have plenty of fun in Warhead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deiviuxs
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  The good things I liked about this game are: still amazing graphics and much better performance 
 than the original Crysis. With the Crysis my biggest concern was that the sound used to dissapear 
 often and with Crysis Warhead it happened to me only once. Also, there are several new guns and 
 vehicles. Some of the guns include grenade launcher and a weird alien type of gun which is really 
 slow in 'reloading' but very very powerful and fun to use! This game has much more action than 
 the original one and involves more explosions since you get to play with 'big guns' early in the 
 game.
  
  The bad: it's freaking short! It probably took me about 5 hours to finish the game which is not 
 a lot. Also, the story is weak. I didn't even know what was in that stupid container and why was 
 it so important that I needed to save or protect that damn thing. Another thing is that probably 
 more than half of the game involves alieans and I personally hate aliens. I like to wander in the 
 tropics rather than in the snow. Even though, the alien AI is much improved, I still thing they 
 should stay in Antartica.
  
  FINAL thoughts: even though the game is short, it's still a very good and action-packed game which 
 delivers many explosions, guns and beautiful graphics which more people are able to experience 
 this time.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  The hype around Warhead is impossible to ignore. Yet after spending 8-9 hours stumbling around 
 the game world, i get distinct feeling that this is made to be a cash cow, nothing more.
  
  Graphics: 5/10
  Excellent, as long as u keep your eyes within 10meter of your virtual self. Look 
 out into the distance (where u normally do in an FPS) and you will be shocked how everything looks 
 blurry and fake about 5 meter in front of you. Optimized? Wrong. Crytek just tweaked level-of-detail 
 distance to about a hand's reach. Anything beyond that starts using low-detail models and blurred 
 textures. No matter what settings i use (even Enthusiast) it looks bad.
  
  Another thing is that this game feels VERY MUCH like crysis. It uses a lot of same artwork and 
 models (with different textures here and there) and it shows. 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Sound was best part of this game. Good dialog, great sfx, satisfying weapon and engine sounds. 
 Very well done.
  
  Performance: 2/10
  Horrible horrible performance. And thats compared to original Crysis. I run the game on a Core2Duo 
 E8500, 3gb ram, XP SP3, Overclocked 8800GT 512mb on 1280x1024. Original Crysis had no problems 
 in high detail with 16x AF and 4xAA. No problems, no stutters.
  This thing ran fine up to the level u crawl out of ship. Then i was struggling to get 10fps on 
 low detail. Problem is with the sky, everytime u look up, game nearly dies. Load times are about 
 same as original game.
  
  Story: 3/10
  I couldnt understand the story. The timeline didnt make any sense. Does this game take place at 
 same time as the original? 4 years ago? 4 years later? Cant really tell by what i was told. 
  It's the same "Alien creatures (from Matrix movie) freezing everything oh and a big spider tank" 
 cliche yet everyone ingame reacts like it didnt happened before in first game. 
  My main issue is that none of the missions in the game make any sense. You are basically told to 
 go follow a crate, and kill anyone who comes between u and it. Just Wierd.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10.
  Original gameplay elements from Crysis are still here and they are still as 
 much fun (nano suit) . They improved vehicle dynamics noticably and incorporated a few more missions 
 around driving. 
  But other than that, nothing special. The game is TOO HARD. Even on easy difficulty, you have to 
 hit 4-5 times to kill a soldier. I thought koreans were not super mutants with armored skins that 
 can take 4 assault rifle bullets in their legs and still keep going, but apparently Crysis doesnt 
 agree with me.
  
  Overall: 4/10
  It would have been a decent game if it was called something else and didnt have such monsterous 
 system requirements. But as a add-on to Crysis, this is very poor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musti_44
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  First of All, Let me tell you one thing. Crysis Warhead runs smoothly then Crysis. It looks better 
 than Original. It has far superior in every aspect of the game from the Original. Graphics engine 
 is Enhanced further by Crytek, for which they should be applauded and the Crysis fan base can now 
 ask Crytek to release a patch to incorporate all of the fresh enhancement for Crysis.
  
  Start of the game assumes that, you have already played Crysis, and are aware of the proceedings. 
 This time you are playing with the British Sergent Psycho, the same person, who work by his own 
 will to full fill the mission. This expansion is really about Psycho, and from time to time, it 
 will show you another softer side of this British brat as well as his chemistry with one of his 
 old friend O'Neil ( the pilot ) . 
  
  This time around, Aliens are very active and instead of floating around, they gather up and attack 
 at you from different sides, as well as Korean Soldiers, who all are against you, if you get caught 
 in fray between both of them, which literally let you think over the strategy to use your nano 
 suit abilities, and in return gives you a more satisfying game experience. Your worst foes are 
 suit wearing Koreans, and some of the larger Aliens. Rest assured, this expansion lets you duke 
 it out with Large Alien Exo-suits several times, through out the games, and the resulting fights 
 are always very good. There are some scripted missions, where you have to Fight a Giant Spider 
 Like Alien with your Nano Suit Friends, Repel the Alien onslaught, while your comrades blow open 
 a tunnel door and a train sequence, where you are pitted against both of your foes , human and 
 aliens alike, which put up better re-playability in the Expansion. Your final fight with the Spider 
 Exo-Suit Alien is very satisfying, as instead of using same old military hardware, you will be 
 using a self recharging , experimental energy gun, along with whole Airport to maneuver, it really 
 gives you a sense of one on one fight, and gives you the feeling of completion.
  
  Vehicles and Mounted weapons are more responsive and better to use then before, in fact they are 
 fun to drive and feels very good to ram some of the foot soldiers with you hummer, pummel them 
 down with mounted gun. 
  
  Environment is as beautiful as ever , with lush green Jungles, shimmering Sea Water with sea birds 
 flying across the horizon, Vegetation destruction doesn't put your system on its knees, there are 
 fewer hiccups in frame rate. Overall , Warhead looks more gorgeous then Crysis.
  
  Crysis Warhead is without a doubt , the best Expansion for year 2008 so far, and in some ways, 
 surpass its predecessor. A must have for every FPS lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlypwnage
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  If you have a good pc and can run crysis demo, this is a great first person shooter. The fact that 
 you get a competent multiplayer game, Crysis Wars, with this 5-7 hour expansion makes it worthwhile. 
 Enemy Ai is improved from Crysis, the game runs slightly better if you have all the updates for 
 your vid card, and the new enemies are cool. I wish they would have added more than just a few 
 new weapons. The grenade launcher is a blast though. Crysis and its expansion remains one of the 
 reasons why single-player fps games are still better on PC. 
  
  Is it better than Crysis? I think its more of the same but more action packed. The replay value 
 is awesome, because you can play the game in so many different ways. No cloak, stealth only, rambo 
 style etc. At a bargain of only $30, the short single-player campaign here is action packed and 
 a dam good time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamiRDuran
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  The original crysis impressed everybody with its visuals, great campaign, unique nanosuit gameplay 
 but lacking multiplayer. Crysis Warhead manages to surpass the original in every aspect
  
  If you thought that crysis looked phenomenal you need to experience Crysis Warhead. It also runs 
 a bit better but dont believe claims such as 30% or more increase. i would say 15-20%. Still its 
 the best looking game available so you do need a good rig to experience it in its full glory. about 
 600 should be more than enough.
  
  Gameplay is way more fast-paced encouraging you to make progress fast as hell breaks loose on the 
 island. If you loved crysis gameplay mechanics you will love this one as well.
  
  The caimpaign is short but its really a blast to play. You'll be going back again and again to 
 experience some of the most amazing levels you have ever seen in video games. There is no level 
 that can be considered boring like the level that took place in an alien environment in the original 
 Crysis. Cutscenes are nicely implemented and most of the time you'll just stare at "psychos" incredibly 
 designed 3D character.
  
  Multiplayer just got what it was missing. its really that simple, cod4 is by no means a better 
 multiplayer experience. with proper support i can see crysis warhead multiplayer becoming more 
 and more popular.
  
  In the end crysis is what every video game should be about: FUN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  Reading online reviews, I cannot help but think that most of them are paid (I am not saying that 
 I am right - it is just a feeling) and the rest are just afraid to put low marks on the great titan 
 so they write it nines and wonder why the game wasn't actually that much fun and what did they 
 miss so they couldn't appreciate it.
  
  Well, they missed nothing as there is nothing to miss here. I loved the original Crysis, even though 
 I could barely run it on my machine, but now I get exactly the same game, only much shorter. Arsenal 
 additions are insignificant and you will rely entirely on old weaponry. Enemies are the same. I 
 noticed that now there are giant squids that drop bombs, small squids that shield other small squids 
 and North Koreans with nanosuits, but that just can't pass as new additions. The levels are pretty 
 much the same and even the events are the same, only the perspective is different.
  
  What is more, even though Warhead is a stand-alone expansion, its part of the story is so incoherent, 
 that you must have played Crysis to know what is going on.
  
  I finished Warhead in five hours on hard my first time through the game. This is too short even 
 for an expansion pack. There are no linear levels this time, but that doesn't mean that there are 
 more sandbox levels.
  
  Speaking of levels, there are still some great designs as the train level and the whole jungle 
 in general is represented magnificently. In fact the only boring level is the mine.
  
  In my opinion, there is only one thing in this game that makes it deserve more than 7 and that 
 is what everyone expects from Crysis - graphics! No way to disappoint here! Warhead looks even 
 better than Crysis and as I already said, the whole jungle is represented somehow better. Day-night 
 cycle, weather effects like snow and tropical storms, everything just looked to me more impressive 
 this time. I also noticed a nice blur effect when turning fast, that I can't recall in the previous 
 game or maybe it just didn't look that good to leave an impression.
  
  However, it is not entirely true that Warhead runs better than Crysis. While there is a slight 
 improvement in frame rate on most levels (not enough to be of significance on high-end machines) , 
 the frozen levels run even worse than before, especially the first one. Once again, I was playing 
 alright with everything set to "gamer" but I had to reduce all to "mainstream" on the first frozen 
 level and it was still barely playable - I had to lure enemies in tighter locations in order to 
 get an FPS boost and be actually able to aim.
  
  AI seems to have been improved though. It is most notable with the aliens, who can actually kill 
 you now. I was also very impressed with North Koreans who seem to have memory, flank and use cover. 
 I was very impressed once when I got pinned down behind a rock. I switched to cloak mode and slipped 
 away, flanked the enemy and observed - they were still looking at that same rock where I stood 
 moments ago. One group used covering fire in its direction while another one moved on the side, 
 flanking. They even hurled a grenade behind the rock.
  
  Another time when I really liked it how the game is not cheating but actually calculating was when 
 I was sitting tight in some dense bushes, not using cloak. There were enemies just three steps 
 away from me, looking my way but they couldn't see me through the foliage until they literally 
 stepped on me in the end.
  
  Of course, it doesn't always play that smooth and enemies tend to get stuck to walls from time 
 to time or react inadequately to a certain situation, but in general, AI in Warhead is brilliant.
 
  
  I can't think of anything to say about sounds and music, good or bad.
  
  I had no chance to test multiplayer either, but I hear it is nothing that special.
  
  Overall, 
 Warhead is the same tense action game as Crysis and if you liked the firefights there (there is 
 no reasons why you didn't) , you will like this one as well. However, it offers too little content 
 even for 30 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is renowned for its fun stealth action and non-linearity. It was very original and unique 
 for its time, and I am sorry to say that Warhead isn't nearly as good and worthwhile as the original.
 
  
  
  There are several issues I have with the game. One of them is how linear Warhead actually is. Sure, 
 you can approach things in a stealthy fashion. And sure, you can choose to do the opposite by tearing 
 things up with the new micro machine gun. 
  
  
  But I don't care either way. All Warhead manages to do is send waves of KPA grunts and nanosuit 
 soldiers at you. You'll have better luck running from all of your enemies rather than flanking 
 them and --
  
  
  oops. Rewind, please. You CAN dispose of your enemies easily. How? Throw a grenade at a group of 
 KPA grunts. They won't run, and they won't hide. They'll stand there like dummies, waiting for 
 you without the slightest hint of where they are. And yes, they do that even on higher difficulties.
 
  
  
  But anyway, aside from the dumb AI, I'd like to point out that everything is a primary objective 
 now. I've only realized now that the secondary objectives that the original game threw at you made 
 Crysis the great game it is. How? The secondary objectives were so... cut off and detatched from 
 the main missions. They were so far away and challenging... they gave me choices and options. 
 
  
  
  And what do options mean? Non-linear game play. I got the chance to break away from the main mission 
 and challenge myself in other arenas. 
  
  
  Crysis Warhead is all about the vehicles, the waves of infantry, and the explosions. The maps aren't 
 nearly as expansive as Crysis's, so ALL of the secondary objectives are easy (sometimes pointless 
 to even call objectives) and close to the main objective. You'll end up forcing yourself to do 
 the secondary objectives because you'll pass by them on your way to the desired destination anyway. 
 Furtermore, there aren't many secondary objectives anyway. The number of secondary missions you 
 can do pale in comparison to the original game's amount. 
  
  
  And then we have the pacing of the game. Why is it that literally 50% of the game involves jungle 
 warfare and 50% of it has to do with the aliens? See, we all know that when it comes to fighting 
 the aliencs, there are no other options. From moment the game delivers you into the heart of the 
 alien battle to the end, you will not be able to do anything else but run straight and fight the 
 endless amount of scouts and drones. And when I say "from the moment," I mean that you'll only 
 be doing the main mission for the rest of the game.
  
  
  I was also curious about what happened to Psycho when he landed on the island in the beginning 
 of Crysis. If Crytek had managed to include those parts as well as Nomad's final boss sequence, 
 I would've found Warhead's story more interesting. Sure, everyone wants to know what happened to 
 the volatile killing machine -- otherwise known as Sgt. Sykes... but what about after that? See, 
 fighting off endless amounts of enemies and doin the main objectives for a whole 4 hours leaves 
 you tired and wanting more. 
  
  
  And there it is: it leaves you wanting more. I didn't know it the first time I played through the 
 game, but I soon realized that I was just about done with half of it in 2 hours. 
  
  
  So overall, the experience isn't much of a challenge. The nanosuit soldiers aren't much of a threat 
 now that you'll be equipped with 10 nano disruptor grenades and about 16 frag grenades AT ALL TIMES. 
 It was pitiful how the game pits you up against hordes of grunts and nanosuit soldiers. 
  
  
  I won't say much about Crysis Wars, other than that it's really cool to see how smart some 
 players are with their suit abilities. 
  
  
  So my final verdict? If you liked the first Crysis and you are interested in Psycho's side of the 
 story, get it. (But be warned: nothing about the original game will be explained. Nomad is almost 
 never mentioned, and the same goes for Prophet. You start off at a strange point in the story, 
 to say the least.) Just remember that this isn't the same old Crysis we all loved and enjoyed a 
 year ago. This is just another fps... another linear fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinwei
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Lots of shooting action.. but the story can be a little more detailed... The ending became quite 
 disappointing... i get the point that there's probably another sequel coming... but then, giving 
 it more details as to what's going on and etc would be nice. But other than that, the game is very 
 entertaining, worth every penny! Would be greater if there's a "bullet time" feature of the nano 
 suit... but wait.. won't that be too easy? hmmph, we'll see,..... Replayability is also something 
 that's lacking in the game in general, there's not much to the development of character such as 
 its ability. For example, God of War and Devil May Cry has some extra juice in their replayability 
 because of its upgradable feature. Nano-suit should be upgradable, that's my point. That shall 
 add a lot of possiblity to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baoketian
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Sure. Crysis has awesome graphics (with the rig to run it) aand great sounds. But besides this, 
 the games lacks a lot. 
  The AI is utterly braindead. They are just plain stupid. And no real match. They mostly walk around 
 blindly even when the guy beside just had been head shot. Or in case you are on a guard tower. 
 Showing yourself to everyone. They even dont come up or blow the whole thing up. When you crotch, 
 dont wait long and your hear "Hey, he must be cloacked" You get up, shoot the next one and they 
 still wonder around?!?
  The weapons balance i dont like neither. Specially against Aliens. I mean i dont have any problems 
 getting rid of those things. but sometime it just gets anyoing, for the rounds you have to spend 
 on those things. Unless you use the GAUSS, which is nothing else than a Hyper-Shotgun. And also 
 not that fun to use.
  The game itself is pretty easy, with help of the stupid AI, and is buggy. I died more times by 
 picking up a rifel at a ammo point, than by acttualy being killed. Till now, I didnt figure out 
 why. When i picked up the sniper and throw away the shotgun i just died, i retried, died again, 
 than i changed my F71 vs sniper, than rechanged my shotgun vs F71, worked. Same point same weapons, 
 just different order ?!? Also when leaving the game, most of the time my graphic drivers crash 
 and i got a 8bit windows running. 
  
  I still have to say, that Crysis is a OK game, and the graphic engine is great. And it probably 
 would get a higher rating from me when there wouldnt be the stupid EA Copy Protection. The game 
 is cracked already. Like every protection. When will EA understand this??? And the only ones who 
 have to bother with the online authorization is who? The honest gamers who actually bought it, 
 and therefore make EA richer. EA should be thankful, instead of beating on us.
  
  But that bad goes on EA, hope Crytek will get the chance to leave em. 
  
  All in All
  Those 
 who love Crysis, will enjoy it for sure. And also people who didnt play Crysis 1, and have now 
 the chance to play, will have the rush, that mostly everyone had when seeing those graphics. But 
 in case of scoring and comparing to other FPS. Crysis is not that hot, and would definetely not 
 be my first choice.
  
  PS: In this text Crysis = Crysis Warhead 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Last November was the release of the highly anticipated Crysis. It turned out to be a game that 
 would be known to make 9 out of 10 PC players shrivel up and weep in a corner, all because their 
 PC gaming systems didn't have enough graphical power to run it on maximum settings. It wasn't just 
 a damn good looking piece of software, underneath those hot lustrous visuals came a game that had 
 the game play to match the looks, especially with Crytek's Nano Muscle Suit ability system, which 
 allowed you to swap the suits special functions on the fly. So a year has gone by and still Crysis 
 is one of the best looking video games to have ever graced the market, but hold on, Crytek aren't 
 finished yet. They are back with a standalone expansion for Crysis, which comes with more action 
 and a graphics engine that is still smoking hot, but is slightly friendlier to the PC user, that 
 can only mean good things for gamers who were sitting in fear at the original's requirements.
 
  
  Crysis Warhead has you taking control of a British soldier who goes by the name of Psycho. He was 
 vaguely in the start of the original Crysis, but because of Nomad (the main character from Crysis) 
 getting split from the squad; you didn't get to see what was happening to him, now you can. The 
 stand alone expansion pack takes place at the exact same time as when Crysis was set. This means 
 that the story will be a lot clearer to the player if they have played the original game. If you 
 haven't then basically the story is quite simple to grasp. The Koreans have managed to get their 
 hands on an alien artifact that was discovered on an unknown forest filled island. The United States 
 are after a piece of the unexplained phenomenon, so have sent in a squad to investigate and seize 
 the artefact. The story in Warhead is the same, but told from a different perspective, Crytek state 
 the Psycho is on the "other side of the island" to Nomad.
  
  From the get go the game clearly shows that Psycho is well. crazy. He's a lot more of a "in your 
 face" type of guy compared to Nomad. This could also explain how Crysis Warhead is too. Crytek 
 have decided to make the game somewhat linear compared to the original. I don't mean that it's 
 stupidly linear, as in the likes of Call of Duty 4, because you can still explore vast amounts 
 of area filled with trees, but it feels as if the paths placed down are focused on getting you 
 to the next point. But in sacrifice of that, Crytek have decided to boost up the action. From the 
 opening cut scene you'll be straight into fights with soldiers, tanks and helicopters. There's 
 none of that empty world feeling in Warhead compared to that of Crysis, mainly because in the original, 
 while you was travelling to the next location, there wasn't really many chances to get involved 
 with combat along the way. To put it into an easy equation for you, Crysis Warhead = action, guns, 
 suit powers, less walking and more action!
  
  That doesn't mean the game has lost the ability to make good use of the nano suits powers. It still 
 gives you the option to either run in all guns blazing, or go all Sam Fisher on their arse and 
 take them down while using the suits built in "Cloak" ability. The game doesn't sacrifice anything 
 in return to give the user an action packed adventure. Everything that was in the first game is 
 here, only pumped up. The only people who will not like this are probably the people who liked 
 exploring around in Crysis, and certainly Pacifists too.
  
  If you've never played Crysis then you won't have an idea of how the Nano suit plays a vital role 
 in the game. From the start you can use any of the four abilities. By pressing the correct button, 
 the game will bring up a menu and you just have to move your mouse in that general direction to 
 select. There are actually five options in the menu because the fifth one allows you to customize 
 your weapons, but will get on to that shortly.
  
  You'll probably use those abilities quite often as they are very helpful in some way or another. 
 Each one has a specific function to use in battles against the Koreans and alien scum. "Maximum 
 Strength" will give you more power to throw things and jump higher. "Maximum Speed" gives you faster 
 speed. "Maximum Armour" gives your body a tougher shell so it can take more damage, the final one, 
 "Cloak" will make you invisible for a short period of time. None of these powers feel tacked on 
 or pointless, so there isn't one that you won't use. Selecting the fifth option in the wheel makes 
 it so you can customize your weapon. The weapon you are holding will move up towards the camera, 
 and then tabs come off with options to equip scopes and accessories onto the weapon. You can add 
 a lot of things on to certain weapons, but some are pointless, like having a sniper scope on a 
 shotgun, that's not really going to do any good unless you just want to spy on Koreans urinating 
 in trees, yep that's in the game!
  
  So if you are one of these people who have played Crysis, then all this will sound familiar to 
 you, so apart from the increased combat contact, you're probably wondering what else is new. Since 
 the game isn't a sequel, it's an add-on, Crytek haven't really done anything majorly different 
 to the series. The A. I has been improved, making you get the sense of been overwhelmed at times, 
 ever with your suit powers, they aren't scared of trying to flank you, or get away from you if 
 they think you are a danger close up. There's also points in the game where they are so many Koreans 
 swapping you, all with one thing in mind, trying to blow you away. It's moments like these that 
 really do show off the suit powers. The biggest A. I improvement award will have to go towards the 
 aliens, who feel less dumb and monotonous this time around, overall it makes for some exciting 
 combat, which probably hasn't been seen in a game since F. E. A. R and the first Crysis.
  
  It's also good to note that you don't have to pick up ammo now with the pickup button, as long 
 as you aren't on the hardest setting, ammo will just automatically get picked up when you walk 
 over it. It was a small problem in the first game that became annoying, but Crytek have fixed that, 
 like with a lot of other little bits of problems that affected Crysis.
  
  Apart from a selection of new weapons and enemies, another new thing is the renamed multiplayer 
 mode, now called Crysis Wars. It's a more thought out multiplayer compared to Crysis and it shows 
 too. They've finally added team death match that goes by the name of Team Instant Action, along 
 with the two other modes from the first game, Instant Action and Power Struggle.
  
  The greatest thing about playing Crysis Wars is the fact you get to still use all your suit powers 
 from single player. It helps in great deals when face with so many opponents, getting attacked 
 by a rocket? Just stick on maximum speed and burn rubber, sniper got your head in view? Just slap 
 on cloak and casually walk away. It makes the take on normal death match more interesting and exciting. 
 If you are like me, you might find yourself playing the death matches more than Power Struggle. 
 Power Struggle is a Battlefield inspired mode that isn't explained that well. It wasn't a patch 
 on the fun that is supplied with the death match action and it's not like you are missing out as 
 vehicles are also in death match too.
  
  This is the part of the review which doesn't need any sort of introduction. I think anyone who 
 is into PC gaming knows that Crysis was an absolute stunner to look at. A year has gone by and 
 Crytek have improved on the visuals and also made it so that even the poorest of PC gamers can 
 still at least have a crack on the game. The graphic settings in the game have been renamed from 
 the typical Medium, High, and the only for the hardcore Very High, instead it has them named Mainstream, 
 Gamer and Enthusiast. It's true that if you plan to run it on Enthusiast at a decent resolution 
 then you will need a powerful computer system, but if you are lucky enough to own a system like 
 that you'll be greeted with some damn fine eye candy. Even if you can't run the game on top settings, 
 you might be able to run it on some of the lower ones with a decent frame rate, even if you aren't 
 getting the flashiness, you're still getting a shooter with some very good gameplay.
  
  It's just not the graphics that look draw dropping. The game also has some very nice set pieces 
 that really show of the game's artistic approach. It loses some of the generic surroundings and 
 fills it with lush environments and settings. This again shows off more in the later stage of the 
 game where you are fighting the aliens in the harsh cold environments. There's nothing to complain 
 about the audio and soundtrack. The guns sound like guns, people scream and the voice acting is 
 pretty well done. The music fits in nicely, giving you some slow tunes for the brief moment you 
 are not actually shooting someone, to faster upbeat music when the gunfights start blasting out.
 
  
  Fans of Crysis are probably jumping with joy and wetting themselves when I say Crysis Warhead is 
 a better game in every possible way than the original. That's saying something since Crysis was 
 a great game. It might not be as long, lasting around the five hour mark, but you do get a great 
 multiplayer experience to go back to once you are done with the campaign. The gameplay also allows 
 replay value or if you are a graphics whore, you can just go back to the game to make yourself 
 excited. It's also got a bargain cheap prince of 14.99 from certain places. I don't really know 
 what else I can say to make you go buy it. You should buy it if you can run this beauty as it's 
 probably going to be one of the best shooters to hit the PC this year; they aren't going to be 
 many others that challenge Crysis Warhead's throne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf13
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Warhead takes you on the journey the original crysis should have.. Fast action, multiple enemies, 
 and abundance of weapons and tactics. 
  The system fundamentals are all the same but there is a sense of improvement. It feels better, 
 more complete. There is less running 5 miles from point A to B to encounter some action, now it's 
 instant actions will little to no cross country journeying.. a major improvement. 
  Personally the game looks better and more computer user friendly. You can still change all your 
 setting and make it the way you want it to look, my only complaint is still the auto save chunkiness 
 at times. I found myself getting to a point and a hang up then getting shot at or hurt instantly. 
 But over all it works well.
  
  Crysis Wars is a major improvement to the package as well. You install it, and you have more maps 
 and options in multiplayer. Plus you don't need the CD in the drive to play. Which for some is 
 a great thing. MP has become much more fast action and enjoyable, and i encourage all to get this 
 game just for the action. 
  
  Over all i like this game alot. The only change would be to add some kind of achievement awards 
 or something to keep you playing to level up or get something for all your time. But other than 
 that it's a good solid game. And for the price it is well worth the $30, even if single player 
 is shorter, you actually get the price cut for it. Hooray EA for supporting this game and i hope 
 there is more to come from the Crytec franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hodagacz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  No leading around an AI with a broken heater. No Zero-G. Heck even the aliens are a lot more fun 
 to fight and not insanely difficult to drop. Two new vehicles (3 actually counting an IFV that 
 you can "borrow" at the air base) hovercraft and APC with minigun. Three new weapons; Plasma Cannon, 
 Rotary Grenade Launcher, and dual-wield Mini SMGs, and a hell of a lot more KPA that are out for 
 your blood!
  The single-player has a great story and Psycho feels like a real guy with a real point of view 
 on the situation. The main NPCs you interact with both friendly and enemy also do a great job of 
 bringing the story along. Hey, it even plays faster on my beater old machine then the original 
 did.
  It is shorter then the first one, but the sandbox aspect is much broader, so I have already tried 
 multiple different strategies to get through different levels. I love it and highly recommend it. 
 At 30$ it's also 20$ cheaper then most other A-List games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunnedlor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I havn't bought the original and have only played up to the second level (Computer cafe so not 
 illegal) . So the single player was a new and exciting game and boy did it not disappoint me i had 
 so much fun.
  
  You really felt a connection with Physco and O'neil. Also you have one overarching goal capture 
 the nuclear container. 
  
  Spoiler alert
  
  Which is in fact an alien machine that didn't self destruct when captured like the rest did. The 
 end of the game was really cool since you had to fight a giant robot and also the smaller robots 
 with the USA's new weapon
  
  End Spoiler
  
  The multiplayer is really fun people have picked this game up really fast in Australia and i am 
 having a blast while playing the suit functions make multiplayer really fun. Also there's only 
 a few issues with the game sometimes the graphics screw up but that can be easily fixed by alt 
 tabbing. Also i must recommend this to all people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  Crysis I was an amazing experience in terms of novelty. It had amazing graphics and a gameplay 
 system that was sinfully fun. I'm talking about cloaking and running behind waves of Korean soldiers, 
 dashing at them full speed, and chucking them across the beautifully designed woods.
  
  Crysis Warhead follows his older brother in the same foot-steps. Cool character design with a pretty 
 solid storyline check. Amazing graphics check. And thus we have Crysis 2.
  
  Crysis 2 is what you'd expect. More Crysis (except maybe the add-on multiplayer function) . Though 
 this is many people's biggest comfort, this is one of my biggest complaints. Though this game has 
 its due praise, it has its issues. Crysis Warhead feels and plays similarly to Crysis 1. In addition, 
 I actually found it to be less pc friedly than the last one. I crashed many many times actually, 
 which warns others with 8800 GT SLI configuration. And this wasn't fun at all, because the game 
 isn't exactly easy to boot up.
  
  In addition, I found my fps lower than the original 
  Crysis. Counting in both the numerous crashes, somewhat repetitive "Crysis I again" gameplay, and 
 lower fps even though the game developers praised itself for 'better compatibility', one can't 
 help but feel this wasn't the best gaming experience.
  
  Though, objectively, Crysis Warhead is still a pretty good game. Not an amazing game, but a good 
 game. And depending on you, you may love or just say 'meh, it was OK'. Let's just say, if you want 
 more Crysis, this is where its at totally 100%. But if you feel Crysis was enough and if Crysis 
 Warhead was a "Crysis increased gametime with no real difference" you'd pass on it, then you can 
 feel safe to do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idokadosh
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Firat of all this is my first review and it is about one of the best games I have ever played.
 
  
  This is a great game The graphics engine was improved and the graphics is better and the island 
 is pretier than the other islan side in the first Crysis and because of the impromements of the 
 new graphics engine the game runs better than the old Crysis . This game is better than the first 
 one although it is shorter than the first one. The gameplay is mach better than Crysis it has more 
 action and the suit is much more useful. In the game there are new vehicle and couple of new guns.
 
  The aliens are much more intelligent now. the flying aliens have a new weapon which is fun to 
 avoid. There was a part with a train which I think was the best part in the game. 
  
  You sould buy this game ,it is worth every penny you spent on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabre772
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is a great game to play and you should buy it if you are in to action packed shooters 
 with great multilayer but if you have played the original Crysis you may be a bit disappointed. 
 The game is very similar to the Crysis with a few add ons such as two new vehicles and 2 new guns, 
 a new multiplayer game type and 6 new maps. A lot more could have been done to the game such as 
 new aircraft, more weapons and a few more new game modes for multiplayer. I am also disappointed 
 that the Gauss rifle was removed except for the very high ranks in multiplayer. The story itself 
 was very short and although it had some good bits it lacked depth and substance. 
  
  Advantages
  Better quicker nano suit
  New additions
  Action packed story
  Areat multiplayer
 
  Great graphics
  
  Disadvantages
  Similar to original Crysis
  Not enough new stuff
  Lacking more game modes for multiplayer
  Short, shallow story
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickgrainger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  this is game much like other fps with a little more kick. I would say it's great but I've played 
 better (in my opinion) . I love the graphics and I love the game play, I just feel it's missing 
 something. I prefer System Shock 2 and Deus Ex because they have a much better story and great 
 upgrade options. If you have not played them, I would suggest giving System Shock 2 a shot. Once 
 you get the hang of it, It becomes very very addicting. In System Shock 2 you can upgrade you're 
 character extensively. there is literally about 100 different upgrade augmentations you can add 
 to your character. I'm sorry to go off subject and talk about my favorite game, but I couldn't 
 list 100 words worth hearing about Crysis Warhead. Anyways, I think I've reached the minimum character 
 and word requirements, so if anything, I hope this review turns you on to a great game. It's an 
 older game but it has graphics way ahead of its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilsanta23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  From the second you start up the single player game, you know your in for a blast. The starting 
 cinematic makes you wish that the cinematic will end yet it is so good you don't want to skip it. 
 If possible the graphics are even better than the original. The AI is better too for humans and 
 aliens alike. KPA soldiers will run and bump into things if you scare them. I didn't like how short 
 it was but since it is only $30 it is acceptable. After you finish the single player campaign you'll 
 want to go straight into the fantastic Crysis Wars (if you don't want to replay it again which i 
 sure did) . It has a lot of new fantastic maps and a great new mode which is team deathmatch which 
 was oddly missing from the first Crysis. Still it is so good that all is forgiven. To bad there 
 is only one vehical map (but don't think there aren't any vehicals on anyother maps because there 
 are) 
  but what there is is awesome. Hopefully there will DLC with more maps in the future. Also there 
 are two new weapons which are auto-matic pistols which you can duel wield just like normal pistols. 
 The other new weapon is one you won't want to put down. It is the gernade launcher which has two 
 different types of ammo. The first is normal gernades and the other is emp gernades which you can 
 use to help take down opposing nano suit users. All the weapons have great feelings to all of them. 
 Overall Crysis Warhead is a great stand alone expansion and is a must buy if you have the computer 
 to run it.
  
  This has been my first review so please comment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blinckz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  I just finished this game 15 minutes ago.
  It was a wild ride, just like the first Crysis game.
  The first thing I noticed when I started 
 playing was that the performance was better then the first one, and the graphic quality as well. 
 In case you are not aware of this, the first Crysis game was made to make you cry about your so 
 called "imba" computer at that time, with an excessive amount of graphical power, there was no 
 machine able to run it decently on Maximum (got it?) Settings.
  However, this one ran pretty well on my dual core @ 2.5, 3gb Ram, 8800GT overclocked. Too bad I 
 have windows XP and was not able to play it on directx10, but I'm guessing that just like the first 
 one you can't even tell the difference.
  
  On this episode you will play as Psycho, one of the characters from the first game. You will be 
 playing on a paralel storyline, so you are stuck on the same island again, which has some terrible 
 secrets in it ( LOST anyone? ) .
  The powers of your nano suit are exactly the same, but this time you have a few more weapons, being 
 my favorite the dual wield Uzi's, which make you feel like you are in the movies Matrix, you also 
 have a granade launcher and a nice special gun in the end which I won't reveal much or I will be 
 called a spoiler-boy!
  This is a bit more linear then the first one, you won't have as much freedom of alternative routs 
 and you will also play more time on interior scenarios. The great thing about Warhead is that it 
 is pumped up with much more action, you will feel much more like a ninja on this one, jumping and 
 running around doing all sorts of crazy stuff, not because you want to, but because you need it.
 
  You will fight the same enemy's as in the first one, koreans and aliens. Except this time you 
 will be in more advantage thanks to the new weapons ( you get a granade-kind-of-thing that destroys 
 the nano suits from the koreans, which is greatly overpowered) , so I guess this one was easier 
 then the other one, and also shorter, you can finish it in 5 to 7 hours, depending if you are a 
 retarded zombie or a noob.
  
  The sound is still amazing. Voice acting is great and the soundtracks really get you into the action, 
 although I think they should pop up more times.
  The story is well, as I told you, the same as the first crysis but from a different point of view. 
 You get a bit more lengthy cutscenes, which really get you into the game and your character's head.
 
  
  If you played the first one but you were not that much happy about it, then this one is not a must-get, 
 since it will give you more of the same. But if you really liked the first one and it made you 
 a sad panda when it ended then this is something you should definitely get.
  
  Cheers,
  Blinck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  This was basically the same damn game with a few flashy new additions to make it all shiny and 
 nice.
  I figured i would get at the very least a new gameplay experience... but no, just a few new weapons 
 and a couple new rides! 
  
  i found myself using the same tactics i used in the first game and getting frustrated at all the 
 same things as well.
  
  im sorry if anyone disagrees with me here, but shooting a guy 8 times in the chest and having him 
 come at me like nothing happened TWO GAMES IN A ROW is NOT going to be alright just cause they 
 hand me a new dual-weldable smg and a new truck... 
  its like they took ALL the complaint's players had about the first game, swept them under the carpet 
 and tried to hide it under a pile of useless features! 
  
  now i may not have given it much of a chance, but i kinda put it down once my shiney new 9800gtx 
 came to a screehing halt once it started to snow a bit in game on medium...
  this all or nothing mentality really pisses me off, its either DX10 bliss and a thousand bucks 
 in upgrades or the lower end of dx9 and still spending a ton of cash to keep up
  
  
  The bottom line: Crysis: warhead is the bridge in the gap between a MOD and an expansion. It really 
 deserves to be sold as nothing more than downloadable addon content or as an expansion to the original... 
 paying a full game price for this was a mistake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante_94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Well, Crysis Warhead is a great game, even better than Crysis. 
  
  In Crysis Warhead, you play as Psycho and as his name suggests, he is brash and more aggressive 
 than Nomad in Crysis. The pace and difficulty in Crysis Warhead has been ramped up compared to 
 going stealthy in Crysis.
  
  The graphics in this game feels the same as Crysis but the requirements of High and Very High are 
 lesser. But there really is no difference in terms of quality.
  
  Sadly, the single-player campaign is a little bit too short. 5 hours and its over. But there is 
 replay value in this game. You can try to go a different way just like in Crysis. Wanna play like 
 a sniper? Or just tear the the KPAs into pieces. Its worth to note that there are several new weapons 
 and vehicles in this game. And new aliens.
  
  Overall, this game is a fun to play. I would recommend this game to people who love FPS games. 
 This game is worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LastStrider
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I hated the original Crysis and I got rid of my copy after playing a couple of hours. 
 Crysis Warhead is just like Crysis in the term of gameplay but everything else is so much better. 
 The story improved, the combat intensity improved, no more wandering around, not knowng where eto 
 go and 2000 koreans come and rush your ass untill you have no ammon left. if you buy crysis warhead, 
 the only good thing you are missing from the original crysis is the story, which you can read off 
 wikipedia. Crysis warhead is just so much better and its cheaper.
  
  For those who havn't played the original crysis. the graphic is amazing, everything looks awesome, 
 you need a sick ass PC to run everything smoothly. you can achieve your objective however you want. 
 you have a suit that has protect you, make yourun fast, make you strong, make you invisible really 
 it is a good FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign-supreme
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Contrary to some of the reviews that I've read so far, let me start of by saying that the game 
 is an expansion, it's not Crysis 2 but something in between. It's got everything what made last 
 year's original such a classic. Fast paced action, gorgeously optimized visuals, and awesome sound 
 effects. 
  
  The way it runs now with the optimized code makes you wonder if your current rig got an adrenaline 
 shot. You can actually max out settings and enjoy even better visual quality than the original 
 game.
  
  The game puts you in control of "Psycho", one of the original characters that was on your team 
 in the first sequel. Anyone whose played last year's game would know that in between the entire 
 team gets separated and leaves some questions as to what was going on with the other squad members. 
 The expansion is a great bridge between that and the original version.
  
  For $30, the game is a bargain, offering exactly what it promised and more with little or no compromise. 
 A must for FPS lovers or anyone who loves technically accomplished games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuno_rmdc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  When the Crysis Warhead comes out, I played the first one again to get the excited and get ready 
 to the new one.
  
  The game was great like the first time and is amazing how you can complete the mission totally 
 different that was the first time, you have the capacity to get your objectives with action by 
 maximum speed and strength, or make it nice and slow with maximum clothe and amour. 
  
  So when I start playing the new Crysis, I was already excited, but unfortunately don't surpass 
 my expectation, the evolution of the game didn't happen, is just the same with different history. 
 
  
  The Crysis Warhead still be a great game, but not awesome like the first. Not to mention how easy 
 that was to end the game, playing already in hard difficult.
  
  So now, start again the anxiety to released date for the next Crysis that I hope has a better gaming 
 that this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gtoniser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  The game owns, just like Crysis did. It is a bit lighter on your GPU and plays well. Although it 
 has a very nice singleplayer mode, it is too short (finished it in less then 6 hours) and too easy 
 if you played Crysis before. Didn't get to play the multiplayer yet, but I don't think its that 
 much different from the original game.
  
  Still a pity that you can't just keep your scar (you won't find any ammo for it anywhere) . I also 
 doubt whether the addition of mines was useful in the Single Player, because I didn't use them 
 at all. Why put mines on the road if you can just blow up the vehicle. Its not likely that they'll 
 drive over it anyways.
  
  Nicest thing is imo that they fixed the (very annoying) bug that if something metal crashed, it 
 could stuck into an object and annoy your ears for minutes.
  
  If you enjoyed playing Crysis, you will enjoy this game for sure, its worth the money, it isn't 
 as expansive as the original game either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt expecting miracles, especially from a game that raised the bar as much as Crysis did, but 
 how about a little more gaming...
  
  Graphics - Its Crysis, so I got what I expected. I only had one crash, and without a patch I guess 
 I cant complain to much.
  
  Gameplay - If you liked the first one, then you wont be disappointed because its about the same.
 
  
  Storyline - The whole storyline made the game... without it, it would have been just the same old 
 thing all over again. The ending was just enough to keep me wanting more, and willing to drop the 
 cash for the next round.
  
  Overall - What I would consider an expansion, and not a full blown game. So once you got past how 
 incredibly short it is, Warhead is well worth the time, just a little pricey for what you get.
 
  
  Extras: Absolutely loved the ability to go back and play the game a second time, but tweaked out 
 in god mode and unlimited ammo. Being able to complete the game in one night running full tilt 
 was a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitpat
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I'v finished the game and I will again, when you learn the game it's child play. But I'm still 
 playing it over, and over, and over again. It's a great game worth the dollar and every penny. 
 But be sure to check the system requirements, or you might just get disappointed.
  
  P. S. And what's the deal with minimum word requirement when posting this?!?! m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  This standalone expansion was a surprise for me!!! I didn't expect to play the game with everything 
 on very high (enthusiast) in dx9 and having a framerate of 25-27 FPS with 2 8800 GTX in sli!!!! 
 well done CRYTECH! you pushed the engine to the limits. It is unbelievable that you cannot spot 
 ANY difference between dx9 and dx10 on very high settings!!! It is the only game who has actually 
 over-pushed dx9c to the limits along with the cryengine 2 (i wish they could release a patch that 
 would make the same optimizations for the first game) . I loved those automatic weapons that were 
 dual handheld, btw the way you shooting with the two hands is awesome left hand left click right 
 hand right clcik AWESOME!!!! However it was very short I finished it in 4 hours and something! 
 -too short !! but it is an expansion after all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sryiownsomuch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I know I'm not the first to say this, but the single-player will never leave you bored. It does 
 a great job of mixing things up so you're never doing the same thing for too long. You will never 
 be traversing 400 miles of land just to get to the next base like some moments in the original 
 Crysis.
  Crysis wars has much more replayability than the original Crysis did. The team aspect adds a lot 
 of fun to the game (I never really got into power struggle) for deathmatch modes.
  The environments are also worth noting, my favorite being the beach resort. The scenery seems very 
 well thought out.
  Though claims of optimizing the game fell a bit short of expectations, it still runs great on my 
 computer, with all settings on Enthusiast (2.5ghz quad core, 8800gt overclocked) at 1440x900 around 
 20-25fps. There is no real noticable difference in terms of quality of visuals as far as I can 
 tell.
  All in all, this is a great value at only $30. Anyone who even remotely enjoyed Crysis will spend 
 their money very well with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmeCata
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Crysis: Warhead is for people that like action. And guns. And shooting things with aforementioned 
 guns. Not only that, but it runs better, and looks better too. So I've been told. I don't see that 
 much of a difference. But I can see a difference in the gameplay. The original Crysis played with 
 an emphasis on stealth, punctuated with explosive action. Warhead has planted it's focus firmly 
 on action, though I found it a bit hard to shake the slower style of gameplay that Crysis had taught 
 me. Too me, Sgt. "Psycho" Sykes is a more interesting character than "Nomad", the main character 
 from the original. I feel more of an emotional connect. But maybe that's just because of the good 
 plot. Warhead takes place on the opposite side of the island from the first game, and details Psycho's 
 secret mission that he left for in the middle of Crysis.
  
  As for multiplayer, it comes on it's own disc this time: Crysis Wars. The two original modes remain, 
 as well as a new mode, Team Deathmatch. There are many new maps (including one for vehicles) , and 
 two new weapons (which are also in the single player) .
  
  So, for 30 bucks you get a new campaign, a new multiplayer mode, two new weapons, and many new 
 maps. Now that's a good purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is an awesome game! It lives up to it's predecessor in more ways than 1. With the 
 refinements to cryengine2, the game runs much better and even looks better than Crysis. The new 
 weapons and vehicles add a very fun campaign experience, and the new map scenarios are much more 
 interesting than they were in crysis. Although you may not be able to explore an alien ship, you 
 get to travel through a frozen aircraft carrier full of Korean Nanosuit soldiers. The single player 
 campaign is quite a bit shorter than the original Crysis, but with the addition of everything I 
 listed above, you won't even care! Included with the game is Crysis Wars; a multiplayer version 
 of Crysis that expands from the original Crysis multiplayer to include new maps and gameplay modes. 
 This is truly a game worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3089,0. html
  
  Crytek is an anomaly in this day and age of the video game industry. Its first two games, Far Cry 
 and Crysis, were released to critical and commercial acclaim, often being called some of the finest 
 games of their respective release years. Following hot on the heels of Crysis, Crysis Warhead is 
 Crytek's first chance to return to one of its franchises (Ubisoft bought the Far Cry IP from them 
 shortly after the first game was released) . Befitting of their legacy, Crytek has used Warhead 
 as an opportunity to improve upon the criticisms of their previous game, just as Crysis was a response 
 to critics of Far Cry. The result is a product that's nearly as essential for real shooter fans 
 as Crysis was a year ago.
  
  The most striking change is a protagonist switch-out. Whereas in the first game you played the 
 strong-but-silent Nomad, this time you take on the role of Psycho, Raptor Squad's resident Brit. 
 This is easily a change for the better, as Psycho injects a lot of personality and emotion that 
 you suddenly realize was lacking in Crysis' protaganist. A subtle change is the use of third-person 
 cutscenes, making the story seem that much more cinematic. Where Warhead excels is in its short 
 but intense campaign. It's the equivalent of a summer action-movie blockbuster, and you'll find 
 yourself hungry for more once you finish it. Warhead benefits from a tighter plot, one that features 
 several stand-out moments that instantly make it memorable than most parts of Crysis. It's not 
 that Crysis' plot was horrible, its just that Warhead's is surprisingly effective.
  
  Gameplay conventions are similar to that of the original game. You don a nanosuit with the ability 
 to boost power to you armor, strength, speed or cloak. Weapons feature real-time rail customization 
 options that let you swap out different ammo types, scopes, flashlights, lasers, etc. Warhead introduces 
 two new weapons: dual-wieldable mini-SMGs that you can swap out for your pistols, and a dual-function 
 grenade launcher that also allows you to set remote mines. They're a cool addition to a game and 
 they definitely don't feel tacked-on. Vehicles have recieved a less consequential overhaul, introducing 
 two versions of the Korean ASR (Assault Scout Recon) and a weaponless motorboat that you mainly 
 see and use in only a single level. However, even these small additions are impressive for a $30 
 package.
  
  The original Crysis pushed open-world gameplay for the first two-thirds of the game, and then turned 
 strictly linear by the end. While most critics praised the first two-thirds, it was sometimes criticized 
 for offering TOO much freedom to the player: some gamers found themselves wandering off and getting 
 lost and/or killed in the process. On the flip side, the last third was criticized for throwing 
 away the tactical freedom that Crytek hyped up before release, even though it was a cinematic thrill-ride. 
 With Warhead, Crytek took the best of both sections and combined them into a game that features 
 heart-pounding cinematic moments in the vein of Call of Duty 4 combined with wider "theaters" that 
 offer you a lot of freedom to approach combat situations. Psycho is presented as a very Rambo-like 
 character, and this is reflected in the various featured set-pieces that contain tons of vehicles, 
 barrels, and other explosive objects. There's nary a quiet moment in Warhead, and that'll please 
 those who felt Crysis was a bit too slow-paced.
  
  Perhaps the biggest complaint with Crysis had nothing to do with the actual gameplay or plot, but 
 rather the engine. Crysis was beautiful, but that beauty came at a price. It brought many rigs 
 to their knees, and as such was heavily slammed for its "elitist" requirements. Crytek gave their 
 engine team a $700 PC and told them to make Warhead run well on it at High settings. It might seem 
 like a miracle, but they pulled it off. Whereas we found it impossible to comfortably play the 
 original maxed out, Crysis Warhead manages to mostly stay above the magical 25 FPS barrier on our 
 Q6600, GTX 260 system and ends up buttery-smooth when you bring it down a notch to Gamer (High) 
 settings. If you're a PC gamer, system requirements shouldn't be an excuse for not getting the 
 game this time around. It even looks better, with light reflecting more realistically than in the 
 original and characters featuring better animations.
  
  The level of presentation in Crysis Warhead matches that of Crysis. Voice acting is, once-again, 
 superb and the level design is pretty unique with some highlights including a frozen aircraft carrier 
 and an actual train-based "rail" level that is more open-ended than most rail levels. The background 
 music is different from that of the first game, and although its not necessarily better, it does 
 fit the story and plot appropriately.
  
  For $30, Crytek could have merely included the Warhead campaign and called it a day. But there 
 was another, less-hyped, part of Crysis that Crytek decided to overhaul for this release: the multiplayer. 
 Crysis Wars is the new Crysis multiplayer suite: it includes all of the maps from the original 
 and adds a Team Instant Action mode that was sorely missing in the original package. Nine new maps 
 have also been released, and they offer some unique environments to fight in. A lot of work has 
 been done in making the gameplay tighter, with Crytek re-balancing some of the weapons and making 
 sure that the vehicles aren't as flimsy as they were in the first one. In conclusion, Wars adds 
 on a lot of value for a what was already an inexpensive package.
  
  Crysis Warhead is an FPS gamer's wet dream - a cinematic and fast-paced action game that features 
 some of the most-refined gameplay to ever grace a shooter combined with the most technically-proficient 
 engine ever created. Crysis Wars adds volumes of gameplay hours and value. Shooters just don't 
 get any better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightsoul_1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I didn't bought Crysis, since at that time I was really in love with Call of Duty 4.
  When I heard about this Warhead expansion and its low price I decided to give it a try and boy.... I'm 
 really glad I did it!
  The graphics are really amazing (if you have a pc who can handle it) and the single player gameplay 
 is great.
  I still think CoD 4 campaign is still the best on the market, but Crysis Warhead anyway has great 
 story, exciting mission objectives and breathtaking cutscenes.
  The best feature in this expansion is the multiplayer mode: it has a good variety of maps, all 
 huge and with wonderful graphic environment. For example, look at the bushes, the trees and overall 
 the vegetation in the game, it's like real!
  All in all, this Crysis Warhead game is a top notch product that really deserves the money spent.
 
  If you're an FPS lover like me, you won't get disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead has the same story line as to first Crysis, however in my opinion the first Crysis 
 story line was better because you didn't really know what was going on there fore you were drawn 
 to the game's intriguing plot. In Warhead you already know what's happening since you played the 
 first Crysis (well most you have) , however Warhead has a lot more action, different landscapes, 
 the graphics have been tweaked more given you better performance and overall game experience, lots 
 of cut scenes which makes the game more enjoyable and fun. Warhead also introduces new weapons 
 and characters; Crysis Warhead should have been the first Crysis game made with the first Crysis 
 story line combine and this game would've rock even more, most players out there are rating this 
 game on a perfect 10, however both Crysis and Crysis Warhead do not deserve a 10, even though both 
 are great games with amazing graphics but to give a game 10 just on graphics is not right. First 
 Crysis got really boring at times and you got to see the aliens at the end of the game, and Warhead 
 while given people what we wanted most, the chance to battle the aliens more!, there is nothing 
 new really, it's really more like been there, done that kind of thing. Play this game and you'll 
 have a lot of fun, its packed with action till the end and you'll enjoy the awesome graphics and 
 cut scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooltechie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Crysis was a great game, it was open, there were many play styles (I remember taking out a base 
 with a silenced pistol) , and it amounted to great fun with great replay ability, warhead however 
 doesn't live up to its legendary predecessor.
  
  The first problem is simple; the controls. Crysis' controls never were run and gun, they had an 
 element of tactics, and didn't take so well to running and gunning, however 'running and gunning' 
 is exactly what warhead asks you to do.
  
  You are no longer simply placed on an island with an objective, now you have 'bursts' of action, 
 where 20 or so soldiers just attack you, no way to sneak through it. You no longer have a huge 
 island to crawl over, well you do, but there's no longer any point, your destination is simple 
 to get to, creating an extremely linear feel. 
  
  Now don't get me wrong, I like the game (hence the 8.5) , it's great fun to play, once again has 
 eye popping graphics, and crysis wars makes it all worth while. However the game no longer feels 
 like it should, it feels like a linear remake, no longer giving you that killer feel that for me 
 made crysis. 
  
  Overall the game is good, but it's a step down from crysis; it became a fps, something which crysis 
 was never designed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead has the same storyline as the first Crysis, only this time you play as Psycho, instead 
 of Nomad, who spends most of his time on the other half of the island, thus bringing up more info, 
 and making it more cinematic because of the new camera in cut-scenes compared to the old locked-first-person-view 
 camera from Nomad in the first game. Still, despite the lenght, the effort is appreciated, considering 
 it was in development only a year. The graphics and performance are tweaked a little, but the biggest 
 improvement in all is the action and the wide open areas that were kinda missing. I don't think 
 I have much more to say than this, because they'd be considered spoilers :lol: So... my advice 
 is to rent it for the single player, but if you really want the multiplayer so much buy it, but 
 it's not compared to other online FPSs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  so lets start fast:
  
  this game is great, lots and lots of action lots of aliens and more..
  
  the gameplay is the 
 same as the first CRYSIS theres nothing much of a change, same powers everything is the same so 
 dont think about a better suit or something when you start to play..
  
  the graphics is amazing overhall graphics and visual effects are awesome, love the water effect 
 and explosions and what can you ask for more?
  
  the story is not a continue (warhead is not crysis 2) its the same story only that here you play 
 as PSHCO and not as NOMMAD and in this story you play on the other side of the island,
  
  multiplyer is way way better than the first CRYSIS new awesome maps and great team deadmatch has 
 been added
  
  well.. i loved the first crysis more than WARHEAD (exept the multiplyer) , i dont know why.. i just 
 love first one more
  
  if you see the CRYSIS WARHEAD you should buy it. its also cheap so its a good deal to buy it and 
 really worth it, if you loved the first crysis you should really love WARHEAD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10
  Sounds: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Multiplayer: 9
  Storyline: 9
  Impression: 10
  
  Score: 9.5 (9.6 real)
  
  Well, Crytek promised and they delivered. Of 
 course it's not perfect but what game is? 
  
  The first thing that I was surprised, and a little disappointed to learn was that Warhead wasn't 
 so much a parallel of Crysis, as it was a separate story. First off, the game assumes that you 
 played Crysis, so it drops you into what I asuume are the events that go on starting in the level 
 in Crysis called Onslaught. This is right after Nomad destroys the cruiser and goes on to drive 
 a tank. 
  
  Sadly, everything that happened before that is not part of Warhead. This results in two negatives 
 for the game. The first one is that if you didn't play Crysis, you have no clue what is going on, 
 or what the premise of the story even is. Second, the game becomes unnecessarily short. My expectation 
 was that Warhead begins in the same VTOL that Crysis did, with Nomad talking to Psycho, then the 
 two of them getting scattered all over the island. From there you would meet up with Prophet, find 
 the frozen ship, meet with Nomad, split off to rescue Helena Rosenthal, taking separete routes, 
 meet up again, split off again and finally meet up again in the Aasault level to cover Nomad while 
 he gets on the cruiser. This would have not only filled in the massive narrative gap in Warhead, 
 but it would have made the game much longer, without too much difficulty for the devs, since most 
 of the levels could have been recycled. Yes, i would not have minded recycled content if it was 
 from the point of view of another character. It would have been more than worth it.
  
  As much as this defect irritated me, I could not take off more than 0.5/10 of a rating point because 
 there simply isn't anything left to criticize. Warhead deserves all 9 beefy points out of the 10 
 that it can get.
  
  The graphics in Warhead are simply stunning. It seems that the Crytek people were very aware of 
 The Natural Mod for Crysis, because Warhead appears, well, much more natural. The shadows are darker, 
 and the colors are more vibrant. The biggest quality improvement, however, is Global Ambient Lighting. 
 Basically what this means is that light is cast on just about EVERYTHING. Every groove and ridge 
 on every surface, from the ground, to the characters' faces, is only as visible as the light that 
 it receives. This also means that shadows are cast in more accurate tones and directions than ever 
 before. Make no mistake, this is THE forefront of visual effects in modern gaming.
  
  Of course, all this eye candy comes at a cost for performance, right? Well, with Crysis this was 
 certainly true. All the config file tweaking in the world couldn't save me from unplayble framerates 
 in certain portions of the game. Now, less than a year later, after some upgrades to my computer, 
 Crysis still exhibits the same flaws. And the CryEngine2 has only gotten more sophisticated, with 
 the arrival of Warhead. Well, after playing Warhead it seems that, at the time Crysis was released, 
 the CryEngine2 was in what I could only describe as beta stages. That's right, it turns out that 
 you DON'T need the very latest hardware and extra deep pockets to gaze at the glory of the CryEngine2. 
 On my modest Pentium system, with a sub-$250 video card, i was able to max out all of the advanced 
 settings (except objects) and get playable framerates. The objects setting was the only one that 
 i couldn't max out because it appears that all the trees, plants, and especially NPCs (which caused 
 very considerable framerate drops during some scripted events) require more than 512MB of video 
 card memory to all be loaded simultaneously. However, the second highest setting worked just fine, 
 and didnt cause the severe degredation in image quality that the medium setting would. Everything 
 else was beautiful. From the rays of light through the canopies, to the parallax textures of the 
 rocks, to the soft particles, nothing seemed to affect my framerate to require switching from Very 
 High to High settings. 
  
  But thats not all. With objects set to very high, antialiasing was out of the question. My framerate 
 dropped to about 3-5. With objects set to High, I attempted antialiasing once again, at the 2x 
 setting, and to my shock and awe, I discovered a result of ZERO loss in framerate. Well done Crytek 
 indeed. Antialiasing in Crysis for me was an impossibility. With Warhead, however, Crytek has apparently 
 addressed that issue, in particular, and found a way to allow the average computer gamer, not just 
 the enthusiasts, to take advantage of the added image quality that antialiasing offers. 
  
  Of course, I did experience some heavy stuttering, but I suspect that has mostly to do with a fragmented 
 hard drive, as it does with most people who encounter stuttering. I could only imagine that running 
 the game on a fully defragmented hard drive would yield very little instability. I ran into a few 
 crashes, but that's to be expected with an initial release. Future patches and driver updates should 
 provide further perofrmance and stability optimizations, but overall it's nice to have such a well 
 performing product out of the box. And also as an added bonus, Crytek has decided to forgo the 
 charade of locking out the Very High setting for XP users. Kudos to them for not kowtowing to the 
 M$ goons. So to recap, better image quality, antialiasing, less strain on your hardware, and more 
 user friendly. Yes, the rumors of a greatly optimized CryEngine2 are true.
  
  Moving on, let's talk AI. Many people complained of a very unsophisticated AI in Crysis, despite 
 all the bold claims that Crytek made. Well, the AI in that game certainly wasn't perfect, but it 
 wasn't as stupid as some people were claiming. Enemies would not simply run past you. This was 
 something people probably saw on Youtube and decided to complain about it, without really knowing 
 that the person who made the video simply used a cheat to turn off the AI for all the NPCs. Or 
 they only played the demo, which was not even close to the initial release of Crysis, let alone 
 the patched version. Regardless, even if you did have a legitamate issue with the AI in Crysis, 
 don't fear, once again, Crytek is here. Your enemies react to the sound of your movements better 
 than ever before. They throw grenades AS SOON AS you duck for cover, not when your suit has had 
 time to regenerate. If you cloak and flank their position, they keep shooting in the direction 
 that you were in before, as if perplexed, instead of magically knowing what way youre going, and 
 attempting to outflank you. And when they DO see you, they outflank the heck out of you. If you 
 cloak right in front of them, they keep shooting and DO sometimes hit you, instead of ALWAYS missing, 
 like they did in Crysis. The aliens duck for cover. They move away from grenades. The list goes 
 on. In short, the AI is much improved, and should present a more formidable challenge, as well 
 as a heightened sense of accomplishment from winning a battle.
  
  This leads to discussion of actual gameplay. A lot of Crysis involved reconnaisance of a camp of 
 enemies, cloaking, getting close enough to snipe, but far enough to avoid damage, and sniping them 
 out. In Warhead there are more battles that occur up close and personal. This forces you to engage 
 in intricate battles using a wider array of arsenal and increased empahsis on suit functions such 
 as speed. Its not enough to just run up a hill, cloak, and snipe away at an advancing line. You 
 will get grenades thrown at you by one enemy as another group of enemies attepmts to flank. So 
 you're constantly forced to keep on the move, likely with speed. Use strength to throw a red barrel 
 at a position where enemies are taking cover, then shoot it to get them out of cover. Or alternate 
 between weapons and weapon modes, depending on the situation. This was how Crysis was marketed, 
 but, unfortunately, not how it actually played out. This time it's for real. Of course, Warhead 
 offers its fair share of open-ended maps in which you can attempt to cloak, snipe and sneak, if 
 you are so inclined. Just don't expect to do that through the whole game.
  
  Additionally, Warhead offers more replayability than ever. While it is true that your first playthrough 
 should take no longer than 6-8 hours (not 3-5 as some reviews claim) , there is much more than meets 
 the eye. Three separate missions forced you to use a vehicle to advance through the game. However, 
 upon careful inspection, it turns out that on two of these three missions, commandeering a vehicle 
 was a SECONDARY objective. Therefore, doing the train and hovercraft levels on foot should increase 
 your play time to at least 10 hours. The mission with the ASV can most likely be done on foot as 
 well, but would be significantly more difficult as you have to protect your squadmate from being 
 killed, so speed is your friend there. 
  
  The cave mission got knocked pretty hard, but that mission was there to serve the same purpose 
 as the zero-g level in Crysis: Horror. Imagine that! Aliens are actually scary. Well it seems that 
 Crytek figured this out too, and in my opinion did a fantastic job of conveying that idea in the 
 zero-g level. The linear aspect of gameplay was what facilitated this feeling of fear, because 
 an open-ended environment makes one feel safer. The confined space of both the cave level and the 
 zero-g level brought a different dimension to both games, and Crytek should be praised for it, 
 instead of being told that "linear gameplay" is a four-letter word. And as if Crytek somehow psychically 
 foresaw a negative reaction to the cave level, they even placed a shortcut through it that would 
 have probably kept most people from complaining, had they found it on the first playthrough. Even 
 if you're still dissatisfied with the cave level, take comfort in the fact that it is a graphical 
 marvel. From the cave walls, to the natural springs, to the lights and shadows, everything is rendered 
 at unprecedented levels of realism. Combine that with the fact that it's an indoor environment, 
 which means that your framerates will skyrocket, no one can make the argument that the cave level 
 is a misstep in design. If anything, it's more of a tech demo to showcase the scalability of the 
 CryEngine2 for indoor environments. Hardly a misstep.
  
  Other things of note include the great soundtrack. Crysis would not be Crysis without it, so a 
 big thumbs up to Inon Zur once again. Cutscenes are well directed and are longer which makes the 
 game feel more cinematic. The jungle sounds are more prevalent, giving you a greater sense of immersion. 
 The physics are also much improved. If you fire a round from your grenade launcher at a vehicle, 
 and not quite hit it, it will still tip the vehicle over, possibly cause enough damage to light 
 the engine on fire, or just kill the enemies inside from the shrapnel of the grenade. The dynamic 
 nature of the way the physics work in this game makes for some truly jaw-dropping action sequences 
 that all result from the way that YOU control the pace of the action. Again, this was promised 
 in Crysis, but was implemented much more effectively in Warhead. In one instance I actually managed 
 to flip one of those 18-wheeler looking trucks exactly like in the scene from the Dark Knight. 
 Very cool. Unscripted. And would have never happened in Crysis.
  
  And let's not forget about the multiplayer. Crysis Wars is an improvement to Crysis' multiplayer 
 component, but leaves much to be desired. The added maps are large-scale and designed much better 
 to suit the dynamics of deathmatch play. The weapons and suit functions are rebalanced, and the 
 engine optimizations make for multiplayer-worthy framerates. The best addition, however, is the 
 vehicles that were added to the new maps. As is the case with single-player, the vehicles handle 
 much better and are absolutely spectacular to use for wreaking all sorts of havok in a multiplayer 
 setting. Alternately, if you are on foot you can choose to use the missile launcher to shoot down 
 helicopters, or assault ground vehicles. With everyone running around in vehicles, it's easy to 
 forget that you might be the unsuspecting prey of a sniper or that you can become one yourself, 
 and pick off anyone that attempts to commandeer the helicopter that you leave as bait in the middle 
 of a field. This sort of dynamic gameplay brings a much more tactical edge to your standard deathmatch 
 experience, and becomes even more fun when you have teammates to help you employ these tactics 
 in Team Deathmatch. In addition, Power Struggle is back, if you prefer a more objective-based, 
 Battlefield style of play. Unfortunately, the maps that were included with Crysis are back with 
 absolutely no changes made to them. It would have been nice if Crytek added at least a landing 
 pad with a chopper or a VTOL to some of the original maps that dont necessarily facilitate the 
 use of a jeep or a tank. And, again, there is no ranking system of which to speak. This is too 
 bad because a ranking system, preferably with achievements and unlockable customizations, is the 
 difference between hours of online play in one sitting, and a few casual sit-and-go sessions here 
 and there. Ultimately, Crysis Wars has no lasting quality without a ranking system, and will only 
 serve as a nice buffer for the waiting period between now, and the release of Far Cry 2, which 
 looks to become the biggest multiplayer craze since Call of Duty 4. 
  
  Overall, Crysis Warhead is exactly what Crysis should have been. It has an optimized engine that 
 won't break your bank. It features the physics, AI, and gameplay that was promised in Crysis. The 
 multiplayer is fun enough to keep your attention this time. And despite a couple of flaws, Crysis 
 Warhead is still of much more value than Crysis, AND it's $20 cheaper. As a stand-alone package 
 this game has it all: Great graphics, great gameplay, great multiplayer, great production value, 
 and a great price. 
  
  The Good:
  -better graphics
  -amazing sounds
  -gameplay
  -great price
  -clever and better AI
  
  The Bad:
  -those who never played Crysis, they won't 
 understand what happens in Crysis: Warhead
  -the story could've been better
  -unappreciated by many and makes it unpopular for others 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 50centrulezz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  This time I am going to present my views and post what I think of Crysis Warhead. It was one of 
 the most anticipated releases of this year. With GameSpot and IGN giving it a near perfect, I thought 
 you guyz might wanna check out a fellow gamer's review. So here I am. Without further ado, lets 
 move on.
  
  Introduction - 
  Crysis Warhead is a stand-alone expansion pack to the higly-acclaimed shooter, Crysis. Based on 
 the CryEngine 2, it delivers immense action coupled with amazing visuals and mind-blowing sound. 
 Crysis was a system killer and so is Warhead but it is optimised to look and run better. The story 
 is the same as Crysis but here, you play as Sgt. "Psycho" Sykes. It shows what he did on the other 
 side of the island while Nomad was busy fragging badies on one side. This game is way more intense 
 then the previous installment.
  
  Story (8/10) -- 
  As said before, its nothing new. But what is there, its good. It shows the hardships that Psycho 
 faced while battling KPA and aliens. If you havent played the original Crysis, then you will find 
 this confusing.
  
  Graphics (9.5/10) -- 
  One word........ awesome!! Best graphics to graze ANY gaming platform. Add to that the game's optimisation. 
 It will run on High at a respectable resolution with a card of the calibre of 8600GT. The lightning, 
 models, etc is done in a very well manner. The water looks real and some people might be fooled 
 into thinking that its actually a movie rather than a game. The game is worth getting for its graphics 
 alone.
  
  Sound (9/10) -- 
  Sound is done very well too. The guns sound like they should and the voice-overs are awesome. Especially 
 of Psycho. Though I had one gripe, the explosions sound a little under-powered but the flaw wont 
 become a kink in your gaming path!
  
  Gameplay (8.5/10) -- 
  Aah! The core of any game. Despite some flaws, the game is just amazing. The core remains the same 
 with the Nanosuit and all but its more intense and has more visecral action!! The slow pace of 
 Crysis which used to set the mood off but no more with Warhead. The action starts right after 5mins 
 into the game and stops at the last minute. The KPA come in hordes of 5-25 and aliens come in large 
 numbers too. AI is improved. The aliens dont just hover over you anymore. They shoot and try to 
 kill you. The functions of the Nanosuit remain the same with 4 modes (Armour, Strength, Cloak and 
 Speed) . The gun system is almost the same. You can customise it by adding different sights and 
 scopes. You can add and remove silencers, etc. There are 2 new weapons. One is a mini-uzi kinda 
 gun which replaces your Pistol (if you choose so!) and you can dual-weild it. Its so much fun to 
 shoot with this babies! The next is a grenade laucher. It can hold upto 6 grenade at a time and 
 then lauch one at a time. This is gonna be your best friend in the game soon! The vehicle handling 
 is improved too! All in all, the gameplay is as good as graphics with some faults with AI.
  
  
  Final Thoughts -- 
  This game is a must play for any action/FPS fan. Go grab it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norseking
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  You play as sergeant 'Psycho' Sykes who is on a mission parallel to the first game's narrative 
 on the other side of the island. Your orders are to hunt down a certain ruthless political officer 
 of the Korean People's Army who is trying to ship alien cargo off the island.
  
  There are a couple of new weapons and some new vehicles but the game is so fast moving you sometimes 
 don't even care what gun you're wielding as long as you have something to kill the horde of aliens 
 storming you. You also get to battle side by side with other nanosuit soldiers against aliens with 
 greatly improved AI as well as more Korean "Nano Soldiers". One downside is the AI of your team 
 mates. They easily get left behind instead of helping you fight but I'm sure a patch fix that.
 
  
  The action is over the top and in a good way. You feel overwhelmed and outnumbered most of the 
 time. Stealth players may be slightly bothered because although you get to sneak it's not nearly 
 as stealthy as the first game in my opinion. The levels are somewhat linear but not so much that 
 it will limit strategy too much.
  
  If you can't get enough of Crysis then Warhead is for you. If you love being outnumbered with your 
 back against the wall firing a minigun at a gargantuan Alien ship then take out the cash and don't 
 think twice. Maximum fun!
  
  The action is over before you know it unfortunately and the game becomes an appetizer while we 
 wait for Far Cry 2. It is a good purchase, this game sucks you in and spits you out screaming: "MORE 
 MORE!". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwilborne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead
  Game Analysis
  
  Crysis Warhead is the newest video game title from Electronic Arts for PC gamers. This is a critical 
 analysis of EA's product, which in my opinion includes the good and bad aspects of the game. While 
 proving to be the most intense photo-realistic video game experience I have played the game still 
 does have its strong and weak points. I will attempt to point out what people should expect from 
 Crysis Warhead before they purchase it.
  
  Strong aspects of this game include; a future proofing by creating the ability to turn graphical 
 settings above the limitations of nearly all current hardware, a sequel which is almost in every 
 way better than the first game, a new multiplayer setup which allows for hours of entertainment, 
 photo-realistic landscapes with a free roaming environment, amazing audio quality, entertaining 
 dialog, and the awe-factor which comes into play during gun battles that seem to realistic to be 
 rendered in real time. The single player game in Crysis puts you on a tropical island, which is 
 quickly changed to an icy wasteland, playing as a quirky squad leaded named Psycho. The gameplay 
 is very much enhanced by the use of your "nano-suite" which allows for quick changes to your attributes 
 allowing for powers such as a speed-boost or temporary invisibility allowing the player to change 
 strategy as you play.
  
  After playing through the single player game and experiencing countless online battles in a mode 
 known as power struggle, I feel that while Crysis Warhead is an amazing game that you will however 
 encounter problems with. Some of these issues with the game include; low frame rates on even a 
 powerful computer, a noticeable glitch with the cut scenes, a less than practical artificial intelligence 
 system for enemies, an all around computing resource hog, somewhat choppy online play, a digital 
 rights management system that forces you to have an internet connection to complete your install, 
 and a finicky game disc which is required to be in your drive while you play the game. Many of 
 the issues in this game can and likely will be fixed with patches, but why should the consumer 
 be able to buy a game before it is completely ready for people to play?
  
  As a video game overall, Crysis Warhead stands up to most of my expectations. Hurling even the 
 most powerful of gaming rigs to its knees this game manages to push the limitations of current 
 hardware while providing an experience which is as photo-realistic as possible. After endless tweaking 
 to get your desired frame rates you enter a game which proves to be an explosive action-packed 
 first person shooter that constantly leaves you in awe that the graphics are rendered in real-time. 
 While some of the enemies in single player mode lack the artificial intelligence which would make 
 the game a more immersive experience you are given the options to pump up the difficulty or even 
 try your hand against some real people in the multiplayer mode. While lacking buttery smooth gameplay 
 and perfect AI one can still say that Crysis Warhead provides the best graphical first person shooter 
 experience to date.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anakin198
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I thought this game was b****hit But, WOW! It's amazing! It runs perfect on my another 
 rig that using E7300. Wow. It's ... f**kin amazing! Unfortunately, it performs bad when using quad 
 core processor. If you guys thought this game can only run on nuclear-powered PC, you're wrong. 
 Totally wrong because even 9800GT can run it using ENTHUSIAST and 1280 X 1024 and get 38 FPS and 
 above but sometimes it dropped to 28. It's more exciting (though shorter) campaign, a new multiplayer 
 mode, and a whole bunch of new maps which is exciting make Crysis Warhead an excellent expansion 
 to one of last year's best shooters. But yeah, it's AI is a lot better than Crysis. But what the 
 hell? They said that Crysis Warhead is "GRAPHIC CARD KILLER" but hey! 38 FPS on 9800GT? It's miracle! 
 Overall, it's 100% one of the best shooter ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thiekshana
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Amazing computer game of 2008. I think this is the best action game 2008 so far after the mass 
 effect. This game contains full of graphics and incredible music system. Psycho is doing really 
 a good job. You may have noticed that there are so many attractive environment and huge places 
 to attack enemies. So this is my best computer game re; eased in this year. That can be said with 
 no hesitation. I like most this game because this is the latest game that has a superb surrounding 
 sound system. So we get use to shoot enemies with high confidence and attack them with high power. Unlike 
 other games psycho has superb abilities to take down enemies. Like maximum strength ,maximum power. Therefore 
 the player is able to use these strengths and survive from the enemies. Also e must talk about 
 the graphics details of the game. So please guys play this amazing game if you not played yet. Thanks 
 for the reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bananadude505
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Okay so as I have mentioned, some reviewers here have given this game a low score for some of the 
 following reasons- (this review is for the single player campaign only)
  
  1: They claim the game is short.
  This is true, it could have been a bit longer but then again 
 what do you expect for $30 USD.
  
  2: The graphics are NOT as good as crysis 1.
  False, I don't know where these people got this idea from but I for the life of me cannot see any 
 difference between the two games.
  
  3: The game has not been optimised for lower gaming rigs just as crytek said.
  I'm going to have 
 to say false here, I run both crysis and warhead on high setting across the board. My rig-
  Vista home service pack 1
  Intel core 2 E8400 3.0GHz
  3GB RAM
  1x Nvidia 9800GTS
  screen 
 res is 1440 x 900 
  
  On crysis I get a steady 30fps, never goes under 30 and in some scenes it goes as high as 40fps.
 
  On warhead I get a steady 38fps and in some scenes it goes as high as 47fps, I even hit 52fps 
 at one point.
  Hell, I was even getting a steady 31 fps in the taxing snow and ice levels.
  
  4: Enemy AI is bad.
  This in My opinion is both true and false.
  There are some areas of 
 the game where the AI is better and then some areas where the AI is the same as crysis or worse.
 
  
  I think there were some other complaints but I cant think of them right now.
  
  At the end of the day, this game is nothing short of brilliant. Don't expect anything new other 
 than some new vehicles, and weapons (dual wielding sub machine guns is nice) but this is a parallel 
 story to the original and I think it fits in nicely.
  
  The people complaining about the game as pointed out in my above comments either don't know how 
 to build and optimise a computer for gaming properly or maybe they expected the game to run on 
 max on an older rig, I don't know.
  
  All in all I loved it and wished it was longer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keisuke1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Game is very WOW, action, guns, blood, graphics, sound, NANOSUIT, MULTIPLAYER, and more.
  
  For $30 you could get the most graphical game with a awesome multiplayer which is optional to install. 
 Even though their is a install limit and think they'll change it soon with a patch because that's 
 what they did with spore and that's not bad. Nonetheless, the game is very polished, I haven't 
 found any bugs so that's neat, and I have to force myself to let go of the mouse to make the game 
 last a few days. Yet, the multiplayer is addictive and fun I can play for hours. 
  
  Specs: Intel celeron 2.93 o'cd @ 3.2Ghz
  Radeon 2400 pro 256mb pci
  Sound blaster Fidelity 
 x-fi extreme gamer professional edition sound card
  2gb of Ram
  
  and runs very with incredible settings.
  I highly recommended
  P. s. game is 5GB+multiplayer 
 5GB = 10GB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  i found myself last year taking my comp on a test to play crysis which i found was a very fun game. 
 This is the expansion pak to last years already great shooter i ran this on a high end machine 
 and i also recomend one as well even though its been designed for medium end pcs now but it still 
 messes up at times. But thats not all even the graphics and effects have been improved along with 
 helpful gameplay adustments. The new missions and stuff are well worth it and last a pretty good 
 amount of fun and time but when yer finished with that go take on multiplayer which has also been 
 adjusted to feel better and have a great time the gameplay modes consists of some teamdeathmatch 
 games and then there is also ctf king of the hill and others that fit in perfectly if i had to 
 say anything about this game it would have to be the game encourages freedom and when u go around 
 u might end up messing up on missions and there are some new bugs that popped up like falling through 
 the level and stuff but its this way with many games and just like the original they will patch 
 them anyway this game is just plain fun buy it if u have a good pc and like shooters its a great 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunyu19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Mostly I got 4x to 5x FPS and enjoy playing this exciting game. Actually, I am just playing Normal 
 difficulties but I DO being killed for many times. Then I switch to EASY.
  
  Actually, the quality of the scene and environment is not really GOOD, sometimes the hidden passage 
 could not be found until you walked arround for several times. The MAP is not detail enough to 
 show the enermies, especially those deadly Tanker and helicopter. I always found I had been killed 
 when I realised there was a tanker standing right behind me.
  
  The A. I. is better than original Crysis, at least those enermies may hide and find the best position 
 to attack me. However, the Rocket Launcher still ..... actually, the rocket should explose within 
 half meter circle if you want to kill the enermies (he is just a soldier) and there were many things 
 that could not be destoryed by the rockets.
  
  The game is excited and addictive.... but still have many minor problems, thats why I said "Hard 
 to describe" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Najhart
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, vanilla Crysis was way too hyped, it was rushed and it was disappointing. I like 
 the idea of approaching an attack from different angles and not be led by hand, but in the original 
 Crysis all this translated into was boring gameplay. I liked some of the alien ship missions but 
 it's really the kind of missions you could only play once as it played out more like a movie. So 
 I went online grumbling but hoping this is where Crysis would make up for its lack-luster single 
 player... nope! Seems Warhead addressed most of these problems in the short time I've been playing. 
 A TDM is greatly welcomed and hella fun. Weapons aren't buggy and do more damage in MP and SP. 
 The suit seems to be perfectly balanced now (for those of you who don't know, the suit allows you 
 to switch between an armour mode for greater health, strength mode for greater damage/jump higher, 
 a speed mode, and a Predator style invisible camo mode) they've toned down its effects giving more 
 realistic player-player fight sequences. SP is tighter and so much more explosive. Graphics are, 
 well... if you don't know by now why the hell are you reading this review! 
  
  Now my complaints about the game. I don't know about the rest of you but when I look to buy a game 
 I'm more interested in it's negatives than the postives (maybe it's cause I'm poor and need to 
 be selective : ( ) .
  
  A) Optiwhat?
  This stuff about optimization is complete bs, but running it on mid-high settings still makes it 
 look far prettier than a maxed out COD4. For the people who are complaining about the high system 
 requirements: 1) Get a job 2) Just becuase there is a better graphics option doesn't mean you need 
 to use it 3) NO, you're computer does NOT have the hardware to run Crysis maxed out, no computer 
 does!
  If you got a GeForce 8800gts 512mb like me, you should be awe-struck, if you aren't, make sure 
 your monitor's power button is in the on position.
  
  B) Bugs
  Still has some bugs but less than in the original. There's a MP bug that places you under the map 
 at the beggining of the game! It's happened to me twice but that seems like something they'll fix 
 in the first patch.
  
  C) People in MP who are better than me.
  
  D) Ummm.... let's see what else... it's not free?
  THAT'S ALL FOLKS!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sledge_4314
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  To be honest i was a bit worried when getting this game as it is an expansion and from past experience 
 expansions tend to get a bit less serious especially for games which get 9 or above. The developer 
 start to get a bit cocky and so on... Luckily this did not happen for Crysis Warhead.
  
  Lets start with the gameplay, just like Crysis but more fast paced and if you liked the last few 
 missions from Crysis where it gets more exciting than Crysis Warhead is what your looking for. 
 You'll get 3 new weapons which are: an automatic grenade launcher, automatic pistol which you can 
 dual weild and also a surprise at the end which i'll not spoil for you.
  
  There are more cinematics which are great but not as good as MGS4 cinematics but that doesnt matter. 
 Better than nothing.
  
  The graphics are just amazing even on my pentium 4 2.8 ghz, 2 gb ram and 8500 GT card. I can manage 
 to run it all on medium. I tried putting it all on very high which just looked like a hollywood 
 high budget movie. Too bad it runs like a slideshow. But that doesnt matter, its my problem for 
 not having the right equipment.
  
  The only problem which i didnt quite like was the other nano suit teams code names. Bear, cupcake, 
 lazy dame i would appreciate it more if they had better names. Thats not really a problem.
  
  During this game you'll realize that psycho is a great soldier which i didnt think so in the 
 first Crysis. Im not going to ruin it for you.
  
  You'll play through 7 high quality missions which you'll never soon forget which would only cost 
 you $50 AU, $30 if you buy it off steam.
  
  Crysis Warhead is just amazing, and hopefully it success would bring out Crysis 2 earlier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overberger
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Great game.. Nice graphics.. better performance. Much Better AI. Story was similar to original. Way 
 too short. I was amazed when I was finished, I'd say about 6 to 8 hours of play. Nice touch involving 
 the "frozen world". Allowed better graphic rendering without performance impact (fewer colors) . 
 Liked additional vehicle interaction.
  
  Enjoyed good developer console access. Allowed good training capability. Weapon physics was similar 
 to original. Korean AI was inferior to Alien enemy AI. Sorry to see few, if any, puzzle content. 
 I've always felt that these types of FPS/Action games would benefit from some sort logic puzzle 
 inclusion. Bioshock was a good example of how to add classic adventure logic puzzles into a good 
 old fashioned first person shooter. 
  
  Mood and environment were better that the original.. however not by much. The mine sequences were 
 well done, in my opinion. 
  
  This game was less expensive than most sequels. I think I only paid 29.95 for it.
  
  Well worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GautamIyer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Not much can be stated about Crysis that the plethora of fans and critics alike haven't already 
 discussed before; however, what can be said is that the game is just plain fun.
  
  I bought the game off of steam for 30 bucks (not a bad price considering I still haven't really 
 played the multiplayer all that much) and finished the game in just under 9 hours. *note* the game 
 does NOT take this long to beat. I played it on the hardest setting and took my sweet ass time 
 doing whatever the hell I wanted. In truth, the game can be beaten in under 6 hours; if you really 
 rushed it: 5.
  
  The game play is ideally similar (good or bad?) to the original in that there aren't very many 
 changes. You've got some new weapons like the dual wielding pistols (which **** suck, btw; horribly 
 inaccurate and will easily give your position away) and one other weapon that I can't recall. The 
 use of the nanosuit is the same, the cloak-sneak-kill method still works (if not more easily than 
 before) and the game is a little more open-ended than the first (though not by much) .
  
  The graphics are spectacular as ever. It really makes a difference having played crysis nearly 
 a year back and then going back to the unreal-engine games and then coming back to warhead 10 months 
 later. Picturesque at its finest, i would say.
  
  Optimization? I am not really sure what to say about that. The first level was terribly optimized; 
 even on gamer, I was getting lag (though not as much as enthusiast) and it initially seemed just 
 as bad -- if not worse -- than the original. That being said, in the later levels (barring certain 
 areas with the train and VTOL segments) it got much better. I can't say that it was really optimized, 
 but it certainly was better than the original.
  
  All of this being said, the game was just plain effin' fun. I enjoyed it thoroughly. Despite its 
 shortcomings, and despite the fact that it could have been better, that does not change the amount 
 of fun that I had with it. I initially thought that playing as sargeant psycho would have been 
 a let-down, but I was dead wrong. He delivered extremely well and the voice acting was great. 
 
  
  One complaint that I have was that it was a little too easy. The nano-suit makes the game really 
 easy at times and you can pretty much use the  method 
 over and over again and almost never die (this would be effing boring so I do not recommend you 
 buy the game and use this method, or else you'll find it a waste of time) 
  
  The overall result, in my opinion, is that it IS marginally better than the original. If you didn't 
 like the original, don't bother reading this review because I don't want the wrong people voting 
 this review down because THEY knew they wouldn't find it helpful. It's a good game, and it's definitely 
 worth the money. Long live the queen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LarryGM
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Has Greater level of support from your in-game characters. It is more enjoyable to play than the 
 original Crysis and is smooth. Less stress wondering if it will drag your PC down. Buy it now as 
 it is better than the other stuff on the shelf. It also runs as a standalone game and does not 
 need the DVD in the drive to play. During gameplay, there is an atmosphere of independant action. 
 You can lay back at times and let your buddies shoot it out on their own. This will often let your 
 shields build up in those hot combat runs. I have not run into any bugs so far. A nice feature 
 is that you can save your game at any time. I am running this game on a Dell 8300 which is so old 
 is has an AGP buss but still flys along. In general, the graphics and audio seem fine and match 
 the original. The gameplay is well balanced but you will want to have some weapons that display 
 more power and flash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkhacduy
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I am a fan of Crysis when the original came out. Couple months ago I checked in gamespot 
 that Crysis's gonna come out again. And I was so excited about the second one. I hoped it could 
 get some developments in order to be better but it's not. I'm totally disappointed about this Crysis 
 Warhead. The story is so boring and nothing happens at all indeed. I tried to play until the end 
 of game in order to find something new but I couldn't. Sometimes, when you play the game, it crashes 
 out. Fairly, I don't think this game is deserved 9/10 from gamespot. I couldn't understand why they 
 gave this game like this.
  If you're a fan of FPS, you'll see what I am saying. I just review what I've seen and done so far. 
 In short, the original is much better than this one.
  I think I could give this game 7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Is that the biggest complaint that some of you **** holes are sprouting? It is, after all, half 
 the price of the original Crysis and the original only went for about 8 to 10 hours anyway! If 
 you played this at full speed, then you would finish it in about 3 and a half. If you took your 
 time, put the difficulty level to hard instead of **** easy and admired the supremacy of what Warhead 
 truly is.. then add a couple of more hours right there. As for the other reviews complaining about 
 framerates etc, right click in your games folder (if you're using Vista) and choose to play in 
 Direct X 9 and SHUT YOUR MOUTH.. OR go and buy the original instead of rectum leeching it off a 
 torrent..
  
  Now, I'll sum it up for you to why this baby is a 9.5. It is unprecedently amazing in visual style 
 and gameplay. AI is just nuts and the strategy of getting to your objectives has been accellerated 
 to a new level of standards. Combat is well and truly over the top and easily the best looking 
 in this genre. Multiplayer is awesome. Overall, it is the best FPS game ever made to this date. 
 Worth every cent!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: call4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Damn, I wish this game were longer - it's the only game that has really sucked me in and made me 
 play it for a period of time (bar CoD4 of course!) . Psycho is a much better character than Nomad, 
 real english nutter - He seems like nothing will phase him, not even a humungous 15 Storey high 
 alien beastie with multiple limbs and freeze rays! Yes, the action is far more intense than before 
 and the ambience when you are walking alone is excellent. 
  The story is that you are chasing a container that has one of the aliens inside, you find it at 
 the beginning of the game and then chase it all the way through to the end, with your nemesis General 
 Lee also trying to get ahold of the cargo. The vistas are less than before, some of the levels 
 you have to follow a set path, but it really is cracking good fun. 
  Crank up those 5.1's, turn off the lights and prepare for total immersion!
  Love it... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amc1118
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice when you load up Crysis: Warhead is the stunning graphics. It is possibly 
 the best thing ive seen since Call of Duty 4. As for the gameplay, well its basicly as i said before, 
 I really enjoyed playing the career mode. I found the story lacked imagination, but I guess gameplay 
 is all you really want. One thing i thought is that it was too short. It was just an excuse to 
 sell the online side of the game, they had to have something there. Now, the online side. It varies, 
 in the way that sometimes there can be a fast paced Call of Duty style run and gun action game, 
 or you can play it a bit more tactical like Ghost Recon, and pick off your enemies. Either way 
 the action is thrilling and the suspense will have you gritting your teeth. One other thing i found, 
 is that you dont ever get bored of the online mode, as the nano suit keeps the game fresh. It adds 
 so many more levels to the game, and lets you determine your own playing style. The one thing i 
 will metion though, which isn't as positive is that there are too many bugs and glitches. Get a 
 patch out, and there you go; a near perfect game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Crysis was one of my favorite games. It had great graphics, and an awesome story. Plus it was fun 
 to play.
  Warhead does a lot to improve Crysis, by fixing bugs, adding team deathmatch to multi player and 
 a bunch of new maps. Warhead is also one intense game, which fixes Crysis's odd pacing.
  
  You play Sargent Phsyco, one of the soldiers from the original Crysis. Where Physco leaves in the 
 first one to go do another mission, is where you pick up and play.
  
  In Crysis Warhead, you are chasing, what you believe is a warhead, but you discover secrets, I 
 can't explain a lot with out ruining the story, but it is really good story.
  
  The game play is exactly like Crysis. There are a few new weapons, which are SMG's and a grenade 
 launcher. Both of the weapons are really cool.
  
  My main problem with Warhead is that the game is really short. Even though the game is really intense, 
 there is one level where you are going through a mine, and though there were levels that I did 
 not like in Crysis, this level takes up a lot of Warhead's game. But there are a ton of parts, 
 which are really fun.
  
  The graphics in Warhead are amazing. It is still one of the best looking games out there.
  
 
  The sound is also really good. Voice acting is good, and the sounds of the environment sound good.
 
  
  There is a new mode, team deathmatch, and there is a total of 21 multi player maps. Team deathmatch 
 is really fun and the new maps are good. This multi player still is not better than games like 
 Unreal Tournament or Call of Duty, but it is really good.
  
  If you want an awesome shooter for only 30 bucks, then you need to pick up Crysis Warhead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  crysis was an all time good shooter. verdicts are best, graphics was top notch, gameplay was great 
 but those of you who played the easy mode would have found the AI bad, but warhead is simply awesome. gameplay 
 is good, considerable improvement on AI, graphics are amazing, some really elaborate cut videos, breath 
 taking action with some real good boss battles, surprisingly its too short being a standalone expansion, leaving 
 all of us wanting more of the action series and the wait for the next part feeling too long. so 
 due to its short campaign mode i would only give it a score of 8, as the short campaign makes it 
 look the same, apart from the big battles in the last stages, great videos and sound deliverance. a 
 3rd person view if added along would make it more interesting, as the suit lokos stunning and impressive 
 in the cut videos, would love to play it in 3rd person. maybe if a console version appears someday 
 it would support the feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbaturin
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Warhead offers nothing new as compared to Crysis. That's strange, considering that it took Crytek 
 a whole year to make this game (having an already tested engine on their hands) . This game felt 
 like a corridor shooter to me and it was over in under 4 HOURS!!! WTF??? The AI seemed even more 
 stupid than before and the gameplay is mostly arcade-style.
  Oh yeah, and Crytek said the engine's optimized. BULLSH! T Take a look at my specs: ASUS P5E3, Core 
 2 Duo 8500 (3.16 Ghz) , 2Gb DDR3 (1333 Mhz) , ASUS GeForce 9600 GT TOP (OC) , Vista Ultimate SP1 (August 
 2008 build) . Not bad, eh? That's what I thought when I ran Crysis on HIGH settings at 1280*800. 
 Ran smooth as butter. And what for Warhead? LAGGY BULLSH! T, that's what it is!!! I ended up having 
 to switch down to MAINSTREAM (MEDIUM) settings to get a decent framerate and loading time. KISS 
 MY A$$, CRYTEK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lon3lysnake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  I have heard numerous of negative feedback regarding the story, saying it's completely confusing. 
 That is because they have never played the original Crysis. Crysis: Warhead shipped as a stand 
 alone game, nonetheless it is still an expension pack. The storyline is closing related to the 
 original crysis, so if you are consider buying warhead, I strongly recommend you finish Crysis 
 beforehand.
  
  Since warhead is an expansion pack as stated, plenty of the gameplay feature can be expected to 
 be similar to the original Crysis with a bunch of fix, including a graphic enhancement for improving 
 graphic performance. Many gamers from the Crysis were expecting more KPA and less aliens in future 
 Crysis titles. In warhead, I am sorry to tell that warhead will encounter even MORE aliens, but 
 fortunately, for some reason which i can't even explain, the aliens part is actually a great fun 
 to play.
  
  Shipping with warhead, the expension will also include a multiplayer crysis game which known as 
 crysis war. Crysis War has introduced over 20 new maps available, many of them are actually really 
 nice. I personally favor the smaller maps, it really reminds me of the intensity from COD4, but 
 a much stunning graphics and sound effect.
  
  Overall, this is a fantastic game, an extraordinary expension pack. simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  A great game despite the minor bugs and crashes. Definitely more intense than the original.
  
  This game by far is one of the greatest First Person Shooters I have ever played for the last 
 12 years of my life. 
  
  It may have some of it's own flaws, but the pros outweigh the cons. Kept at the same stunning visual 
 level, Crysis Warhead succeeds it's predecessor well and the hype was worth it.
  
  At first I expected another boring expansion for an FPS just like the other games, but as soon 
 as you start this game, almost every second there is non-stop action, but of course it's up to 
 you how intense you want your game play to be. 
  
  Whether to silently infiltrate the enemy base or to go rambo and make it hell is up to the player. 
 The storyline also doesn't fall behind compared to other first person shooter expansions like Doom 
 3. 
  
  Crysis Warhead makes it feel as though your in a high-budget motion-picture war movie, where the 
 musical score is great and the sound effects are almost stunning as well as the visual display. 
 Crysis Warhead is definitely a must buy for any gamer out there who enjoys a fun and explosive 
 first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  After I played the first crysis, i have to admit, i was way dissapointed. I mean, come on, other 
 than the eye candy the game was just so boring. Don't get me wrong though, it had its pretty awesome 
 and unique moments but 90% of the time you had to walk for three hours just to hack some random 
 computer in some random village or blow up a radar station on the other side of the island. It 
 was just a continuous loop of similar pointless missions.
  
  Crysis warhead almost entirely fixed that problem. You don't walk thousands of miles through a 
 forest, you don't look for some computer in a hut. You actually do things that are meaningful throughout 
 the story. And that just makes the game so much better. Some of the locations are much more linear 
 too.
  
  Also, they finally added some new weapons to the small bunch that was available in the first crysis. 
 The granade launcher is extremely effective, but I wouldn't say the same for the dual uzi and dual 
 pistols. They are both kinda pointless but still glad they added the feature.
  
  I think the AI is actually more realistic in this too. They wont see you a mile away while you 
 are crouched in the bushes. And they wont run after you even when you are cloaked. I loved the 
 fact that the AI runs away and sounds the alarms if you miss a sniper shot, really nice feature.
 
  
  So overall the game is way better than the first. Plenty of neat locations. Awesome aliens of course. 
 And still, amazing cutscenes, even better than before. I only wish the game was longer since this 
 took less than 10 hours to complete for me, and i took my time. I can imagine someone who really 
 rushes through games to complete this in even less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Last year, November 2007 to be exact, a company called Crytek released a little game called Crysis, 
 which delivered on THE best visuals ever seen on PC and console and one of the most intense first 
 person shooters out there. Well, it's a year later, and Crytek just couldn't let 2008 go by without 
 a Crysis, so they released a new stand alone expansion pack called Crysis Warhead!!! Warhead tells 
 the story of British SAS Sergeant "Psycho" Sykes on the "other side of the island" while Nomad 
 was doing his thing in the original Crysis. If you remember near the end of the original game, 
 Sykes managed to catch a trophy in the form of a dead alien exosuit. Well, this game tells you 
 HOW he got it. There's also a few flashback sequences about how Sykes and Nomad were recruited 
 into Raptor Team (the Nanosuit-wearing squad) . Like the original, it's well-told, and the third 
 person cutscenes help flesh out Sykes' personality, his demeanor and his morals. In the original, 
 we knew Nomad but yet didn't because we never saw his face. Now the graphics. Using an updated 
 and optimized CryEngine 2, Warhead delivers THE best visuals in a video game despite the game engine 
 being a year old. It manages to look better the original, especially the lighting effects. As for 
 the much touted increased performance, it's there but its not a huge improvement, though I have 
 noticed that the game still ran at a constant 30 frames per second despite all the grass, lighting, 
 and moving shadows on screen. Sound is also great; the voice acting is spot on and Sykes always 
 manages to say something funny despite being shot at by entire squads of North Koreans. He's also 
 the kind of person to go save the last man despite the danger. The music is bit more action packed 
 which fits the game because this one really does have more action and more explosions. Gameplay 
 is largely the same with you using the Nanosuit to your advantage. You can cloak, speed run, jump 
 higher and punch hard in strength mode, and armor mode gives you an extra layer of protection. 
 You have a few new weapons like a light machine gun that could be dual wielded and a grenade launcher. 
 You also have special grenades that disrupt the enemy's nanosuit, which really comes in handy when 
 faced with large groups of them. The alien AI is much improved and much more prone to vicious attacks. 
 The single player lasts about 7 hours but wait... there's a second disc?! This one is called Crysis 
 Wars and it's actually the multiplayer component of the game. It has all the original modes in 
 Crysis plus the Team Instant Action Mode (pretty much deathmatch) . 21 maps are included and you 
 got the Nanosuit with you so you can go Predator on noobies! =D Crysis Warhead is an excellent 
 game filled with tons of goodies and Crytek was kind enough to offer it for the low price of $29.99. 
 So go out and buy this game!!! Support Crytek because they're one of the last companies to make 
 only PC Games and they do it very well, proving it time and again. Bring on Crysis 2!!! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSgirl
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  It is faster?, yes, and has much more action, but at the same time it does not lose that thanked 
 tactical component that was so good in the first delivery. At the same time it is far better optimized, 
 reporting a better graphical aspect than the first part, with similar rates of images per second. 
 
  It incorporates, in addition, Crysis Wars, the multiplayer mode, also very improved with respect 
 to its predecessor. 
  
  This new videogame occupies us can surpass without too many problems in the average level of difficulty 
 in near 6 hours. Delta is the maximum level of the four presents, and returns to be the suitable 
 option more for the shooters fans.
  
  It is not possible to be avoided that the gameplay returns to be that delicious hybrid between 
 freedom to take decisions and good and incredibly spectacular action. Again we return to be before 
 a game that propose really gigantic maps with very distant objectives to each other, and total 
 freedom to carry out them 
  
  Warhead, in spite of being shorter and enjoy less spark than the original one, improves a series 
 of important elements that in his predecessor they did not finish working like the rest of the 
 game.
  
  First of all, the argument gains many whole numbers. It is not that we are indeed before a complex 
 philosophical test, but we must note that it has been taken care some facets of the narrative and 
 the main protagonist. 
  
  On the other hand the sections of the aliens, second clearly indebted half of the science cinema 
 fiction of the first Crysis, also have undergone a deep remodeling for this occasion. 
  
  Also there are new features in arms and vehicles. Between the incorporations of first the powerful 
 grenade launcher, the possibility of loading with dual arms and the devastating mines are counted 
 among others. 
  
  Crysis Wars, the multiplayer that accompanies the title. This part, in fact, comes in another DVD 
 within the own box, and requires of a separate installation and its own parameters of graphical 
 configuration and controls. 
  Wars extends in radical form the possibilities of the previous online mode in Crysis, and adds 
 new modes, more maps and a gameplay, generally, much more polished and taken care of. 
  
  CryTek returns to demonstrate its hegemony in first person shooters, and it does with a new jewel. 
 A campaign brief but equipped with a shining rate is its main attractiveness, and in this occasion 
 a multiplayer section has not neglected that becomes one of its main aspects. A new demonstration 
 of the unquestionable state of health that enjoys the genre of action in the 21st century.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huskerz09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original Crysis, a game that I felt was highly polished and cinematic in 
 scope. The second half of the game, where it nearly turns into something resembling 'Aliens', wasn't 
 quite to my liking, but I appreciated it because it was integrated very well with the overall storyline.
 
  
  Warhead on the other hand lacks some of that Cinematic flair, but packs in as much if not more 
 engrossing action than it's predecessor. 
  
  
  **Minor Spoilers Below**
  
  
  
  The storyline is more fine tuned and tightly focused than in the original. The alien fiends of 
 the original have taken somewhat of a backseat to the North Koreans. You -- as 'Psycho' Sykes -- have 
 to chase down an insidious NK General, wiping out everything/everyone standing in your way, all 
 in the hopes of preventing the North Koreans from trying to reverse engineer the alien's technology.
 
  
  
  Slightly annoying/confusing is the side-story of Psycho's friend, pilot Sean O'Neil. It's a typical 
 washout-redeems himself kinda thing and Warhead could've just as easy done without it.
  
  
  As far as presentation goes, it'd take a player with sharp eyes/ears to recognize the improvements 
 over the orignal Crysis as it's hard for just an average player like myself to tell the difference.
 
  
  Technically, if you were able to find some comfortable settings to play Crysis on, you should have 
 no trouble with Warhead.
  
  My custom rig is built around an Intel E6750 processor OC'ed to 3.0GHz, 2GB of Patriot DDR2 RAM, 
 VisionTek's 512MB HD3850 Graphics Card and running on 32bit Vista Ultimate. Framerates and performance 
 are purely subjective IMO as different people can be satisfied with different settings..... but 
 running at 1440x900 resolution, with 2x AA... I can safely say I played from beginning to end with 
 only a few minor bugs here and there.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: malu05
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  After the massive ending of Crysis I had a feeling that Warhead would give something of that same 
 feeling and massive gameplay. But I got pretty disappointed after my short experience with the 
 game. It feels like this game got a few updates and then just out of the door to make as much money 
 as possible. With that being said the short gameplay was quite interesting but again that is because 
 it uses the same solid formula as Venilla Crysis just with a little retouch.
  
  Game complete after 2 hours. -2
  No interesting multiplayer aspects. -2
  Install limit and 
 still no deauthorisation from home -4
  
  Good solid gameplay and better AI and Action than Crysis, interesting new viechles and weapons. 
 +2
  
  
  I don't feel that the game was worth the money, and with the nasty DRM included in this version 
 of Crysis there is just no way I would recommend this to anyone, before it drops to like half the 
 price or so.
  
  I would really hope that someone would buy Crytek and thereby crytek could leave EA for good. We 
 don't need their s*** in our games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dklingen
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  ... what more could you ask for...
  
  I bought it on Steam so that I don't need the CD and it stays updated. Hopefully, Crytek will keep 
 doing exclusives for the PC if we support them!
  
  My Game Summary:
  Graphics - 10 (looks better / plays faster then Crysis)
  Sound - 9 (voice acting is fine and 
 sounds seem correct)
  Playability - 9 (it's an FPS, what more needs said)
  Story - 8 (connects to Crysis and makes sense)
  Multiplayer - 9 (simplified and fun)
  Fun factor 
 - 9 (I really enjoyed Crysis and Warhead as well)
  
  This is pretty much a no brainer purchase - good luck!
  
  The Gamespot review system is REALLY 
 stupid - it keeps telling me that I must have 100 words, doesn't give a word count in the review 
 text, and is not helpful in figuring out the issue - argg... Then once you submit it states you 
 must have 800 words in the review. What if (someone like me) just wants to do a summary review 
 - NOT POSSIBLE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandy251986
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  This time it is really the game which should be a classic title. I like it more than the previous 
 one. I have completed it fully. But I am disappointed by only one thing that is it's play time 
 . I have completed it in near about 8 hours by dying near about 8 to 9 times and it is not good 
 for a gamer that awaits a whole year for his favorite FPS. it is beautifully scaled and the graphics 
 are awesome. and the environment is more destroyable than the previous one. Weapons are really 
 cool especially the duel welding of the pistols. The launcher has got a better control system than 
 the previous one. I should say to all of UUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU. Plz play the game and BUY ORIGINAL That 
 will encourage the makers to make such good titles. I hope u will like the review by the way this 
 is my first time to write a review. Fell free to ask anything if u find anything playing the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szabig
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is a preety solid single player fps, way too short but still good.
  This review is about the multiplayer version called Crysis Wars.
  Shortly: It's total crap!
 
  I am not gone go int the details but if you compare it to the single player version it's not even 
 close. why? becouse they are total idiots without any knowledge of multiplayer games.
  They should have stole ideas from great multiplayer games like COD4...
  The funny thing is that 
 they did stole ideas from others but the only crap ideas (like from CS) .
  I recommend not to buy since nobody is going to play online and you won't find any good servers.
 
  The game had huge potentials but failed miserably.
  
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: draske73
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  WOW.
  I play Crysis but I was not impressed so much.
  When WARHEAD show face to the sun, I doubt it could be better. I was thinking that was the same.
 
  But not... WARHEAD blow out his "brother" in every aspect.
  Game have more optimized engine and run easier on PC then first one on same settings.
  On my 
 PC with Win Vista x64, AMD 5000+BE, Gainward 9600GT,4GB ram DDR2 800Mhz - I have between 27-37 FPS 
 in jungle ang 24-27 FPS on "ice" levels.
  Settings are 1280x1024, no AA, Anisotropic on max, and all gamer settings in advanced tab.
  Fight 
 and weapons are really good. I don"t like fighting with aliens in Crysis, it was bored. But here it 
 was much more fun.
  Only.... the game is really too short. You can finished it between 2 and 5 hours depends on action 
 and exploring of island.
  But never mind.
  He deserve the score better then Crysis.
  Congratulations for Crytek
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plbuttle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  Damn, I wish this game were longer - it's the only game that has really sucked me in and made me 
 play it for a period of time (bar CoD4 of course!) . Psycho is a much better character than Nomad, 
 real english nutter - He seems like nothing will phase him, not even a humungous 15 Storey high 
 alien beastie with multiple limbs and freeze rays! Yes, the action is far more intense than before 
 and the ambience when you are walking alone is excellent. 
  The story is that you are chasing a container that has one of the aliens inside, you find it at 
 the beginning of the game and then chase it all the way through to the end, with your nemesis General 
 Lee also trying to get ahold of the cargo. The vistas are less than before, some of the levels 
 you have to follow a set path, but it really is cracking good fun. 
  Crank up those 5.1's, turn off the lights and prepare for total immersion!
  Love it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsteryeah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great side story to Crysis, but personally I liked Crysis better. It wasn't as addictive 
 or hard. Don't get me wrong it's fun to play again and play on-line but I'm kind of a story kind 
 of person. A good story always sucks me in.
  
  This game provided more explosion, and more action packed. Something has to blow up every 5 seconds. 
 With enhancements made to speed up the gameplay, the explosions look extra better. There are more 
 people to shoot at and more vehicles to blow up, making this game stand above the rest.
  
  Other than the awesome explosions, the story is a bit boring. You find a guy and you bring him 
 to safety and then you find a box and you bring it to safety. That's not what i was hoping for. 
 The other thing is the thinking of how to attack the enemy. In this game, either you are so caught 
 up in the game you just rush in (and it works) or there is only one way in and one way out. It's 
 just not like the original.
  
  Overall, It is a great game that you should not miss for anything. It may be short (i swear i only 
 played it for 3 and a half hours) , and straight forward, but the action is ever lasting, for example, 
 the waves of aliens coming at you while you wait for a retard taking 5 hours to plant a C4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trodeback
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed the 1st installment of Crysis then you'll love this. It's basically an addon to 
 the original game that portrays the storyline of Physco (it does not however require the original 
 game to play, it is a standalone expansion, much like what Halflife did with Blue Shift & Opposing 
 Force) another member of the elite Delta Force unit also equipped with a nanosuit. You complete 
 various missions assigned to you via an intercom uplink. Some of the more highlighted enhancements 
 made to the original game are new vehicles, new weapons (a stand alone grenade launcher, mines, 
 claymores, & uzi type pistols) , and the ability to fight along side squads of nano-suit wearing 
 US troops. There are also new enemies, such as a large flying alien attack ship much like the blue 
 ones in the 1st game but these drop bombs instead of just the normal freeze ray. Among the things 
 that haven't really changed are the graphics for the most part. They are still just as spectacular 
 as the 1st game but having upgraded video cards between games I can't say much for an improvement 
 to the graphics as I am not using the same cards. There has been many claims that Warhead was made 
 to be easier on system requirements allowing better graphical gameplay without as much required 
 hardware power. Running a GTX 260, e6750 oc'd to 3.2ghz, 8gb of 1066 ram, & playing in 1600x1200 
 I managed to play @ "Gamer" visual settings (which is one lower from "Enthusiast" being the highest 
 graphic setting for the category in question: water quality, shadows, etc.) across the board with 
 no Anti Aliasing and manage 60fps during normal scenes and as low as 25fps during intense scenes. 
 At these settings the gameplay is absolutely flawless without glitches or freezes and the visuals 
 are amazing to me, but still something is left to be desired knowing that more horsepower could 
 provide the best visual effects this game has to offer. Maybe with a CPU upgrade and 2x GTX 280's 
 I might be able to "max" the graphical settings, which really doesn't seem like they did any tweaking 
 when you consider what this game still needs to be maxed out. All in all it's one of the better 
 FPS I've played. If your a shoot'em up kind of guy, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virtualmatrix
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm not new to Crytek, I've been following them for years. I love all of their work and their 
 dedication to the fans but I have mixed feelings and emotions about this game. First off enough 
 of me, now on to the consumer. 
  
  We all played Crysis and either loved it or hated it, needless to say I still play it daily and 
 still awe over the fact that its just a beautiful game. One thing though, Crysis did not cater 
 to the mid to low level systems e. g. look at the system requirements. As for someone that has a 
 gaming rig this is awesome and I totally agree we who spend money and time on our rigs deserved 
 something that great looking. Now to blend this to Crysis Warhead.
  
  Warhead tried to cater to the needs and wants of the mid-low level computers, which I think is 
 sad. All of their tweaking and trying to make the game as playable as possible failed wildly. Yes 
 it will play, no it does not look good even on very high (Enthusiast) . They sacraficed the enthusiast 
 gamers needs and wants for people who either cant afford or just dont care about their computer 
 performance so I ask Crytek.."why did you turn your back on your hardware fans?"
  
  Besides the look the gameplay is all wrong, the setting is dire and grim and looks nothing like 
 the beauty of its predecessor. The texutures are bland and add no scenery or sense of life, ocean 
 life is dead including plants and fish. I do have to give them credit on the new weapons though, 
 they sound and look great with a more get the job done punch which you'll need because the enemy 
 A. I. has been tweaked tremendously. Enemies now flank you from the sides and behind and they are 
 good at what they do. Explosions look like original Halo gameplay, no more falling shrubs and canopy 
 dust while walking through a jungle to sneek behind an enemy.
  
  The game took me on Normal 5 hours to accomplish without dying. New weapons are nice but bring 
 no flash to the storyline. They tried to sneek a storyline in their between Psycho and O'Neil but 
 its just a dead end. All in all there's no storyline, all shoot em up and looks nothing like it 
 should. I expect, and I suppose the consumer and hardware enthusiasts ask for Crytek. Please do 
 what you do best, build a beautiful game. I dont care about people who cannot afford a simple CPU 
 and GPU, RAM upgrade to play a game for 5 hours and quit. Its for the real fans and Crytek needs 
 to cater to them, not your typical "Demo" player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwokage
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Being that this was an expansion to the acclaimed 2007 shooter Crysis, I have to say that Budapest/EA 
 have failed on a considerable amount of aspects on Crysis Warhead. The graphics have been touched 
 up and the framerates shot up a little more than before. However, everything else is absolutely 
 the same, the AI of the aliens has gotten better as well as their graphical movements but the human 
 AI has degraded! I was also surprised at the amount of bugs the game shipped out with? There were 
 scenarios where soldiers stood still conversing with one another while their base was getting blown 
 up a couple feet away from them. There were times I would sink into the ground and fall in an infinite 
 graphical loop (might I say I had the latest whql drivers) , and ofcourse, random deaths and crashes 
 to the desktop added onto this mysery budapest dared to concieve into the world.
  
  The story of the original Crysis was done well, thanks to the nanosuit. In Warhead things seemed 
 to contradict certain scenarios with Crysis right from the start. For example, Psycho did not separate 
 and go onto his "secretive" mission right after the ship was targeted and blown up by nomad, they 
 both met up aftewards before the lvl "onslaught" began and sykes was briefed right there and then. 
 This is something a child can observe, I'm very surprised the story was not on target and should 
 have been. Budapest thought that by making the HUD red and adding Psycho to the game with his ridiculous 
 dialogue that the game would "kick ass". Nomad was a better character in my opinion and the original 
 Crysis flowed much more smoothly on dialogue and on gameplay.
  
  An expansion must be treated as a sequel, not as a chore. Crysis or Crisis?
  -Dino 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  well, looks like they came up with an alternate storyline, yet perfectly it follows up to what 
 happens when crysis and warhead come together on the USS constitution. 
  
  
  its got a few new things and some changes that have made soem good, and unneccesary differences.
 
  
  heres a list of new weapons.
  
  
  AY-69: eh, a littlie micro machine gun that you can dual weild, dal weild weapns now have a new 
 firing sytem, for the left gun you press left mouse, and the right is right mouse, this is just 
 a rapidire pistol with better accuracy and less recoil. the ammo runs out quickly.
  
  
  FGL-40: its a grenade launcher that can be used like a regular nade launcher or remote controlled. 
 it can also fire ani nanosuit grenades the same way (seperate from frag nades and emp nade pickups)
 
  
  
  
  
  yep, as of new weapons thats it, THATS IT =O i mean really, just TWO new weapons?!!?!?! oh, well 
 new weapons, yes but they have made changes to some of the previous ones, the FY71 and shotgun 
 have been re-skinned, i think the scar was too. the gauss rifle will not b an isntant kill 100% 
 of the time in MP anymore, and shotgun has been set to fire faster, so now accuracy is mor imporant.
 
  
  
  as of new vehicles they just added ONE new one, the ASV (armored scouting vehicle) there are two 
 types of this thing, an MG and armor peircer. both have unlimited amo and the turrent is driver 
 contrlled, both in SP and MP but in MP only the armor peircer is available unless it is spawned 
 already in the new tank based IA map, battleground. speaking of IA they added a team instant action 
 to multiplayer! and its just plain great!
  
  
  
  they also made the helicopter missles and hand missle launchers useless against base turrents, 
 helicopter missle damage has been massively reduced, but the amount of missles per heli are doubled 
 up to 56.
  
  icv rounds also do no damage to base turrens anymore, meaning of course the damage is reduced.
 
  
  also one big change in vehicles is that there is no special edition required for amphibious APC, 
 so anybody can use them now.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  as for MP changed, they made it so each map has a different nuclear weapon an nuclear tanks have 
 been changed into heavy and light tanks, which only one type is available.
  
  
  
  in the maps they mixed stuff up and thats just F***in it! oh, nd ONE NEW PS MAP!!! I MEEAN WTF?!?!?! 
 ITS SUCH A GREAT MODE!!! one new one doesnt make me feel to happy  +| and now just about all the 
 servers auto- kick players unless you enter sv_cheatprotection 0 in console, and you also have 
 to make new LUA mods for warhead. crysis wars and warhead are two seperate games, they both come 
 in the same box though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles123
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  I hoped EA was going to keep the great graphics and improve the mediocre story and boring gameplay.
 
  
  And what did they do? They kept the mediocre story and boring gameplay AND ruined the visual greatness 
 of the game, which was the only positive side it actually had.
  
  EA is now officially the MacDonald's of the game industry. Mass production for mass consuming. 
 Lots of profit, no real value of the product. Except for teenagers, which don't really have taste 
 yet. And when they start to form one, EA will sell the same crap to the next generation of teenagers. 
 
  
  No big company dares to be original anymore. That's sad.
  
  I am also taking down my credit of confidence from GS's scoring system. That thing just CAN'T get 
 9.0. Or if Crysis deserves 9, then please rate games such as Half-life with a score of at least 
 18. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diioz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  To start I found the story attractive, you like Psycho, hes a great character and the story of 
 Onneil. But its way too short, even if its an expansion, Crysis 1 took me maybe 5 time or more 
 to run through, maybe its because im used to the nano-suit now and the CryEngine, but I had the 
 same reaction at the end than Crysis 1 : **** theres no other chapter after that????!! The engine 
 does run a little more easier, A little more... Even with a duo-core, 8gigram, 2sli overcloacked 
 cards and a Graphic accelerator, when theres alot of things going on with the snow and a thousand 
 flying monster in the air... I got to decrease the graphics... And they said new weapons, enemys 
 and vehicules... well I noticed for sure 2or3 new weapons but its nothing new, little gun like 
 usi, grenade launcher was okay, and the last one at the end... maybe I missed something, and for 
 vehicules I didnt notice one different, maybe a Armored kinda APC, Im not sure. And enemys... still 
 the same, and not much of kpa in naosuit... The only thing is the last Armored Exosuit that can 
 launch little missiles, and the little ones with shield... Well theres nothing new, they could have 
 done a better job, but I say nice anyway cause theres Action all the way, even if its pretty easy 
 even in Delta mode... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanirama
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok. First off - shame on EA for the draconian DRM. I am very unhappy about it. I bought and installed 
 the game and then found out this has DRM. I looked for warnings on the box, but it had none - so 
 I went ahead and got it. Normally I don't buy games with DRM.
  But anyways.... about the game - the game is phenomenal. I really loved Crysis and Warhead is a 
 worthy expansion. 
  Graphics - 10/10 - phenomenal. Nothing more to say here, except you have to witness them - from 
 beautiful sunrise/sunset to water to island textures etc. Splendid. 
  Gameplay - 9/10 - this is also where it shines. Nanosuit is amazing. Gives lot of replayability. 
 Using superspeed and strength I threw a guy off a cliff. Amazing. !!! Needs more fun envs. like 
 Crackdown - which was the best fun game. 
  Sound - 9/10 - beautiful, scary, haunting, suspenseful, great sounds. 
  Value - 9/10.
  Tilt 
 - 9/10 
  
  Now, if you factor in the DRM - yes, it will lower to like 1/10. With DRM - this is a tragic rental 
 - you never truly own this game. NEVER PUT UP WITH DRM. ITS A VIRUS. I didn't read before I bought, 
 but you have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurendo_kun
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  In the future I want a chance to amend this review and tell you Crysis Warhead is an awesome game, 
 even better than its predecessor. Before that happens, however, Crytek needs to do some serious 
 patching. Meanwhile, I'll tell you like it is.
  
  Out of the box and onto the hard drive. Sat through several pointless, unskippable logo videos, 
 jacked the settings all the way up - hey, Crysis ran flawlessly, and supposedly they optimized 
 Warhead; should run great, right? - and fired up the single player experience.
  
  First impression: Crytek didn't quite finish all the "optimizing" they claimed to have done. Lots 
 and lots of stuttering. As the game progressed, the stuttering became worse until, at some point 
 during the second chapter (**SPOILER** when you're defending the busted VTOL on the hill **END 
 SPOILER**) the game turned into a slideshow and became completely unplayable.
  
  Of course, it was long before when I decided to crank the settings down a couple notches. If this 
 had any effect, it wasn't noticeable. I got online and did some scouring for details on how I might 
 alleviate the problem, assuming (quite correctly) that others had experienced the horrendous stuttering. 
 Overall verdict was to run it in DX9 mode. So I did, and the stuttering was less, but still intolerable.
 
  
  To make a long rant short, Warhead is to gaming as Vista was to operating systems: broken out of 
 the box. I'm one of many (former) avid Crysis fans waiting for a critical patch - not to mention 
 64-bit support, which Crysis has and its "sequel" for some obscure reason that surely involves 
 child sacrifices does not.
  
  When that patch comes, I hope I can come back here and rate the game much higher (though not higher 
 than 8.0 considering I couldn't play it when I bought it - there is something to be said for initial 
 impressions) and give an honest review. For now, my recommendation is this: be prepared to sit 
 on your money until Crytek pulls their heads out of their behinds.
  
  To be continued. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3bro76
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  So first off, I don't have internet at home. No big deal right? Well, EA and their overprotective 
 selves deemed it necessary to put secure-rom DRM on it. 
  Ok, no problem, right? 
  So I call them, and wait for almost 2 hours on the line with them, I was going to ask and see if 
 there was a backdoor. In between some really stupid lopsided techno that did not sound good (and 
 I know what sounds good) , and them telling me every 30 seconds with an automated message saying 
 crap about Warhammer Online, it got old, and I hung up.
  So I borrowed a clearwire modem from my neighbor, and got it activated, the next day.
  So, I 
 sit down and play it, start to finish.
  
  All in all, I am not impressed. 
  
  They have dumbed down the graphics, quite a bit. Whoever said that it looks better than the original 
 Crysis is on crack. Seriously. 
  
  The lush beautiful foliage that was in Crysis has been replaced by stale .jpg images that do not 
 react to your movements. 
  
  The explosions lost all their details. And how did Crytek make up for it? Make a lot more explosions, 
 that don't look 1/2 as good as they did. 
  
  The gameplay? Well, it has lost all its lust for exploring the island, with a fully scripted game 
 sequence, and not much maneuverability.
  
  When you want to fight alien drones, you either A-get to fight head on, or B- have to go down on 
 the frozen river and fight them.
  
  There are really only 2 options to most firefights.
  
  There are a lot more guys to shoot, ammo to collect, but through and through, they dumbed this 
 game down quite a bit unfortunatly.
  
  This game looks like it was set up with the console in mind, or worse, noob pc wannabes.
  
 
  Anyways.
  
  The good stuff about it? It's more Crysis, just not enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sultan2007
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Great fixed graphics, no argue with that, but bringing very poorly designed cinematics in game 
 is biggest flaw of this game second to it's being very short. AI is still bit messed up, enemy 
 reacts so slowly sometimes. Rag dolls also need a lot of fixes, in crysis (1) they functioned pretty 
 good, but in warhead when tossing enemy up in air, the physics don't really match.
  
  But all in all I enjoyed the game, Psycho is very well characterized. different Lighting and special 
 effects as much as game itself are to be enjoyed. The most realistic game ever made so far. Hope 
 in next series they put better cinematics. I'd suggest pre-rendered than realtime cinematics for 
 some of us with lower than recommended system requirement. and also I noticed remarkable optimization 
 with graphics, which makes the game possible to play in Enthusiastic mode for users without SLI 
 video cards.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeguy_dude25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  great game! though i must say i didnt feel like it was 'optimized'. had problems playing on high 
 settings even though played first crysis on high no problem. i have a dual core processor, 3 gigs 
 ramm and a 640 mb 8800gts card. otherwise great fun and the vehicles are a blast! for some reason 
 this game did 'feel' different than the first one but couldnt place my finger on it. maybe it was 
 the flashbacks and the oneil drama that occured. that did seem a bit off beat from the game. also 
 pyscho didnt seem as... well AWOL type of charecter as he was portrayed in the first one. still 
 fun just different. woulda been even better if the end coincided with the end of the first crysis 
 on the ship flying the v-tol trying to send that frequency to help nomad take out that mega alien 
 ship. all in all great game, lots of fun... i mean LOADS OF FUN! but coulda been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abedeuss
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Basically, I expected this to be a bit... longer game. But hey, it's an expansion to a short FPS. 
 But bah.
  
  Plot - same as in Crysis, just from a different point of view and on another side of the same island. 
 Your team of elite soldiers equipped in nanosuits with the ability to give you strength, speed, 
 armor or invisibility (one at time, of course) and some other neat stuff are sent on an island 
 as a rescue team to take hostages from the Koreans. Your team, however, is split up - Nomad, protagonist 
 from Crysis, is on a "trip" to the heart of the island in pursuit of general Lee. Psycho, Warhead's 
 hero, is first send to get back Korean warheads (nukes, in other words) , but in the middle of game 
 he's ordered to follow the Alien machine that's being transported to the other side of the mission 
 for analyze. And both get to kill some Koreans and aliens.
  
  Graphics - Better than in Crysis and surprisingly less PC-demanding. You still need some demon 
 to run it on high details, but you don't need it to run in Medium details, on which game still 
 has the best graphics in history of gaming.
  
  Soundtrack - Pretty much the same, some new tones... Kinda strange, that Koreans use the SAME (exactly 
 the same) voices and lines as they did in Crysis, so they call our British soldier a "Yankee". 
 At least he points out they are wrong... Pretty brutally.
  
  Gameplay - Nomad was more stealthy than Psycho. In fact, our Brit gets a lot more explosive and 
 gun power. He's able to dual-wield machine pistols and normal pistols. He also can carry a lot 
 of explosives, anti-tank mines, anti-infantry traps and of course the guided missile launcher. 
 There are a lot of normal machine guns, good old modifications to make your old weapon even better 
 than a new weapon, like adding a scope, silencer or tactical upgrade with sleeping darts or grenade 
 launcher. And about grenade launchers and grenades... There are now EMP grenades to fight the Nanosuit 
 soldiers (but they usually carry a bunch of them, too) and a 6 chamber grenade launcher for both 
 types of grenades - offensive or anti-suit ones.
  
  Also, I've found one nice thing I didn't notice in Crysis regarding the Speed boost from the nanosuit. 
 When you ram into an enemy Korean soldier, he gets knocked back for a certain distance, depending 
 on your speed. You can then finish him off with a gun or punch to death with Speed or Strength 
 instead of wasting ammo.
  
  If you liked Crysis, you MUST play Warhead. Even if you didn't play it, you should try it out - 
 it's more action-focused than the previous game and it's a stand-alone, so you don't need it to 
 play. Also, if you didn't buy Crysis because of requirements, you can now, as you no longer need 
 a $1000 PC to enjoy graphics and a nice framerate.
  
  If it was just an hour or two longer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommoz0r
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  Ok, my third review so far. So cut me some slack. Basically after waiting around 6 months for Crytek 
 to bring out an expansion, they finally did it, my reaction? Fantastic. Cutting to the chase, like 
 its older brother Crysis Warhead delivers a great storyline, fantastic visuals and also great gameplay 
 mixed with OTT action and intense battles. 
  
  Throughout the game you will find a number of new additions, such as the grenade launcher - which 
 fires EMP grenades as well as classic Frags. Players will have to watch out for the EMP's as powerful 
 as they are, they can effect your nano-suit if your in range! It temporarily causes the suit to 
 malfunction and disable all abilities for a short period of time. Another weapon is the AY69 micro 
 machine gun. These dual-wielded pieces of hawtness really make you feel badass at times, with 41 
 rounds per clip they can really pack a punch! With alot of recoil controlling the weapon may take 
 some getting used to, but within minutes you'll use them like you were born holding the damn things. 
 
  
  Adding to the bestiary there are now a few special units. The lesser alien infantry will now be 
 shielded by an elite version, although a simple EMP grenade can take this shield out no problem. 
 I must say now the AI for the aliens has improved alot, they have new abilities and also take alot 
 more evasive actions when being attacked, working together to bring you down. Also the larger alien 
 machines also have an elite, which glows red instead of blue. It fires from what i could make out 
 explosive balls of fire, a little weaker than the originals, but pack a harder punch. 
  
  You will also fight a classic alien hunter in the game, 2 to be exact, and these battles are great 
 fun. I won't spill too much for those of you reading this to decide whether to buy the game or 
 not, but the game doesn't run better than Crysis itself, maybe due to bugs or what not, people 
 are having mixed reactions at this current time but i'm sure Crytek/EA will release a patch to 
 fix the minor bugs such as the game crashing, visual glitches and even loading times. Coming back 
 to the subject of gameplay the level design is brilliant as expected, although theres only a good 
 6 hours or less of solid single-player gameplay, there are a few levels that you will be itching 
 to go back and replay! There are a couple of linear levels, but don't let them cloud your judgement, 
 there are plenty of open levels for you to decide how your going to destroy your enemies. 
  
  Finally there are a couple of new vehicles in the game, such as the hovercraft, in which the 
 level you play your chasing down the warhead, with bullets flying past and awesome speed, this 
 level is a total adrenaline rush! The voice acting and cut-scenes are very well done i must say, 
 and ties into Crysis pretty well. Overall i'm giving Warhead a 9.0, also thanks to its online addon 
 'Crysis Wars' which is great fun for team deathmatches i must say. 
  
  The game seems somewhat more demanding than Crysis, but if your comp can run Crysis well than this 
 shouldn't be too much of a problem. But i'm sorry this review is only focusing on the single-player 
 campaign, only due my interest on the story, but thanks for reading, and when more of those games 
 on my wishlist move to my now playing; I'll be sure to write some fresh reviews in the next coming 
 months! 
  
  Thanks people.
  
  TPJ McGinnes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good: great visuals, beefed up AI, Different locations on the island are visisted, Great pace 
 throughout, same great open gameplay plus extra stuff to spice it up, multiplayer improved, better 
 performance, and alot more character driven cutscenes.
  
  The Bad: the campaign is alot shorter than the original.
  
  
  The original Crysis was an 
 amazing expierence that showed you what the next generation of gaming was going to be and that 
 still holds true for Crysis Warhead. 
  
  ----If you havent play Crysis yet, please stop reading and play that game before Warhead as you 
 wont be able to understand everything, and im not going over the features that carried over -----
 
  
  I built a new computer just last June as it was time to upgrade, and not just for this game. I 
 get high-some ultra high settings and good fps on windows XP DX9 with these specs:
  
  Core 2 duo e8400, 3.0 GHZ
  Nvidia 8800GT 512 mb OC'd (latest drivers)
  4GB RAM
  
  The bad ----
 
  
  Im going to cover this first so I can get it out of the way. Yes the campaign is shorter but that 
 hardly breaks the game. The real bad news is that even though the game runs better you'll still 
 need a decent computer to enjoy things on high settings. Object pop in is worse this time around 
 but thats the trade off for improved performance. What i mean is when you walk through the dense 
 jungle tiny random vegetation may pop into view only when you get within 10 feet or so, and its 
 alot more noticable swimming when sea floor vegetation pops in all round in a 10 foot radius. Kind 
 of a bummer when my comp could handle all that in the original crysis. But overall totally insignificant. 
 
  The other thing that bugs me is firing pistols in both hands is more tricky now, because you have 
 to use both mouse buttons to fire each pistol; clicking the left mouse button will only fire the 
 left pistol. Which is hard to maintain accurate fire tracking a moving target because tapping both 
 buttons to shoot makes my mouse movement a little unsteady. I dont beleive there an option to disable 
 this, in either case its not too difficult.
  
  ------
  
  The game starts right at the point where the ship in the harbor was destroyed in the original crysis, 
 so already your about half way through the timeline of the events taking place on the island. "Psycho" 
 leaves "Nomad" to carry on a seperate mission for the entire game, Nomad is not present at all 
 save for a few verbal inserts in a cutscene or 2. 
  
  Weapons: The good news about starting so late in the storyline is you get access to the late game 
 weapons (from Crysis) early on; Including the new Machingun pistol, the AY69. Using this gun is 
 a blast and really helps for close quarters. The 2nd new gun is the grenade laucher FGL40; which 
 is more useful againist groups of enemies than single targets, its also slow to reload since you 
 must insert each round into the drum;6 total. This weapons fires both frag grenades and emp grenades, 
 the emp being useful againist nanosuits, both enemy and friendly. But due to a lack of ammo until 
 later in the game; you'll be quick to get rid of it.
  
  All the old weapons return with the same attachments, alot of the guns have recieved a facelift. 
 For example the Scar has a jungle camo on it, and once you get into the ice all your guns have 
 frost on them. And I think the Scar has been beefed up in power, but i could be wrong. Also Scar 
 Ammo is alot more plentiful through the entire game, so you wont have to use the KPA FY71 rifle 
 as much.
  
  AI: Its better than ever now for both human and alien enemies. I tested this early in the campaign 
 by just walking uncloaked in the middle of a narrow road with bushes on each side, and even when 
 i did a recon of both sides and i couldnt spot the enemy till they spotted me. They were actually 
 a real pain in the ass this time around, they flanked me, almost never hesitating to rush me and 
 keep the pressure on when they out number you. The enemy vehicles no longer sit after seeing you, 
 they relocate or chase you down and infantry call for helicopter or reinforcments. The aliens are 
 also alot smarter, they flank you, pressure you, and a few of them have special abilities now; 
 such as the green eyed alien, which emit a bubble shield for 2 foes, the shield can be taken down 
 by continuos fire, but its just easier to kill the shield maker. All enemies seek cover an nanosuit 
 enemies will try emp grenades to disable your suit. 
  ---I did play/beat the game on Delta so im unaware of what would be turn down on lesser difficulty. 
 ---
  
  Combat: Its as intense as ever, and at times you'll have trouble hiding just to reload and get 
 a breather. 
  Plenty of stuff to blow up and an unlimited supply of enemyies to kill keep the action going and 
 going.
  
  Environments: jungles, frozen wastelands, tunnels, beaches..... are all done well and your never 
 in one environment to long to get bored with it, your always on the move.
  
  Sound: The music and voice acting is top notch, and the commentary from allied soldiers is alot 
 funnier this time.
  
  Story: The overall objective isnt that interesting, its the journey thats fun. Theres also plenty 
 of cutscenes that paint a deeper picture of who Psycho really is. At the ned it leaves a few questions.
 
  
  Multiplayer: Crysis' had problems with patches and multiplayer community, but already it seems 
 ten times better, more stable, and the fact that its a seperate disk/seperate game proves they 
 have learned from their mistakes last time. Team deathmatch is now inlcuded, plus 21 maps!
  
  If you got the computer to enjoy this games visuals on medium or higher then I recommend you 
 buy it right away, for only 30 bucks you cant deny this package.
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  So the 1st Crysis tryied to use the HL style First Person camera during story driven moments "cutscenes" 
 ... i say that it was a big mistake it just didn't fit with the big picture ... well in WARHEAD 
 its all DOOM & Far Cry ! The main atraction of the game is its main character PHSYCO , is so controversed 
 ... the game provides evan a compaling back story that affects srgt Sykes as he goes on thru the 
 story its very touching to see this character trying to stay in control of his actions during this 
 crisis & how he reacts to critical moments , to me he represents a milestone .. especially in a 
 cutscene when he does something wrong a lies on the side of the reavear crying "touching" ... not 
 only that but i think that the entire comunity enjoyed him so all i can say VOTE FOR PHSYCO !!!
 
  Like the 1st game the plot is str8 foreword & predictible ... but now because of this character 
 there are twists & turns that never ocured in the 1st game so in my oppinion it jumped 1 point 
 from a 7 to 8 when it comes to the story ! GAMEPLAY wise the game is barely recognizible ... its 
 so much frenetic & so so much tweked ... in fact allmost every weapon feels different + the adition 
 of a few new weapons & improved A. I. & more vehicle scenes make it the thril ride of the year & 
 speaking obout thrill CryTek learned their leasson & brought back the engaging style of the ambient 
 music from FarCry you know that frenetic beat of the hula drums !& THE most important part is the 
 post-apocalyptic levels & this game has plenty both inside the sphere & underground compared to 
 the original Crysis i mean you have a post apocalyptic there & most of the levels were a paradiese 
 c'mon !!! Well Warhead has it all last i want to mention that its alot more harder because of the 
 improved A. I. especially for the Alien Squids of all shapes & sizes ! Humanoid are allmost like 
 fear now , the most impresive thing i've seen them do is to climb a wall like LARA CRAFT ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunkboris
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, Crytek promised and they delivered. Of course it's not perfect but what game is? 
  
  The first thing that I was surprised, and a little disappointed to learn was that Warhead wasn't 
 so much a parallel of Crysis, as it was a separate story. First off, the game assumes that you 
 played Crysis, so it drops you into what I asuume are the events that go on starting in the level 
 in Crysis called Onslaught. This is right after Nomad destroys the cruiser and goes on to drive 
 a tank. 
  
  Sadly, everything that happened before that is not part of Warhead. This results in two negatives 
 for the game. The first one is that if you didn't play Crysis, you have no clue what is going on, 
 or what the premise of the story even is. Second, the game becomes unnecessarily short. My expectation 
 was that Warhead begins in the same VTOL that Crysis did, with Nomad talking to Psycho, then the 
 two of them getting scattered all over the island. From there you would meet up with Prophet, find 
 the frozen ship, meet with Nomad, split off to rescue Helena Rosenthal, taking separete routes, 
 meet up again, split off again and finally meet up again in the Aasault level to cover Nomad while 
 he gets on the cruiser. This would have not only filled in the massive narrative gap in Warhead, 
 but it would have made the game much longer, without too much difficulty for the devs, since most 
 of the levels could have been recycled. Yes, i would not have minded recycled content if it was 
 from the point of view of another character. It would have been more than worth it.
  
  As much as this defect irritated me, I could not take off more than 1/10 of a rating point because 
 there simply isn't anything left to criticize. Warhead deserves all 9 beefy points out of the 10 
 that it can get.
  
  The graphics in Warhead are simply stunning. It seems that the Crytek people were very aware of 
 The Natural Mod for Crysis, because Warhead appears, well, much more natural. The shadows are darker, 
 and the colors are more vibrant. The biggest quality improvement, however, is Global Ambient Lighting. 
 Basically what this means is that light is cast on just about EVERYTHING. Every groove and ridge 
 on every surface, from the ground, to the characters' faces, is only as visible as the light that 
 it receives. This also means that shadows are cast in more accurate tones and directions than ever 
 before. Make no mistake, this is THE forefront of visual effects in modern gaming.
  
  Of course, all this eye candy comes at a cost for performance, right? Well, with Crysis this was 
 certainly true. All the config file tweaking in the world couldn't save me from unplayble framerates 
 in certain portions of the game. Now, less than a year later, after some upgrades to my computer, 
 Crysis still exhibits the same flaws. And the CryEngine2 has only gotten more sophisticated, with 
 the arrival of Warhead. Well, after playing Warhead it seems that, at the time Crysis was released, 
 the CryEngine2 was in what I could only describe as beta stages. That's right, it turns out that 
 you DON'T need the very latest hardware and extra deep pockets to gaze at the glory of the CryEngine2. 
 On my modest AMD dual-core system, with a sub-$250 video card, i was able to max out all of the 
 advanced settings (except objects) and get playable framerates. The objects setting was the only 
 one that i couldn't max out because it appears that all the trees, plants, and especially NPCs 
 (which caused very considerable framerate drops during some scripted events) require more than 
 512MB of video card memory to all be loaded simultaneously. However, the second highest setting 
 worked just fine, and didnt cause the severe degredation in image quality that the medium setting 
 would. Everything else was beautiful. From the rays of light through the canopies, to the parallax 
 textures of the rocks, to the soft particles, nothing seemed to affect my framerate to require 
 switching from Very High to High settings. 
  
  But thats not all. With objects set to very high, antialiasing was out of the question. My framerate 
 dropped to about 3-5. With objects set to High, I attempted antialiasing once again, at the 2x 
 setting, and to my shock and awe, I discovered a result of ZERO loss in framerate. Well done Crytek 
 indeed. Antialiasing in Crysis for me was an impossibility. With Warhead, however, Crytek has apparently 
 addressed that issue, in particular, and found a way to allow the average computer gamer, not just 
 the enthusiasts, to take advantage of the added image quality that antialiasing offers. 
  
  Of course, I did experience some heavy stuttering, but I suspect that has mostly to do with a fragmented 
 hard drive, as it does with most people who encounter stuttering. I could only imagine that running 
 the game on a fully defragmented hard drive would yield very little instability. I ran into a few 
 crashes, but that's to be expected with an initial release. Future patches and driver updates should 
 provide further perofrmance and stability optimizations, but overall it's nice to have such a well 
 performing product out of the box. And also as an added bonus, Crytek has decided to forgo the 
 charade of locking out the Very High setting for XP users. Kudos to them for not kowtowing to the 
 M$ goons. So to recap, better image quality, antialiasing, less strain on your hardware, and more 
 user friendly. Yes, the rumors of a greatly optimized CryEngine2 are true.
  
  Moving on, let's talk AI. Many people complained of a very unsophisticated AI in Crysis, despite 
 all the bold claims that Crytek made. Well, the AI in that game certainly wasn't perfect, but it 
 wasn't as stupid as some people were claiming. Enemies would not simply run past you. This was 
 something people probably saw on Youtube and decided to complain about it, without really knowing 
 that the person who made the video simply used a cheat to turn off the AI for all the NPCs. Or 
 they only played the demo, which was not even close to the initial release of Crysis, let alone 
 the patched version. Regardless, even if you did have a legitamate issue with the AI in Crysis, 
 don't fear, once again, Crytek is here. Your enemies react to the sound of your movements better 
 than ever before. They throw grenades AS SOON AS you duck for cover, not when your suit has had 
 time to regenerate. If you cloak and flank their position, they keep shooting in the direction 
 that you were in before, as if perplexed, instead of magically knowing what way youre going, and 
 attempting to outflank you. And when they DO see you, they outflank the heck out of you. If you 
 cloak right in front of them, they keep shooting and DO sometimes hit you, instead of ALWAYS missing, 
 like they did in Crysis. The aliens duck for cover. They move away from grenades. The list goes 
 on. In short, the AI is much improved, and should present a more formidable challenge, as well 
 as a heightened sense of accomplishment from winning a battle.
  
  This leads to discussion of actual gameplay. A lot of Crysis involved reconnaisance of a camp of 
 enemies, cloaking, getting close enough to snipe, but far enough to avoid damage, and sniping them 
 out. In Warhead there are more battles that occur up close and personal. This forces you to engage 
 in intricate battles using a wider array of arsenal and increased empahsis on suit functions such 
 as speed. Its not enough to just run up a hill, cloak, and snipe away at an advancing line. You 
 will get grenades thrown at you by one enemy as another group of enemies attepmts to flank. So 
 you're constantly forced to keep on the move, likely with speed. Use strength to throw a red barrel 
 at a position where enemies are taking cover, then shoot it to get them out of cover. Or alternate 
 between weapons and weapon modes, depending on the situation. This was how Crysis was marketed, 
 but, unfortunately, not how it actually played out. This time it's for real. Of course, Warhead 
 offers its fair share of open-ended maps in which you can attempt to cloak, snipe and sneak, if 
 you are so inclined. Just don't expect to do that through the whole game.
  
  Additionally, Warhead offers more replayability than ever. While it is true that your first playthrough 
 should take no longer than 6-8 hours (not 3-5 as some reviews claim) , there is much more than meets 
 the eye. Three separate missions forced you to use a vehicle to advance through the game. However, 
 upon careful inspection, it turns out that on two of these three missions, commandeering a vehicle 
 was a SECONDARY objective. Therefore, doing the train and hovercraft levels on foot should increase 
 your play time to at least 10 hours. The mission with the ASV can most likely be done on foot as 
 well, but would be significantly more difficult as you have to protect your squadmate from being 
 killed, so speed is your friend there. 
  
  The cave mission got knocked pretty hard, but that mission was there to serve the same purpose 
 as the zero-g level in Crysis: Horror. Imagine that! Aliens are actually scary. Well it seems that 
 Crytek figured this out too, and in my opinion did a fantastic job of conveying that idea in the 
 zero-g level. The linear aspect of gameplay was what facilitated this feeling of fear, because 
 an open-ended environment makes one feel safer. The confined space of both the cave level and the 
 zero-g level brought a different dimension to both games, and Crytek should be praised for it, 
 instead of being told that "linear gameplay" is a four-letter word. And as if Crytek somehow psychically 
 foresaw a negative reaction to the cave level, they even placed a shortcut through it that would 
 have probably kept most people from complaining, had they found it on the first playthrough. Even 
 if you're still dissatisfied with the cave level, take comfort in the fact that it is a graphical 
 marvel. From the cave walls, to the natural springs, to the lights and shadows, everything is rendered 
 at unprecedented levels of realism. Combine that with the fact that it's an indoor environment, 
 which means that your framerates will skyrocket, no one can make the argument that the cave level 
 is a misstep in design. If anything, it's more of a tech demo to showcase the scalability of the 
 CryEngine2 for indoor environments. Hardly a misstep.
  
  Other things of note include the great soundtrack. Crysis would not be Crysis without it, so a 
 big thumbs up to Inon Zur once again. Cutscenes are well directed and are longer which makes the 
 game feel more cinematic. The jungle sounds are more prevalent, giving you a greater sense of immersion. 
 The physics are also much improved. If you fire a round from your grenade launcher at a vehicle, 
 and not quite hit it, it will still tip the vehicle over, possibly cause enough damage to light 
 the engine on fire, or just kill the enemies inside from the shrapnel of the grenade. The dynamic 
 nature of the way the physics work in this game makes for some truly jaw-dropping action sequences 
 that all result from the way that YOU control the pace of the action. Again, this was promised 
 in Crysis, but was implemented much more effectively in Warhead. In one instance I actually managed 
 to flip one of those 18-wheeler looking trucks exactly like in the scene from the Dark Knight. 
 Very cool. Unscripted. And would have never happened in Crysis.
  
  And let's not forget about the multiplayer. Crysis Wars is an improvement to Crysis' multiplayer 
 component, but leaves much to be desired. The added maps are large-scale and designed much better 
 to suit the dynamics of deathmatch play. The weapons and suit functions are rebalanced, and the 
 engine optimizations make for multiplayer-worthy framerates. The best addition, however, is the 
 vehicles that were added to the new maps. As is the case with single-player, the vehicles handle 
 much better and are absolutely spectacular to use for wreaking all sorts of havok in a multiplayer 
 setting. Alternately, if you are on foot you can choose to use the missile launcher to shoot down 
 helicopters, or assault ground vehicles. With everyone running around in vehicles, it's easy to 
 forget that you might be the unsuspecting prey of a sniper or that you can become one yourself, 
 and pick off anyone that attempts to commandeer the helicopter that you leave as bait in the middle 
 of a field. This sort of dynamic gameplay brings a much more tactical edge to your standard deathmatch 
 experience, and becomes even more fun when you have teammates to help you employ these tactics 
 in Team Deathmatch. In addition, Power Struggle is back, if you prefer a more objective-based, 
 Battlefield style of play. Unfortunately, the maps that were included with Crysis are back with 
 absolutely no changes made to them. It would have been nice if Crytek added at least a landing 
 pad with a chopper or a VTOL to some of the original maps that dont necessarily facilitate the 
 use of a jeep or a tank. And, again, there is no ranking system of which to speak. This is too 
 bad because a ranking system, preferably with achievements and unlockable customizations, is the 
 difference between hours of online play in one sitting, and a few casual sit-and-go sessions here 
 and there. Ultimately, Crysis Wars has no lasting quality without a ranking system, and will only 
 serve as a nice buffer for the waiting period between now, and the release of Far Cry 2, which 
 looks to become the biggest multiplayer craze since Call of Duty 4. 
  
  Overall, Crysis Warhead is exactly what Crysis should have been. It has an optimized engine that 
 won't break your bank. It features the physics, AI, and gameplay that was promised in Crysis. The 
 multiplayer is fun enough to keep your attention this time. And despite a couple of flaws, Crysis 
 Warhead is still of much more value than Crysis, AND it's $20 cheaper. As a stand-alone package 
 this game has it all: Great graphics, great gameplay, great multiplayer, great production value, 
 and a great price. 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacazaca520
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is the stand-alone expansion to last year's #1 PC shooter, Crysis. In Warhead, you 
 are on the opposite side of the island from the original game but many of the same events occur. 
 You start the game just shooting Koreans and investigating the island and that is about the first, 
 let's say fifth of the game. After that, your main target switches to fighting robotic aliens who 
 are referred to as Exoskeletons.
  
  The action is better than ever and with new graphic engine tinkering, it performs like a dream. 
 Like a dream may be an overstatement but compared to its predecessor, this game runs quite well. 
 You still need a halfway decent computer to run Warhead however.
  
  The graphics are as-good, if not better than Crysis'. Environments look amazing and some of the 
 alien's attacks are unbelievable.
  
  The story is alright. There are a couple of pivotal cut-scenes that may peek your interest but 
 the overall package isn't that engaging.
  
  At the end of the day, I had a terrific time with Warhead, despite the fact that it's only around 
 a 6 hour campaign. I might revise this review later to include the multiplayer portion of the game, 
 known as Crysis Wars. For $30, you'll have a hard time finding this much fun.
  
  All in all, 4 out of 5 stars.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  First off I do not agree with the use of invasive software placed on peoples PC's without consent, 
 yes I'm talking about DRM.
  Now that that's out of the way I want to say how much fun I am having with Warhead in SP and MP, 
 something I couldn't say in vanilla Crysis which had terrible MP. The game runs smoother and looks 
 even better imo.
  Crytek has raised the bar on FPS games and it will take alot for competitors to match it. I enjoy 
 games like CoD4 etc. but the photorealism in these graphics are superb. I know it's a short add 
 on to the Crysis series but for $29.99 it's a steal and with the new MP it will give you many hours 
 of game play. I hope Crytek keeps on raising the bar while optimizing the game for lower end PC 
 users. This is a game every true PC gamer should have on the HD.
  
  LONG LIVE PC GAMING!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottRhom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Warhead is the best First-Person Shooter that I've ever played. On its second effort in the Crysis 
 Franchise, Crytek has scored straight 'A's across the board. 
  
  Okay, I really enjoyed the 'Original Crysis', but I also knew that it could have been better. Enter 
 'Crysis-Warhead'. 'Warhead' represents a dramatic improvement.
  
  Picture 'Original Crysis' combined with 'COD4-Modern Warfare' - but even better. 
  
  You can 
 take the 'New & Improved' label seriously this time. Warhead features several improvements over 
 the Original Crysis game. I stayed up all night, playing the whole game straight-through and it 
 was totally worth how awful that I felt the next day. 
  
  Warhead is sort of a Hybrid. Imagine an excellent PC Shooter combined with an engaging Action Movie. 
 The action builds and the intensity increases as you play the game. The story is surprisingly dramatic 
 & interesting and the Individual Missions flow together beautifully - rather than being clunky 
 & disjointed - as they are in most games. 
  
  Relative to the Original, all of the action is totally amped-up. Korean soldiers hide, and then 
 swarm you in bunches and come from all directions. The Aliens dodge from side to side and duck 
 behind things as soon as you get them in your crosshairs. 
  
  As far as my favorite sections of the game, the 3 Brand New Vehicular Chase/Battles are excellent. 
 The action during the Armored Vehicle Run, Hovercraft Chase, and Train Battle sequences were so 
 intense, that they were almost 'worth-the-price-of-admission' all by themselves. (I played them 
 over & over again...) 
  
  Anyway, here are the Highlights & Lowlights... 
  
  The GOOD:
  
  More Intense, More Frequent Action.
  More & Smarter Enemies.
  Much More Interesting 
 Story line.
  Plays out almost like an Action Movie. 
  Better Individual Mission Sequencing & Flow.
  Substantially Improved Background Music.
  Often 
 Creepy 'You-are-There' Environmental Sounds. 
  Several Dramatic, beautifully-rendered Cut Scenes.
  3 New, Very Fun Weapons.
  3 AWESOME Vehicle 
 Sequences.
  Good Overall Frame Rates - even on my Medium Spec PC.
  
  The BAD:
  
  Pretty Brief - I wanted a little more playing time.
  1 Cut Scene is over-extended and gets boring.
 
  Slower Frame Rates during the 'Hovercraft Chase'.
  'Far Cry 2' will almost certainly be a let-down! 
  
  I didn't do any tests, but the game even 
 ran well using Warhead's 'Mainstream' Graphics Setting at the 1,280 X 1,024 Resolution on my relatively 
 modest 2nd PC:
  
  C2 Duo E4600 (2.4GHz - 2MBs L2 Cache)
  2 GBs 6400
  BFG-7950GT-256 MBs
  
  Summary:
  
  WAY TO GO, Crytek-Budapest! Crysis-Warhead sets a new 
 lofty standard for an Expansion Pack exceeding the quality level of its Original game. 
  
  The number of improvements which were made to Crysis is relatively amazing. Crytek's attention 
 to ALL of the Major & Minor details and their (obviously) extensive efforts to improve what was 
 already an Award-Winning Game really surprised me and the game was better than I expected - even 
 after reading the early reviews. 
  
  Warhead is a totally fun game that thoroughly immerses you in its action sequences, colorful & 
 interesting environments, and even its well-crafted story.
  
  I'll be playing it - using a variety of different strategies - over & over again for a long time. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zardoz2003
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  (No Single Core Processors... at least 2G Mem... A Good Video Card - I am assuming this of course!!) 
 .. there are four settingss: Minimal - Mainstream??? - Gamer - and Enthusiast from low to high.. they 
 should be entitled from low to high: Cheapass/Poor - Visually Sucks - Mainstream/ Visually Sucks 
 unless your computer is 2yrs old or less and you don't care about framerates - Playable and Visually 
 Looks Similar in quality to UT3 Engine (Spoiled Brat/Fortunate setting) .. these have nothing to 
 do with game content of course... how much better is a typical shooter going to be in content compared 
 to Gears of War or similar games which work really good even on lower end machines? I tried this 
 on all settings and until you reach the Enthusiast setting this game looks flatter than your screen!!! 
 Even at the Gamer Setting objects pop up from nowhere .. no distance settings? NO real sense of 
 3D gaming here until you use the Spoiled Brat setting which of course makes the game unplayable 
 on older rigs that play games which are every bit as visually aesthetic using other 3D engines.. I 
 will give Crytek this.. It will at least load on all settings.. whoopee do!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunGriffin
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  SO I was agenst anything with the Crysis labe for a long time. But just a few days ago I picked 
 the latest one up. And OMG is it fun. Vehicle stealing is great, the infantry combat, and the universe 
 is sound, the story grips you and hooks you in, the Voice Acting is superb, the sound is great, 
 the over all look is beuitfull! Even on lower end settings this game still shines!
  
  There was only one minor bug, and some levels that needed some more optomisation done to them but 
 over all a great game, with killer combat, and the best looking graphics around.
  
  As for the DRM haters it only limits the ammount of PCs you can instal too. Thats it. Driver changes, 
 and other things do not effect the game. 
  
  I have what is now a middle level High end PC:
  
  Gforce8800GTS
  Windows Vista 65bit Home
 
  4GB Memory
  Intel Quad Core 
  
  Let me say that this game is vary tweekable this time around. You can run at the presets, or like 
 I did tweek the graphics, and everything to your likeing. I recomed the Shaders be on minmum for 
 low end PCs as they use DX10 on Gamer, or above, mainstream uses DX9, and Minmum uses DX9 as well.
 
  
  For those who struggle try to turn down the Model Detail, as even on the low end setting the world 
 still looks great, and allows for a slightly higher Texture setting, and shadows setting. Turn 
 the particles up, and the Game Effects up, and the bloom can be set to how you like it. 
  
  The only levels I had major FPS drops were the Snow levels and they are not optomised right at 
 all. Even in the thick jungle levels with dust and smoke I got 60FPS at the lowest, but without 
 them I had a killer smooth 100FPS!
  
  BTW: 2GB memory Vista users should upgrade to 4 for any game that runs on Vista. Vista requires 
 2GB of memory minimum to run or even instal, but for games it's a better idea to buy a 4GB memory 
 stick and slap it in. DDR2 is fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VivaNOLA
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  My expectation here was that this would simply be more of the same, basically a few more maps that 
 were pretty much re-hashes of Crysis maps but with props moved about to create novel tactical situations. 
 I was looking forward to that. That would have been fine by me. But instead I got more - a lot 
 more. I play slow and sneaky, so the game length was actually very good for me. What I loved about 
 Crysis was the immersive experience created by the attention to detail and visual design coupled 
 with truly canny level design. Warhead has all of this and more. The designers have some welcome 
 surprises in store for those who thirst for epic sweeping environments that they haven't seen before 
 in the original - this is not a simple stumble through a re-hash of the first with re-arranged 
 furniture. This is more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacknight1975
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Warhead surpasses the original Crysis by doing away with a boring middle section. The action is 
 more intense as you feel less inclined to sneak around but instead zoom in on max speed and take 
 the fight to the enemy.
  The new weapons include a pair of machine pistols and a grenade launcher as well various bits of 
 hand delivered ordnance. They don't really add much except more options when you play through again. 
 And you will.
  Warhead's story is told through the third person this time with some truly captivating cut scenes. 
 Psychos Vinny Jonesesque personality really comes to the fore making him a likeable thug.
  The graphics and sound are as top notch as in the first outing. I could run the original Crysis 
 on the very high setting this time I had to use a slightly lower setting of "Gamer" to avoid slowdown. 
 Regardless of this fact I can't think of a better looking shooter.
  Warhead is about a 6 to 7 hour experience which is fairly short. However I'm already on my second 
 playthrough and reckon there'll be more after that so at 20 this is worth parting with your cash. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thought_1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  More Crysis is always good. I loved the first, and this is more. I would play the whole Raptor 
 team if they made a game for each. I have no complaints, there is just something about playing 
 a game where start off as a total **** badass and kick ass the entire time.
  
  A couple new vehicles and weapons add to the flavor, but the original weapon set was more than 
 enough, not to mention the suit.
  
  Playing this game a year after the first is like sliding on that comfortable pair of jeans, or 
 nanosuit, and kicking ass.
  
  A 100 word minimum pretty much guarantees people will fill this section with a bunch of crap, and 
 turn off most readers to overly-complex and lengthy reading.
  A 100 word minimum pretty much guarantees people will fill this section with a bunch of crap, and 
 turn off most readers to overly-complex and lengthy reading.
  A 100 word minimum pretty much guarantees people will fill this section with a bunch of crap, and 
 turn off most readers to overly-complex and lengthy reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monsterazor
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  And very good game from Crytek. I really love it.
  Optimization is good. I open the game medium screen settings on 1024x768. My sistem 8600 GT,1 GB 
 Ram, and 2.4 GHZ AMD +3000.
  Graphics are amazing. Sounds are amazing. Control is amazing. But if you enjoy with this game, you 
 have better than my computer :) Because, sometimes you can be wait very long and meet up frozen 
 screen. But it is too short.
  
  Controls are very realistic and easy. This is good.
  
  Musics and sounds are really great. f you have sound system, you fell in the game. And it is 
 too realistic.
  
  Graphics, effects and textures are 10/10. I really like it. But you have good system.
  I most like 
 ice effect.
  t is marvellous.
  
  
  
  f you want play game more faster, close Motion Blur.
  But Warhead look like a first game. Then 
 I wait Crysis Two.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sickhead3000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  this game was just like the first one but with more weapons and from what ive played so far, its 
 awesome, they have polished up on a few glitched etc. and i am looking forward to playing online, 
 the crosshair movement is smoother and its alot easier to play with the Xbox 360 controller, the 
 graphics of this game, like the first Crysis, always maanges to blow me away.
  The two new weapons are awesome, i've only used one of two and love it, dual wilding it lets you 
 own the AI and im looking forward to using the grenade launcher. The AI still has the same intelligence 
 (very smart by the way) and its awesome, they've come up on me hiding behing a fence in a group 
 of about 4 while i was sniping and scared the crap out of me, one small error i noticed while playing 
 was that you could not shoot the helicopter pilots which was annoying but if you had a helicopter 
 at that poit in the game it would be trully unfair on the enemy
  
  my overall score is 10/10 because of the great graphics, smart AI and the fct the the whole expireince 
 has been inmproved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkride196
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  its fun inspiring and one of the best first person shooters since call of duty 4. the story is 
 better than crysis, the game all around great, visuals have gotten a revamp and the engine has 
 been optimized for low end computers. i have a 9800gtx and it breezes through at 50 fps on the 
 highest setting with no aa. i highly recomend this game. to everyone even kids no, im just kidding. 
 but i highly award it for fun gameplay graphics story and all around immerison factor of the game 
 over all i give it a 10 for fun visuals, sandbox gameplay and lots of sunbeams the multiplayer 
 however is also really fun i found myself playing for hours straight even finding myself thinking 
 about it all day the game is a wild ride, in one level i had been sniping enemys from a ridge when 
 i hear somthing behind me, i turn around and there are 2-3 guys firing at me, the ai is revolutionary 
 in this equal of a great game. the only problem i had during the game was not going to the bathroom 
 for hours lol. dark ride out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QWERTY008
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Just like the first Crysis it has graphics too good for most computers. Unfortunately the story 
 is a bit boring, you spend the whole game chasing a silly container, and then when you think something 
 will be done with it the game ends. I thought this game would bring some sort of closure to the 
 first one or some kind of continuation of the story, but as advertised it only shows Psycho's side 
 of the first story. Apparently the company that makes it wants to make a whole series of crysis 
 games, by the progress of this one we will probably see another 4 or 5 games. There is nothing 
 really new in the game, just an interesting weapon at the very last level. It only took me about 
 8 hours to finish, I got stuck at a few points here and there, it probably only takes 5 hours to 
 finish it. I hope the next release in the series has a better and longer story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warp10ck
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Oki I dont want to talk so much about the story guess most of you know what it is about anyway.
 
  But its basicly the same game over again but this game the engine has been heavly optimized i 
 was able to run this pretty good on my laptop an acer aspire 7720g with a geforce 8400m gs 256 
 mb ram card.
  
  The single player campaign is really short and with the exception from a more enhanced multiplayer 
 there is really nothing new to see here.
  
  Yep we are back on the island the same aliens one new north korean bad guy and thats basicly it 
 nothing we haven`t seen before in Crysis allready.
  
  Couldnt really get into the story in this one
  (we who have played crysis know how its gonna 
 end) but the character Psycho is really more interesting than Nomad fromt the first game and has 
 a personality atleast. 
  And I am hoping we will be able to control him as the story progresses in Crysis 2 wich it doesn`t 
 in this game.
  
  But despite the short singleplayer campaign I had alot of fun gaming through but if you have not 
 played the first Crysis the story might be a little confusing since the story assume you allready 
 bought crysis and beat it. 
  So if you liked the original Crysis I think you will have a good time gaming through this.
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is at war with itself; it's at war because it again can't decide if it wants to 
 be a freeform game, or a rail shooter. In the end it cuts it losses and does both. Expansions tend 
 to carry both the successes and pitfalls of their mother games. Warhead takes it a step further 
 and very much tries to emulate the flow of the first, with good success mind you, even the boss 
 fight feels the same. Much of the brilliant gameplay you saw in the first remains, the action and 
 awesome AI encounters are very much here.
  
  An example of the brilliant gameplay might come from a simple valley rain forest, rain falls as 
 lightning flashes in the distance. Up on a ridge you spot a single laser dot peaking through the 
 jungle. Your binoculars tell you there are four or more squads moving about the jungle on patrol 
 routes. Your task is to get to the other side. It's incredibly simple, but a prime example of sandbox, 
 how you take out enemies, what points you attack, which patrols go first, what you do once spotted, 
 or maybe you just sneak past them all.
  
  Now take another level, a more linear sequence, you and a group of soldiers push through the frozen 
 forest and do battle with enemy aliens as chaos surrounds you, you can't perform stealth to any 
 appreciable degree when your buddies engage in the combat. You can't flank around because your 
 buddies tag along. Most of what you can do falls into, guns blazing or running away; a simple format 
 for many modern shooters. In those situations I tended to do both, running away when I got tired 
 of trying to hit the aliens darting back and forth..
  
  Warhead presents a story of sorts through third and first person cutscenes, while the scenes are 
 done fairly well and some are lengthy, the story in the end is a bit of a jumbled mess, there might 
 be radio chatter, but you might not have a clue about what they are talking about as sometimes 
 the audio queues aren't matching what you are viewing. Thankfully the game sports a nice map at 
 the ready with your objectives immediately viewable; there is probably not much need for the chitchat 
 honestly.
  
  In one particular segment you approach a now abandoned resort on the beach, filled with KPA soldiers, 
 with machine guns and reinforcements, you can approach from many directions and small groups of 
 resistance keep you on your toes, speed running up to KPA soldiers to knock them over highlights 
 the battle. The linear rail segments in Warhead aren't bad, the ammo management, pacing and player 
 control is nowhere near a Half-Life experience, but you are still treated with wondrous explosions 
 and fast aggressive combat with some at times great AI. The sandbox portions are pure genius, the 
 game director for every occurrence is you, not a prewritten script.
  
  Again in Warhead you deal with several nanosuit KPA, they can take an effort to take down, however 
 the inclusion of EMP grenades to disable their and your suits makes them cake. Sometimes their 
 own grenades disable their own suits, a few shots later and they won't need their weapon anymore. 
 In many sections I was found holding excess grenades, and decided to just spam them, rarely did 
 I run out of ammo for my standard weapons. However it is quite hard to manage ammo in a wide-open 
 linear environment where items are placed in the world and you never really know where the player 
 will be.
  
  The AI seemed more quirky than in Crysis, several times whilst cloaked I would see them walking 
 (or flying) into walls or objects and occasionally they fired through walls at me. Whilst this 
 review might sound more negative than positive, warhead still deserves high praise, and not just 
 for its visuals, but for its solid gameplay. You should enjoy Warhead as much as the original game, 
 there are no big surprises in gameplay or flow, and it's just a fine gaming 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adi_colegu
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Of course everyone expected a lot of warhead, but it offers much more than anyone hoped for. I 
 can't believe I'm saying this but it blew me away more than HL2 series, Fear series, Call of Duty 
 and every other top shooters. The graphics is the most impressive aspect of the game with post 
 processing effects, volumetric rays of sunlight seen through the leaves of trees and other objects, 
 superb shadow and ray tracing, extreme definition textures... very realistic ground, ice, sky, high 
 quality water & reflections and the list can continue, but you get the point, it creates an outstanding 
 free-roam world defined by the depth of detail. All this becomes available on the Enthusiast video 
 setting, which can be set if you have a 8800 series video board or above.. thanks to CryEngine2 
 optimizations and nVidia Physx now the game runs smoothly with an average of 40-45 fps on a highly 
 overclocked GTX260/280 and 30-35 on a 8800GTS512/9800GTX video board... on XP... Vista is still 5-6 
 fps slower than XP on Enthusiast. The physx simulation chapter is also breathtaking, with magnificent 
 explosions, breakable objects, NPC reactions, ripples & waves in the water etc... the game has a 
 very high AI. Unlike its great predecessor, Warhead has a fast-paced action from the start till 
 the very end, engaging situations, lots of gadgets , new weapons, vehicles and combined with the 
 nanosuit abilities gives you dozen ways to confront the enemy, thus creating its replay potential. 
 One thing bothered me a little... the cut scenes, brilliantly done from a technical point of view, 
 but less theatrical value though... but... then again, if you want that you play games like Mafia 
 or Call of Duty 4. And it is too damn short... but the intensity compensates that. 
  Bottom line... it is worth playing people, you will not be disappointed at all... it it a true masterpiece, 
 I guarantee you that... but if you want to get the full satisfaction you gotta have a high-end pc. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonlks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Korea AI still stupid =.=ll
  some bug still there.... example: grab something when i throw away.. hit and die ....
  Story too 
 short..... Boss too easy to kill
  story line very normal...
  
  still dont know nomad face =.=
  
  optimized not very good.... looks like there just lower the 
 looking distance..... and get good fps....
  
  screen turn to abit yellow....
  
  i prefer orignal CRYSIS more abit........
  Korea AI still stupid =.=ll
  some bug still there.... example: 
 grab something when i throw away.. hit and die ....
  Story too short..... Boss too easy to kill
  story line very normal...
  
  still dont know nomad 
 face =.=
  
  optimized not very good.... looks like there just lower the looking distance..... and get good fps....
 
  
  screen turn to abit yellow....
  
  i prefer orignal CRYSIS more abit........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cdrgold
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Picked up Crysis warhead yesterday as soon as it came out as i really enjoyed the original crysis. 
 Installed the game put all my settings to high and started the game. Note on the original crysis 
 after the patch i was able to run the game on all very hi settings. On warhead i can barely run 
 it on high so i have to put most things on mainstream and the fps still drops very low!
  
  The gameplay is good however and the effects are better. So its worth getting for the extra storyline 
 however they should have just left the graphics alone as the original crysis ran alot better! Even 
 my mate who has a nvdia 280 has trouble running it maxed out
  
  My specs are. Core 2 duo @ 3.3ghz, 8800GT, 4gb dual channel ram.. Thats the main things really.
 
  
  Hopefuly the next crysis will be alot better to run and next time dont lie about it being better 
 optimized because thats jsut garbage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitnessfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Would have been ten if not for the fact that this expansion focuses on a story that happens at 
 the same time as the original... what the hell!?
  For those of you who beat the original game, you understand how fun the story and action was, you 
 felt part of the game! Then it ends with "We're going back in". Very cool! I am still waiting to 
 go back in.
  I really do not get why i need to play from Psycho's point of view. Psycho is cool and all, but 
 not as cool as the faceless badass i played as in the first game!
  
  Otherwise another game that could not have been made better. Still as impressive as the original. 
 Gameplay kicks ass. Adrenaline rush that compares to UT3. If your gonna buy one game this year 
 make it Crysis, if you have Crysis make it Warhead. 
  
  If anyone knows why i am not going back in to fight those alien bastards. Let me know.
  
  Thanks,
 
  Brandon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  I bought it only 2 days ago and find it absolutly amazing. The singleplayer campaign is short and 
 end in a flash which last for only 6-7 hours on normal difficulty, but truly amzaing. And the multiplayer 
 is quite good yet lacking of larger maps with vechicles (There are tanks and APC and copter in 
 some map.. which are perfect to me..)
  
  But in cored multiplayer which focus only in shooting, crysis wars is definitly not that good enough 
 compared with hardcore COD4.
  
  Well the only thing that I am not quite satisfied with is it multiplayer.. it get some much potiental.. in 
 a map which is "battleground", it could definitly rock Battlefield series forever. But sadly, only 
 a few maps are that great..
  
  Well but by considering its price lower by 1/3 than normal, I think it's quite worthy anyway and 
 accomplished what it ought to be..;)
  
  Graphic: Perfect's 10/10
  Gameplay-9/10
  Sound:9/10
  Value:9/10 (For those who don't have crysis before, it's better-lower price and requirements.)
 
  Presentation-8/10
  
  Overrall:9/10..:) Gotta love you once more!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerkane246
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Well here we go again. Crysis Warhead for PC. All I can say is that this game is amazing. When 
 I first ran this game I was worried that my computer would have some problems running it at a smooth 
 frame rate. Not only did it run smoother but it looked much better than its predecessor. A good 
 variety of new weapons make for a great experience. Not only does the bought product contain Warhead 
 but Crysis Wars as well. This is a great multi player game. It can get very intense with new game 
 types and weapons. This was a very well thought out expansion pack but it was shorter than I expected. 
 Other then that everything ran flawlessly and showed great visuals. I also noticed that the game 
 is way more action packed then the last. If the fight is to intense your screen will black out 
 for about a half second like you were shell shocked. It really intensifies the experiense or futuristic 
 war. I hope that Crytech keeps making great games for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  EVGA 780i MOBO
  Q6700 2.66Ghz Quad-Core
  4 Gigs of OCZ SLI RAM
  2x EVGA 8800 GS Superclocked 
  Vista Bus. 32bit SP1
  
  First off this game runs a lot smoother 
 than Crysis. I had far better frame rates. 
  
  I felt the gameplay was better because of the much improved AI. But after beating Crysis on Delta 
 Mode this game felt easy. The controls are a lot better especially on a 360 controller.
  
  In Crysis I could not run at full resolution, but in Warhead 1680 x 1050 is no problem. In Crysis 
 I had to run in DirectX 9. In Warhead the performance was the same overall except having a few 
 less frames in DX10. I am only really able to run extremely smooth in mainstream, but In the first 
 couple of levels I was running Enthusiast no problem getting around 30 FPS. The level with the 
 ice and snow still is really hard to run getting a huge drop in frames.
  
  Warhead definitely adds some meat to the Crysis story. It is really neat to see how Psycho ended 
 up with the alien at the end of Crysis. Warhead even had some definite upgrades especially in the 
 aliens. The newly improved aliens and great weapons ( PAX is awesome, Dual welding SMGs is great 
 with dual trigger controls ) . 
  
  Problems I had:
  -In DX9 the game in Vista would suddenly close.
  
  -For no reason my frame rate would go from 
 30 to 10 or less.
  
  How Warhead is better than Crysis:
  
  1-optimized more for DirectX 10 
  2-runs on better range of computers.
  
  What I really didn't 
 like:
  
  The end of Warhead is kind of weak. The final battle is really easy, and I was kind of disappointed.
 
  
  You see the alien warship before the end so this made me go back and beat Crysis again.
  
  Game was also very short feeling.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who likes action. 
 
  
  CANT WAIT TO FINISH THIS FIGHT!!! "Lets go back to the island" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionwolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Crysis this is mostly more of the same with more flavorful icing. Such a great 
 story told so well really deserves something more like the silver screen. 
  
  The game plays identical to the original Crysis except Warhead gives you a few new weapons and 
 equipment. It's relatively short but it's so packed with action and the long cutscenes really immerse 
 you right back into the story. 
  
  The hardware side of the game runs a little better than the original Crysis and looks about the 
 same save for a few small things. I just installed Windows Vista two weeks ago with all updates 
 and drivers. Everything is supposed to run smooth right? Well, I have an 8800 GTX and apparently 
 Nvidia and Microsoft have yet to fix their driver issue which affects this card the most. And although 
 I fixed the drivers for other games Warhead brought a few more to the surface but with a little 
 research and updating I was able to get the game running. 
  
  The game also comes with a multiplayer disc called Crysis Wars. I've yet to install and run it 
 but I'm sure it'll bring even more fun to the show as Crysis' original online play was just as 
 immersive. 
  
  If for some crazy reason you've got the rig and you haven't played the original Crysis, please 
 play them in order. Crysis and Warhead are two epic games that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAOS100
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed Crysis, but I was a bit turned off by the whole alien cave thing, as were a lot of people. 
 This time the devs decided to cut out the slow parts and go all out action, and damn they did a 
 fine job. Nothing seemed more satisfying to me than using the new 20mm cannon (or whatever) mounted 
 in various vehicles and parts to blow endless vehicles into the air. It definitely has its 'holy 
 s**t!' 'and ohhhhh-f**k!' moments. 
  
  Personally I like the north korean killing sections more than killing aliens, mainly because its 
 fun killing inferior enemies in creative ways. The nano-suit is what makes it stand out from other 
 FPS, as it makes it a lot more enjoyable to choose your own tactic to move through places. 
  
  There are stacks of weapons and ammo all over the place, so by no means do you have to be conservative 
 at all. There are good weapons available right near the beginning, so as it is a short game (possible 
 to play through in a few sittings - or 1 if your dedicated) you can just pick something up and 
 blast away and grab another one when you run out of ammo. 
  
  However, unlike the original Crysis, I did have some problems with this game. When turning rapidly 
 the game stutters or freezes for a split second, I assume as it is loading textures or something. 
 Sometimes the detailed textures take a while to load (possibly only after you load a game but I 
 forget) , and you see the low-res version until it loads up to high in a few seconds. Also I have 
 CTD problems while changing levels for some reason, but it only happens every second one or so. 
 When I load my game again and change level it doesn't repeat. 
  
  Also, the supporting voice acting isn't very good. The main character Psycho is done well though. 
 
  
  You will see during some of the cut scenes some of the grunting and fighting just sounds really 
 lame, not what you would expect to hear when someone is hanging off a 100 foot bridge with 3 fingers 
 while holding on to a buddy and have a c4 detonator next to your hand that you have to get to before 
 the enemy does-kind-of grunting.
  Also, the AI gets a bit too much at times. Gunners can spot you near instantly, for example if 
 you decloak while proned peaking out 2 inches from a rock 200 metres away from the gunner, he will 
 just open up on you. Some enemies can see you through walls, and in some parts they shoot the other 
 side of your wall even though its impossible to see you. This is on normal mode. Also sometimes 
 it is annoying when debris and objects land on you and kill you instantly, so make sure to save 
 often. One part had someone of your team say 'hey! up here!' and then he pushes a car onto you. 
 
  
  
  Other than that, it is worth $30 for this action-packed sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghtscstefan
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  It looks like this game is the best fps I ever played. Is very easy anyone can enjoy shooting some 
 aliens and damn it the korean stupidity doesn't end :) ) that was a laugh, but because all of that, 
 its better than the first in the series although its full of bugs I've tried different drivers 
 for my video card but all of them gave me the same black screen at some point and I had to take 
 the graphic setting to mainstream for the snowy areas.
  
  My specs: E4600 3.2 ghz, 6GB DDR2 1066mhz, Leadtek 8800GT OC, seagate 250gb. with video driver 
 177.83+ physx Vista64
  
  The first crysis I ran with no problem at 1680x1050 everything on high 33 average fps with crysis 
 warhead things are very different at the same resolution at "GAMER" setting :| I get about 23-25 
 fps average.... and my cpu doesn't go over 75% in task manager. What can we do :-?? wait for the 
 first patch release maybe it will take care of the bugs and other stuff. At all it was worth playing 
 and you should try it two... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: submicron
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Like I always say if it doesn't blow-up I don't want it.
  This second installment you can feel the fire in your face. Of course, it helps if you have a good 
 machine to play it on. LIKE ME! Jokes aside the graphics are incredible. Talk about a tune up. 
 Can wait to see what Natural Mod will do to this game. As far as speed I saw an increment of 15% 
 which is good for people with under powered computers. I like Psycho better than Nomad. I always 
 felt Nomad was a bit of a P***Y. The physics are good as well as the particle effects. Love what 
 they did with the DRM feature. The level details in enthusiast mode is simply jaw dropping. Now 
 you can play the game in DX9 in all its glory without hacks. For those leech-ers out there just 
 buy the freaking game and support PC gaming. The mod community is going to have a field day with 
 title. Hands down is great standalone game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demi_veritaz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Crysis is still Crysis, with some improvements.
  While the game doesn't run any better on high/ultra high than it did for me previously, they did 
 add in some nicer textures and better effects to both.
  The singleplayer is pretty standard Crysis material, albeit even shorter.
  What really makes 
 this a great addition is the addition to multiplayer. They made cloaking actually useful by taking 
 away the little blue lines that move across your body in the original. They added Team IA, which 
 is a plus as well as new maps. All in all multiplayer is just great and well rounded.
  
  Now for the bad: The textures and graphics in multiplayer are somewhat crappier than the original 
 and lags a lot more. It may just be my connection, but this MP lags twice as much as the original 
 did, while making no significant graphical changes as far quality goes.
  Graphics-wise, they toned down textures A LOT in MP. For example, in the team map with tanks and 
 helis, the brick textures on the bridge look worse on high-ultra high quality than what you'd see 
 in a battlefield game.
  Overall, most of this content should have been added/fixed in a patch to the original Crysis, not 
 made into an expansion pack that barely expands anything content-wise.
  
  Slapping on a 5 hour or less campaign and 2 new guns isn't a reason to release a whole "new" game. 
 Maps, MP fixes etc could have been patched a long time ago. As for the campaign, it's pretty passable 
 compared to the MP.
  
  End result: If you liked Crysis, or just want to start in, get this expansion pack. While they 
 could have fixed the original, this expansion is fine and well worth the money, just don't expect 
 much to be different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pidow
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is one hundred percent better than the first game, in looks alone will keep you 
 in Ah. This time around the AI has improved, targets are not just waiting for you to do some thing.. they 
 react, cover, and fight from cover not in the open. The players' are also improved over the first 
 game. Their movements and actions are much better, also, they move and not just out in the open.... more 
 of knowing what to do and how to do it in watching your back or covering you during a firefight. 
 I must say that the game is too SHORT, a little more game play and a lesser concern for on-line 
 play would have been appreciated for me. However, the game is very enjoyable to play and play again 
 in single player.. each time you can approach things and situations differently. I can play every 
 part of game never in the same manner as the first attempt. The driving is also improved over the 
 first game and very, very much enjoyed (blowing up stuff) makes may day every day. I would highly 
 recommend this game to any and all!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead... i know I was pretty excited when I found out they are making a sequel to the 
 most amazing game (for me at least) ever made. The day the game came out I went to get it. I was 
 in a hurry to go home and try it. After what I have heard about I was ready to max it out-just 
 got the new Readeon HD4870. I did max it out and it runs kind of smooth, the I tried the old Crysis-completely 
 different story. Warhead is not well optimised (why am i not surprised there) , looks pretty much 
 the same as the original Crysis. There are some aditional elements here and there but it is not 
 that different. I looks like there is a little more detail to the characters and the effects like 
 freezing and fire.
  Multiplayer wise-good job. I like the new mod-team deathmatch. I like the maps as well. I like 
 the fact thay now all you have to do is just to istall the game and not worry about putting the 
 DVD in the drive to play it. 
  The sound and grapics are awesome. No complaints there.
  Good game! Try it. I hope Crytek will release a patch soon, fixing the poor performance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hami619
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is a science fiction first-person shooter video game developed by video game developer 
 Crytek Budapest and published by Electronic Arts as an expansion to Crysis. Crysis Warhead is a 
 stand alone game and does not need Crysis installed in order to play it. It was released on 16 
 September 2008 [1] in Europe and 18 September 2008 [1] in North America. The game is a parallel story 
 that follows Sergeant Michael 'Psycho' Sykes, a character from the original Crysis, as he faces 
 his own trials and challenges on the other side of the island during the time period of the first 
 game. It features new fully customizable weapons, vehicles and enemies, along with new multiplayer 
 content. It also showcases a new, enhanced and optimized version of CryEngine 2 and is the first 
 game developed by Crytek's Budapest studio. [3] Crysis Warhead was featured among EA's lineup at 
 E3 2008 where it gained two "Best of E3" awards: one for "Best First Person Shooter" and another 
 for "Best graphics technology".
  
  In addition to the single player campaign, Crytek has also emphasized the Crysis Warhead multiplayer 
 modes, entitled Crysis Wars. In addition to the Instant Action and Power Struggle modes of the 
 original Crysis, Crysis Warhead also features Team Instant Action mode, as well as 21 playable 
 maps upon release. Crytek has made numerous changes to the multiplayer gameplay including tighter 
 vehicle controls, weapon rebalancing, and nanosuit alterations. [4] .
  
  While Crysis was previously announced to be a trilogy, Crysis Warhead is not the second chapter 
 in that trilogy; it is instead billed as a stand-alone expansion pack, although its amount of included 
 content exceeds what most typical expansion packs offer.
  
  The developers have also claimed that due to further optimizations of CryEngine2, Crysis Warhead 
 performs better than the original Crysis [5] [6] . In their review, IGN confirmed that Crysis Warhead 
 not only looks graphically better than the original Crysis, but runs better, too. [7]
  
  Crysis Warhead retails at less than normal games' RRP though the game's feature set is close to 
 those featured in full-priced games. [8]
  
  EA recently announced that the game's minimum requirements are nearly identical to the minimum 
 requirements of the original Crysis (except for the HDD capacity, which is now 15 GB) . However, 
 the High and Very High configurations are expected to require less powerful machines than before, 
 allowing a user to run the Very High settings in DirectX 9 mode. [9] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spencer_Jack
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  I've only been playing it for 30 minutes, but except for a couple of minor graphic slow downs, 
 it runs better than Crysis. I found crysis killed my 4th core and never touched the other 3. Warhead 
 appears to utilise all 3 fairly evenly. I'm not sure if I've played Crysis to much, but I'm finding 
 it easy so far, so I'm going to restart it on the hardest difficulty.
  
  I'm running at 1600x1200 4xAA and all settings on their highest (Creamy!)
  
  My Rig - Shazzam:
 
  
  4gb DDR3 Supertalent 1800mhz
  q9550 (OC to 3.7)
  Asus P5e3 Premium
  ATI 4870x2 (2gb)
  
  Stop complaining all you AMD 4000 losers. Buy a new rig!
  
  Spencer 
 (When only the best review will do)
  
  xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakomel
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  This game is freaking awesome my brother couln't even sleep for 23 hours (No really, my brother didn't 
 really sleep for 23 hours) . This game's good thing is the graphics, only a little or no bad words 
 and the awesome armor and weapons. Only those people wth dizziness or smartness or dumbness could 
 play this very hard awesome game! This game is just like Far Cry 2. So my fellow gamers, fight where 
 the grasshopper leaps (Play Like an Idiot on this game) . So have fun with the game when you bought 
 it! Oh yeah and the bad thing of this games is nothing except for the enemy blood, it scares the 
 small children if you let them see it. so lock yourself in the room and there will be boogeyman 
 at your back and will laugh "HAHAHAHAHAHAHAH!" like a psychotic ghost, oh wait, the boogeyman is 
 a ghost! Well, bye! You Gamers you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I found the game to be a blast the graphics are wonderful with attention to detail the weapons 
 are very reactive and who doesnt love to roam around a lush jungle paradise and kill enemy soldiers. 
 and the review is correct i dont think you need a killer system to run this i have a high end system 
 but not an ultimate system .yet!!! but i find this game to be a lot of fun some people dig into 
 a game a little to much antialising this and shader that let your system worry about that and just 
 have fun with the game. not saying you dont want a high quality game but have fun with it dont play 
 it just to pick it apart. Ive been playing games for thirty some years before video back when we 
 just had pinball and arcade games. dont ever loose the joy of playing the game dont spend the whole 
 game just anaylising is short comings or its strenghts because the you dont play the game you play 
 a critic just love the game shade 6 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kzoneoo1
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  So with all the hype about how optimized this game is, its all smoke! I have vista64prem with 4870 
 x2 video and right after I loaded, the menu displays to the right and difficult to access. Once 
 you get this straightened out by pissing around with your res you get back to main screen and its 
 a click fest trying to change your settings because the cursor does not line up witht the option 
 box. At first I thought it was my monitor but then looked at their forums, full of complaints about 
 this. I can get into the game and play okay but getting by the screwed up menu is extremely annoying 
 and time consuming! Another problem, I have optical 3000 microsoft mouse and wheel will not work 
 to change quick suit, works to change weapons, weird. Everything does work in game on max settings 
 so its not the end, however my rig is pretty average so what the hell?
  
  vista64prem
  asus m3a mother
  amd 6400+
  4 gig
  4870 x2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed Crysis 1's singleplayer alot, not to mention all the sweet user amde mods and what not 
 as well.
  Fantastic singleplayer game with horrible online in my opinion. I didnt enjoy crysis 1 online at 
 all, it was laggy, alot of cheaters and very unbalanced. But that has all changed with Crysis: Warhead's 
 release. The online portion of warhead is called CRYSIS WARS. Liked i said above its a big improvement 
 over the online for crysis 1.
  
  There is way less lag, everything is much omre balanced, i havnt seen any cheaters yet (amazing) 
 and more importantly its just ALOT more fun to play online with Crysis Wars then it was to play 
 Crysis online.
  
  Crysis ran good on my computer, but warhead runs ever better, it seems to be optimized alot better 
 htis time around. The presentation is also alot better with warhead aswell. There are also duel 
 hand guns that you can get that are great for up close and personal shooter outs. 
  
  Back to the online for a second.... There are so many awesome moments in the online, weither its 
 shoot outs on a small or medium map or on one of the BIG maps where you are sniping from far away, 
 blowing up the other teams helicopters and tanks with your grenade launcher, etc... Its just really 
 good to see that Crytek improved the online this time as much as they have.
  
  There is not many problems with Warhead, but if i had to nit=pick, i would say i wish it was a 
 few hours longer (although you can play thru the singleplayer numerous times and go about things 
 differntly) . Also its a little more linear then the first crysis, but that doesnt bother me to 
 much.
  
  For an expansion pack at 29.99, Crysis Warhead is a MUST BUY. Crysis had awesome singleplayer but 
 bad online, as for Warhead its more of the great singleplayer and FINALLY some awesome onine. This 
 really is one of the best games ive ever played, from the addicting multiplayer to the fantastic 
 singleplayer action. In the end i feel as though this game deserves anywhere from a 9/10-10/10.
 
  
  ENJOY!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorty_wTF
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead is a science fiction first-person shooter video game developed by video game developer 
 Crytek Budapest and published by Electronic Arts as an expansion to Crysis. Crysis Warhead is a 
 stand alone game and does not need Crysis installed in order to play it. It was released on 16 
 September 2008 [1] for Europe and 18 September 2008 [1] for North America. The game is a parallel 
 story that follows Sergeant Michael 'Psycho' Sykes, a character from the original Crysis, as he 
 faces his own trials and challenges on the other side of the island during the time period of the 
 first game. It will feature new fully customizable weapons, vehicles and enemies, along with new 
 multiplayer content. It will showcase a new, enhanced and optimized version of CryEngine 2 and 
 will be the first game developed by Crytek's Budapest studio. [3] Crysis Warhead was featured among 
 EA's lineup at E3 2008 where it gained two "Best of E3" awards: one for "Best First Person Shooter" 
 and another for "Best graphics technology".
  
  In addition to the single player campaign, Crytek has also emphasized the Crysis Warhead multiplayer 
 modes, entitled Crysis Wars. In addition to the Instant Action and Power Struggle modes of the 
 original Crysis, Crysis Warhead will also feature Team Instant Action mode, as well as 21 playable 
 maps upon release. Crytek has made numerous changes to the multiplayer gameplay including tighter 
 vehicle controls, weapon rebalancing, and nanosuit alterations. [4] .
  
  While Crysis was previously announced to be a trilogy, Crysis Warhead will not be the second chapter 
 in that trilogy; it is instead billed as a stand-alone expansion pack, although its amount of included 
 content exceeds what most typical expansion packs offer.
  
  The developers have also claimed that due to further optimizations of CryEngine2, Crysis Warhead 
 will perform better than the original Crysis [5] [6] . In their review, IGN confirmed that Crysis 
 Warhead not only looks graphically better than the original Crysis, but runs better, too. [7]
 
  
  IGN reported that the game will retail at less than normal games' RRP though the game's feature 
 set is close to those featured in full-priced games. [8]
  
  EA recently announced that the game's minimum requirements are nearly identical to the minimum 
 requirements of the original Crysis (except for the HDD capacity, which is now 15 GB) . However, 
 the High and Very High configurations are expected to require less powerful machines than before, 
 allowing a user to run the Very High settings in DirectX 9 mode. [9]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamui_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Some problems installing the game with SecuRom product activation. Had to download new .exe file 
 from Crytek. But after that it was smooth sailing. Graphics look the same but i'm not complaining. 
 Some tweaks are probably not that noticeable. Source i think does a better job with facial animations. 
 Half-Life characters are more animated and convey emotion. But crysis characters are a bit robotic. 
 But the textures and effects are still phenomenal. Played game on normal diffulty and it seemed 
 less difficult than original. I love the new levels! APC and hovercraft are great new vehicles. 
 Like the new mounted guns too. Grenade launcher and new machine guns ok, but the variety and option 
 of them being there is welcome. I like the pacing and new environments. Would like to see more 
 variety among enemies and maybe some new suit controls and/or weapon modifications. Can't wait 
 for a full-blown sequel!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  
  Last year, German developer Crytek unveiled what was perhaps the best-looking video game of all 
 time. Crysis, the "spiritual successor" to Crytek's own Far Cry (PC version) , pitted you on a North 
 Korean-controlled jungle island, where you battled both North Korean soldiers and alien invaders. 
 Crysis, much like Far Cry, was noted for giving you freedom to pursue mission objectives any which 
 way you like (although the game got a bit linear towards the end) .
  
  However, as amazing as the original Crysis looked, it was a poorly optimized and glitchy hardware 
 hog that, in some cases, couldn't run stably on even some of the most beefy computer systems at 
 the time.
  
  Crytek sought out to respond to these criticisms through Crysis Warhead, created at Crytek's Budapest 
 studio. What Crysis Warhead promised was better optimization for more meager PCs.
  
  Crysis Warhead is a standalone expansion pack for what was often labled as 2007's PC Game of the 
 Year. But rather than continue where the first game left off, you instead play on the same timeline 
 as the first game, but with a different character. In the case of Crysis Warhead, you play as Michael 
 "Psycho" Sykes, a foul-mouthed former British SAS operative, who appeared as a supporting character 
 in the first game.
  
  As Psycho, you are called on a mission in another section of the vast and lush island. You will 
 continue to battle North Korean soldiers and extraterrestrials (who attack soldiers on both sides) ; 
 not much has changed from the first game, but there are a few surprises.
  
  Where the first Crysis was more cerebral, Crysis Warhead is far more fast-paced and intense, while 
 allowing you just enough time to strategize your course of action. Also, while the first Crysis 
 provided plenty of opportunities to be creative while playing the game, by the second and third 
 part of the game, it became hopelessly linear -- it was as if you were playing an entirely different 
 game. Crysis Warhead, while not without some linear arcade-like portions, nonetheless feels more 
 consistent. And this expansion pack is so fun to play and, as a whole, even better than the original 
 game.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, Crytek sought to make a better optimized game that would run on smaller 
 systems. Did they deliver what they promised? Yes. However, the game is not without its flaws from 
 a technical standpoint. On my system, there were plenty of freezes, lock-ups, and hitching (sometimes 
 making the game unplayable) , which could probably be solved with a patch. But the game is also 
 much more stable in parts that the first game had trouble with, namely the snow levels.
  
  From a GPU standpoint, the game runs better than the first, and it looks even better, too, with 
 improved lighting, more detailed environments, and more epic explosions. The series continues to 
 be highly interactive, and the physics are nothing short of amazing.
  
  Another criticism of the first game was its sometimes lackey AI. In Crysis Warhead, there is a 
 notable improvement upon it, although it still has ways to go. The enemy AI is still glitchy, both 
 aliens and soldiers, but their improvement makes them more fun to do battle with them. The friendly 
 AI, on the other hand, is extremely bright. When you're with other squad members, they intelligently 
 fend for themselves and really do make your job easier.
  
  Crysis Warhead is played more as a Hollywood summer movie in that it never lets up. It's sort of 
 like what would happen if the original Crysis and the Call of Duty games were mashed into one. 
 The strategic portions of Crysis (the first half) are toned down, but the linear portions that 
 made the player feel like a drone following orders of the Call of Duty games are toned down, as 
 well, creating something in between. And it's a very nice balance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limeman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  First issue was a mouse problem - it would only cover 1/2 the screen. This was resolved with a 
 graphics driver update. Then, I set the game exactly as I had set Crysis: Most settings on Med 
 and 4 settings on high ( I apologize I can't remeber which ones) . My PC is a core 2 duo 2.6 ghz, 
 4 GB ram and a 8800 GTS 320 MB graphics card. I know I screwed up the graphics card! Anyway, Crysis 
 ran well ( I don't do fps) . When I fired up Warhead, the game was extremely choppy. I thought it 
 was suppose to run better, more optimized. Let me also say that I only had 2 GB of ram under Crysis 
 and I doubled it for Warhead. So I have to play warhead on Mainstream. Then when I got the the 
 snow level, I had to drop it to entry level just to play. What the heck! I know my machine is not 
 cutting edge, but give me a break. I have seen various glitches and graphical issues throughout 
 the game. My screen often goes black for 3-7 secs at a time.
  
  Please understand that I am a Crysis Superfan. I love it. This is my favorite genre. But this game 
 has disappointed me a little. My next concern is the AI. I am playing on Normal right now and the 
 AI stinks. Aliens lay on the ground and wait to be shot and the Koreans will take a new and allow 
 me to shoot them from a distance. I will take it up a notch later and see if that improves.
  
  So to wrap up my thoughts, I'm not blaming the game for my graphics issues, but I do think 
 it should run better. As for the AI, I am disappointed. 
  
  UPDATE POSTING: Sept 19
  OK - so I spent an entire day tweaking my system so that I could play Warhead. As I mentioned, 
 I downloaded the newest Nvidia drivers, but that only helped the mouse issue. The graphics still 
 dragged. Now, I switched to the driver release from EVGA and I can actually play Warhead on Mainstream 
 - running about 20-30 FPS. Using the EVGA tweak utility, I have actually managed to get about 8 
 more FPS, very nice. So, now that the game is more "playable", I still have to say, it is not the 
 game I was hoping for. There are too many scenes where you are on "rails". Fun, yes. But not the 
 update/upgrade from the original that I was hoping for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  When the original Crysis game came out, EA proved everybody who said that EA was sinking wrong. 
 Crysis became a bestselliong game, and for a, no, not a, but many reasons. Crysis was the must-have 
 game for every hardcore gamer. It had everything going for it- the graphics, the story, the presentations, 
 the gameplay. Looked like EA had yet anothger great franchise on their hands. And now that Crysis 
 Warhead, the expansion to the revolutionary shooter, is out, there will be more madness. 
  
  Crysis Warhead, just like its predecessor, has everything going for it. For all those who think 
 that Crysis is the most technically proefficient game, this game proves you wrong. Crysis Warhead, 
 if it is possible, looks even better than Crysis itself. You dont need to own the original game 
 to run this one. It has its own single player campaign, short it might be though, and it has an 
 all new multi-player mode. 
  
  Crysis Warhead follows the story of Sergeant "Psycho" Sykes, the hot-headed Englishman players 
 might remember from the first game. Psycho is in many ways a more interesting character than the 
 straight-laced hero Nomad from the original. He's the kind of guy to go off-mission to rescue a 
 friend. More importantly from a gameplay perspective, he's a lot more likely to raid an enemy compound 
 with guns blazing than to quietly stealth his way past it.
  
  All the options from the original game are still on the table: Players can use their superhero-like 
 nanosuit powers to dash past enemies, leap great distances, stealth past fortifications, or absorb 
 tons of damage. But with more enemies on the screen at any given time, Warhead gently nudges players 
 toward more action-oriented combat. Copious stockpiles of ammo, rockets, and grenades are available 
 around every corner. Plenty of heavily-armed vehicles are ripe for the taking. And Psycho can dual-wield 
 machine pistols or submachine guns. If you thought Crysis's stealth-based gameplay was too slow 
 for your blood, Warhead addresses the problem by giving you every opportunity to unleash full-automatic 
 havoc.
  
  The real strength of the original game was found in the open-ended levels that supported any number 
 of approaches. You'd creep up an enemy compound, scope it out with binoculars, then determine the 
 best way to slip inside, sneak around it, or assault it. Crysis was most enjoyable during these 
 levels and suffered when the game got too linear. While Warhead promises more of that open-world 
 goodness, in practice, at least a couple of the seven levels were extremely linear. One level has 
 you tromping through an abandoned mine, and it's a straightforward tunnel-crawl. Another level 
 quite literally puts you "on rails" as you defend a train. It's an exciting sequence, but given 
 that the expansion pack is so short (about seven hours of gameplay) , it's a shame that parts of 
 it are so locked down. Fortunately, despite dips in the middle, the beginning and end of the game 
 feature some terrific wide-open levels in which to wreak havoc on your own terms.
  
  Psycho's job in Warhead is to stop the North Koreans from smuggling some sort of mystery weapon 
 off of the island, the nature of which is unveiled through gameplay. Along the way he contends 
 with a rival pilot named O'Neil, with whom he has some history, as well as a North Korean commander 
 who snarls some great dialogue during a memorable torture scene. All the ingredients are there 
 for a great story but it never comes together in a meaningful way. Just as in the original, the 
 ending left us wanting more.
  
  Finally, we get to the part of the review everyone wants to know about: performance. Crytek claims 
 that Warhead is better optimized than Crysis, and everything I experienced confirms this. In fact, 
 what's amazing is that Warhead not only runs better than Crysis, it looks better than Crysis. Keep 
 in mind, a year has passed since Crysis shipped and there still isn't a non-Crytek game that approaches 
 it in terms of visuals. Warhead features more definition to the terrain, and the lighting and particle 
 effects have gotten big boosts. I found myself walking through jungle with the morning light piercing 
 the canopy and had to stop and just absorb the moment. It had a level of atmosphere that I can't 
 recall from the first game.
  
  I played Warhead on a high-end machine with a quad core CPU and the latest Nvidia graphics card 
 at high resolution (1680x1050) with all the details set to Enthusiast, which is essentially very 
 high. It looked cutting edge and the frame rate was solid. Next, I checked the game on a slightly 
 older PC with a two-year old 8800GTS and I was still able to crank it to Enthusiast settings and 
 the same resolution and get solid results. Finally, I checked it out on the "$700 PC" that Crytek 
 and EA have been touting. It really is a $700 machine built on the latest mainstream parts (the 
 video card is a 9800GT) , and I was able to play the final boss battle at the same resolution and 
 at Enthusiast settings and get solid frame rates. I also tried it the Gamer setting, which is essentially 
 high, and the frame rate was buttery smooth. You do lose some visual quality stepping down from 
 Enthusiast, but even at Gamer Warhead still looks better than almost every game out there. 
  
  Crysis Warhead actually includes two separate products -- one single-player and one multiplayer 
 -- complete with two separate discs and install keys. Crysis Wars is the name of the multiplayer 
 game, which contains 21 maps. 14 of these maps were released with Crysis, leaving seven new multiplayer 
 maps in total. There's one new "Power Struggle" map, featuring a military airstrip. (Power Struggle 
 is the complex team-oriented, objective-based gameplay mode that was the highlight of the original 
 game's online component) . Instant action, which is simple deathmatch gameplay, also makes a comeback.
 
  
  Crysis Wars features one new mode: Team Instant-Action. This is basically the Crysis version of 
 Team Deathmatch. It's a nice variant if you're looking for a quick gameplay fix. The maps are intricate 
 and fast-paced, with lots of chokepoints and action. Teammates respawn close to one another, so 
 the combat is constantly moving around the map. This mode really shines in maps where there are 
 lots of vehicles, as the massive tank battles are truly spectacular. That said, Team Deathmatch 
 doesn't really show off the best gameplay Crysis can offer. On a full server, turning off your 
 shields for more than a second to use another ability is almost always a death sentence.
  
  Frustratingly, even though Warhead contains many of the same maps as from the original Crysis, 
 the servers aren't compatible. When you're playing Warhead you can only play on Warhead servers, 
 and if you're playing Crysis you can only play with other Crysis gamers. Fracturing the community 
 like this doesn't make any sense -- it's hard enough to find a quality game of the excellent Power 
 Struggle mode to begin with! We're left hoping this issue will be addressed in a patch, as it's 
 a real frustration for players looking for a game with a full server and a good ping.
  
  
  So, what I want to say in the end is this: For $30, Crysis Warhead is an incredible value, 
 and you'd be hard pressed to find a better shooter on the PC this year. The single- player campaign 
 is tight and superb, and the multiplayer portion delivers something that you can have fun with. 
 I love the intelligent gameplay of Warhead; this isn't a game where you simply react to highly 
 scripted events, but one where you have to think on your feet, and you're rewarded for doing so. 
 Crytek once again proves that its one of the premiere shooter developers in the industry, even 
 if it does get an unfair rep as being "just" a technology company. Comments like that make it seem 
 as if the Crytek had a chip on its shoulder, because it addressed almost every complaint about 
 Crysis and then some. I found Warhead to be challenging, exciting, wild, and, yes, very much full 
 of swagger and fury.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  *Great Sound Effects *Outstanding Gameplay *Great Visual design *Spectacular Graphics *Improved 
 AI *Great Multiplayer
  THE BAD
  
  *A little too linear at times *A few remaining AI quirks. 
  
  
  *GAMEPLAY: 9.4/10
  
  
 *SOUND: 9.0/10
  
  *GRAPHICS: 9.6/10
  
  *LASTING APPEAL: 9.1/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scerbina
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I don't know why people keep not agreeing with this review. The game clearly is not optimized and 
 runs slower than the original Crysis. If you do not believe me, test it for yourself. Here is how: 
 In order to test the utilization of the multicore
  - Downclock your processor to say 1 Ghz if you have a quad core, you will get 1Ghz x 4, for example.
 
  - Run the game and watch the CPU utilization (I watch it on the separate monitor) .
  - The good, optimized game, like GRID for example will start pulling 95 - 100% of each cpu core. 
 All cores will be fully utilized.
  - Now look what happens in this new crappy crytech engine. The cpu is still 30-40% utilized. Only 
 now it is less powerful and the game becomes non playable. The engine was designed for a single 
 core.
  This is 2008!!! Single core! Come ON!!!
  
  Here is a real life analogy for us constantly upgrading our PCs to run bad software (like this 
 game) :
  
  This is like buying a Ferrari, then installing a speed limiting chip, then activating the parking 
 brake, deflating the tires and trying to drive like that. When you realize that your new Ferrari 
 does not run well, you decide to pay a hefty price for upgrade to a new even more powerful engine, 
 yet all you really had to do is use the car wisely...
  I am disgusted with these new games that poorly utilize our new expensive PCs, and then we are 
 forced to pay even more money in order to be able to play these poorly designed games.
  
  What is really frustrating is that the designers lie to us!
  
  the original review:
  I am 
 a Crysis lover, I must admit. Like the multiplayer and the pretty graphics (shaders 4 for a change) . 
 I bought Crysis Warhead for one reason mostly - the original Crysis utilizes my quad processor 
 only by 30% max, and therefore the game, even though ran fine on max settings, the framerate was 
 not satisfactory.
  
  After hearing so much about the newly optimized crytech engine, I thought finally my new computer 
 will be fully utilized and run Crysis the way Call of Duty: Modern combat runs for example = Smooth. 
 To my disappointment new Crysis Warhead runs even worse! And Still does not fully utilize the quad 
 core. 
  
  Runs awful on quad core. The processor is the bottleneck in this game. Also this yellow lighting 
 is a step back in graphics in my opinion.
  
  
  
  my system is:
  AMD 9750 Phenom quad core
  Asus HD4850 (pretty much the same thing as Nvidia 9800GTX)
  4GB 
 800Mhz ram
  1440x960 resolution
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  In few words and to the point
  
  GOOD
  - Best Graphics for the genre and runs better this time
  - Better AI from the previous game
 
  - Great Sound
  - Better Multiplayer
  - New weapons, new surprises and more action 
  ------------------------------------------------
  ------------------------------------------------
 
  BAD
  - More linear and shorter campaign
  - Story could be better
  ------------------------------------------
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  One of the best looking FPS 
 that exists in the PC just becomes better. The visuals are even more astonishing especially if 
 you have a good PC with a modern graphic card and the best is that it runs smoother from the previous 
 game. The gameplay has also been improved all around with more weapons and a better AI along with 
 some other nice improvements.
  Only things that i do not like so much was the more linear approach and story could be more intriguing....
 
  
  If you are a FPS fan you should not miss this
  
  Final score = 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StermerCody
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  The best 2007 pc game has just released an new addition to there game. Crysis has finally came 
 out with this amazing expansion that only cost $29.99. This package comes with addition to the 
 story line and a updated version of the Online multiplayer componet. Lets talk about the single 
 player first.
  
  You will not be Nomad but you will be in the foots of SGT. Skyes. He is a British Special Forces 
 that is part of raptor team. What raptor team is is a special force that is equiped with the Next 
 Gen. Nano Suit techonolgy. When you SGT. Sykes he is telling you his part of the world biggest 
 problems from his eyes. If you havent played the original Crysis your going to miss alot of the 
 story.
  
  Well the first leval is that you were shot down from your aircraft during the invasion. You are 
 sent to mission to sabatage KPA bases on the island. Once you do that your going to see that something 
 is going on. You are chasing a KPA general who might have a Nuke on his side to take out a U. S. 
 Navy battle Row. So you will chase this general all around the whole single player. Untill you 
 hit this KPA navy base. You are to take this Sub down before it escapes. Well the sarge gets on 
 the sub and gets captured. Then you will see the whole situation chages with a alien invasion. 
 I wont tell you how it will go thats your place to see it yourself.
  
  The multiplayer of Crysis warhead has been updated pretty good. The game became less slow placed 
 becuase in the original people had a problem with glitches and cheaters. Well now the game is running 
 solid. This package comes with 21 maps and there are new modes. They finally added a team deathmatch 
 which was missing in the original crysis. There is still power struggle which was found in the 
 last crysis. Power Struggle is like a counter strike and a battlefield put together in one. There 
 is a economy where is used to buy guns and vechicals. There are certian points that you will capture 
 to get more economy.
  
  I have to say that Crysis Warhead is a system hog. You will need a computer that is less than a 
 year old to get the most out of the engine. If you have a older computer you will have to be tolerate 
 frame rate problems. If you have a Direct X 10 graphic card. You are in luck. Crysis Warhead has 
 modified there engine so it plays smoother in DX 10. The sound is amazing to listen expecially 
 the gun fire. This is my review of the great game. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesy_chaz_b
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I am an RTS & RPG fan and a hardcore PC gamer so I will defend every PC game.
  But I think Crysis: Warhead is a game that do not need the defending of me or other PC gamers, cuz 
 it's one of the greatest games ever and the best in it, s gener.
  Crysis & Crysis: Warhead have a pefect grafic, gameplay, storyline and sound effects.
  So i think 
 the score of 10 out of 10 is good in its gener and 9 out of 10 (gamespot's) is a good score infront 
 of all other games and geners.
  
  And at last I think Crysis worthed waiting Crysis: Warhead and Crysis: Warhead worth waiting the 
 CRYSISES to come. I dont Know like Crysis: S... head or crysis: F... head crysis: c... head, name it everything 
 you want but at least make it coming.
  
  So I'm telling CRYTEK guys to go out there and make 100 more crysises.
  
  LONG LIVE CRYSIS 
 AND ALL PC GAMES AND GAMERS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade6
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I found the game to be a blast the graphics are wonderful with attention to detail the weapons 
 are very reactive and who doesnt love to roam around a lush jungle paradise and kill enemy soldiers. 
 and the review is correct i dont think you need a killer system to run this i have a high end system 
 but not an ultimate system .yet!!! but i find this game to be a lot of fun some people dig into 
 a game a little to much antialising this and shader that let your system worry about that and just 
 have fun with the game. not saying you dont want a high quality game but have fun with it dont play 
 it just to pick it apart. Ive been playing games for thirty some years before video back when we 
 just had pinball and arcade games. dont ever loose the joy of playing the game dont spend the whole 
 game just anaylising is short comings or its strenghts because the you dont play the game you play 
 a critic just love the game shade 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I didn't think we would get another Crysis game so soon after the first installment from one of 
 last year's best first person shooter. This time you'll be playing as Sykes aka Psycho. Yeah that's 
 right the lunatic from the first game. 
  
  If you've played the first Crysis than you know what to expect from the 2nd installment. But this 
 time there's a lot more explosions than there were in the first. The game looks a little better 
 from the first which was nothing short from amazing. You also have the Crysis Wars which is an 
 online multi player with about 21 maps to choose from. 
  
  The sounds and graphics in Warhead are much better as well. The controls haven't changed much and 
 the nanosuit is about the same functions from the first game. For $30 is not a bad buy you're getting 
 your moneys worth with this great PC game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korn_rox_2004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Warhead has brought forth many promises and delivers on each one. 
  
  On the graphical side, Crysis Warhead has taken Cryengine 2 and added some really great lighting 
 effects and they re-did their explosions from the first game.
  
  On the sound side, Crysis Warhead delivers the same great sound that was found in the original, 
 with great melodies that get going as the action goes and slows as the action slows.
  
  On the gameplay side, not to much has changed. This game has become a real action game, there is 
 no more room for stealth, because the bulk of the game is spent with 10 - 20 enemies in every direction. 
 They fixed one of the key things I didn't find very attractive in Crysis, The weapons are now picked 
 up automatically.
  
  Performance.... Well Crysis has definately gotten a performance increase but it shows little, because 
 the overall scale of action has increased and so the engine had to be optimized. 
  
  All in all the game is a great expansion and I definately recommend it, It took everything that 
 was broken in the original and fixed it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
