-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crysis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/crysis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dynamic, emergent shooter gameplay.
 Unparalleled visuals with destructible environments.
 High level of replayability.
 Power struggle makes for huge multiplayer battles.
 An amazing accomplishment overall.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The single-player story ends.
 Will laugh at every CPU and GPU thrown at it.
 No team deathmatch.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.5
Critic Score: 9.0, 59 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 14,861 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Crytek
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 13, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Crysis is visually stunning, packed with intelligent, thrilling gameplay, and easily one of the 
 greatest shooters ever made. 

  It was hard not to be completely impressed when the first images and videos of Crysis appeared 
 about 18 months ago. Scenes of lush jungles and towering alien war machines looked light-years 
 beyond what seemed possible. Of course, the two questions that revolved around Crysis since its 
 announcement were whether it would deliver on those visuals and whether it would deliver a game 
 worthy of those fancy graphics. It turns out that the answer to both those questions is a resounding 
 yes, as Germany's Crytek has proven that its 2004 hit Far Cry was no fluke. In fact, it was just 
 the beginning from this studio. With its sophomore effort, Crytek has managed to deliver an incredibly 
 advanced and exciting first-person shooter that practically rewrites the rules for the entire genre. 

           Welcome to the prettiest jungle that you have ever seen in a game. Notice that it's starting 
 to snow?      

  Crysis is an alien invasion game set in the year 2020. An archeological team on a remote Pacific 
 island is captured by an invasion force of North Koreans, and your US Special Forces team is dispatched 
 to investigate and rescue the scientists. Clad in high-tech nanosuits capable of boosting your 
 strength, speed, and armor, as well as cloaking you temporarily to the enemy, you're parachuted 
 into a tropical paradise that's crawling with intelligent enemies and something else that's tearing 
 both the North Koreans and US forces to shreds.  

  Like Far Cry, the first half of Crysis is essentially a "sandbox" game where you're put in the 
 middle of incredibly large levels and tasked with an objective. How you get the job done is pretty 
 much entirely up to you, which is part of the brilliance of the game's design. For instance, the 
 environments are big enough to give you a wide range of latitude. Do you have to get to a certain 
 point on the map? You can take a meandering route that avoids patrols and go stealthy, or try the 
 up-front approach and try to blast your way through, with the danger of enemy reinforcements showing 
 up. Need to infiltrate a North Korean-held village? You can try the front gate, or maybe explore 
 and find a quieter way in.  

  Couple these huge environments with the powers of the nanosuit, and you have a ton more options. 
 You can play like the eponymous character from the movie  Predator  and use your cloaking abilities 
 to stalk North Korean patrols, picking them off one by one and watching the survivors react in 
 confusion. That could be via a silenced rifle, or simply coming up from behind a guard and grabbing 
 him by the throat and hurling him off a cliff, or through the roof of a building, or against a 
 tree, or whatever catches your fancy. Enhanced speed and strength give you an amazing amount of 
 mobility, so you can vault atop buildings and come down behind someone, or run up against a North 
 Korean vehicle next to a cliff and push it over the side. In a heartbeat you can switch between 
 different roles, from stealthy assassin to seemingly unstoppable death dealer. It's a game that 
 makes you feel like a superhero, though not an invincible one, because you simply can't run roughshod 
 over the enemy. Crysis rewards smart, fast thinking.  

           The firefights are stunning, as well as challenging, whether you're tackling North Korean 
 soldiers or alien war machines.      

  It helps that the game features a high degree of advanced physics and destructibility in a highly 
 dynamic world. Getting caught in a firefight in the jungle is a cinematic treat, thanks to the 
 way the bullets will chop down trees, while branches sway from impacts. This isn't just a visual 
 effect, either, as falling timber can kill if it lands on someone. There's all sorts of emergent 
 behavior like that throughout the game, events that spring up completely unintended or unforeseen. 
 In one instance, the flaming wreckage of a chopper landed on a hut, crushing it and killing all 
 those inside.  

  Meanwhile, the gunplay and ballistics modeling make this shooter feel as if you're handling real 
 weapons. Trying to hit a target at long engagement ranges is challenging thanks to weapon recoil 
 and other factors. The North Koreans are encased in body armor, so they take some time to gun down, 
 unless you aim for the head, which usually puts them on the ground. At your disposal is a variety 
 of firearms, like shotguns and assault rifles. One of the neat aspects of the game is that you 
 can fix up your weapons on the fly, adding scopes, silencers, and grenade launchers, provided you've 
 found them. There are trade-offs for each add-on. Silencers let you take down guys quietly, though 
 they reduce bullet damage, meaning you've got to make every shot count. Or flashlights mounted 
 on your weapons might help you out in dark levels, but will give you away.  

           It's not just infantry combat, as you can hop into almost every vehicle in the game, as 
 well as take part in an incredible tank battle.      

  Crysis gives you all of these toys and ratchets the action higher and higher the deeper you get 
 into it. The first level of the game introduces you to the sandbox combat and the nanosuit. From 
 then on, the battles become larger and more intense as the action escalates. You'll storm North 
 Korean-held villages and bases; encounter their counter to your nanosuit; take part in a chaotic 
 assault on a North Korean harbor; and from there the game accelerates. Next is a wild tank battle 
 in a tropical mountain valley, with helicopters and jet fighters roaring overhead. There's a sheer 
 rush as your tank plows through vegetation and knocks down trees as missiles and tank fire erupt 
 all around you. Meanwhile, the vehicle explosions are convincing, right down to the way ammunition 
 cooks off and sends spirals of smoke outward. It's visual poetry of destruction. You're not confined 
 to your tank the entire time, either. You can jump out at any time and use your suit powers and 
 rifle to take on enemy infantry. When they're dead, pick up their dropped rocket launchers and 
 engage vehicles in a cat-and-mouse-style game.     

   

  As events in the game continue to ramp up, you'll find yourself inside the alien ship, the zero-gravity 
 environment delivers a visually strange and yet wondrous setting. As you navigate through the environment 
 and engage the aliens you have to figure out your way through the level. Escape the alien ship 
 and you're tossed into a frozen environment against the alien foe. After the alien vessel, the 
 game becomes less free form and more linear, but it also amps up the action along the way, reflecting 
 the way that the stakes are being raised. Now you're trying to fight your way out of the alien 
 sphere, which means dodging war machines that look like something from  The Matrix . There are 
 a few more surprises in store from that point before you get to the ultimate showdown.  

           The alien environment feels appropriately otherworldly, and it feels like you're under 
 the sea.      

  The one criticism that can be leveled on the story is that it leaves you screaming for more. While 
 there's an adrenaline-packed finale, you still don't want the game to end on the note that it does. 
 The single-player campaign is around eight to 10 hours long, which is a healthy amount for a shooter. 
 There's a lot of replay here, too, as you can experiment with a multitude of different approaches. 
 Plus, it's fun to go back and try out the large, set-piece battles again and again, since they 
 can unfold in different ways thanks to the dynamic nature of the combat and the artificial intelligence. 

  Speaking of which, the AI is generally excellent in a fight, as enemy soldiers use cover and concealment 
 effectively. They also know how to lay down suppressing fire and are great at tossing grenades 
 to flush you out of hiding. Getting in a firefight in the jungle with these guys is always fun, 
 because they'll make you work for it at the default normal difficulty setting. (However, the AI 
 can suffer from the same problem all shooters seem to have; mainly that bad guys sometimes don't 
 know what's going on down the road from them.) When you take damage, find cover and your armor 
 and health will regenerate. If you die, you reload to the last checkpoint or quick save. Meanwhile, 
 Crysis includes a special hard mode called delta, which is a lot of fun, because rather than making 
 the game tougher by cheating and giving the bad guys more powerful weapons, delta takes away some 
 of the gameplay crutches that help you at lower difficulty levels. For instance, incoming grenades 
 are no longer highlighted, so you've got to pay attention now, and your health regeneration is 
 slower. And the best part about delta is that all enemy soldiers speak fully in Korean, so unless 
 you understand Korean, you're going to have a much harder time trying to figure out what they're 
 planning to do.  

  The single-player game is a considerable accomplishment by itself, but Crytek has also included 
 a full-featured multiplayer mode called power struggle that combines the best of the Battlefield 
 games and Counter-Strike. The goal in power struggle is that each 16-man team (for 32 players total) 
 must destroy the opposing team's base, but to do so they have to construct alien weaponry at a 
 central prototype facility. To power the prototype facility, though, both teams need to seize and 
 hold power stations throughout the map. In addition, there are bunkers and factories that can be 
 captured; capturing a bunker allows your team to spawn in forward positions, while capturing a 
 factory allows you to purchase vehicles that can help your side. Whenever you help your team by 
 killing the enemy or seizing an objective, you gain points that can be used to purchase more advanced 
 weapons, vehicles, and gear. It's an excellent multiplayer mode, and it comes with five large maps 
 to support it. Keep in mind that everyone has their suit powers as well, so in addition to all 
 the running and gunning and vehicle driving, there's plenty of leaping and speed running and cloaking 
 going on.  

            Power struggle is Battlefield meets Counter-Strike meets the powers of the nanosuit. 
       

  Then there's instant action, which is essentially deathmatch with nanosuit powers. This is a chaotic 
 mode set in some stunning levels, including what feels like a fully modeled Nimitz-class aircraft 
 carrier. You can run around the flight deck, a good chunk of the hanger deck, and many of the corridors. 
 Weapons are strewn about everywhere in instant action, so it's just a crazy melee of shotguns, 
 snipers, rocket launchers, or nanosuit-enhanced fists. However, a team deathmatch mode is missing, 
 which seems odd. Team deathmatch would have been a welcome addition, since it would have instilled 
 some kind of teamwork into an otherwise free-for-all frenzy. Finally, Crysis multiplayer features 
 built-in voice support, which means that all you need is a microphone to talk to your fellow players 
 and teammates in power struggle.  

  Graphically, Crysis looks photorealistic at times -- it's that amazing. Crytek has managed to achieve 
 a visual fidelity that blows away anything seen to date, and there are countless moments when you'll 
 just stop and gape at what you're seeing. Sometimes it's just the ordinary, like the setting sun 
 casting all sorts of shadows and rays through the jungle canopy. Other times, it's something epic, 
 like watching a huge alien war machine stomping toward you. The impressive aspect of the graphics 
 is just how it manages to render huge, open, dynamic, interactive levels. Everything looks amazing 
 up close or far away. Interacting with your squadmates lets you gaze upon the mechanical sinews 
 of their nanosuit, or the incredible facial animation that brings them to life. They're capable 
 of the subtlest of facial gestures to help convey emotion. Then you can sit on a ridge and peer 
 down using binoculars to a village a kilometer away, scouting the location of the patrolling guards 
 and machine gun posts. The sheer fact that many of the trees and buildings are destructible just 
 adds a level of realism that's staggering.  

  You'll need a fairly high-end system to make the game look its best. In that regard, Crysis really 
 does embody everything that's both exciting and daunting about PC gaming. A dual-core CPU and the 
 latest generation of video card can run the game at maximum detail settings capably, though you 
 have to lower the resolution a bit to do so. It's doubtful that a system has been built yet that 
 can run the game at ultra-high resolutions with all the graphical sliders maxed out. Dial down 
 the detail settings to high, which is the next-lower setting, and Crysis still blows contemporary 
 games out of the water. Results are a bit mixed at medium and low settings, though. At the lowest 
 detail settings, objects pop in and out with a fair degree of consistency. It's annoying at best 
 and frustrating at worst, as it can impact gameplay. Crysis does support both DirectX 9 and DirectX 
 10, though the latter requires you run the game using Windows Vista. The visuals in DX9 are impressive, 
 but they really come to life in DX10, provided you have the hardware.  

           This is a backwoods redneck's worst nightmare: North Koreans, aliens, and a tornado.  
     

  The game also sounds fantastic, from the primordial "moans" that the island periodically releases, 
 the soft crunch of dirt and branches under your feet, and all the background sounds that you'd 
 expect in the middle of the jungle. Turn on your suit's cloak, and everything sounds muffled. The 
 music, by composer Inon Zur, feels inspired by the scores from epic Hollywood action movies, while 
 the voice acting is also excellent, helping to deliver some distinct characters and even a little 
 humor.  

  If you put it all together, Crysis is just remarkable. This is a game that pushes the envelope 
 in terms of both technology and gameplay and does so with aplomb. Crysis raises the expectations 
 for every shooter to follow when it comes to graphics, interactivity, environments, immersiveness, 
 AI, and gameplay. Quite simply, Crysis represents the first-person shooter at its finest, most 
 evolved form.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1079 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Crysis has made quite a stir in the gaming world while it was being developed up until the day 
 it was released, the graphics were like nothing that had ever preceded it. When we finally got 
 the chance to play it we realized the hype had a reason to be that high, the graphics are beautiful. 
 One thing is sure, it will take a while until a game comes to dethrone the almighty Crysis from 
 the position of the most graphically advanced game in the market, along with its "brother" Crysis 
 Warhead, released less than an year after and being a side-vision of the main story present in 
 this game. Crysis stand victorious in any choice for exposure of how graphics have already advanced 
 and how richly detailed they have gotten. But Crysis has much more to offer than a "pretty face", 
 it actually is a first-person shooter to be remembered; with an over-the-top gameplay, an engaging 
 story and incredible artificial intelligence; it ends up offering an overall single player experience 
 that will leave you extremely satisfied.
  
  One cannot talk about Crysis without acclaiming its graphical achievements, both technical and 
 artistically. The world surrounding the game is extremely detailed, as I trust most people have 
 already at least glimpsed in some video or picture; to have everything actually happening in-screen 
 and at your full control is an astonishing experience indeed, of course if given the chance to 
 play in a computer worthy of handling this extreme demanding game. The grass moves in harmonic 
 movements based on wind breezes and people walking over them that seem insanely real; the jungle 
 has an endless number of trees with highly detailed leaves and branches each moving accordingly 
 like it would be happening in a real-life recorded video, if you punch the bough the tree will 
 fall just like it would in real-life if you had a futuristic super-suit inside your closet that 
 could increase you strength considerably. Some might say that video-games aren't supposed to look 
 too much real, as they aren't real, but these graphics turn out being so immersive that it surely 
 is interesting even if high-end graphics doesn't impress you at all; after all, even with graphics 
 that imitates real life so faithfully, you still fight extraterrestrial creatures, takes dozens 
 and dozens of shots, jump at incredible heights and all that mad fun which you are sure to find 
 in a video-game.
  
  Yes, Crysis is a beautiful game, it can impress anyone with its advanced physics and technologies 
 in lightning and depth techniques, which are unmatched for today's standards, many are Crysis' 
 merits in the graphics department. I'm sure you have never seen a better looking water in any other 
 game you've played. In the ocean you can see the waves moving realistically towards the shore, 
 a nice sight especially if seen from far away. The background also received especial treatment 
 and does not consist entirely of bland scenery filling the unreachable, it actually looks spectacular. 
 Even some minor details can impress, like the design of the guns. It's impressive how advanced 
 the physics have gotten in a game, if you see a house in the middle of the jungle, chances are 
 that you can destroy it, or your enemies will eventually if you decide to take cover at it, the 
 walls generally fall down and the whole shack collapse; practically every item you find in these 
 places has a very realistic movement, not much of them actually because most of the type you'll 
 be facing jungle, alien caverns or deserted places.
  
  The game will present you three main locations, the action will evolve through them, first you 
 have the tropical island atmosphere, then you get to meet a cavern with strange alien machinery, 
 after that you will be facing a post-apocalyptic snowy landscape. The story will flow naturally 
 into each of these environments. Each has its own set of uniqueness about using the game's tremendous 
 graphical power, the cave is maybe the most modest because it's when the atmosphere gets darker 
 but the details are always apparent and the lightning effects play a decisive role in making it 
 amazing. The ice landscape looks beautiful for itself, snow-covered mountains have never been this 
 beautiful. And of course the landscape you'll be facing most of the time, jungle, forests, beaches, 
 dirt roads and multiple enemy bases and camps.
  
  The story is set in a near future, more precisely in the year 2020, when a squad is sent by the 
 government of the United States to investigate a distress signal sent by American archeologists 
 who were digging the location and found themselves hostages of the North Korean army. When the 
 Delta Force squad reaches the island you automatically takes control of Nomad, one of the team 
 members, suddenly grisly murders start happening with some of the squad members, the rest of the 
 team is still unaware of the danger and decides to continue the mission. Your primary enemy in 
 the first part of the game is the Korean military force, but soon you'll find that the danger goes 
 beyond a mere human army and that the island holds much more secrets than it appears.
  
  For you to face Koreans and Aliens a super-suit is at your disposal, named Nanosuit. This little 
 toy is a welcome addition to any soldier in the position of Nomad, the advantages are several, 
 it enhances your normal body power limits considerably. First your health, it will be recovered 
 automatically while not taking damage. Also there's various other unique power boosting features, 
 I say unique because only one of them can be used at a time. By a mere click on the mouse or a 
 single stroke at your keyboard you can change between these functions and they all draw the power 
 of the Nanosuit, which is also recoverable. You have the Strength Mode which will give you much 
 more strength than you normally have, allowing you to throw enemies at farther distances, perform 
 a powerful punch capable of collapsing even trees and walls down and also gives you the ability 
 to jump at a much higher distance. In Speed Mode you get the ability to run faster. In Cloak Mode 
 you are able to perform one of the coolest moves available, you become temporarily invisible, and 
 in a stealth game this will do wonders. And in Armor Mode you can adjust your Nanosuit to take 
 damage instead of your your own health firstly, every time you receive damage your Nanosuit power 
 bar will be drained instead, when the bar reaches zero, then your regular health bar will decrease.
 
  
  A game that emphasizes too much upon the aesthetics is bound to have controls in the second-rate 
 department right? Wrong, the controls in Crysis are tight and incredibly functional. Everything 
 great about a first-person shooter in a PC can be found here, allowing players to perform action 
 with ease and accuracy. You can ride vehicles as well, every now and then you'll find trucks lying 
 around ready to be ridden, later in the game you will also find tanks, motorboats and hovercrafts. 
 Throughout the adventure you'll also have the chance to pilot a helicopter.
  
  For obvious reasons the graphics stand as the main star and protagonist of Crysis, even being a 
 game that is never weak in any aspect, the sound design too marked a strong presence in Crysis, 
 the effects were superbly done. Each sound of gunfire, grenade blasts, explosions, vehicle noises, 
 and even the voices of the Koreans that can also be heard in its original language with some brief 
 sentences uttered here and there.
  
  Another thing that's worth noticing is how this game can assume the facades that the players is 
 willing for it to take, primarily this game is an all-out stealth game, stealth games tend to have 
 a certain charm that separates them from the other, the atmosphere is always of non-stop suspense 
 and the game easily sucks you in making your eyes stay glued to the screen the whole time. To help 
 you with this you have the Cloak Mode will come in handy for many difficult situations, as well 
 as being an awesome feature to be used in infiltrations without getting noticed. But if you kind 
 of game isn't the slow-pace, strategically thought-out moves, you can also break your cover and 
 go for a shoot-out against many enemies at once, the colossal maps will leave you several places 
 to run around and use the environment to your favor. You can abuse the Shield Mode with this playing 
 style, and the Speed Mode when things get really ugly. But you can also find a hybrid game style 
 in between those two, sometimes one, sometimes the other. It's nice to go into multiple play-throughs 
 and experience different approaches in the game's various challenges.
  
  The multiplayer in a computer first-person shooter is a mandatory addition, and in Crysis it will 
 manage to bring you fun after you're done with the single player experience, the basic features 
 of a typical first-person multiplayer can be found along with the gigantic Crysis maps. The focus 
 is obviously not multiplayer, so much that a separated game, similar to what Warhead is to the 
 original, was released named Crysis Wars; in Crysis Wars multiplayer gets much more attention and 
 if you're looking for a more complete multiplayer experience, Crysis style, then you should look 
 for Crysis Warhead to also get Crysis Wars and then get the most of the online multiplayer.
  
  If you give Crysis a chance you'll soon find out that the game is much more than just beautiful 
 graphics, it's also beautiful graphics coherently designed with incredible controls and a very 
 interesting game system, supported by great Nanosuit features that bring a certain dynamism to 
 the game and allowing you to dictate the pace you want. A game that, if you have the necessary 
 hardware power, will impress you with the most beautiful graphics of its time; but in the end it's 
 not only a great looking game, but also a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgy1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  I was browsing through gamespot a little while ago, and I stumbled upon Crysis. I was kind of curious 
 to see what the average rating for it was, both in official reviews, and in reader average. 
  And I was shocked. 
  I saw that the reader average was lower than the press average! I've only 
 seen that in a few other games (Kane and Lynch: Dead Men...) . Then I realized: I expected this 
 game to have a reader average of at least 9.0! That never happens to me! 
  I think the reason for this was that I had such an amazing time playing this game, that anything 
 less than a nine for me would be lying. So I give it a 9.5. Not a 10, because it's not perfect. 
 And here's why;
  
  Gameplay: Through looking at reader reviews, I heard many complaints about the gameplay, saying 
 it was boring, simplistic, shallow, loose (?) , among other things. I play a lot of shooters, and 
 from all the complaints I've read, it seems like everyone who disliked this game did so because 
 they were either really bad at it or they just wanted to get through the game. In the second one 
 lies a huge problem: that's like watching A Clockwork Orange for the boobs. This game is meant 
 to be experienced slowly and deliberately, as should most forms of art. Most people who complained 
 thought that they were being rushed through everything, and that they didn't have time to take 
 in the scenery or story. I really didn't understand this because at no point did I feel rushed 
 to complete objectives, or anything else. 
  The thing this game really gets right in terms of gameplay is the shooting. Makes sense, seeing 
 as it's a shooter. If you have a game like this where the guns don't feel powerful, you have failed. 
 That's why I didn't like Call of Duty 5. All of the guns in Crysis feel good to shoot, as there 
 is just the right amount of kick for someone in a super suit, and bullets feel kinetic. It was 
 even to the point where I couldn't care less about the Koreans being able to soak up inhuman amounts 
 of damage. Although, I did get headshots most of the time to kill people. 
  I'm going to stop talking about gameplay, for I fear I will end up rambling at you.
  
  Presentation: 
 Crysis' presentation seems to be so good, that people use it as a means to prevent liking it. This 
 game is the closest I've ever been to descending into the uncanny valley of graphics. Where you 
 start to see the little, tiny details that aren't good stand out. Like eyes. And fingernails. Ooh. 
 So, the game looks spectacular, especially considering it came out a year and a half ago. I think 
 it's still the best looking game out there right now. Of course, with every good looking game comes 
 bad looking system requirements. But Crysis really had just kinda medium-high system requirements, 
 especially when considering new Ubisoft games, or... God forbid... GTAIV. Hell, I could even play 
 this game on my old dell with a 3.0 Ghz P4 and an ATi X1650, 1.25 gigs of RAM on medium settings 
 @ 1024 x 768 perfectly fine. In January, I got my new computer with all the high end fixins (excluding 
 crossfire) . 
  That being said, in January, I REALLY wanted to get my hands on this game, you know, just to test 
 it out on my computer. So, I took my friend's copy, and started plugging away. And then, I didn't 
 like it. I didn't like it because I was treating it as I did every other shooter then. Mindless. 
 Badly. About a month ago, I watched American Psycho, and started playing Hitman: Blood money a 
 bunch. And I decided to give Crysis a try again. Now that I had the attention span of more than 
 a gnat, I loved it. I still love it. I got the natural mod v1.22, and now the game looks and performs 
 better than ever. On high (Not V. High, because that's ridiculous @ 1680 x 1050 w/ 2x AA &16x AF) . 
 I still get god rays, though, because I'm just that good, and I have the natural mod. 
  
  And, before I forget, this game isn't necessarily supposed to look photo realistic, that's why 
 there is god rays and motion blur. It's just supposed to look really friggin good. 
  
  So, I'm giving this game a 9.5 basically because of my mediocre experience with it four months 
 ago. Otherwise, all my gripes are so minuscule and arbitrary that I realize I don't really care 
 when I'm playing. So there. 9.5. Take that, haters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcsblade
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 7:29 am PT
Review:  Graphics are mind blowing. I get it to run on Very High, 1280 x 1024 resolution, with only water 
 turned down to medium and Volumetric Lighting at High. I get between 25-40fps which is amazing 
 and it looks like a dream.
  
  Use of sound is also brilliant. Crysis has the best use of weapons ever.
  The story is amazing. 
 Characters are decent. Action is like wow in every sense. it has a great replay value, there are 
 many different ways to approach each objective the game lets you decide how you play. If you don't 
 like stealth and want to go in guns blazing so be it. Or you can kill every enemy in the level 
 and then demolish their buildings. Did I mention the physics are the best ever? The power behind 
 the Crytek engine is amazing. the Crytek engine is so advanced that few computers can harness its 
 full power. Most people who say its not impressive have only played on low or medium settings.
 
  
  But the beauty of Crysis is that everything is full high detail, when max out settings and its just 
 amazing to look at, this game has gone through painstaking detail which the average player would 
 never even notice. Other FPS don't even compare. From a physics and graphics point of view, its 
 the most amazing game to date, seriously jaw dropping. Tons of fun and absolutely beautiful graphics. 
 Overall the full game is a little on the short side but I feel that the Ultra-intense ride that 
 it takes you on is more than worth it. just about everything can be manipulated in some way. 
 
  Trees that fall over, tires that explode, buildings that can be blown up, animals that can be 
 picked up or shot. I laugh mad that when you pick up the chicken and walk around with it, it's 
 just so funny to look at. You get to drive a ton of vehicles, tanks, trucks, boats, helicopters. 
 These are FUN to drive and add a whole new level to game play.
  
  Seriously Crysis is a stunning, mind blowing experience of a game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTimeDinosaur
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Crysis, the CryEngines top game, so even tho my pc was bran new I didnt think it could so i bot 
 it eny way. I started off with the graphics on normal to see if the legends where true, it ran 
 fine and it looked pretty good considering. End of the first chapter I placed the graphics to high, 
 waw I didnt realise my room could get so worm (this was before I got a HDTV) but it looked great 
 and I didnt see a frame rate drop. So at the end of the second chapter I put it up to ultra high 
 (BAD IDEA) . I played for too or 3 hours and leave te room to mace a sandwich 
  (Mmm..... sandwich) , I return and I smell something like a graphics card overheating. (PANTS!!!!!) 
 I open the side and a ball of heat hit mee in the face, so I fan It down with the side of the case, 
 I cee it open when ever i play crysis, but i still play on ultra high settings. I play to he last 
 mission with no problem, except the need fo an occasion faning (exercise) . So im sure CryTek hell 
 they got this far lets just unleash the whole power of the CryEngin on the last bos. Lets say at 
 the end of the bos battle my pc was at 2/3 frames a second. so i haven't actually seen the last 
 bos go down, all i saw was a couple of frames of explosion someone yelling "COME ON NOMAD GET TH 
 ONE PLANE thingy" or somthing, camera blur, alien, somthing in my way, mor explosion, the plane 
 thingy, me jumping on the the plane thingy, even mor explosion, carrier going down. I never saw 
 the bos die 
  
  What I've learned:
  Need mor fans 
  Need mor graphics cards
  Don't by Crysis Warhead or Wars
  Crysis is very shiny
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris_53
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is a first person shooter set in a tropical paradise where one must take on mercenaries 
 armed to the teeth with a range of weaponry. Sound rather familiar to Farcry which was released 
 in 2004, well in some aspects the game is similar, however Crysis is a much better game and the 
 action remains thrilling and engaging right until the end credits. 
  
  Towards the end of the game, you find yourself fighting an alien race, which is threatening to 
 invade planet earth and extinct mankind. Unlike Farcry, the action still remains exciting and thrilling 
 right through the end of the game. 
  
  As for the graphics, at the risk of restating the obvious, the graphics are simply stunning, there 
 is nothing else out there that comes even close to matching it. However, even after a year and 
 a half, modern systems will choke and splutter trying to run this game with all visual settings 
 on very high or even high settings, not only does the game require a powerful graphics card, it 
 also requires a hell of a lot of CPU power which comes apparent during heavy combat situations. 
 My system struggled to maintain smooth performance during many situations at high settings at 1440X900 
 resolution with a dual-core AMD Athlon 5600+ CPU at 3GHz, 2GB or DDR2 RAM and a Geforce 9800GTX+ 
 graphics card and Windows XP. This is obviously a game which needs to be run with an Intel Core 
 2 Duo CPU at 3GHz or higher or even quad-core to guarantee smooth performance at high settings. 
 I also experience a few graphical issues, such as flickering lighting. 
  
  Overall, Crysis is a fantastically enjoyable game with superb action and an engaging story. However, 
 it needs a monster of a computer to run it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wojcha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is simply put, the one of the greatest shooters in the last 10 years. It's superb graphics 
 is very stunning, but also very requirement, but if you have a strong PC, you will enjoy the beauty 
 of Crysis. The gameplay is also very good, but sometimes it can be frustrating at some times, example: 
 if a car blows up and a part of it hits you, you will most probably die, or if a broken tree falls 
 on you... But nonetheless the gameplay is amazing. The AI is quite impressive. It will always go 
 to cover and try to flank you (on normal difficulty and above, easy is simply easy ;D) , push you 
 back, but in this action the special suit actions will help you. You have: 
  -Maximum Strength (high jumps, strong melee attacks)
  -Maximum Speed (the name says it all)
 
  -Maximum Armor (you are invulnerable until your suit energy drops to 0)
  -Invisibility (you are invisible until suit energy drops to 0)
  
  Overall, this is a game you 
 should not miss. I would've given it a 10/10 but i didn't because it has very HIGH requirements, 
 but if u have a good PC, it's your duty as a gamer to buy it. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 10:07 pm PT
Review:  One thing that all videogames try to do is make you feel like you're in the game. Whether it's 
 by using a plastic guitar to make you feel like a rockstar or motion sensing controls that make 
 you feel like you're actually swinging a tennis racket. And Crytek gives you that feeling with 
 the excellent graphics in Crysis.
  When the game was first shown to the public, people quickly doubted the graphics the same way they 
 did with the infamous Killzone 2 trailer. People also wondered if the game would actually be a 
 good game beyond the pretty visuals. And the answer for both of those questions is yes. Crysis 
 looks fantastic and plays like a dream with an intriguing story, fun shootouts, and multiplayer 
 that doesn't feel tacked-on. 
  
  Crysis puts you in the boots of a United States Special Forces soldier who goes in with his team 
 to rescue an American scientist who has been kidnapped by the North Koreans who are excavating 
 a large, remote island in the Philippine Sea. Just as one of your buddies "Psycho" says, the scientist 
 isn't the only reason you're here. Without spoiling too much, the North Koreans eventually find 
 some alien artifacts that seem to have an infinite power source. And being the evil greedy villains 
 that they are, they try to take all of the energy for themselves. But in result, the aliens get 
 mad and freeze part of the island. 
  
  The first thing that you'll notice about Crysis is its great graphics. I will warn you that the 
 game is a system hog. The system I ran the game on was from 2007 and had an Intel Core Duo Processor 
 and an Nvidia 8600 GT graphics card. And even with all this, I could only run the game on medium 
 settings with no anti-aliasing or motion blur. But despite this, the game still looks amazing. 
 As long as you can run the game on medium settings, you'll definitely be impressed. As for the 
 low settings, I wouldn't bother with them unless you're hell-bent on playing this game no matter 
 how bad it looks. I still had a couple hiccups here and there (mainly at scripted parts) , but other 
 than that, the game ran fine with a decent framerate. The amount of detail in Crysis is amazing. 
 The palm trees serenely sway in the wind, the sunsets look beautiful, and the faces of your friends 
 and foes are perfectly detailed. The tropical island looks good enough to jump into. That is until 
 the island freezes. The frozen trees, bushes, soldiers, and jeeps look equally amazing. All of 
 your weapons have frost on them, and if you stand in place for too long, your visor starts to freeze 
 up from the low temperatures. 
  
  But even when you look beyond the lush graphics, you'll be able to tell that Crysis is in fact, 
 a great game. The gun-play feels solid and realistic. When you look down the iron-sights (or scope) , 
 the weapon will realistically sway as you breathe. You can also customize all of your weapons on 
 the fly by pressing the "c" key which quickly lets you attach scopes, grenade (and sleeper dart) 
 launchers, laser pointers, and other little knickknacks that improve the game's myriad selection 
 of weapons. Your characters specialized Nano-Suit is also fun to use. With four special abilities 
 (armor, strength, speed, and cloak) , your character is always ready for any given situation.
  
  Even when the single-player adventure ends, there is still plenty of fun to be found in the 
 multiplayer component of Crysis. While the traditional deathmatch mode is fun (known as "instant 
 action" in the game) , it's really disappointing to not see a team-deathmatch mode, especially considering 
 how much the game is about good versus evil. But if deathmatch is too vanilla for you, there's 
 the surprisingly deep "Power Struggle" mode which combines the elements of Battlefield and Counter-Strike 
 with the pacing of Halo and Call of Duty. "Power Struggle" is based around teams trying to capture 
 different control points. But what makes "Power Struggle" so unique is that capture points do special 
 things to help out your team. Capturing a barracks building allows players to spawn there, while 
 capturing a factory gives the team access to vehicles. And best of all, capturing an alien crash 
 site gives the team special access to alien weapons and vehicles! And just like Counter-Strike, 
 you earn money ("credits") for completing good actions such as capturing control points and eliminating 
 enemies. You can spend credits on new weapons, gear, and ammo. There are only a few maps to play 
 on mainly consisting of tropical island based locations (not the actual island from the story mode 
 though) as well as a special desert-themed level that shows off the game's excellent engine in 
 a non-tropical setting.
  
  So is there really anything wrong with Crysis? Well, you can say that the story mode is a bit on 
 the short side, especially since there aren't many reasons to replay it. And the high system requirements 
 slightly limit the game's audience to people who have access to a high-end PC. But if you can look 
 beyond those two points, you'll find that Crysis is simply an amazing game. With great graphics 
 as well as great gameplay, any fan of action or FPS games should check this out immediately. And 
 if you've considered upgrading your rig for this game, do it because you won't regret it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenBlackWing
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  I can tell by the way all reviews go, Crysis takes the cake. . . in a good way. It is the one of 
 the most stunning and respectible PC game ever to be released, look at all the possibilities you 
 can do with this game.
  
  Sure that it's hard the first time you play it, but when you get to know the storyline and the 
 controls, you will have a blast playing this game. The graphics are just visually epic (I think 
 one of my video cards got fried as I witnessed an explosion I've caused in the middle of the game. 
 Darn Nvidia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mperor_g
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  OK, I liked the game, but that doesn't mean it didn't suck, it just means it didn't suck completely.
 
  
  Super Korean's, retarded aliens and the most advanced suit of personal body armour which is ultimately 
 useless.
  You'd think that I'd give the game 3-4 out of 10, but despite these flaws the game is enjoyable 
 and if your looking for a challenge and prefer stealthy combat this game is fun.
  
  And yes one can't talk about Crysis without mentioning the jaw dropping graphics, even in the lamest 
 part of the game (the end) at least the there's gorgeous Ice everywhere.
  
  All in all it wasn't the most fantastic experience, I actually preferred Far Cry 1 to this (despite 
 the mutants) yet the game was enjoyable, and it kept me playing even through the dumb parts. So 
 it couldn't have been as bad as some people make it out to be, but neither is it the be all and 
 end all of FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstare61
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Review (3/25/09)
  
  Pros:
  
  Freedom: There are many different ways to play through the missions in this game. You can use the 
 invisibility and speed functions of the suit and play through the game stealthily, hiding behind 
 trees and catching the enemies off-guard. Or you can blast in to the enemy base guns blazing and 
 packing super strength. Or you can find a high mountain or outpost, jump to the top using super 
 strength, and snipe everyone in the area. Highly replayable, the Sandbox2 Editor and mods make 
 this aspect even better.
  
  Moddability- All copies of the game come with a Sandbox2 Editor, allowing you to change any level 
 in the game any way you see fit, or create a new level altogether. Or if you just want to play, 
 you can download new mods and levels from the huge modding community. Personally, I like opening 
 up the tank level with the Editor, giving myself a mini-nuke, and destroying everything I see. 
 
  
  Graphics- The best looking game out there for the past two years (this is a fact) , and I still 
 don't see any new upcoming releases which will take this position. Really nothing else I can say 
 about how amazing this game looks.
  
  Solid Action- The gunplay is solid, the gameplay is intense, the explosions are beautiful, and 
 the nanosuit just makes it all even more fun. 
  
  Cons:
  
  Multiplayer- Entertaining for awhile, but not really that much fun. Doesn't have much of a multiplayer 
 community either, you're better off with the Call of Duty series.
  
  System Requirements- Chances are you'll need to upgrade your PC to play this on high. I played 
 this on High with 30 FPS with an Intel Quad Core Q6600, an 8800 GTS (320 MB) , and 3 GB of RAM.
 
  
  Overall: A+ (This game is not just pretty graphics, it has amazing freedom and gameplay as well. 
 Truly a Sandbox game.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: expulsamos13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, what should I say, this is simply one of the best FPS game I have ever played, probably the 
 best, sorting out COD4 which I once thought was the best FPS game. Fallout 3? Killzone 2? Bah, 
 crap when compared to this...
  
  Where shall I start? Every aspect of this game is genuinely perfect to be honest. Lets start with 
 the gameplay itself, one of the biggest aspects, and probably the most important element of an 
 FPS game. Crysis had definitely created a new level of an FPS gaming experience, which is one of 
 its greatest attributes to the gaming industry. Unlike a normal, too common FPS game, Crysis is 
 very tactical, deeply player intelligent-dependent compared to other FPS. The mode-switching of 
 various suit abilities surely suites those who love doing a strategically planned attack towards 
 the enemy, not just bluntly shooting the enemy like a normal FPS game. The switching-the-"devices" 
 feature on the weapons was another success this game had made. This is just simply "cool". AI was, 
 by the way, dull and left a lot of space for improvement. Even when playing on Delta mode, plus 
 using Advanced AI mode, I find this game very easy to beat. Overall, the gameplay easily grabbed 
 a 10/10 from me. 
  
  Graphics and background music? These aspects of the game
  surely would whoop yer asses. You'll find your own eyeballs un-blink-able for the entire time playing 
 this game. Somehow I had some confusion that which one has better visuals and eye-candy looking; 
 crysis in-game graphics or......... realtime life!!!!???? seriously, this game catches your sight 
 the first time you see it. Crysis has the best graphics compared to any game, but sadly this game 
 didn't won the award it deserved from gamespot T_T... musics in this game are awesome, it just 
 suites the background and the ambient of any level you play.
  
  Crytek by all odds deserves my credit. Well done crytek! For making such an awesome game; your 
 endless efforts worth the upshot! Now I can't wait for the sequel. Damn, it takes forever to wait 
 for Crysis 2 (?) .... XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerslide67
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game all I knew about it was that it was a first person shooter, the main character 
 had a special suit and that it required a powerful PC. Now after far cry 2 I was skeptical about 
 Crysis but was I wrong!
  
  Before I begin let me say that if you can see your CPU or GPU on the box of the game under "supported 
 CPU and chipsets" then forget it. Try the demo, if you can run it at a resolution of 480x640 and 
 with shadows disabled you won't enjoy it. What I suggest you do is wait until you can get a core 
 2 quad and ATI 4800 series graphics card or a nvidia 9800GTX and then get the game and enjoy it 
 the way it was meant to be played (quoting nvidia) . 
  
  The lucky ones with a decent computer will find this game a blast. The difficulty is OK, I just 
 finished the game on hard and I found little difference between hard and easy, because you still 
 face the same number of enemies the only difference is that they do more damage. That's my only 
 complaint about the game and the reason I didn't give it a 10.
  
  The story is truly well written and engaging. I don't want to ruin the ending but soon the Koreans 
 will be the least of your problems! The fights and the environments keep getting better and better 
 as the story progresses plus the game uses dynamic weather so you will fight at night, day, with 
 rain, sunshine and snow (but that's only at the end and I won't talk about it) .
  
  The controls are extremely good but you may want to remap the grenade button (default G) to somewhere 
 easier to access or you will barely use them. The game offers customization and attachments for 
 guns: you will find stuff like laser pointers, sights, different bullets and grenade launchers 
 which you will hardly ever use because to switch to it takes ages, by the time you switched from 
 primary fire to the attachment and vice versa you are usually dead.... and even then unless there 
 are a lot of enemies really closed together you will find that it's not worth it. A couple of head 
 shots or a frag grenade will do the trick just fine.
  
  The vehicles in the game are OK although you will barely use them as you will generally find it 
 easier to walk and catch the enemies by surprise. For example you will find the 4x4 a bullet magnet, 
 when you have to drive the tank you will find easier to deal with other tanks using the cannon 
 but if you encounter Koreans with RPGs they will destroy your tank in no time so you may want to 
 hop out and deal with them using a sniper rifle. At one point you have to flight the VTOL but it's 
 extremely fun! 
  
  The nano-suit is one of the key features of the game. Without it the game would be just a regular 
 FPS with beautiful graphics. The suit has 4 different modes:
  
  -speed mode: increases the movement speed and pressing the sprint button you will move at unbelievable 
 speed
  
  -armor mode: it's the default, the suit behaves like a armor
  
  -strength mode: lets you jump higher, pick up and throw very heavy objects. You will also deliver 
 a deadly melee attack in this mode.. and reduces the sway of the gun and recoil (very useful when 
 you are using sniper scopes to increase accuracy)
  
  -cloak mode: you become invisible! This is probably the best mode
  
  Obviously these modes 
 are not unlimited so don't think the game will be easy, you will die in seconds if you can't find 
 cover and you will face treats from the ground, sky or sea so be alert. The suit will use up all 
 its energy in speed mode if you sprint, cloak mode will use up a lot of energy if you move or sprint 
 and it will completely run out if you shoot your gun. Armor mode uses up its energy when you get 
 shot to save your health. In this mode your health and suit energy will also recharge quickly (that 
 is if you are not shot at) . It's up to you to choose the right one for the situation. Sometimes 
 you may choose to knock people out by running them over in speed mode, sometimes you may want to 
 punch them to death or throw them meters away in strength mode or sneak up on them in cloak mode 
 and finish them using a silenced weapon.
  
  This is an epic game so good that will leave you screaming for more. Luckily that's where crysis 
 warhead comes in. Check the demo out, if you can run the demo well on your pc then what are you 
 waiting for? Get the game immediately! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 7:13 am PT
Review:  Ok the bad first... it is somewhat linear as a story although within a certain enviroment you have 
 a certain amount of choice.
  
  The alien bits in terms of combat enjoyment suck.
  
  The invisible thing, for me was always a little questionable.
  
  The best thing about this 
 game is the excellent storyline, graphics and enviroment that keep this game worth playing to the 
 end. The latter parts which are very movie like as the story develops are very well executed and 
 entertaining.
  
  The combat mechanics are decent although not perfect, I believe they certainly could have improved 
 aspects. The guns don't feel quite right but I do love the way you can add remove the silencer, 
 change scope etc.
  
  To be honest the first Far Cry is in my mind this games daddy and in reality the combat mechanics 
 of Far Cry are superior to this game. Just in terms of fun and gunplay. 
  
  This game should be a 10 but it is only a 9 for me because the gunplay is not as enjoyable as it 
 should be, possibly this is related to the invisible aspect of the game which just like the slow 
 down time feature in Fear is something I seriously question. There is no need to accessorise the 
 basics of gunplay too much with fancy gimicks and the invisible thing is a bit of a gimick. Although 
 the other features of the suit are more reasonable gimicks.
  
  Overall, excellent story (if a little generic) , excellent presentation, excellent voice acting, 
 excellent pacing and development. Some special moments, some exhiliartion in part. The only thing 
 that lets this game down is its gimicks, slight combat deficiency and the linearity of the storyline.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigshowcool
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I love this game!
  Its a very cool Sci-Fy FPS, and a good thing about it, its:
  
  I'm Portuguese, so I'm very happy to know that a person of my country worked in this game (his 
 name is Tiago Sousa, and he do the graphics for the jungle and the water) !!!!
  
  The game mixed a normal FPS (like Far Cry) with a very cool Scy-Fi adventure (its like Half-Life, 
 but much better!) . 
  
  Every single detail in the game its awesome (the Single Player mode, the Multiplayer mode, the 
 graphics, the music, the story, the weapons, the enemies, ...) .
  
  I think that this game is very cool and, the "Easy" mode in Single Player its a very easy way to 
 learn how to play with the keyboard of the computer, wich is much different of the remote of the 
 Playstation 3 or the Xbox 360 (for the newest gamers, this is a cool game to begin a life of gaming) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephilim83
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Oh my GOD!!!! I cannot express how excited I am about this game! I've been trying to see what all 
 the fuss is about forever now, but I've never had a computer that could run it. Based on that alone 
 I just knew it had to be magnificent. So I did what I knew I had to do in order to find out. I 
 raked together all the extra dough I could get my hands on and built myself a custom gaming rig 
 with no other intensions beyond playing this game maxed out on highest settings. Now I know it 
 could have been dumb and I could have been setting myself up for a major letdown, but that's why 
 I'm so excited!!! This game has blown my mind! Its WAAAYYY beyond what I expected! I honestly thought 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 was the most beautiful game ever made and would not be beat for time to come, 
 but this game makes MGS4 look like a DOS game!! Its so freakin' beautiful! Everything looks so 
 stunningly realistic I just get lost in this! And what's better than these graphics!!?? THE GAMEPLAY!!! 
 ITS AWESOME!!!
  Some of the most innovative gameplay I've ever seen in a first person shooter. The Halos, Half-lifes, 
 Dooms, and Quakes of the world have a LOT of stepping up to do. Those games are boring little pre-schooler 
 games compared to this! Okay, a run-down: You're NOMAD a marine or whatever coming to this island 
 to answer a distress call... yeah yeah.... same old same old same old right? Well, not when you 
 throw in this fancy little cyber suit of his! The suit really makes the game for the most part. 
 You have four basic modes. Armor, Power, Speed, and Stealth. Armor maximizes the amount of damage 
 you take so you can basically just stand there and pump shotgun rounds in a bunch of dudes faces. 
 Power makes you super strong. Its mostly used for jumping greater heights, but theres one other 
 detail about it that make it my favorite mode: THE POWER PUNCH! Yeah, just run up to a guy, punch 
 him in the head, and watch him fly 50 feet in the air. Its rediculous, but funny! Speed is cool 
 cause it lets you walk faster and sprint at like 100 mph!! Be careful not to run smack into a wall! 
 It can kill you!!! And stealth is... you guessed it! An inivisibility cloak for all of us MGS4 
 fans! Nothing like a little tactical stealth action to get your heart pumping!!! 
  So yeah, the suit really makes the game! The weapons are pretty cool with a few exclusive gems 
 like the GaussGun that pack a mean punch. Nothing too flashy though. I don't really use the weapons 
 much. I like to smack faces!!!
  The story is really really cool. I'm only about half way through so far but its WAY more than what 
 you expect from the intro! I thought I was just gonna be fighting Koreans... WRONG!!! This game 
 takes you to another dimension! And its sick!!! 
  ANYWAY! This game is amazing and has changed the way I look at First Person Shooters! They don't 
 all suck afterall!!!! Unfortunatly, if you don't have a good dual core or better with a 150dollar 
 graphics card and about 2 to 3 gigs of memory you're gonna be missing out on what really makes 
 this game special and that's the vivid textures, engenious physics, and enormously glorious set 
 pieces. If you can see the sea foam as the waves ride up around your feet you just ain't seeing 
 Crysis!! I built my rig for about the same price as I bought my PS3 - $500!! So, you don't need 
 a $4,000 AlienWare to play the best games around. Just be smart and save a little dough. Anyway, 
 if ever you are capable --- PLAY THIS  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan543
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 2:42 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a solid great game. Seriously, if you have a computer that can run it, then go ahead 
 and buy this game is you are into FPS games, or even if you want to give this genre a chance. Crysis 
 is that good for many reasons. Even though is delivers this amazing game, Crysis by no means is 
 a revolutionary game in a sense that can change the genre, and as a matter of fact, it stays far 
 away from doing it.
  So, let me start with the graphics. They are absolutely mesmerizing. Sadly, this means you must 
 have a true powerhouse of a computer to run the game 100% and a very good computer to run it to 
 acceptable conditions. Nevertheless, with some of the settings turned down, the game still looks 
 and feels amazing. The amount of detail poured into this game is something that has to be seen 
 and played to really appreciate it at its full level: the nano suit, the weapons, the animations, 
 the models, the incredible jungle, all of them are truly great technical and artistic accomplishments. 
 A screenshot will never do justice. The game must be played to really see how beautiful this game 
 is, from the motion blur to dynamic shadows and depth of field, this game is truly immersive and 
 at times can feel photorealistic.
  The controls are top notch. From a technical perspective, the controls feel very realistic. The 
 guns have recoil and shooting and hitting things at a distance is difficult. I particularly loved 
 the way you can switch between different modes of your nano suit, it feel intuitively and can be 
 done easily and fast in the heat of battle. It all flows right and feels great for a FPS.
  AI is really good in this game. The North Koreans act according to your position and will generally 
 attack in groups to take you down more easily. They also run for cover when shoot at and are very 
 accurate (at least in hard and delta difficulty) . Again, the game feels very realistic. Depending 
 on where you shoot them they will react. If they do not know where they are being shoot from, they 
 will look around looking for you. If they know where you are, they will close in quietly to take 
 you down. Nevertheless, sometimes the AI fails, as if it didn't know what to do. While I was playing 
 a scene in which you use a tank, some of the Koreans would only stand there waiting to be killed. 
 Also, they can have supersonic enhanced vision, because they can spot you from very long distances 
 and alert an entire patrol that comes after you. Nevertheless, this are minor issues. The game 
 plays great most of the time.
  Now, some of my complaints with Crysis are that the story is not really original. You are sent 
 along with another people on a mission to retrieve someone from a Island of Unkown location were 
 a discovery has been made that can change the course of humanity, and for some reason, North Korea 
 knows and invades the island, taking hostage the scientists that make the discovery and planning 
 to take over this secret for their advantage. So, turns out the discovery was aliens. So, they 
 basically f'ed up by digging them out, because now they will destroy earth. Guess what, now you 
 gotta stop them form doing that. Wait... this sounds a little bit familiar... aside from the Cliched 
 aliens, and most of it not being explained at all, the story has a resemblance to... Contra! That's 
 right, remember that game? You start off killing some random people and then discover that aliens 
 want to destroy earth, so you in the end save the world. So, yeah, not particularly original, but 
 good enough to keep you playing.
  My second complain is how the game is played. Basically, you will have plenty of hours of killing 
 Koreans in the beginning. And thats it. Get to point A, get to Point B, download data from a computer 
 in point A, destroy some AAA in point B, but while you travel between points, you will have to 
 pass many Korean outposts and many Koreans too. So basically, you will spend a lot of time shooting 
 Koreans while you travel all around the island. In the beginning, this is very entertaining, specially 
 because there are many ways to attack the outposts and ways to do it. And this is where the nano 
 suit comes in. Is is the most important feature of the game, because it is what makes the game 
 so fun to play. So basically, you become some sort of demigod, because you can run fast, have power 
 armor, have super strength or even cloak. You are a one man army, literally, since you will face 
 sometimes 30 enemies or more. So, you can decide to enter the enemy base through the water for 
 example, or just blast your way through with a car get out and shoot and run, or you can snipe 
 your foes from a distance, or you can go stealthy and use your cloak and take them out one by one. 
 Or you can combine many of these (which is what happens most of the time) , because most of the 
 time brute force grants you a ticket to the underworld, nevertheless, there is nothing more gratifying 
 than going Rambo and actually annihilating your enemy. The battles are exciting, fast paced and 
 really gratifying. But, back to my complain, after a while, this becomes a little bit... repetitive. 
 Even though you can engage battles in many ways, it will feel sometimes as if you were only ultimately 
 shooting Koreans.
  Also, the gameplay is what makes the game not very original. Even though there is lot of freedom 
 to do whatever you want, it is basically the same objectives thought the game. Go here, go there, 
 get this, destroy that, while you shoot Koreans and more Koreans. It's what FPS's have done for 
 a long time and this is what I meant when I say that Crysis doesn't really try to change the genre, 
 even though it definitely sets new standards. Now, my final complaint is that after a while, you 
 will stop shooting Koreans and will actually shoot aliens... the aliens are these flying things 
 that... do not have lots of AI. After a while, it becomes a little bit boring, and even though 
 initially it is fresh air from the Koreans, in the end you wish you were shooting Koreans instead.
 
  Finally, we have the multiplayer. All the nano suit features can be used and it makes great for 
 a multiplayer game. There are two modes, deathmatch and power struggle. Deathmatch is what we all 
 know but with Crysis weapons and nano suit modes. What is interesting is Power Struggle and it 
 is really fun, but can be exceedingly frustrating. The objective is to capture energy sites and 
 a powe plant to accumulate the energy up to 100% and then be able to fabricate weapons of mass 
 destruction to blow up the enemy's HQ. And it is really fun. The maps are huge for this mode and 
 you will need the vehicles from the game to get to the different sites. You can also capture bunkers 
 to use them as spawn points and places where you can buy weapons. You can also capture have weapon 
 factories to get access to tanks. You can purchase weapons and this special vehicles and weapons, 
 such as helicopters or even the portable nukes, with prestige points, which are acquired by killing 
 enemy forces and capturing different sites. It is war in this mode. Opposing teams will fight for 
 a long time to maintain control of everything to be the first to be able to purchase nukes or singularity 
 tanks (alien technology) to blow up the other HQ. It takes more than one nuke to destroy the HQ, 
 which adds strategy to the game, since you must take the nuke from the factory all the way to the 
 enemy HQ w/o dying. The game is fun and keeps you busy at all times, since you wanna nukes those 
 suns of a guns! The nano suit makes it especially cool, because you can cloak and do other stuff 
 to defeat your enemies. Now, the frustration part of this mode is that sometimes is is difficult 
 to do anything at all. If some player from the other team get a advanced heli you can be killed 
 with one missile even with your nano suit. if they know how to use it, you are doomed, because 
 it is really hard to hit them. Snipers are another problem. You might be running and all of a sudden 
 die because of someone camping on a distant mountain while cloaked. What is really infuriating 
 is when you finally get a tank and while you are getting out, someone kills you instantly with 
 missiles or bazookas. Prestige points are hard to get sometimes, specially because it takes a long 
 time to get from one point o another, and you can get killed very easily. So, sometimes you do 
 not have prestige points and do not have access to any of the cool stuff, and when you actually 
 have them and spend the, you are killed instantly and all of it was vain. So yeah, the concept 
 was very good, but it is very hard not to be frustrated at some point. It a good mode and can be 
 enjoyed, but don't be surprised if you get annoyed quickly, especially the first time you play 
 and have no idea where anything is and get killed every time.
  In conclusion, Crysis is a good game, a very good game. Even though it might be repetitive from 
 time to time, the experience is hard to describe and definitely worth checking. The graphics alone 
 are something that should be seen and played in fullmotion at least once. The game rocks. I cannot 
 see it other way, and this may be truly a game in all of its splendor of this current gen. The 
 game looks great, feels great, plays great, sounds great and it actually very fun. You should get 
 this game if you own a good pc. The game is truly amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Great_Ow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 2:40 am PT
Review:  All in all, many people actually love this game. The graphics are excellent in a sense that they 
 look real and beautiful (What!? You don't agree with me?! Then go play some cartoony FPS game lor, if 
 you do not like the graphics, though the graphics might me slightly stressful on old PC) Storyline 
 
  is good, not like some 'fixed' mode.
  
  The best part is that this game does not control you to follow it's instruction on HOW to play 
 the game, (example [Do this] or [Do that] .) but rather it let you control your own actions on HOW 
 to play the game. Do your own thing, rush to complete or you could do the sub-missions. Spray, go invinsible, snipe, or 
 do all of them.
  
  The are four 'powers' to choose as you fought along the game, namely maximum armor, maximum strength, maximum 
 speed and cloak.
  Some people regard only armor mode as effective in battle, criticising strength, speed and cloak. Those 
 air-heads does not know how to use the powers in battle, and how you use them makes this game really 
 fun as well as funny. For example, throwing heavy items (like a washing machine) in strength mode 
 at enemies can actually kill them without wasting ammo. Armor mode simply protect you as you spray 
 them with bullets. Speed punching is another fun and interesting way of slaying your targets. In 
 trouble? If you can spare enough power... cloak, crouch and move behind the enemies to recharge your 
 suit energy and fight again.
  Whoever said that those powers are useless? :)
  
  Customize your weapons with little things that can go a long way. All the small little details can 
 change your ordinary rifle to one heck of a weapon. Wide varieties of weapons means different ways 
 to eliminate the enemies. Change the customization according to your missions, which is amazingly 
 helpful. Some games dun even let you put in things you need or wanted to the weapons -.-
  
  If you change your gameplay style occasionaly, you would never get bored of this game. Don't kill 
 people with only one method, do everything like blowing up them or soaking them in a trail of flying 
 small metals or simply running them over using vehicles [There are many type of vehicles, from light 
 cars to heavy tanks to boats to my favourite flying vehicles! Most importantly, they are more than 
 one type of vehicles for each classification, you know what i mean] ROAD KILL!!!
  
  Finally, the objective of every mission makes sense, locate and rescue hostages? Yes sir... gather 
 enemy intelligence? Duh, of course it make sense.
  
  Oh yeah, the difficulties of the game actually affect your suit's energy, i think.
  I felt that 
 i use less energy speed sprinting in hard mode compared to easy mode. So if you want a mode that 
 is challenging but not too stressful to complete, go for normal and hard. [Delta for those tough 
 super gamers]
  
  Thus, i end this review for crysis. Thank you EA and all other producers to create this game, many 
 people throughly enjoyed it and I sure that they are thinking the same thing as me...... THIS SURE 
 IS ONE HECK OF A SUBERB GAME!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgtc
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:18 am PT
Review:  After all the hype, this has to be one of the most disappointing games I've ever played. OK, it 
 looks beautiful, so what? You spend half of the time watching cut scenes or performing predefined 
 actions. It shouldn't even be called a "game" - there's too little real gameplay for that. Crysis 
 is no more than a kind of interactive movie you'll watch once and soon forget about. I can only 
 pity all the people who spent big money on high-end video cards to even be able to watch the "movie" 
 - they'd be better off renting a good sci-fi DVD or going to a theater. It's also a shame to see 
 ATI and NVIDIA optimizing their drivers like crazy for stuff like this while some REAL infinitely 
 replayable games like Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory run worse with each new driver release, even 
 though they are still played by a much larger number of people. Don't believe me - just check out 
 GameSpy's own real-time statistics at http://archive. gamespy. com/stats 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirk1264
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 6:38 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a game from Crytek and it's set on a remote unknown island out in the ocean. The North 
 Koreans are taking over and you play as Nomad as part of a special forces team to go in and rescue 
 a group of archaeologists only to find that there is something Alien waking up during the whole 
 process. 
  
  IMO, Crysis possesses innovative gameplay that evolves the first person shooter category. You can 
 attack any objective any way you want. The environments are completely open and filled with a lush 
 detailed jungle environment. A nice add on to the gameplay is the nano suit powers. You can go 
 in guns ablazing using speed mode, or be stealthy using cloak mode and pick off one enemy at a 
 time. The other suit power is ultimate strength which gives you the ability to jump really high 
 and makes you very strong. This power is also useful if you have the sniper rifle. The suit power 
 allows you to stabilize the cross hairs so you can get an accurate shot on a target. Another nice 
 addition to the gameplay is the physics department. I know this should be as part of the graphics 
 but you can use the environment to kill enemies. You can punch logs down a hill to kill enemies, 
 or blow up a building while they are still in them and kill them instantly. The physics is just 
 unreal in this game. It's like nothing I've ever seen before. 
  
  Graphically, Crysis is the undisputable king. It destroys the competition with highly detailed 
 environments as well as character models. The lighting is ultra realistic and you can even see 
 the rays coming through the trees. The water effects are very realistic especially looking at the 
 waves in the ocean. Particle effects are some of the best in gaming as well. Crysis also boasts 
 of the best explosions ever. From blowing up a standard hummer type vehicle with a turret to blowing 
 up a helicopter or destroying the big ship on the assault mission, the explosions almost look like 
 real life. The physics in the game are also awesome. As stated before you can destroy almost anything. 
 I especially love firing a rocket into a building and watch it explode. 
  
  If there is one downfall about Crysis, it is the story. It's good but not great. It is definitely 
 better though than alot of modern FPS's that are out there today. Another sad part was when the 
 game turned Sci Fi and you entered the alien space ship, that is where the sandbox part of the 
 gameplay ended. The last four missions, starting with the core mission, were pretty linear. They 
 weren't like corridor shooters as they were pretty large linear levels but you still could only 
 go from point A to point B. It really doesn't matter though cause the gameplay escalated in my 
 opinion. The battles got more intense and more frenetic especially the last level in the game. 
 
  
  Overall, I really enjoyed Crysis. I beat the game 6 times already and keep going back for more 
 and trying out new things that I haven't done before. If you are looking for a new experience with 
 a first person shooter then Crysis is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  First, I would to start with the story: This game has a great story that will keep you going.
 
  
  But when you buy this game, you don't buy it for the story,
  you buy it for the awesome gameplay and especially the graphics which are amazing, there's even 
 no need in cut-scenes because the game always looks really beautiful and the textures too.
  
  But remember this game requires a very powerful computer, so if you're computer is total GARBAGE, 
 then you should consider in NOT buying this game.
  
  Crysis also has a lot cool attachments, and the obvious weapons such as AK-47, carbine rifle, etc. 
 
  nothing that new but it's still awesome.
  
  So get a powerful computer and get rid of that old crappy computer and immediately buy this game, 
 awesome edition for hardcore PC gamers and there's also a sequel to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbaturin
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:37 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows this game rocks. What sucks about it? The system requirements!!! C'mon, it came 
 out 1.5 years ago, and my thousand dollar rig that I assembled last summer can barely run it at 
 High settings (1680*1050) , and I don't even dream of maxing it out. Which is really disappointing, 
 because a thousand bucks is more than enough to see Crysis at full beauty. But now, with the economic 
 crisis and all, that won't be happening to me anytime soon.
  Hence my score: 10 out of 10 for the game itself, and 5 out of 10 for optimisation and sys reqs. 
 Which averages off to 7.5.
  Good luck on the market, Crytek.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Everyone knows this game rocks. What sucks about it? The system requirements!!! C'mon, it came 
 out 1.5 years ago, and my thousand dollar rig that I assembled last summer can barely run it at 
 High settings (1680*1050) , and I don't even dream of maxing it out. Which is really disappointing, 
 because a thousand bucks is more than enough to see Crysis at full beauty. But now, with the economic 
 crisis and all, that won't be happening to me anytime soon.
  Hence my score: 10 out of 10 for the game itself, and 5 out of 10 for optimisation and sys reqs. 
 Which averages off to 7.5.
  Good luck on the market, Crytek. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronygreat
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 3:58 am PT
Review:  It is visually stunning, Dynamic, emergent shooter, packed with intelligent, thrilling gameplay, amazing 
 accomplishment overall and easily one of the greatest shooters ever made. but I dislike alien invasion 
 theme...... You get to try different vehicles and weapons and even airplanes, so diversity is in 
 place. I generally feel best on foot, but it was cool to fly the plane. In the end you get som 
 impressive firepower too, wich is a nice reward for playing all the starting levels.
  
  Crysis is a very demanding game in terms of hardware but there is a rich environment for players 
 who are able to run the game appropriately. While the visuals are magnificent and a pleasure to 
 see, the inventive nature of the game play is impressive too and should ensure that most players 
 will make their way through the 15 hour campaign at least once. There are issues to be found in 
 several aspects of the game, but few of these are serious enough to exploit what is one of the 
 grandest, most beautiful, and inventive titles for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Member
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 4:34 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a technically impressive game, but some parts of it i found confusing and a little too 
 busy. I least liked the tank-driving parts and most liked the last levels in more confined spaces.
 
  The last levels became more to my liking, even though some parts felt unnecessary. Like the floating 
 inside the alien island scene. Too much swimming around and not enough progress / action.
  
  You get to try different vehicles and weapons and even airplanes, so diversity is in place. 
 I generally feel best on foot, but it was cool to fly the plane. In the end you get som impressive 
 firepower too, wich is a nice reward for playing all the starting levels.
  
  What I miss with games like this is a super easy level that let casual gamers like myself beat 
 the game without putting hardcore time into it. At some juctions I had to load and try again too 
 many times to find it fun to play.
  
  In conclusion: I really liked Crysis, and I'm starting Crysis Warhead now. Well worth it if you 
 have the hardware to run it at decent graphic levels. I only wish that i didn't spend so much time 
 staring confused at the screen while everything shook with explosions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidklan123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:16 pm PT
Review:  got my mind on it at first i saw the trailers few years ago,
  stealthsuit against korean army "hmmm that's wouldn't be fair"
  at first i play the demo from 
 gamespot (thank's a lot GS team) ,
  it was few nano guys jump off the plane and something went wrong
  not a big deal right!, than 
 folowing the radar while practicing my nanosuit
  killing some korean unlucky soldier!, but than i saw one of the nano guys
  died with blod n scar 
 on all over his body, than i said that was strange?
  how come that korean can tear this guy suit a part???
  in the end of the demo when we reach on 
 the top of the mountain
  we found a ship... yes a ship in the top of the mountain, i waould not
  guess the wind or tsunami 
 bring it up here! cause that ship is covered by
  ice, n suddenly there was some wierd noise n strange hand grab one of those
  nano suit guy, n 
 fly away... than i realize that those korean is just the unlucky
  basta#d that caught in the midle of high tech war against something else...
  yupp... alien that 
 ready to invade us with all of their unimagine technology,
  i couldn't wait for them invading us or europe... this game got my score 9,5
  for imaginative 
 ideas, hardcore detail n nice nanosuit! 
  
  well done crytex, well done EA , keep up the good work guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Crysis was set to being the best looking videogame to come out in 2008. In fact, it does just that. 
 Crysis is an amazing looking game as it runs on the new Crytek 2 engine. All of that aside, Crysis 
 is just another run of the mill FPS. Nothing new. Crysis has a mediocre storyline, it was nothing 
 that i felt attached to or immersed in. The nanosuit has 4 neat features; maximum armor, maximum 
 strength, maximum invisibility and a cloak. However, these neat features are ruined by the fact 
 that they run out to quickly to be effective. Throughout the entire game I used maximum armor (like 
 the Halo regenerating health meter) because the rest of the suits features were useless in battle. 
 Maximum speed made you faster, but you would die in a matter of seconds. The same went for the 
 cloak and the maximum strength features. They were pointless. To be truthful I only bought the 
 game because I got a new computer (alienware) and wanted to try Crysis out. I am dissapointed with 
 Crysis and will not buy the next three installments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svinjche
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 7:02 am PT
Review:  Ok, so the first thing you are probably wondering about this game is;
  will it run on my system and is it the best looking game out there!
  The answer to your question's 
 are next:
  To get the right game expirience u have to poses preety fast pc, the reason is next; the engine in 
 this game looks crazy good but still its not optimazed right (Crytek fixed this problem in Crysis 
 Warhead) . So to run this game atleast in medium settings without any lags pc comf has to be dual 
 core procesor,1 gb ram and 512 mb graphic card. under that dont buy this game or you'll be extremly 
 frustrated.
  And yes it is the best looking game on pc-i say pc coz some say that killzone 2 is better but its 
 only on ps3 so i dont know, still by viewd video cryisis looks better to me.
  lets start with pros and cons....
  PROS:
  Massive open ended world, stuning graphics, difficutly 
 just right for pc gamers, AI, great weapons
  CONS:
  Crazy system requriments, it is a short game, Small number of different weapons, story aka. copy and 
 paste from war of the worlds..
  CONCLUSION:
  The greatest fps i here and what are u waiting for go and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is a First Person Shooter developed by Crytek (the makers of Far Cry) and published by EA 
 Games. Set in the year 2020 you are cast as a faceless super soldier, code named Nomad, who along 
 with several other soldiers, has been assigned by the company JSOC (Joint Special Operations Command 
  a branch of the US Special Forces) with a super suit that allows the soldier in possession to 
 switch between armour, super strength, stealth, speed and also customise their weapons instantly 
 in combat. When the team is dispatched onto an island occupied by Korean forces to rescue a group 
 of archaeologists, Nomad and the rest of the soldiers quickly find themselves separated and torn 
 apart by a mysterious alien life force. It is you to continue the mission, rescue the hostages 
 and find out what is going on. 
  
  There are inevitable comparisons to be made between Crytek's previous game Far Cry and Crysis. 
 Both take place on a lustrous island, against military forces and also strange and deadly monsters. 
 Both games are strikingly beautiful, with their gorgeous tropical colour palettes. Crysis, as the 
 hype suggested, is the most beautiful game on almost any platform. The draw distance is just remarkable 
 in allowing you to see the various islands from miles away. The attention to detail towards the 
 vegetation of the island is one that immerses you so well into your surroundings. There are moments 
 in the game where the view is so gorgeous that you feel as though the developers just wanted to 
 show off this technology. The blue glow of the water and the sheer scale of the game  with load 
 screens only in between missions  are just some of the visual treats that are held within Crysis. 
 The only thing to suffer from the beauty of the game is the system requirements, which are extremely 
 high. The frame rate is simply atrocious at times. It is a remarkable and rich world that demands 
 the best hardware to be fully appreciated for all it can offer. 
  
  Yet aside from the eye candy, the most surprising aspect of Crysis is how well the game play stands 
 as a result of these visuals. Crysis offers a rich assortment of play styles and invention from 
 gamers and the architect for much of this is the Nanosuit. The ability to switch into a cloak mode 
 and render the player invisible, allows for intensive stealth play. Switching to super strength 
 though can allow for drastically improved accuracy on your weapons. You have an assortment of assault 
 rifles and all of these can be customised on the fly with laser sights and various scopes for improved 
 aiming. The combination of your suit powers and weapons in such a grand world offers a completely 
 varied game play experience. In the first half of the game you have to sneak into a heavily guarded 
 Korean base to steal a document. Crawling through the jungle to avoid detection using your cloak, 
 you can hide behind houses and barrels and move up to the base. You can use your super strength 
 to leap over the walls, cloak yourself and steal the document. You may then snap on your speed 
 mode and race away to steal a jeep and drive it off into the forest as the guards chase you. Why 
 not dump the car once you've reached the forest and go on foot? There is a river that you can swim 
 down too or you can steal a boat as well. You could redo the mission and climb up a guard tower, 
 throw the soldier out, and sniper enemies from above. Or you could put an explosive charge on a 
 vehicle, drive it into the base, jump out and then detonate it. All of this can happen with such 
 spontaneity and excitement like few others games have allowed before. Those who have labelled the 
 game play of Crysis as generic have not experimented or combined the suit powers nearly enough 
 as there are so many options and pathways in this open world to explore. Whereas games like Oblivion 
 and Fallout 3 offer large quantities of side quests, they sacrifice the same focus and intensity 
 that Crysis providing a focus on a single mission at a time in a massive sandbox world. It is easily 
 the best use of an open world environment in a game so far. 
  
  It is thankful that Crysis does have such freedom as many of the objectives in the game are extremely 
 simple. Many of your objectives include stealing a document or uploading a file from a computer. 
 These can be completed with a single press of a button and feel a little underwhelming, so it is 
 thankful that the lead up these objectives is incorporated with such diversity and freedom. It 
 never feels too stale or entirely lacking in depth. There are many moments that we have seen in 
 other games like where you have to shoot down ships or drive a tank to dispatch enemies, but regardless 
 it has never been performed on a scale like this before. It may annoy some gamers  particularly 
 stealth enthusiasts - when the game shifts from its diversity to a single focus on completing a 
 mission. You may have spent a great deal of time planning and sneaking into a base, only to find 
 that because of the scripted nature of the mission, the alarms are going off and you now have no 
 choice but to blow up enemy vehicles with a bazooka. The atmosphere throughout each of these missions 
 is solid but not as entirely obvious as other games, particularly in the horror genre, have provided. 
 You are immersed into this world and made to feel like a solider because of the visuals and the 
 combination with the game play. Switching from armour mode to cloak forces you to move quickly 
 between the foliage and the rest of the jungle, and although some have found it frustrating that 
 the cloak mode only lasts very briefly, it also forces you to slow down, stop altogether or lie 
 prone in waiting as you approach your objective. It is because the foliage looks so realistic in 
 its modelling and because you have to use it as a cover, along with your suit, that you do become 
 a soldier in the game. 
  
  It is fortunate that the game play in moments like this provides you with such drama and tension, 
 as the game's story is awful. What seems like a plot taken from the movie Predator and a few moments 
 from the Bond movie Die Another Day, Crysis takes itself very seriously with a lot of gung ho machismo 
 that will have most players rolling their eyes. Much of the dialogue is comprised of expletives 
 and referring to soldiers as 'son' and the only thing we can take from Nomad  whose face we never 
 see  is that he is a can-do man. He is a super soldier and killing machine, capable of piloting 
 aircraft and tanks and taking on the Korean army by himself. The voice acting is equally bad, particularly 
 from Nomad, who sounds as though he has never had a day out of the Army. If Crysis were to become 
 a movie, it would be the sort of thing Jerry Bruckheimer would latch onto. It fits the mould of 
 many of those mega dumb action films like Independence Day and Armageddon. The only redeeming feature 
 of the story is that it is an excuse to take the players to such a beautiful location, and unlike 
 FEAR, it does not get in the way of the action as much, particularly in the first half. 
  
  Some have criticised the final third of Crysis for opting for a much more linear and less expansive 
 approach to the game. While it does not offer nearly as much innovation from the player, it feels 
 more diverse rather than disappointing, given that it is a very different change of pace for the 
 game. The Alien cave level in particular is highly linear but it still showcases tremendous atmosphere 
 and an unnerving sense of claustrophobia. It is very frustrating and easy to get lost in this level 
 but it still remains a harrowing and frightful experience. It was necessary to have these linear 
 final levels in order to complete the scripting of the story. Some of the more significant complaints 
 and frustrations of the final stages are the amount of glitches present. Both Crytek and EA Games 
 should have polished this final stage, but rather it is filled with near game breaking glitches, 
 like players clipping and falling straight through floors. It is very disappointing for what is 
 a mostly excellent product. There are a few other niggling problems throughout the game such as 
 faulty menu buttons that are difficult to click on and the game's tendency to start in a minimised 
 window. These are particularly disappointing bugs given the game has seen two patches already. 
 
  
  The AI in the game is also very mixed. The Korean Soldiers have been designed in two modes of guarding 
 and awareness. They will follow their patrol roots, but when the players noise metre reaches a 
 certain level they will taunt you to come out, search for you in groups using hand signals and 
 flush you out with grenades. On the highest difficulty level the dialogue for the soldiers' changes 
 from English to Korean, although this really isn't particularly significant, unless you want to 
 be sworn at in a different dialect. Disappointingly, soldiers will often face into walls, some 
 will ignore the player altogether - even when you run past them - and jeep drivers will sometimes 
 sit in their cars and not move after you've killed the gunner. Yet others, particularly that of 
 the helicopter and boat pilots, have super human vision, allowing them to see the player even when 
 protected by foliage, which is very frustrating sometimes. It would have been so much more enjoyable 
 if guards reacted stronger to the chaos you created too. You can blow up a truck of explosives 
 outside the base of a gate and yet the rest of the encampment will have no idea about this and 
 continue like nothing has happened. The AI needed to be more aware and a lot more work was needed 
 in such a brilliant realised open world. 
  
  Crysis is a very demanding game in terms of hardware but there is a rich environment for players 
 who are able to run the game appropriately. While the visuals are magnificent and a pleasure to 
 see, the inventive nature of the game play is impressive too and should ensure that most players 
 will make their way through the 15 hour campaign at least once. There are issues to be found in 
 several aspects of the game, but few of these are serious enough to exploit what is one of the 
 grandest, most beautiful, and inventive titles for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomad250
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 3:57 am PT
Review:  Cool game. Superb graphics, superb game play. Story is cool. But it is very hard to defeat the enemies. 
 Cool features:
  # you can break down a tree by shooting on it
  # when your ammo is finished, you can grab an enemy's neck and throw him away
  # you can upgrade 
 to strength, invisible, maximum armor, speed from your suit controls.
  # when you are hurt, your health will increase automatically after a few seconds.
  # you can get 
 inside a car and drive it or change to a gunner's seat.
  # you can pick anything up and throw at an enemy
  # you can throw one enemy to another enemy.
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrysisFPS
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Crytek has had a lot of success after the release of Far Cry. It proved to be a very good shooter 
 for its time. The graphics were no exception. However, after the release of Crysis, it is surprising 
 why Crytek has not become famous EVEN to non-gamers. There is a lot of stuff to like about it and 
 the fun does not end so quickly.
  
  Crysis proves why a PC game is better than the Xbox 360 version; because controls are easier and 
 a computer, if upgraded enough, can run games 10 times as powerful as a 360 video game. The story 
 is not the most original, but it is well structured, well written and has pitch-perfect dialogue 
 in my opinion. A video game is best when it has great graphics, great gameplay AND great story. 
 Crysis has everything you could possibly wish for in a video game; fun gameplay, beautiful graphics 
 etc.
  
  Far Cry was a brilliant game, but it lacked any original and thoughtful gameplay ideas, apart from 
 its non-linearity. Thats no longer the case here. Crysis has brilliant gameplay with some original 
 ideas like the nano-suit modes. You can expect realistic weapon customisation as well. Combat is 
 fun and the physics are so real. Any object can be used as a throwing weapon. With that, combat 
 can become humorous especially when you grab a water melon or a banana and throw it at some soldiers. 
 Its not something I have seen before in a video game so it is a huge plus.
  
  On ultra high settings, Crysis would make Call of Duty 4 cry. It is well beyond modern standards 
 so it can spoil gamers when they try this. Crysis would even make you throw the PC version of Gears 
 of War in the rubbish bin just because of Crysis visuals. The animation is fantastic as well.
 
  
  When I got special edition, I listened to the soundtrack and the music is what really got me interested 
 in composer Inon Zur. I consider him the best ever video game composer. In this game his music 
 is beautiful, intense, suspenseful and most of all, epic. This is also what makes the game a joy 
 to play.
  
  Overall, Crysis is an epic masterpiece. If your parents both have jobs, then it is well worth buying 
 parts to upgrade your PC and well worth buying this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crookin_Insane
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2009 3:49 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a game commended for its graphics. This praise is well deserved. Crysis has amazing graphics. 
 The game wants you to know that so as soon as it can it will show them off.
  
  Gameplay in Crysis though does get repetitive after awhile. The game has some interesting gameplay 
 features, which are all very nice, like the nano suit which has various powers that should probably 
 mix up the gameplay. This is ruined by multiple things the first being that you will probably find 
 a pattern that you like and you will stick with it, the second being that it doesn't last long 
 enough. 
  
  The story of Crysis could be called original, but it is also very confusing. The start of the game 
 has you jumping off an airplane so you can kill some Koreans. Though as you smash there face in 
 you can't help feel slightly sympathetic for them, as you kill them off in your nano suit. Though 
 you won't be feeling sympathetic for any of your allies since there's never a reason to be.
  
  Crysis is a game for people who like to stand around and do nothing, while taking in the scenery. 
 It has some good ideas but they aren't put in to well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: space_loner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 10:07 am PT
Review:  Crysis is fantastic to look at and very fun to play, but after a few hours it becomes unbearably 
 repetitive and simply loses its charm. Personally I couldn't finish the game... I've read the reviews 
 and realize the game takes some interesting twists later on... but good plot isn't enough to bring 
 ingenuity to the game. In the best shooters climatic sequences will have your heart racing as you 
 find yourself fully immersed in the game, pounding on your keyboard and leaping from your seat. 
 After 10 hours that hasn't happened to me with Crysis, and so I doubt it ever will.
  
  Also system requirements are just a tad too high. Yes it looks absolutely amazing on a high-end 
 system with every setting cranked up. However the graphic you have to settle for to get a good 
 framerate on a midrange system is subpar. When Crysis runs optimally on my computer it looks quite 
 a bit worse than any other number of shooters I can name (half life 2 and bioshock, just off the 
 top of my head) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 1:54 am PT
Review:  Crysis is one of, if not the, most stunningly beautiful games we've ever seen. But even beyond 
 that, it's a pretty fantastic shooter. Solid weapons, intelligent enemies, and fairly open level 
 designs mix with nano-suit powers to make this one of the more entertaining ballistic showdowns 
 in some time.
  
  The fact that developer Crytek has figured out how to create a story that doesn't drip with cheese 
 helped immerse us into a "realistic" and exciting near-future. Voice acting is pretty good, the 
 in-game cutscenes are well designed to never take you out of the action, and the aliens are actually 
 menacing and dangerous, unlike the campy Trigens of Far Cry. Crytek has obviously learned a lot 
 about presentation and storytelling since their first effort. I found myself caring about the story 
 that's there and wanting to kick the aliens off of our planet. If they hadn't pulled a Halo 2 at 
 the end, I would have been totally pleased with the story that helps the game progress forward.
 
  As with 2004's Far Cry, Crysis takes place on a picturesque island paradise lush with vegetation 
 and surrounded by gorgeous blue water. The impressive visuals are so far beyond Far Cry's that 
 it's hard to even comprehend what Crytek, given another few years of development time, will be 
 able to come up with. It's not only the technical aspects that are impressive; it's the detail 
 of the models, architecture, and textures. Whether it's the frost on the gun barrels or change 
 in color of the nano-suit for different abilities, the little touches are everywhere. When you're 
 staring up through the snow at the oppressive presence of the alien mothership buried in the mountain, 
 wandering through the maze of rock and metal tunnels underneath its surface, tromping through the 
 dense jungle, or simply looking into the face of one of the awesome character models, it's impossible 
 not to be awed at what Crytek managed to do technically.
  
  Thankfully, the art team was given the chance to expand their horizons from simple jungles to include 
 the spectacularly disorienting innards of an alien ship and an ice-blasted mountainside. The inside 
 of the ship is especially breathtaking. The greens and greys are spectacularly mixed with bright 
 alien lights and the thin-skinned aliens themselves. The contrast between the rough rock walls 
 covered in crystals and the heavy technology of the aliens is pretty striking as well. The character 
 models which rival even Half-Life 2's are especially remarkable. There's not as much emotion, but 
 the slight cartoony style chosen allows for suspension of disbelief and sidesteps the creepy Beowulf 
 effect. Like HL2, there's a lot of detail in the facial textures and while the lip synching can 
 be a tiny bit off-putting from time to time, these are some truly amazing representations of humans.
 
  The one thing that you're going to have to seriously consider before purchasing the game specifically 
 for the visuals is the power of your PC. Crysis may very well kick your computer in the balls at 
 Very High settings. It'll look spectacular doing so, but may very well turn into more of a slideshow 
 than you'd probably prefer and in some cases become completely unplayable. On our Vista test machine 
 with a quad core processor, 4GB RAM, and a single 8800 GTX, we had some pretty significant slowdowns 
 with everything on very high everywhere but the most confined spaces. Tweaking the settings in 
 DirectX10 helped a bit (you can fiddle with the settings to get just the right mix of resolution 
 and detail in all the settings) while running the game in DX9 solved all of our problems and still 
 looked spectacular with everything on high. We even could run DX9 on high at 1920x1200 with a good 
 enough framerate to be comfortable playing nearly the entire time. In those rare moments where 
 things began to chug, it was an easy enough thing to simply change the resolution for a minute, 
 which can all be done in game, while loaded into the game, which is another terrific feature that's 
 sadly missing from so many other titles. Luckily, for those of you without the best computers, 
 Crysis still looks pretty fantastic on Medium. You won't get the same features, but Crysis never 
 really gets ugly and still looks at least as good as Far Cry even on Low, though you will get a 
 pretty significant amount of pop in at that level. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirt871
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is one of, if not the, most stunningly beautiful games we've ever seen. But even beyond 
 that, it's a pretty fantastic shooter. Solid weapons, intelligent enemies, and fairly open level 
 designs mix with nano-suit powers to make this one of the more entertaining ballistic showdowns 
 in some time.
  
  The fact that developer Crytek has figured out how to create a story that doesn't drip with cheese 
 helped immerse us into a "realistic" and exciting near-future. Voice acting is pretty good, the 
 in-game cutscenes are well designed to never take you out of the action, and the aliens are actually 
 menacing and dangerous, unlike the campy Trigens of Far Cry. Crytek has obviously learned a lot 
 about presentation and storytelling since their first effort. I found myself caring about the story 
 that's there and wanting to kick the aliens off of our planet. If they hadn't pulled a Halo 2 at 
 the end, I would have been totally pleased with the story that helps the game progress forward. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hornet85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:16 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Still the most advance game engine to date, and it's all the small fine details that 
 makes it great, albeit more demanding than other game engine. I've not come across any other game 
 engine that animates flowing water on surfaces under a raining sky, the shadows are accurate and 
 as blur as it should be, amazing post processing and other effects that makes it immersive, good 
 implementation of day-night cycle, and credits must be given for it to be the first game engine 
 that is commercially available capable of proper real time day-night cycle. Performances justify 
 the technical superiority of the game engine. (many do not realize that day-night cycle is not 
 possible with many other game engine with pre-rendered graphics)
  
  Physics: Amazing, still easily one of the best game engine with physics capabilities that doesn't 
 actually require an additional hardware. This is a plus.
  
  Gameplay:
  Pros:
  Innovative nanosuit feature which makes gameplay more variable, users can choose to go stealth 
 or run and gun. Unlike traditional games which tends to have part of the game that force users 
 to go stealth, here players are allow to choose between stealth and direct confrontation in most 
 combat area. Stealth is more rewarding with the nanosuit's cloak capabilities, credits to them 
 for implementing this in an FPS genre game, its something we don't see often in a good game.
  
  I like the storyline, how the plots are revealed.
  
  Aliens now deals a more reasonable 
 amount of damaged, compared to Crytek's previous FarCry, which the mutant deals a ridiculous amount 
 of damage, which makes the game unnecessarily hard to the point of any trigen encounter feels annoying 
 and idiotic.
  
  The presence of both autosave and manual save is worth mentioning, due to the fact that not all 
 games support both at the same time. Having autosave alone without any manual save option can be 
 quite a pain in the rear
  
  Cons: 
  Single player campaing is somewhat short.
  
  Moving in cloak mode drains way too much energy. Had it not drain additional energy while moving, 
 this could makes it an even more powerful tool for players who choose to engage in stealth confrontation. 
 
  
  I personally play with "cheating" this cloak drain rate while moving, simply by editing the cfg 
 files. Without the extra energy drain, cloak mode opens up more possibilities in stealth confrontation.
 
  
  The alien spaceship level was an exception from the more open world concept throughout the game, 
 and I personally feel the game could do without this traditional lead-by-the-nose corridor to corridor 
 fighting.
  
  Conclusion:
  I gave a 9.5 of an otherwise 10 score because of the alien spaceship level which changed the gameplay 
 style momentarily and somewhat pales in comparison compared to the gameplay Crysis is.
  
  Other than that, Crysis is a great game and is everything a PC shooter should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madsnakehhh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  First Doom, then Golden Eye, after that Half Life, all these games have been revolutionaries to 
 the FPS genre, then, Crytek made us believe that the next big step was Crysis, the fans and the 
 press were crazy about this game, I mean, it is Crytek, the one who gave us Far Cry, so, what's 
 the deal with Crysis, and why such a low score for me? Let's see.
  
  First of all, the graphics, they are awesome, of course if you have a machine powerful enough to 
 run it at super high settings, if you don't have it, you can still run the game at minimal settings 
 like me, and I have to say that even with that you still have some great visuals, not awesome, 
 but decent enough to play the game, like the water for example, it looks gorgeous.
  
  The game begins with a little intro of your special abilities, and then you say "wow, that's cool" 
 to bad you won't be doing this stunts at all in the entire game, so basically the plot is that 
 you're a special agent with a high tech nanosuit send into an island to save some hostages for 
 the KPA, what is that? well Korean People Army, but I almost sure that the game doesn't tell you 
 that, anyway, after a couple of missions and objectives, you find that the mission has evolved 
 into something a lot bigger, a war between humans and an Alien race that, as you might already 
 know, they want to destroy the world.
  
  So the plot is good, the story, the dialogues and the voice acting is pretty solid, I don't have 
 any big complains over here, except in the ending, but hey, they said that it was going to be a 
 trilogy. The characters are good, I mean, is not Gordon Freeman, but your character Norman is quite 
 good, you're companions are a totally clich, but they are ok, I guess, I mean, what game doesn't 
 have clichs nowadays. Even if the story is predictable you're going to have some memorable moments 
 and a few twist here and there, nothing to impressive, but at least you see that the Story is well 
 planned so far.
  
  Let's talk about the gameplay, here is one of the most loved/hated aspects of the game, your nanosuit 
 has 4 different functions for you to performance in the game, first, Super Armored, probably you 
 wouldn't even notice this feature because is the default one, is like a double life bar, then we 
 have Super Strength, this one gives you more strength for you to jump or for your melee attacks, 
 is quite useless to be honest, only if you have the patience to actually sneak and hit an enemy, 
 but the chances are that he's going to see you and alert the entire base or camp, Super Speed is 
 another nanosuit ability, what can I said, you run fast, pretty useless too you will use it only 
 to cover more ground in less time and when you're being chased, last we have the Cloak ability, 
 this is by far the better ability because it turns you invisible, too bad it doesn't last much, 
 from 10 to 12 seconds, yeah, I will not be able to sneak into any camp or base in that time, but 
 is pretty good when you are cornered by a group of enemies and need some time to move or think. 
 But, after the Alien people show, say goodbye to this features, because chances are that you will 
 not use any of them, only the Super Armored one, but as I said, is the default one.
  
  Overall, the gameplay is ok, but here Crytek fails a little because we really don't have something 
 that new, Crysis is your everyday FPS, sure, your suit is cool, but only for some time.
  
  Now we have the enemies, they can be really good, or really bad, at first you will only find Koreans, 
 you're going to have your objectives (which by the way, are a kind of linears) and then you're 
 going to go from point A to point B, in your way, you'll find some patrols, you can either hide 
 from them or face them, this is a really good feature of the game, this liberty for you to do things, 
 then your find an enemy base and this is when you're sensation of freedom ends, because it will 
 be from hard to impossible to defeat all the enemies, so you're going to have to watch your moves 
 because a mistake and you're dead, sure you can attack from distance but it will turn the game 
 into a very long and boring one. When you are in battle you will notice something, the freaking 
 enemies can take a lot, and I mean a lot of damage in the body, seriously they can take from 6 
 to 8 bullets in the body, that's ridiculous, and even if you hit them in the legs, they won't fall, 
 I know that some Koreans are crazy, but c'mon, this is too much, so you're going to find yourself 
 constantly aiming for the head, because a shoot in the head and they are dead, most of the time, 
 because I swear that sometimes I hit them in the head and they didn't die.
  
  I remember that Crytek was talking about a sense of realism, so when you try to shoot an enemy 
 from some long distance, chances are that you will fail, unless you find a Sniper rifle, so, why 
 this rule doesn't apply to your enemies too? Because when they shoot you, no matter how far they 
 are, or even if they are moving in a boat, you can bet that they will hit you, and sometimes, that 
 is very frustrating.
  
  In Crysis, you have access to several vehicles, from jeeps, to trucks and tanks, even a really 
 weird plane, this parts are fun, you can drive at all speed into a Korean base, or drive the jeep, 
 put it in the middle of the battle and then use it as a shield, the vehicles are a great addition 
 to the game, they could have a better control, but I guess that driving a car in a middle of a 
 battle is not as easy as it sound, then we have the Tank level, this is one of the best levels 
 in the game, the Tank feels great and the action is really intense..
  
  Finally you will change from Koreans to Aliens, and the change is quite smooth, the plot delivers, 
 but is a little predictable, anyway, the peace of the game changes dramatically, you doesn't have 
 to hide anymore, and the action will be a blast, too bad that the Aliens doesn't represent much 
 of a threat, they are just floating around and attack you sometimes, but overall, not a threat.
 
  
  Something that I notice when you are in the Alien craft level, you will lose gravity and this will 
 turn into a fun level or a very frustrating one, anyway, you're going to find some flying enemies, 
 so I was thinking, you're in a strange place, you have no idea of where you are or what they are, 
 you are in their own territory, still you manage to escape and defeat the Aliens in his own place, 
 no wonder why they can't take the planet, they can't even take out a guy who is lost and confused 
 in the Alien mothership.
  
  So we reach the final part of the game, a huge battle with Marines vs. Aliens and this is when 
 Crysis really shines, the battles are fun, intense and really good overall, then the final boss 
 is also a really fun battle, sadly too easy and short, yes, just when you're having a blast, the 
 game ends, and this is probably the worst part of Crysis in my opinion, I felt the game to damn 
 short and with little reason to come back after you finish it.
  
  One thing worth to mention, the environments in the first half of the game are awesome, you really 
 going to feel like in the jungle, you can easily lost in it, too bad you don't have a lot to do 
 in such a huge environment, but that's ok, it's quite good actually.
  
  Finally, the music and the sounds are flawless; the music goes from some heroic tunes to horror 
 movie music.
  
  Well, so why I gave Crysis such a low score, because it is an OK game, and Crytek didn't promise 
 and OK game, it promise the next big thing in FPS on the PC, I mean sure, the game is a blast, 
 but it has nothing to revolutionary, and it feels to short, the multiplayer doesn't save it either, 
 is just a multiplayer like all the ones that you probably have played so nothing to fancy here, 
 the characters are great and the visuals are stunning, especially if you have the right machine, 
 but I can't avoid to look it as just another game more, for me, they could have add some more levels 
 battling the Aliens, and at least with a better ending.
  
  In my opinion Crysis is a game that sadly will only be remember for its stunning visuals, because 
 it doesn't add anything new to an already tired FPS genre, my recommendation, rent it, if you like 
 the multiplayer, then buy it, but please don't expect a long campaign or a very satisfactory one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:07 pm PT
Review:  BEFORE WE BEGIN, LET'S get the vitally important stuff out of the way and answer the two questions 
 everyone keeps asking. Yes you can pick up a chicken and kill someone with it and yes, you can 
 shoot some of the trees and they will fall down nearly like the movie Predator but not as cool, 
 alright now that we got these two things out of the way now we can explain why Crysis is one of 
 the best shooter's out there right now, and not just because it's good to look at it's got aliens 
 and you get to wear a spiffy nanosuit. So we can now talk about how great Crysis story is starting 
 with North Korea and USA, archaeology, aliens, marines, hostages and a nanosuit and ending with 
 driving jeeps, zero gravity, frozen wastelands and chicken tossing. In some way the fast moving 
 adventure keeps up with the fast-paced story and you never actually know what is going to happen 
 next like if there is an alien behind that rock or if that helicopter is going to see you and then 
 all of the sudden you're in tank shooting Koreans and weird Matrix inspired aliens. The graphics 
 is so good you will be forgiven if you're thinking you're looking at a Pixar film, the gameplay 
 is great with the 4 different modes on your nanosuit (Strength, Cloak, Speed and Armor) which you 
 can bash your enemies silly and with AI so good that the humans are scary smart but the aliens 
 are stupid, sometimes they will get stuck behind a tree I mean you will think aliens capable of 
 space travel can navigate around a few trees. This game is highly recommended it's every bit the 
 game you've been wating for!
  
  Have fun gaming.
  Venom192 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  lets take this step by step..... ill start with the score, and will define why
  
  Overall - 9.8: theres plenty of things to do, and it just keeps growing, but occasionally feels 
 a little lacking... but when you get into that feeling, you encounter something in the gameplay 
 that immediately grabs you back.
  
  Graphics - 10 : graphically, this is an amazing technical achievement that will even make it harder 
 to play the game, because you will be starting in awe at the backgrounds and surroundings, but 
 this will make for steep system requirements to play it maxed out. nice motion blur, extreme quality, 
 and nice looking sun glare and cutscenes.
  
  Story - 9.4: excellent from start to finish, the bad part is when it ends..... it just doesnt feel 
 like an ending would be, and just leaves you going, "AWW! ITS OVER  .  
  Gameplay - 9: the nanosuit is excellently optimized, and a convenient interface, but occasionally, 
 it will feel a little unbalanced and underpowered, but dont underestimate it, play it enough and 
 you will get dragged in so far, you will be playing 24/7! it will be great at first, boring second, 
 and finnaly third, you will fall in love with it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerryatricrejec
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  Before I purchased Crysis I actually upgraded my video card to (at that stage) the latest GeForce 
 family. A 8800GTX 768mb... probably one of the greatest decisions I've made in gaming.
  
  This game deserves a healthy system with only the largest of monitors and greatest of hardware 
 - it's quite simply a beast.
  
  The game has a fair amount of playing time and is pretty open ended but still manages to stick 
 closely to the story guiding you in the direction you need to go. I prefer a game which leads me 
 from one area to the next without me getting lost or wandering around for an hour. Crysis manages 
 this but somehow still seems very expansive. The game redefined what a stunning game should look 
 and play like.
  
  Graphics: At the time it had the best graphics out of any game ever. It still puts most games to 
 shame over a year later.
  
  Sound: The sound is very good and the voice acting brilliant however I had some audio issues from 
 time to time. I think Crytek could refine the sound over more sound cards and drivers
  
  Story: Very interesting story which involves the player very successfully
  
  Cons: I still 
 feel the game could have scaled better on lower-end systems. If Crytek made the title a little 
 more user friendly with weaker systems it would have doubled in its success.
  
  Fantastic game, one of my favourites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend and I was pleasantly surprised. I say that as I am not really 
 into FPS's much. I'm more of an RPG kind of guy. However, I really liked this game. I think it 
 was just the right length and the nano-suit you have makes playing the game a lot of fun. You can 
 customize a fair selection of weapons and adapt them to suit your style of gameplay. This game 
 starts out as a run and gun, then it takes a sci-fi turn toward twilight zone. However, in the 
 end the game was very enjoyeable. I've read a lot of reviews from people who didn't like the ending. 
 I have to admit that if this game was intended as a pure stand alone that the ending would leave 
 a little to be desired as it doesn't totally wrap up the storyline. However, this game is intended 
 to be the first showing in a trilogy, so I felt the ending wrapped up the first part of the trilogy 
 very well, and it leaves the door open, and in fact even tells you, that there is more to see and 
 do. Also, it ends on a positive note so you know there is more action and adventure ahead of you, 
 but it ends with a nice little victory for Nomad. I would recommend this game... wait, I already 
 have, lol. I've been telling a friend at work about this game for a week now. It's definitely worth 
 checking out. I'm interested to see where Crytek will take the series, but only time will tell. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VK001thunder
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  i have really liked this game and you can tell because i have played it on dealta 1 normal 3 and 
 easy 1 and i beat it all on that woot Crysis rocks BEST GAME YOU HAVE MADE CRYTEK!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 you should probably advertise on TV because everyone watches TV. now about whats best. the graphics 
 the deatails the features you can use on the north koreans the modification the mulitiplayer the 
 guns and a lot more this is a pretty big list of why you should buy it beacause trust me i like 
 it so much so buy before it all gets sold out. this is the BEST IN THE SERIS crytek woot make more 
 games like that and you'll be rich but first you've gotta spread the idea to attract atteion from 
 viewers woot!!!!!!! just to tell you its not really that hard except for the level with every korean 
 has a ROCKET LANCHER i mean WOW a thousand koreans have ROCKETS!!!!!!!! i am suprised oh and the 
 alien part i sort hate except for the carrier and the last stand where strickland dies!! i really 
 am a FAN WOOT! GO CRYSIS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngons
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:01 am PT
Review:  I initially gave this thing a 6 because the graphics were so great (my system can easily handle 
 the max settings) and I was empathetic to the the hardcore gamer fanboys with no lives who are 
 probably creaming themselves over this game. After trying to play this turd some more I realize 
 I was way too generous and I have to take the gloves off. I normally don't waste my time reviewing 
 games but I'm seeing so many 9 and 10 ratings for this thing that I feel like I'm in the damn Twilight 
 Zone and need to do a rebuttal for the sake of my own sanity! 
  
  This game is billed as a first-person SHOOTER. I went into it thinking that you're supposed to 
 be shooting things. SILLY ME!!! Apparently the most effective strategy is to run up to enemies 
 while stealthed and melee them to death or to sneak past bases all together. If you do have the 
 audacity to fire your gun at any point you'll be quickly surrounded by 7-8 Koreans who magically 
 appear out of nowhere as thought they were f*ckin' leprechauns! Apparently there is a system of 
 underground tunnels on this island that the Koreans can sprout up from anywhere at any time. That 
 has to be the explanation because there is no other way to explain enemies appearing out of thin 
 air in areas you'd just cleared 10 seconds prior! Once they do see you, they can use their normal 
 weapons and PICK YOU OFF FROM A MILE AWAY! On normal difficulty I was getting shot by enemies so 
 far away that their Vs weren't even on the mini-map! Your weapons, on the other hand, have sites 
 that are so shaky that you can barely target enemies well from 50 feet. So I concluded after many 
 aggravating hours that this is a shooter where you want to actually shoot things as infrequently 
 as possible. BOY THAT'S FUN!!!
  
  The there's the matter of your nanosuit. All the cool little gadgets are USELESS! Speed is just 
 for transportation and running away from fights where you're out numbered (See my previous comment 
 about enemies hitting you from a mile away ) ; Strength is for jumping; "maximum armor" gives you 
 1-2 seconds extra damage protection; and the cloak last about 8 seconds (10 max) and then goes 
 to armor but the cloak will have absorbed all the energy so the armor does NOTHING! To all the 
 reviewers claiming to be able to "sneak past bases totally unseen"; what the hell game are you 
 playing?! Did you enter a cheat code for infinite cloak?!
  
  The there's the matter of the indestructable Koreans and their invisible full body armor. Your 
 nanosuit, even with max armor lasts you somewhere between 8-10 bullets before you croak. That's 
 about how many bullets it takes to take down ONE Korean with no (visible) body armor even on normal 
 mode! As God as my witness I sniped one clean in the head; the blood spatter hit the wall; his 
 hat came flying off his head and the F*CKER DIDN'T EVEN FLINCH and proceeded to erase my shield 
 and take half my health in 2 shots!!! I had no idea that Duncan McLeod from the Clan McLeod was 
 Korean! Actually I shouldn't make that reference because even he's supposed to die when you take 
 out his f*cking head!!! This is compounded by the fact that ammo is scarce and very tedious to 
 locate and pick up. Also there's the destructable environment. When you're taking on an army by 
 yourself you need a little thing called COVER. I thought game developers making a FPS would understand 
 that but not these geniuses!!! You don't get that in this game as the trees and buildings can all 
 be destroyed. Hell the Koreans can see you from half a mile away through dense shrubbery anyway 
 so why the f*ck not?!?!
  
  Many reviews and tips say that you "need to conserve ammo". That's a little tough when you need 
 8-10 bullets on one enemy, and that's assuming you hit him on every shot. Some of the tips posted 
 also say that "you need to carefully plan your attacks." How do you plan an attack on a group of 
 3 enemies when 5 more unseen enemies will immediately spawn from random spots once you commense 
 your attack?! 
  
  In summary, this piece of crap is:
  - a shooter where the best startegy is not to shoot. BRILLIANT!
  - a game whose only saving grace 
 is graphics yet gives you NO TIME to enjoy those graphics since you're constantly running. YAY!
 
  - a game where you need to carefully plan attacks but can only see less than half of the enemies. 
 FUN!
  - a game where you have to take out large groups of enemies and have to do it with crappy damage 
 absorbption and no viable cover. AWESOME!
  - a shooter where you need to conserve ammo, yet the enemies are playing on God mode. COOL!
  
 - a game where you're supposed to wearing the most advanced body armor on Earth, yet enemies in 
 regular clothes and no (visible) armor can absorb just as many bullets as you! WOOHOO!
  
  For a game that was striving for realism, it *ABSOLUTELY FAILS*! You put the exact same gameplay 
 mechanics, immortal Herculean enemies and abysmally moronic story into a game with so-so graphics 
 and all the 9s and 10s on these reviews become 2s and 3s!
  
  My copy is where it belongs: in the garbage! I wouldn't even use the disk as a coaster for my drinks. 
 But if you like flash with no substance then please go out and waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superstar4410
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm just speechless. This game is freakin awesome. There is no reason you should not
  buy it if you have the hardware. The only thing is to get the full benefits you need a goood computer. 
 I have Athlon X 2 (2.0ghz each) 4gigs of ram (max for 32bit vista)
  Ati Radeon HD 4830 (best card for $100 at newegg, 9/10 rating)
  My video card is at 575mhz (overclocked 
 to 690)
  900Mhz memory clock no overclock
  
  I run this game on high settings ( low, med, high, very high) with 2X antialiasing (has 4X, 8X) 
 but slows down if I put 4X and above
  
  I get 24-36 FPS (The eye can't really tell the difference over 30FPS) (slightly but not much)
 
  
  Phsyics
  Freaking awesome uses Directx10 definitely,
  The game is just awesome and i'm reviewing this from just playing the demo. Yea I will definitely 
 but this game in the future. 
  
  I would recommend at least having a Vista rating of 4.0 or better to play this game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhaed
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is essentially, in my opinion, a much better sequel to FarCry than FarCry 2 will ever be. 
 It is set up and built with an open-ended world in mind, and the idea is executed with care and 
 professionalism. Much better than Ubisoft handled FarCry 2.
  
  If you liked FarCry, and long for that similar open-ended sandbox world, than pick up Crysis. Don't 
 be fooled by the promises of FarCry 2. Crytek does it best, so stick to Crytek games. FarCry 2 
 is not one of them.
  
  The game itself is marvelous. The world is huge, and no two players will tackle each objective 
 the same way. There is just so much space and breathing room that it's almost impossible to conquer 
 each goal the same way someone else did.
  
  One of the things I loved about Crysis was the fact that everything felt relevant. What I mean 
 by this is that there was nothing in the game that felt like filler material. Every gun, every 
 nano-suit ability, and every square inch of the game world felt necessary. You may not continuously 
 use all of these things to your advantage, but there is not one feature of the nano-suit, or one 
 single gun, that you won't have to (or choose to) use at least once.
  
  I finished the game on Delta difficulty (the hardest mode) and I had a blast. It was fun, the enemies 
 were well balanced and appropriately difficult to kill as the game progressed. The AI is smart 
 too. There are occasional moments where the AI will react stupidly, but this is the case in every 
 shooter. AI has never seen complete perfection. But Crysis does a superb job with it.
  
  The game isn't too long, but it's not too short either. I chose to play on the hardest difficulty 
 setting because I wanted the longest playtime. I figured if I played the game on this setting, 
 the difficulty would help prolong the game. And so it did. I beat the game in under 8 hours. This 
 is a decent length for a shooter, but nothing to write home about. The game was so good that I 
 was honestly so disappointed when the credits rolled. I wanted to keep playing so badly, and I 
 couldn't.
  
  Despite its longevity, Crysis is awesome. I have no complaints aside from it's length except one. 
 There is a level in the game where you actually enter the alien space craft and float around in 
 zero gravity. The effects were neat, and the graphics were unbelievable, but the level itself was 
 kind of dry and boring. You have to kill a few aliens, but everything felt a bit rushed here. It 
 just seemed like a waste of a whole entire level to spend it floating around in some pretty scenery.
 
  
  All in all, despite a few minor drawbacks, Crysis is easily the best looking game I've ever played, 
 and the best FPS I've ever played. If you like shooters, and you like games with excellent graphics, 
 than Crysis is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wcornall
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:02 am PT
Review:  Maybe I don't know all the proper phrases for reviewing a game, all I know is that I haven't been 
 so intently immerest in a game in a good many years. I started gaming back when KQ1 was a big deal 
 and have seen all the advances since the 80's. Crysis has me glued to my seat and teeth clenching. 
 I am a retired senior citizen and this game has brought alot of excitement back into my life. The 
 graphics are great, I even upgraded my GPU to take full advantage, worth every penny I spent. I've 
 read reviews that said it is a very hard game, if you do much gaming at all and pay attention you 
 can get through the levels without any cheats, it might take some time but the rewards are well 
 worth it, it you want easy then go to an old junk store and find ya an old Pong game. Thanks EA, 
 keep up the GREAT work. You put life into the years of us old guys and help us exercise our minds 
 at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhomer
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:17 pm PT
Review:  After the first 15 minutes I played this game, I turned to my wife and said "this is the greatest 
 shooter I have ever played." Several hours later, however, when the the alien encounters began, 
 I started having serious flashbacks to FarCry's second half (the mutants.) 
  
  What is fun about having to shoot alien * in the head 15 hundred million times before they 
 *$&@@!# DIE...???!?? nothing.
  
  FarCry 2 was at least five times more enjoyable for me than Crysis. Don't be fooled by the '8' 
 rating I am forced to give Crysis out of fairness. It is technically brilliant (though you need 
 a huge, grunty PC with stainless steel balls to run it properly.) 
  
  :::: spoiler alert - don't proceed if you plan to play FarCry 2 or Crysis ::::
  
  .
  .
 
  .
  Even though I was very disappointed by FarCry 2's nihilist ending, at least it HAD a *$%&!!@ ending, 
 unlike Crysis. I about wanted to put my foot through my beautiful ViewSonic flatscreen at the end 
 of Crysis.
  
  *#$&*%*&*&!*&$&*!!!! ... NOTE: I'm writing this review MONTHS after I played Crysis in its entirety 
 and it still pisses me off when I think about it.
  
  I refuse to buy the Crysis expansion (if its even come out yet, I have not even looked up whether 
 its available or not) ... just on the principle of the thing.
  
  Whew... I feel better now! :)
  
  Bottom line: if you don't mind shelling out $40+ dollars for 
 the first half of Crysis which is totally excellent (IF you have a GeForce 8000 series or better) , 
 go for it. But, don't hold your breath for a fun second half... or closure or an ending of any kind.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filmflam
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:40 am PT
Review:  So a few years ago, I remember a game called Doom 3. I remember waiting months during the development 
 being enticed by screen shots until I could not wait for it to come out. It looked AWESOME. I even 
 went so far as buying a new PC to play it. However, when that day came, I hurriedly popped in Doom 
 3. When it was installed I started killing monsters. Then, a few hours later, the game ended... 
 and I felt completely ripped off. Yes the graphics were good, and yes the gameplay was unique and 
 it was a long awaited follow up to some of my favorite games I played as a little kid, but that 
 was it. It was all pretty pictures and no meat. Granted, this review isn't about Doom 3 and I shouldn't 
 have bought a new PC just to play ONE game, but when I read the reviews of Crysis and finally played 
 the game... I felt that old tinge of anger again. Yes, I got to max out my graphics and look at 
 the eye candy, and yes I appreciated the neat suit and the interesting gameplay, but I ended up 
 feeling like they missed the point of a good game. The story was mediocre, the alien thing reminded 
 me oddly of Halo, and the ending came far too soon. There was just too much crap going on for it 
 to really settle down and have a point and interesting missions. Despite all of its setbacks, I 
 gave it a seven simply because the graphics were good, the suit made gameplay somewhat more interesting, 
 and the addition of Crysis Warhead will hopefully sweeten the sour taste its premature ending. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fedefrede
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 12, 2009 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and highly addictive, until the point where you meet the aliens. Then it 
 becomes... well ... ridiculous. First of all, a LOT of bugs suddenly appears. Rooms becomes black, 
 textures looks wrong, and on the last level, you keep on falling through floors. Because of these 
 bugs, I had to play the last level 4 times, before I was able to complete it.
  
  But it's not only the bugs, it's also the gameplay. Until the point where you met the aliens, you 
 really have to use your special nano-suit abilities to survive, and it is fun to take out an entire 
 Korean military camp, without anyone seeing you. But after you encounter aliens, it becomes just 
 another lame shooter. You don't even have to think about ammo any more, since you get an alien 
 ice-shooting-gun-thingy with unlimited ammo. 
  
  First half of the game gets a score of 8,5.
  Second half of the game gets a score of 3,5.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absinthe-abuser
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 3:14 pm PT
Review:  If you want a stupid get from a-b and shoot at anything Game, you should properly get Call of Duty 
 4 or 5 instead. If they had scripted the walking-path in this Games like in "Virtua Cop" or "House 
 of the Dead" it would have been pretty much the same experience.
  
  Crysis is totally different....
  You can handle Things like u want, when you want.
  
  You 
 can get a Boat drive around the Coastline...
  Blow up a Shack near the Water and surf on the Debris to the Beach...
  Get a Car and place C4s 
 on it, jump out of it, and crash it into the Enemys Base...
  You can get behind a Shack, destroy the Walls and throw the Furniture at your Enemys.
  You can 
 set really nice Traps with Gas-Barrels and/or C4 or anything you find.
  When a Helicopter goes down itll break the Trees and you really have to watch, that ur not getting 
 killed by some Pieces.
  A Girlfriend of mine, managed to kill herself by jumping in Strengthmode against a non-Physical 
 Rock XD
  
  There are almost infinite ways of playing this great Game.
  For me, its a huge Physical Playground, to experiment with....
  
  The Editor is one of the 
 Best and easiest tools ive ever seen. Flowgraphs, Effects, Decals ... no Problem in this.
  Do a Map with an great Nuclear explosion, which turns the Screen into Black&White, Trees burst 
 of and wind-Volume 
  Or u wanna a Guy that jumps of a Waterfall into a River when u get near? (in one of my Maps he 
 jumps on the Rocks nearby XD)
  
  Oh, yeah, the Graphics and Sound are great too... 
  
  Some People mentioned a "Dull" Story in this Game. But actually this IS a GAME and not an interactive 
 B-Movie like CoD 4 (where the Story is Dull to) . Or a totally weird and logically broken Title 
 like S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Which feels like it has been developed... and when they finished it, they realized 
 that there is no Story and then putt in some PDAs into the World to fill it...
  
  Last Thing is the Realism...
  Enemys are smart in Crysis, they will get down, if you hit them 
 with 7,65 Ammunition in the Chest. But then stand up an Attack you again. Most People are saying 
 its unreal... But actually possible with a bulletproof Kevlar-Vest. On the other Side in CoD 4 
 you can shoot with .380 ACP Ammunition through Stonewalls which is totally impossible XD
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by stating the following: as I have only played on the single-player campaign of the 
 game, all of the following comments regard only the single-player campaign. With that said, let 
 me say that what an amazing experience it has been while I spent three half days in completing 
 the game. Everything feels right besides a feel shortcomings which an experienced FPS gamer would 
 easily notice. These flaws, however, are not, for the lack of a better word, problematic enough 
 to defer the player from enjoying the game.
  
  GRAPHICS: Many (who have not been living under a rock for the past year) would have heard about 
 the breathtaking graphics and, for everything there must be a "cost," a rigorous system requirement. 
 I currently run on a C2D2.55Ghz + 2Gb Ram + GF8800GTX system. I set half of my settings to "high" 
 and the other to be "medium." Most of the "high" settings are of world and object details, and 
 with a mere 8800GTX I could run the game fine without any graphics lag. There are, of course, a 
 setting for "Very High" which one who has a higher end system than mine would probably have no 
 problem running. Although everything looks amazing, the world itself would look very familiar to 
 one who has ever played the original Far Cry - The beach, the AI models, the vehicles, etc. As 
 for the latter half of the game where the player enters an Alien world, I will describe in detail 
 later.
  
  GAMEPLAY: For those who have ever played Bioshock, one might compare the Nanosuit system in Crysis 
 with the powers given in Bioshock. I feel that, however, the two are nowhere similar. First of 
 all, the powers in Bioshock are beautiful to look at, as compared to Crysis's nanosuit powers which 
 give nothing more than a "status change." That is not to say that the nanosuit powers in Crysis 
 are not useful in their own right, but they serve nothing more than a shift in action - a situation 
 in which a player can "shift" his gameplay from stealth to head-on actions. 
  
  Secondly, I have a problem with the weapon "feel" and the "attachment system" that comes with them. 
 The weapons, as powerful as they look, don't "feel" right. Perhaps the sound is not as realistic 
 as I have imagined (by comparing this game to Call of Duty 4) , which I find to be a crucial part 
 to any FPS's weapon system. I also find the attachment system of the game unnecessary because they 
 do not serve any crucial purpose for the majority of the game. By the time the players find most 
 of the weapon upgrades, he would have reached the latter part of the game already (SPOILER: this 
 is also where you lose your weapons and be left with other various weapons where there are no useful 
 upgrades/attachments) . 
  
  Third, one who has ever completed the game could deny that this game feels very much like a fusion 
 of Halo and the original Far Cry. The first half of the game puts the player in an environment 
 very much alike with that in Far Cry - the islands, the waters, the trees, and the rest of the 
 scenery. This is due to the fact that the game was made using a similar graphics engine as Far 
 Cry. As for the latter half of the game where the player enters the alien world - everything reminds 
 me of the EVERYTHING that happens in the original Halo (don't ask me why) . Perhaps this is due 
 partly to the fact that the "alien weapon" is very much similar to that of that of Halo. 
  
  All in all, this game is a must-play. And to be honest, I would be quite surprised if anyone 
 is still reading the reviews for this game. The reason I was driven away from playing Crysis when 
 it first came out was that I thought my system was not capable of handling this game. Quite to 
 the contrary, even with a 8800GTX I was able to play the game in a medium/high setting. And when 
 you are playing this game for the first time, bear in mind that having a strange DeJaVu feeling 
 if you have ever played Halo and Far Cry before would not be all-that unusual at all.
  
  8.5/10 for unoriginal ideas, a short campaign, and a subpar ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennylson
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 8:04 am PT
Review:  I left it a long time before I finally decided to buy this game and I kind of wish I hadn't bothered. 
 My mid-to-high spec PC handles it quite well and I was able to get reasonably good frame rates 
 on higher settings too.
  
  When you really enjoy playing a game, you come back to play it fequently and sometimes even finish 
 it in only one sitting if your that keen. I did not find myself doing this with Crysis. It took 
 me about 4-5 months to complete as I only played it here and there when I had nothing better to 
 do. When I did finish it, I was relieved more than I was satisfied because I knew that the pain 
 of playing this game was finally over!
  
  The start of the game is very intense and you are thrown into the action straight after you parachute 
 out of a plane and land on the shore of a Korean island. A very good start (bit similar to FarCry) 
 but don't let that fool you. You then take a bit of time getting used to your nanosuit which is 
 pretty cool but very awkward. I took a bit of time out to look around at the incredible amount 
 of graphic detail used here and it is easily the best looking game that I have ever seen. Very 
 impressive indeed! Unfortunately, this is about as good as it gets for Crysis in my opinion. The 
 story is a bit dull and cliche and the gameplay is not much fun to experience either. I'm all for 
 stealth games where you need to keep out of sight but this is ridiculous!! You have to pretty much 
 be cloaked constantly, otherwise you are almost certainly dead meat. Once you are spotted, you 
 are ambushed by enemies that seem to just spawn in from nowhere and you will find yourself reloading 
 checkpoints very frequently. I know this game was not designed to be a run-and-gun FPS but the 
 difficult tactics you have to employ whilst playing the game made it quite boring and laborious 
 for me. Also, considering you are supposed to be a highly trained marine sporting a high-tech super 
 suit, the basic Korean grunt soldiers seem to be a hell of a lot more stronger, accurate and intelligent 
 than you could ever wish to be! Not very realistic is it!
  
  There is a reoccuring bug problem in this game too. Every now and then, my player will just drop 
 dead for no reason at all. At first, I thought I had stepped on a land mine or something but after 
 a few re-tries, I realised that it was not the case. This is extremely annoying when you have not 
 saved or reached a checkpoint for a while.
  
  I do like the way the nanosuit makes you super fast and strong though. It's great to sprint up 
 to enemies whilst cloaked and then grab hold of them round the neck without them seeing you. It 
 adds good variety to the combat rather than just shooting everyone.
  
  So while Crysis is visually stunning, it is also a tedious and unenjoyable trip around tropical 
 island. The extreme tactics you need to use turn the game into a bit of a borefest and I would 
 recommend you give this one a miss and buy something else with your hard earned cash.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemo_85
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  The good: 
  -Amazing graphics
  -Superb game play
  -Innovative combat suit that contributes to new options for combat tactics. 
  
  The bad:
 
  -Campaign is short and ends unexpectedly. 
  -Plot is unoriginal and fails to provide maximum immersion. 
  
  
  Overall, Crysis is well 
 worth playing. Any person that enjoys a good first person shooter will probably love Crysis. The 
 graphics are absolutely amazing and the environment quite interactive. The combat suit that the 
 player wears provides an additional element to the FPS genre that is rare: personal tactics. For 
 the most part, treating situations in Crysis as running in with guns blazing probably will not 
 be a successful route. Strategy is often the better course in this game whereby players need to 
 make use of their nano suit's powers. This game play element provides serious bonus points for 
 Crysis, making it stand out substantially from other shooters. 
  
  The nano suit the player wears is probably the strongest thing about Crysis, in fact. It encourages 
 players to try new ways of defeating enemies and to also interact with the environment in various 
 new ways. Moreover, the game is relatively difficult if a player simply "runs and guns," so using 
 the suit intelligently becomes the preferred method. 
  
  Crysis did, however, feel like a bit of a letdown in the areas of player immersion and plot development. 
 Although the game was still extremely fun, it always felt like something was missing. While the 
 game play itself would pull me in, I remained somewhat detached from the experience. Mostly, this 
 was due to plot being fairly predictable and not being developed very well. Additionally, character 
 development of those around you was shallow. You were the super hero with the nano suit that could 
 solve every problem, and that is great (and fun) , but also a little predictable and disappointing. 
 It actually reminded me a little of Halo, with better graphics. 
  
  In addition to the game plot and characters being fairly shallow, the game ends quickly and somewhat 
 unexpectedly. This is nothing new for a lot of FPS fans, but it was nevertheless a bit sad since 
 it is a relatively unfruitful ending. 
  
  Do not let these things deter an FPS fan from playing this game, though. Despite the somewhat shallow 
 personality of the game, it remains one of the most fun games I have played. In many cases, I found 
 that the shallowness was forgotten due to being wrapped up in how to use the nano suit to best 
 meet the objective -- with often creative tactics working the best. After beating the game, the good 
 things stand out as those which you remember the best. Thus, while the game might be shallow, it 
 is still a blast to hang out with. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: long_fellow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  Free-falling out of a plane into enemy territory with a faulty parachute isn't exactly the conventional 
 way of starting a game. Crysis, however, starts in just that way  an ominous plummet towards what 
 would ordinarily be a paratrooper's demise on a rocky tropical shore. In many other ways, German 
 developer Crytek's sci-fi, first-person shooter breaks convention; with high PC requirements, an 
 open-world approach to shooters, and a little thing called a nanosuit, no one could say that it 
 was out to join the run-of-the-mill.
  
  The game has you play as Nomad, a member of a military squad sent by the U. S. to investigate happenings 
 around a Dr. Rosenthal in a remote tropical island in 2019 South-East Asia. Rosenthal is a captive 
 of the North Korean People's Army, and it's your job to find out what they're up to and provide 
 recon. You jump out of the plane only to have your chute malfunction, with no spare or reserve. 
 Luckily for you, Nomad and his four squad mates are clad with the nanosuit, a magnum opus of sorts 
 developed by the U. S. Military for use of its elite forces. With it, Nomad can switch between superhuman 
 strength, superhuman speed, increased armour, and the ability to cloak himself from enemy eyes. 
 The suit's armour capability has cushioned your fall, leaving you ready and able to carry out your 
 mission to find the doc and gather info. Getting to him, unsurprisingly, will have you treading 
 in hostile North Korean territory and running into some nasty surprises  such is the initial premise 
 of the game.
  
  The beauty of Crysis, despite what others might think is its graphical capability, lies in its 
 revolutionary approach to shooter gameplay. The game takes the traditional first-person shooter 
 mechanics and unshackles them from boundaries of any sort by making sandboxes out of every stage. 
 If in past shooters you would have to take a specific path with a specific number of obstacles 
 and an unending supply of enemies, Crysis has come to herald the future of shooter games by giving 
 the player huge if not complete control over the solution to the problems on the battlefield. You 
 are given objectives and venues; the rest is up to you, your suit, and your guns. Explosives, ammo, 
 weapons, weapon attachments, vehicles, and other tools are scattered about the place for you to 
 scavenge for and combine. The amount of freedom you are given to approach a solution is staggering. 
 If you want to sneak in using your suit's cloak capability, you may do so from the left, the right, 
 the flank, or wherever you wish. If you fancy a Rambo-esque skirmish, you may indulge however you 
 want and from wherever you want. If you want to take your enemies out from afar, you may use a 
 scoped rifle while crouched on a nondescript hill or rock formation. If you are spotted and need 
 to make a quick escape, you may quickly switch to the suit's speed to run fast and strength to 
 jump high. Because of the plethora of options you are given, it's nigh impossible to trivialize 
 a mission into a problem with a single solution, and every approach you take is a thrilling experience 
 that will test your ability to react and adapt to the situation quickly and resourcefully. It's 
 this theme of "Adapt, Engage, Survive", coupled with the dynamic nanosuit, that truly makes the 
 game a fresh, innovative, realistic experience that will have you thinking and shooting for quite 
 possibly the first time in a shooter
  
  
  This innovative style of gameplay is not without great AI opponents. The North Korean sentries 
 you will encounter have apparently been doing some training in their hermit homeland, because they 
 can and will find ways to outdo you. They can flank, retreat, call for reinforcements, take cover 
 etc. Though sometimes glitchy, the AI poses a fair amount of challenge that makes owning them with 
 your nanosuit all the more gratifying.
  
  The only hint of linearity in the game is the fact that it has a definite plot, which is by no 
 means a bad thing. Having a definite plot and setting helps make the game less intimidating than 
 a completely open world shooter like Far Cry 2. Crysis has the classic, almost clich story of 
 soldiers going to a mysterious locale to save someone, only to find out that they're in deeper 
 trouble than they signed up for. It unfolds slowly for the first few hours, but a little more through 
 and the plot picks up and turns the game into a cinematic experience as well as an action game. 
 The story is strong in its own right, especially considering it belongs to a genre that focuses 
 on cinematic awe rather than engaging plot. The characters are underdeveloped but still believable, 
 and the dialogue is crude but never corny. In the end, however, it still pales in comparison to 
 the likes of Mass Effect and Grand Theft Auto IV, whose story and characters are developed fully 
 and expressed flawlessly.
  
  This game's popularity, or should I say infamy, has never rested on its gameplay or story. Rather, 
 it has earned a reputation for its graphical capability and system requirements. Since this is 
 a PC-exclusive game, developers have always boasted that it can only be fully appreciated on the 
 PC platform. True enough, Crysis has the ability to shock and awe its players with graphics that 
 arguably surpass any game on other platforms. Every nook and cranny of the game world blurs the 
 line between visiting a volatile tropical island and staring down a monitor. To this day, more 
 than a year after its release, Crysis (along with younger brother Crysis: Warhead) remains the 
 holy grail of PC gaming graphics, and is constantly used to compare the capacities of top-notch 
 video cards. For its sheer beauty, however, Crysis has paid the price of consumer-friendliness. 
 The aforementioned infamy is rooted in the fact that the game has steep system requirements, meaning 
 not everyone can run it, and a lesser few can run it in decent settings. Though still playable 
 on a regular gaming PC, it's very hard to appreciate without the latest (and probably most expensive) 
 video card in the market. The game's towering demands can do a lot to turn off prospective buyers, 
 which is a tragic loss for both developers and players.
  
  Sound-wise, Crysis does a highly satisfactory job of immersing its players. The voice-overs are 
 great, the atmospherics are beautiful, and background music is well-placed. The gun sounds are 
 sharp and add a little oomph in each burst of the rifle or shot of the pistol. Explosion sounds 
 are also nice to hear, especially if they're anywhere near your opponents. In the continuing spirit 
 of realism, the sounds are more focussed towards setting a realistic atmosphere about the game, 
 rather than making a bombastic orchestra of kabooms and kablams. Although the sounds may not be 
 the first thing one would come to appreciate about Crysis, they are definitely great and worthy 
 of note.
  
  In terms of longevity, Crysis' only asset is the very replayable single-player story. Its gameplay 
 mechanics will almost force you to play again, since you would want to try other ways of finishing 
 a mission, and pick out which is the most gratifying. If you had at first lacked the guts to do 
 anything but sneak in cloak mode, you might want to play again with more confidence in the fact 
 that you can outgun the enemy. You might find another path to take along the way, too. Given the 
 infinite amount of ways to approach the objective, playing through the game over and over will 
 spark any action junkie's fancy, making the game a treasure to go back to and dig up any time.
 
  
  Regrettably, the huge potential of the nanosuit functions in a multiplayer theatre was not tapped 
 into. The game's multiplayer is moot, having few features and little fun factor. You have only 
 to choose between a free-for-all game mode and "Power Struggle" which is essentially capture the 
 flag with two bases; each "flag" provides weapons and vehicles, some of which can be used to destroy 
 the enemy base to win the game. Free-for-all will have you picking up weapons and explosives on 
 the fly much like traditional shooters. In Power Struggle, you have to buy your gear with points 
 earned through killing enemies and achieving objectives. In addition to this limited ability to 
 customize your guns and gear, the game also feels very slow-paced because of oversized maps and 
 slow moving speed. If it couldn't get any worse, killing another player doesn't give the same graphical 
 recognition and gratification that Call of Duty 4 did. In fact, everything that Call of Duty 4's 
 multiplayer did right, Crysis' did wrong. It's an absolute tragedy that Crysis didn't put out with 
 its multiplayer, since the idea of 32 or so nanosuits in a single map is really very appealing.
 
  
  Ultimately, Crysis is a game that breaks some barriers in the gaming industry, but leaves others 
 untouched. Its outstanding open world gameplay should serve as the definitive signal for developers 
 to wake up and innovate towards a generation of thinking gamers. The graphics, needless to repeat, 
 are simply unmatched in all aspects and all platforms. The sounds are awesome in their own right, 
 completing the realism and immersion that was spurred on by the game's graphics. The game's story, 
 however, is no different in quality from the stories that we've come to expect from shooters, and 
 its flawed multiplayer detracts from an otherwise perfect game. Overall, Crysis manages to be a 
 benchmark and must-own among shooters that will hopefully lead a revolution of games that are deeper 
 and more worthy of the term "next-gen".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colbertnation1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2009 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I have been a shooter and pc gamer for years. I have liked some and I have hated some.
  
  Crysis is a beautiful game, the graphics are amazing and the storyline is very original. Learning 
 your powers is one of the funnest parts.
  
  But what good is great graphics and a beautiful in game landscape if you have no time to sit back 
 and look at it?
  This game is 100% pure action, to alot of people thats great. But ask yourself, do you really want 
 to constantly be on the run in this game? No taking in the beautiful landscape or checking out 
 certain things that spiked your interest?
  
  Its not a game you can sit down, play 30 minutes and find a safe spot to put your character and 
 save the game.
  There are no safe spots in this game, your constantly hunted and you get very tense from playing 
 it.
  Also there seems just to little of in game weapons, shotgun, ak, scar and nades are about it.
  
 
  The Multiplayer just plain sucks, not many people play it and you cant blame em. Just huge open 
 land with very few players and ALOT of cheats being used. Also trying to join a server is a nightmare, 
 half the time the game wont recognize the server.
  If you dont mind being in a game where you have tons of beautiful and interesting graphics to take 
 in but no time to do it, or constantly having stupid hard objectives or tasks that take an hour 
 and acomplish nothing. This game MAY be for you.
  Alot of the quests have you trying to search for your squad leader through the jungle (btw, dont 
 plan on looking at it, you have to constantly move) . Once you find him, he moves somewhere else 
 and asks you to meet him there.
  Is this hide and go seek or a scifi shooter?
  I played this game a good solid bit and just got sick of being told to try and manage to get to 
 a point all the way across the map alive and then find out i came there just to watch a guy get 
 frozen to death. 
  Also if you enjoy good teamplay? look elsewhere, you do EVERYTHING alone in this game.
  If you 
 enjoy pure action and constantly being on the edge of your seat, this game might be for you.
  But if you enjoy getting a game for the eye candy but not having the time to look at it, or enjoy 
 having a good balance of lone wolf/team play then this game IS NOT for you.
  Whats the point of great graphics if you cant take in the beauty of it.
  
  1 to 10, 10 being 
 best.
  Graphics: 10
  Storyline: 8
  Sound: 6
  Weapons: 5
  Originality: 8
  In game freedom: 7
  Enemy AI Intel: 8 (these guys are not dumbbuts like normal shooter bots)
 
  Fun: 6
  
  I would suggest you test this game out before you play it, the demo has alot of the excitment but 
 after the first part of the game it quickly drops to the same boring objectives and the same boring 
 enemy until you get to the aliens, even they get boring.
  
  Want a good shooter with a good solid sp and an excellent mp? get cod4 or 5, if your pc isnt up 
 to the task of those cod2 has an excellent sp and mp is good to if you can find a server without 
 cheaters.
  If your getting this game for the mp, DONT. Better off with BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo6897
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be quite involving at first. But it soon becomes a little tacky and the world 
 isnt at all immersive it feels rather artistic or more of a benchmark game. Its not all about graphics 
 I had more fun playing farcry2 just due to the fact it had something else to do besides sticking 
 to the story . This wold is stunning and huge . yet you cant seem to have a whole lot of fun. Well 
 ok throwing a chair in the air shotting it in half was cool .. for a bit . Multiplayer was a let 
 down . And i dont think ill purchase warhead due to the fact this let me down quite a bit
  
  + Cool suit
  + diffrent ways to approach certain missions
  + Looks stunning!
  - Feels 
 a little lonely at times
  - Same old missions
  - still a few bugs here and there but not much
  
  Great for those that wanna crank up the settings 
 and have a good old gander at the stunning jungle and coast. But once that wears off it becomes 
 a bit boring and you feel hopeless at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_Gamer_94
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  DX10
  
  When i saw the first pictures of Crysis, it was mind-blowing. The comparison shots between real-life 
 photos and game pics were uncanny. Along with the boasted 'technologies' behind the game, including 
 improved performance under DX10, physics at a huge scale, weather/climate change and the most sophisticated 
 AI ever in a sandbox environment - it wasn't difficult to capture any gamer's attention. Enough 
 about yesterday's news and let's concentrate on 'now' - the game is out, i have a high-end PC - 
 did it live up to my expectations? A short answer would be Yes, but there was a lot of deliberation 
 behind that.
  
  WWIII?..... Nah
  
  Crysis takes place in the future, 2020, in a time of tension between USA and North Korea. You, 
 'Nomad', is among several elite soldiers equipped with nano-suit technology. This American team 
 is sent to a remote tropical island for the retrieval of American archaeologists excavating there. 
 It turns out that North Koreans have occupied much of the island and are intent on harnessing the 
 island's uncovered technologies for military strength. Within moments of deployment from a jump 
 jet, it becomes clear that there is a greater enemy than North Korea out there.
  
  To 
  
  One major thing about Crysis when it comes to gameplay 
 is that it is heavily linked to the performance of your machine. Taking the graphical fidelity 
 and immersive environments out by lowering the settings is like trying to type up an epic essay 
 with the letters 'o, w, s' missing from the keyboard. The game becomes that much more an experience 
 as the sandbox environments draw you, the gamer, into its world when it feels so believable - in 
 a Hollywood way. Graphically, this game has a hunger for raw power as it brings my Q6600 + 8800GTX 
 to its knees - why it does so is easily explained away by the gorgeous pictures it produces. And 
 this is only in DX9 mode with tweaked settings - DX10, a feature of the Vista operating system 
 on higher settings would look another league better, if only if it ran a playable framerate. Grass, 
 leaves, dust is blown about by the wind. Each individual leaf casts a soft shadow created by an 
 actual sun and the people are modelled to an extreme that could haunt you the moment you see their 
 faces close up. This is not to say that this game is only fun to play because it looks and feels 
 'so good', but it is pretty much half the story.
  
  Emergent Gameplay
  
  The game is sandbox, meaning that anything goes in how you want to play the game. Your experience 
 through the game is never exactly the same after playthrough after playthrough - it is something 
 people describe as emergent gameplay. The nano-suit that is made available immediately gives you 
 the choice of strengthening your armour, boosting your physical strength, boosting your speed or 
 even cloaking yourself. And those are your choices - boosting your strength allows you to jump 
 to higher places, punch/throw objects/enemies harder/further. Speed past guards or run away from 
 them if you want to avoid unnecessary effort (or saving bullets) . Sneak past defences whilst being 
 invisible etc. The destructible environment itself can be used as weapons such as punching down 
 walls, throwing large objects or using it as cover - in a way, the game becomes as much fun as 
 you'd like to make it. Do want to conserve ammo and just use a large trash bin as a weapon? You 
 can. Want to kill the enemies by just grabbing and throwing them? You can. You can use the vehicles 
 to run people over or use its mounted gun. The vehicles do feel a little buggy at times though 
 because there are times when there are unexplained unresponsiveness. Vehicles and large machines 
 are particular highlights of the game and that also complements the weapons that are made available. 
 There are many vehicles in the game and are very fun to drive, particularly when the game lends 
 itself to opportunity. You can customise your weapon, such as silencers, scope, type of ammo, flashlight/grenade 
 launcher etc. It offers so much variety that actually impacts the gameplay. Using silencers is 
 particularly useful for disguising your exact location but sacrifices the damage inflicted - and 
 is something i almost always used because it suited my styIe of play.
  
  Audio as you never seen before
  
  The audio fidelity in this game parallels the visual department. 
 Just as the game is a visual treat, the immersive audio in particular beats out as good as your 
 sound system has to offer. Cranking up the volume, people in the house would think you were watching 
 an epic war movie as explosions, gunfire are realistically emulated in a action-movie fashion. 
 The complementary soundtrack is just perfect; never sounding 'too recognisable' to alienate the 
 mood, but rather complements the action/mood in your surroundings in an almost-subconscious way. 
 By the end of the game, you'd be hard-pressed to single out a single soundtrack of the game, but 
 you'd know it was there exaggerating the peaceness of your surroundings or cranking up the tension 
 in the appropriate situations.
  
  Naughty Crysis!
  
  There are certain criticisms I have to make as someone who's played a huge variety of games. While 
 Crysis goes above and beyond as a FPS by creating an amazingly sophosticated sandbox environment, 
 it underutilises some of the advantages of sandboxing. Crytek played the emergent-gameplay card 
 but considering what Grand Theft Auto San Andreas (a sandbox PS2 game) accomplished in both depth 
 and variety, Crysis seems lacking, at least in sandbox-terms. It feels as if Crysis was inhibited 
 by its shooter genre (and striving for the best visuals) and need to tell an engaging, but ultimately 
 linear and predictable plot. While these criticisms mar an excellent game, they are borne out of 
 my expectations from the technologies behind the game. For a first person shooter, this sandbox 
 element is thus far unparalleled.
  
  Who in his right mind plays Crysis.... online?!
  
  One big 'however' factor that comes into play is the community aspect. With the sandbox editor 
 being flexible and easily accessible, it offers incredible user-generated content and is something 
 not to be sniffed at. Along with mods and all-sorts of 'jazz' you can easily find something entertaining 
 once the campaign is over. Even if the game does not feature ragdolls or explicit gore, i think 
 there is something out there to change it even if Crytek condones it. And then there is the online 
 multiplayer - while it can be entertaining, the lack of players in a huge map ultimately means 
 encounters aren't as often as you'd like. 'Power Struggle' as it is called, is about trying to 
 destroy the enemie's base of which is best done by acquiring nukes. It has its own plus points 
 being that it's unique, you get to use your suit powers and it looks very nice. But the multiplayer 
 just simply pales in comparison to what else is on offer, like Counter Strike, Battlefield, or 
 Call Of Duty 4. Simply put, the multiplayer is not something you'd buy Crysis for, but for its 
 touted 'ultimate single player experience'.
  
  Conclusion
  
  In the end, this is definitely a game to get once you have a very decent machine (up to date gaming 
 rig) . I wouldn't recommend it to people who don't have very capable machines as it is an experience 
 that can be spoiled even if it is playable on older machines (due to good scalability of the game) 
 and thus, Crysis is a game to be enjoyed later but shouldn't be a sole reason for a PC upgrade 
 or a complete new build. There is a slight bitter taste for the aftermath because it uses a clas-sic 
 cliche for the sequel to Crysis. That bitterness though is overwhelmed by the sweet sensation that 
 is the taste of adrenaline-fuelled action that just FEELS epic. And maybe if you don't have a capable 
 machine, just wait, wait till the second game of the trilogy to come out. Maybe then, playing it 
 though from 1 to 2 in a more capable rig will be that much better an experience than if you played 
 the games separately.
  
  ---------------------------------------------
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sounds: 10
  Gameplay: 9
  Multiplayer: 8
  Storyline: 8
  Impression: 10
 
  
  Score: 9.2
  Gamespot Score: 9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkoCooleo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is the most graphical intensive game ive ever seen. Not only do you need a monster to run 
 this game, you need the ultimate mean machine to play this game on its highest settings. 
  
  The gameplay is very good in my opinion. I especially love the simplicity of the suit functions, 
 and the way you grab enemies by the throat, and throw them at other enemies. very fun. 
  
  Online is ok, although a lot of people have had problems with the "server authentication failed" 
 message. thats ea's fault, not crytek's.
  
  The storyline takes you through a beautiful island, where you need to rescue some random research 
 team, and then fight aliens to save the world, blah blah blah. fps, then sci-fi. personally, i 
 like owning koreans more than i like owning aliens. 
  
  If you like fps - scifi games. this is must-get. even if you dont, get it. it rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Even though I totally hate First Person Shooter games, I still found that his game was actually 
 totally worth the play. 
  
  Let us start off with the graphics for this game. The only words that come to mind when I think 
 of the graphics and the physics for this game is Totally Amazing. That only counts if you have 
 a monster PC that is able to run the PC at high graphics. Luckily I am one of the fortunate people 
 that just managed to buy myself a Super PC and so I could run in on full and fantastic graphics. 
 Colors or the environments are vivid and the textures and shading crisp and clear.
  
  There is quite a large amount of weapons to your disposal, although not to many so you don't know 
 which to choose. The suit is also a great idea with various power ups like Super Armor, Extra Strength 
 and Invisibility. Neat tricks to help you get through the game.
  
  The only real bad thing that I can say about the game is that the story is a little short and the 
 ending a little bit of an anticlimax.
  
  Great game... if your PC can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unseenforcez
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Similiar to Return to castle wolfvenstein, had some nice eye candy, made my pc freeze a lot even 
 after quitting the game. When the aliens come out it gets very repetitive and very much like hard 
 labor, not fun. The game control section makes you think you will get to fly a helicopter. NOT!!!!! 
 Only a measely V-tol POS.
  
  I Don't think I will play Warhead. Deus ex was sooo much better than this crap. Im surprised at all 
 the high reviews. This game tried to steal some ideas from Alien vs Predator like cloaking for instance. AVP 
 is a very old game that far outshines this game period!
  
  I had high hopes for this game from the reviews but it did not deliver.
  I'd rather play Far 
 Cry 2 anyday. Bio shock sucks too its also got nice eye candy and the whole game is built around 
 big daddys, they shouod have called it big daddy and his lil sis on drugs.
  
  I want a game thats like real life, people don't make these, and looks like movie makers don't either.
 
  
  Next game to try out is wanted weapons of whatever oit is from the movie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Bird10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is one of the best FPS's I've ever played. It's a perfect gaming package: Action, graphics, 
 fun, and total immersion. Don't know why people gave this negative ratings. 
  
  Oh. Right. Brutal System requirements. 
  
  Well. That's pretty much an exaggeration. I use 
 XP, with an 8800 GTS combined with an Intel Core 2 Duo rated at 4.68 GHz. Average about 20-25 FPS, 
 at 1280x1024 with 2xAA. Hampered down only because I managed to tweak the game files to force DX10 
 graphics to enable in DX9.
  
  Gameplay is awesome, with the innovative nanosuit, and the ability to interact with the environment. 
 For example, Strength mode on the nanosuit can demolish a poorly made building, throw objects over 
 great distances, and more incredible feats. Cloak mode is one of the essentials. If you're gonna 
 play on "Delta", the hardest difficulty, then you're gonna need to rely on stealth to bypass deadly 
 enemies. Wide variety to gameplay for sure. This ain't a 'chamber shooter'.
  
  The general atmosphere is excellent. Superb audio enable deep immersion, and when you combine that 
 with the jaw-dropping graphics... words cannot describe it.
  
  The A. I. is good, but when they are alone, they can be easy to defeat, but only in the first few 
 levels. They start getting harder and harder, especially when the aliens are introduced as enemies. 
 But, in large groups, it can be a real nightmare. 
  
  The weapon customization is one of the shining aspects of the game. The ability to customize your 
 gun is essential. You can add different sights, silencers, different ammo types, grenade launchers, 
 and more. Way better than other games, when stealth is a no-go, when you have non-silenced weapons, 
 and do not have the ability to silence them. 
  
  And, Yes. Scoped shotguns exist here. 
  
  There a few graphical glitches occasionally, but does not affect the overall gameplay and fun. 
 
  
  9.5/10. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicack
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  i just change my vga into 9800 gt, and the first game i install to test my vga is crysis. Since 
 i like far cry, i think this game will be more awesome than before. And it's true, this game show 
 the forest, the water, river and the enemy even better than far cry. We can't just run into direct 
 battle, because there's always more enemy than we've seen. It need a good strategy to enter the 
 battle for the best result. Another thing i like is when we are inside the core. The gravity is 
 zero so we can fly around, i think i only can do it in dead space, but crysis made it first. So 
 nice we can shoot the alien when we floating around the core. But i have one bug in this game after 
 we encountered the first 2 tanks. After i destroy them, there's no instruction for the next mission. 
 But after i restart level it's all fixed. That's all the minus for this game, the other's seems 
 very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrlie3
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is broken... Yes gameplay is nice and the graphic is fantastic, but none of these matter 
 when all these little bugs make your life a hellhole. 
  
  The game crashes every so often. Your TAC gun won't lock onto unless you go back to your last autosave 
 (no, not a quicksave or normal save - they won't work) Your mid-boss, right before the last boss, 
 seem to fly around and teleport for no reason at all. (I've seen it floating above the air and 
 actually kills VTOL that had Psycho and Helena... WTH?!?!?) Whenever you misstep in the last part 
 of the game you are stuck with fires or previous stages of the game which you can't never get out 
 of...
  
  Basically Crysis is a great game to play until the last 2 bosses because for some computers (not 
 old) they are just broken. I even tried cheat code so I can finish this broken game but it won't 
 even LET ME USE CHEAT CODE!!! Seriously, I was thinking of buying the expansion pack but these 
 bugs make me reconsider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgmcgrath
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm only covering my impression of the single-player campaign. I'm not a multi-player guy, yet. 
 
  
  In summary, I'm fairly baffled by all the criticism of the game. I was very satisfied by this game 
 both in production values and game play. Any shooter fan should play this game, especially with 
 the price in the $35-40 range in late 2008.
  
  Graphically, the production values are stellar: Lush, sun-dappled forests, stunning sunsets on 
 hills and water, rainbows on waterfalls. Human animation (during cut scenes) wasn't as good, but 
 it wasn't any worse than typical video game fare. The destructible environments were also cool, 
 and they caused you to seek stable cover to survive in some situations. Combat graphics were generally 
 satisfying (big, fiery explosions and crashes) . The game was very stable (no crashes at all with 
 the 1.4 patch) and had only rare, minor glitches (e. g., a HUMVEE a is parked a couple of inches 
 above the ground) . Audio was generally fine, but I had to tune sound controls a bit to hear dialog 
 clearly. The soundtrack would have suited a motion picture.
  
  
  Gameplay was positive overall. Crysis had a lot of variety: Shooter and stealth combat, route finding, 
 and minor amounts of driving, flying, and platform jumping. I generally felt pressured by the flanking 
 behavior of the opponents, causing me to scramble into cover to stay alive. As everybody mentions, 
 opponents act stupid individually, but the sheer volume of them presents its own challenges. I 
 probably had the greatest satisfaction doing the stealth stuff and selecting the right weapon combo 
 for the tactical situation. Overall, the combat was just a little too easy, with only the final 
 two boss battles offering satisfying challenges (I played on the Hard setting) .
  
  I liked the ability to dynamically "customize" the weapons (selecting sight type, ammunition, or 
 weapons mode for the tactical situation) . You could only carry two "rifle-like" weapons, and customization 
 was a nice way to realistically provide access to a variety of weapons types. I used the nano-suit's 
 Stealth mode a lot, but the Speed or Power modes rarely: seemingly, only when the game absolutely 
 required it.
  
  If it matters, I'm running on a older rig, but it has two 8800GT's and a quad-core (two cores were 
 kept busy) . The game ran well at 1680x1050 with all settings at max quality (but no AA) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shelledfade1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  If your looking to test a beast of a computer out, this is the game to do so. The graphics are 
 the best I've ever seen, and I've played a lot of games. The story is cool for single player. Multiplay 
 can get a bit frustrating if you dont have a good system, lag can pretty much crush your fun-time 
 fairly easily and fast with this game. If your looking to play this game only on single player 
 it might not be worth looking into, it shines the most online, and if you dont have a really good 
 computer, its going to crush your dreams of playing this online with settings above "low".
  
  Good voice activing and plot. Cool customizable options. Neat abilities. Vehicals are always 
 fun. Flying and ground. You can take a stealthy pass on the game or you can do it shootum up style. 
 You can pick up objects, prone, crouch, jump. Change your weapons fireing mode from single or auto. 
 The customizable options in this game are very far and wide. Theres nothing really lacking at all 
 in this game except for maybe more gun content, other than that if you have a good computer, and 
 you haven't played crysis, your missing out a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fazz81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Well how much is there to say about this game, if i did not have to write min of 800 words i would 
 just tell you TO GET THIS GAME!!!! Because it is definitely a game worth playing action strait 
 fom the start. In this game you are a soldier who has a with a special type of suit called the 
 nano suit, which has different types of capabillity's ranging from speed burst, armour, super strength 
 and cloak, also there are many weapon types in this game ranging from pistol to mini gun, most 
 with changeable modifications like different types of scope, bullets and grenade launcher. I rated 
 this game a 9.5 out of 10 due to the many levels of play, challenge and graphics which may differ 
 to types of graphics cards. I played this game 1st on a 8400 gs and most of the graphics were set 
 to low and i still enjoyed the game, but recently upgraded to a gtx 280 and wow!! gone through 
 playing the game again and it is unbelievable even more enjoyable. But don't let that discourage 
 you because it is still very much enjoyable on a lower end card. There were a few jumpy spots on 
 this game which i was told that every ones had this issue in this game but it is nothing major 
 and doesn't interfere at all. Otherwise i hope this will make you buy this game because i enjoyed 
 it and YOU WILL!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ekkoe
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I don't even want to spend to much time on reviewing this game, seen as it's a total failure anyway, 
 but the high reviews bug me. Seriously, EA screwed you over for 60 so bucks, get over it.
  
  The game was hyped to be "next-gen" and to have some high tech graphic engine. Frankly, the 
 second thing I can't comment on because I've never seen or heard of a machine that could pull this 
 off (so why on earth bother realising this graphic engine in the first place?) , but next-gen? EA 
 calls ever game it makes next gen so that'd add up to  9000 generations just this year.
  
  Seriously consider, what does this game have to offer, what should it have to offer and where did 
 it fail. I'll sum it up for you.
  
  It offered:
  - Decent graphics. Anyone who played Gears of War knows that revolutionary is way overdone. Revolutionary 
 is was Morrowind and Oblivion, these are just acceptable graphics, but at least we can't comment 
 on that;
  - Blurs when looking around. That's right people, that was supposed to provide the next-gen FPS 
 technology. I barely even notice it.
  That's about all I can think of.
  
  It should have offered (just think of the huge promise you got and expectations you had when you 
 picked it up for 60 bucks (God bless you if you downloaded) ) :
  - A new FPS system that made the experience more intense;
  - Useful suit options, adding combat 
 creativity;
  - An original story and a good atmosphere and;
  - (Possibly the most important of all) A new AI system, because what's more important of a good 
 gaming experience than strong, intelligent enemies who respond realistically.
  
  It failed at:
  - Creating the feel of a war zone (seriously, play CoD4 and Crysis next to eachother) ;
 
  - Making the suit options interesting (speed's only useful for transportation, strength when you're 
 out of ammo and the rest is self-explanatory) ;
  - Mere BASICS of AI (anyone who tried experimenting with the strength suit knows what I'm talking 
 about. Enemies would just stare at you or not even shoot at you) ;
  - Delivering an interesting and original storyline (guy who doesn't show his face, suit with superpowers, 
 angry Asians, aliens... it's like they just ran through some titles and picked up a few elements 
 they could use from every game) ;
  - Delivering promised graphics (or at least graphics that were runnable and worth it) ;
  I could 
 probably go on but what's the point? I wasn't gonna waste much time, but I just get pissed knowing 
 how badly EA screwed people over with this piece of s***. 
  
  So get over it, the game's worth a 7.0 TOPS, but comparing promise to delivery, it's barely mediocre.
 
  
  Makes me wonder how much they payed Gamespot to give them a 9.5... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Note: This review is version 1. The reason is that I didn't get to finish the game. I only played 
 10% of the game. I can't continue to play becuz my comp is suffering some graphics problems but 
 i will fix it soon.
  
  First lets talk good things about this game:
  
  Gameplay: Unique fps game, able to approach missions in various ways, your suit is able to be very 
 effective in combat
  
  Sounds: Great sounds, good voice acting with real korean language (iam korean myself lol)
  
 
  Graphics: Great graphics and enviornment, and even though you put the graphics to low it still 
 looks pretty
  
  System: Nothing good to say about.
  
  Now the bad things about the game:
  
  Gameplay: Nothing bad to say.
  
  Sounds: Nothing 
 bad to say.
  
  Graphics: Nothing bad to say.
  
  System: System requirements are pretty high for average comp (but my comp could handle it lol) , 
 some crashes if your comp is not that great (beware of the blue screen!)
  
  Overall: The game is great. The game is not that expensive (well i got a great deal in gamestop 
 when they were having a sale. They were saling the special edition for $50 but they took $30 off 
 for that day) You should really try this game but i think you should rent the game before you buy 
 them because I kind of regret getting crysis i could have gotten left4dead instead T_T still a 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghreeb
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  it is the best game in all of history, perfect story, perfect actions, perfect graphics,.. it is 
 all perfect, but short. it has new idea of excellent speed and stength, and so..., it's so real 
 in handling things, however, it should be longer and larger in space. Anyway, some times you face 
 some difficulties in switching guns and applying the suitable equibment to the gun. And there are 
 some difficulties in seeing enimies, spacially while fighting and throw forsts. however it worked 
 on ATI ex300 512MB, 2GB ram, XP sp1 good enough, but need 9800gtx 1GB from me to see the reality 
 of it. you will need quad and 4GB RAM and 8800 gts on vista to see the best of crysis, in comparision 
 with Farcry 2, Far cry 2 is as good as crysis in some how but does not match the strength of graphics 
 and complexity. but crysis will lose against farcry 2 when it is about reality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coco_nutz18
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  
  so far this is the best shooter (as for me, of course)
  
  once played, be stunned by the awesome graphics!!!
  
  and gameplay meets your needs but you'll 
 less likely ask for more!
  
  feel the essence of the tropic. trees and grasses are so realistic that you 
  
  could almost 
 touch them... (hahaha)
  
  highly addictive! (mom, please let your child play for just another 
  
  hour.. please...)
 
  
  since there is always bad sides, well then here are my list..
  
  the game is too f***ing short!
  
  you'll get too kill too many Koreans than aliens!
  
  
 there are few list of weapons
  
  you can only carry two main weapons aside from side arm, rocket launcher, 
  
  grenades and 
 c4 bombs
  
  there is no goddamn combat knife!
  
  Korean soldiers are too strong that each can accommodate at least 5 bullets before going down, 
 unless hes being head shot of course that's another story.
  
  other than those, this game is really awesome...
  
  go ahead try it for your own satisfaction. 
 you'll never feel the urge unless 
  
  you'll stop reading this review and get your a** up and play!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: awwitz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  Here's a game that I underestimated at first. I know.. i never should've done that. But really, 
 the overall beauty of this game is partially under cover of some cheesy parts. Though, essentially, 
 this game is a shooter, it's a lot more than that. It's a fantastic FPS inserted with a few character 
 specials and really ugly tights!
  (STORY)
  This is a tale of war. It is set in a time when Koreans are planning world domination and America 
 is already at her next stage in modern warfare. Then the twist comes right at you with terrible 
 force: aliens and ancient tombs of weirdness arise as actually the main part of the story! Thank 
 heavens for Nomad's high-tech tights. It's really sci-fi in all its aspects; even the fact that 
 the nano-suit can dissolve the body of a person wearing it at a click of a button is so sci-fi! 
 And this is what makes this game great.
  (GRAPHICS)
  Simply beautiful. The island is vast, the forests are dense, the water is... wet. Anyway, the character 
 animations are very good. It's so realistic that it's sometimes funny. The suit effects are very 
 impressive; the different colors hat designate an ability from another are like traffic signs that 
 bring highlight to the suit as it is. The weapons are in parr with their real-life counterparts, 
 and even though there are weapons in the game that are not invented yet, they all look impressve. 
 I just don't get why Nomad won't take his helmet off, when everyone in his squad has thrown their 
 thousand-dollars-worth of headgear. 
  (SOUND)
  There are a lot of voice-overs here. Even the suit talks, but not as friendly as Gordon Freeman's. 
 Imagine a deep male or female voice telling you that you've already activated the speed maximizer 
 feature of your suit; i mean, it's a miracle they don't give off Nomad's position when he's on 
 cloak. They say a lot of "maximum"s here. Scary. There's variable orchestrations here; not much 
 during most of the game, but the music rises well at peak points. There's much diversity in Crysis' 
 sound department; one can have Koreans speak Korean, if you choose a higher difficulty setting 
 and the aliens are scary, too. I want to commend the deep notes rendered by the turntables.
  (GAMEPLAY)
  Shoot the enemy, just like any other shooter, but include bashing abilities thanks 
 to the increased strength feature of the suit that Nomad is wearing. There's maximum speed, armor, 
 and cloaking abilities too. But their use is on a strict limit due to depleting energy. Don't worry, 
 though; the energy bar replenishes itself, as well as the health bar. The game also features travelling 
 through the really big island on foot or on a ride. It's how to get to the next checkpoint that's 
 really the challenge, for there are adversaries on the way. Vehicles blow up when hit too much, 
 weapons lose ammo and let's not forget that Nomad is not God. Thankfully, the game features the 
 save-anywhere saving system. Just don't save the game when a whole clip of bullets is raining down 
 on you. Players won't do much during the whole alien base exploration, but it gives a nice jolt 
 once in a while. 
  (OVERALL)
  This game is violent, innovative, huge and beautifully riddiculous. The characters are memorable, 
 thanks to their two-syllable code names and unique models and the suits are just scary. Imagine 
 a hulk of a guy fancying a tight gray material for a Sunday stroll in the Korean forests. It adds 
 more tension to the core gameplay! Though it's short and there's little replay value, experiencing 
 this game once is enough to prove that this is one cool FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazdude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  If your PC can support Crysis' technical requirements, this is the best test you can run for all 
 future video games. It must be said that Crytek have designed their portfolio around being a long 
 term benchmark for others, not simply releasing everyday titles to be played and forgotten about, 
 as is usually the case with most shooters on the market.
  
  
  The very essence of Crysis, much like its predecessor FarCry is its free roaming environments and 
 thus the ability to accomplish your missions in a number of different ways. What makes this entry 
 so unique however, is the nano suit, a futuristic armor that grants your character special abilities 
 via internal energy. At any time you can activate these, ranging from maximum defence, super strength, 
 fast speed and cloak. 
  
  Using each in relevant situations and with combination can be the key to victory. As well as this, 
 you can customize your weapons wherever with various modifications like silencers, scopes, laser 
 pointers and ammunitions. Overall, the level of strategy in these ideas alone make Crysis a fresh 
 experience.
  
  In the single player campaign you'll cover the entire island fighting two very different kinds 
 of enemies, including some lush locations and fun mini games. Specific missions will require you 
 to drive vehicles like jeeps, tanks, helicopters and the like. There are many scripted instances 
 too, ensuring the action never stops for long. You'll constantly be rushed along, and will barely 
 get a chance to stop and take it easy.
  
  Nothing about gameplay is straightforward, there are many aspects of combat to take into consideration. 
 For starters, the enemy's AI is more challenging than you'd expect, with the possibility of co-ordinating 
 attacks or flanking from behind. There's also physics to account for, like destructible buildings 
 or gun accuracy.
  
  
  As if the gameplay isn't revolutionary enough, Crysis' graphics engine breaks new ground in regards 
 to what modern hardware is capable of. Making use of Direct X 10 technology, and the latest GPU 
 advancements, this is truly the best looking video game to date. In all honesty, most consumers 
 won't be able to run this on highest settings for a long time, with the specs required still not 
 mainstream. Regardless, the game still looks great on medium.
  
  Character models and populated environments are among the best you'll see anywhere, all detailed 
 and alive. Special effects such as motion blur, cloaking, explosions and injury are amazingly well 
 done, and present many exciting moments. The few cinematics are so realistic it sometimes feels 
 more like a hollywood movie than a game cutscene, and this goes down to Crysis' remarkable production 
 values.
  
  
  Where audio is concerned, once again you won't be disappointed by the neverending amount of fitting 
 sound effects. From ambient noises of the world around you to action packed engagements filled 
 with various weapon fire, shouting orders of the enemy and your nano suit's voice feedback, there 
 is never a dull moment. Although music is largely absent, you won't notice with all the fighting 
 going on.
  
  
  Single player is over rather quickly, even if it is packed with content. However, the developers 
 designed levels in such a way as to offer more than one approach to any given situation. Utilizing 
 different tactics such as stealth, assault or a hybrid can lead you in another direction or provide 
 a completely unique experience overall.
  
  Thankfully Crysis does include a multiplayer capability, and it features two separate modes, power 
 struggle and instant action. The team based maps have an exclusive style of play that works out 
 really well and encourages both strategy and organization to achieve victory. 
  
  
  Anyone who enjoys a FPS or action adventure role will find something they like in Crysis. In fact, 
 its easy to recommend this game to just about everyone, as it is a great example and will probably 
 set the standard for the future. If a shooter can show us anything, its how much a single title 
 can change a platform, and Crytek have certainly done their part for serious PC gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: code523
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  If you've got a machine that can take advantage of what this game is capable of, it offers the 
 most immersive 1st person tactical experience available. Period.
  
  While playing the game, I was continually amazed at the sheer beauty of the environment. Of course, 
 graphics alone can't make a game.... the gameplay, the sound effects, the cunning AI, and most 
 of all, the great storyline all blend together to make a gaming experience like no other. At times 
 it seems to be beyond what seems technically possible right now... even after a year on the shelf!
 
  
  Oh but, everything you've heard about the vehicles is true... the handling is non-existent... But 
 who cares really? Going it on foot is usually an option. There is one point in the game however, 
 when you are forced to use an aircraft to complete an objective. The fun comes to a screeching 
 halt during this sequence until you're able to guide this drunken hippopotumas to the next checkpoint. 
 I guess the point of making the player suffer through this, is to emphasise that your character 
 isn't a piolot but, is left with no chioce but to fly the craft himself but, in my opinion it was 
 so frustrating that it shouldn't have been in the game. It really broke up the flow of the adventure 
 this game otherwise manages to keep going throughout. This is the main reason I didn't give this 
 game a 10. Otherwise this game totally blew me away!
  
  A truly amazing game. Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ambidxtrous
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I had just recently built my own pc, with the newest graphics card and mother board, etc. This 
 was the first game I got to test it all out. This game is amazing when it comes to how much more 
 interactive your environment is compared to other games. Grass moves when you walk over it, trees 
 come falling down when you shoot them. Water is stunning, and much more. When you play this game, 
 it feels like your pc may crash at any moment. Ha, to me it has a few times. 
  
  The gameplay is awesome. Great story that isn't hard to follow and the game is very long as well. 
 I haven't even passed it yet but I've put it a good amount of hours. I wish the multilayer was 
 better though. Seems like not too many people are really on there. And I get problems with it sometimes.. 
 But this game is better to play the single player mode. 
  
  awesome, worth buying if you think your computer can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodyhugger79
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  As gamer's dream, Crysis is one of their list to be played on their PC. But due to requirements 
 demand, you can't play the game without a high-end or gaming machine. Is that so?
  
  Hardware Specification:
  AMD Athlon64 X2 4000+ (2.1Ghz) , 1GB DDR2-800 RAM, Palit GeForce 8600GT 
 Sonic+ 256MB (overclocked version) , 250GB harddrive.
  
  I can play the game with 1024x768 or 1680x1050 at Medium settings under Windows XP platform. The 
 graphics quality wasn't that good yet the game still rocks.
  
  I played the game for a month and enjoy the custom single player maps provided by Gamespot. With 
 the players' cloaking feature, silencer attachment and the sniper scope, I rule the game.
  
  Weapons are cool compared to other futuristic games with laser guns and anti-matter launchers. 
 Attaching flashlights for dark places, laser guided for sniper scopes, changing firing options 
 and the kind of scopes you want to zoom your view. You can use any vehicles around and use it against 
 your enemies.
  
  I get disappointed to the game when I entered the core. As expectation by the player, the more 
 you get deeper, game will be getting better. Aliens are everywhere and all you need is your cloak 
 and bare hands to destroy them. As I escape the core, accessibility to the ground (and air) are 
 limited due to storyline demands. I thought when I reach the final part (climax) of the game, it 
 will be more challenging and a group of soldiers will try to help me to bring the alien down (even 
 they are not) . But my expectations were lost... And tell to myself "Is that all?" Let's consider 
 when you reach the core, expect less actions and less excitement. But when you start the game again 
 from the start, surely you'll enjoy the first half till you encounter the aliens.
  
  As overall verdict to the game, it should be rated as 9.0 for overall improvement of the first-person 
 gaming. I think it was overrated by Gamespot since the climax was not delivered perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorvos
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  For months I've been hearing amazing stuff about "the best FPS of all time", the perfect Crysis. 
 So naturally, I decided to try it too. And let me tell you, this game is overrated to the extreme. 
 I can't believe how Gamespot gave it a 9.5. I mean seriously guys, this game has huge flaws and 
 some very irritating moments. I don't like being the black sheep amongst the white ones, but this 
 game is not that impressive as you hear it is. The AI is quite dumb, gameplay is not special at 
 all. Why, because you drive a tank and you fly an uncontrollable aircraft? Anyway, we'll get to 
 that later. However, although I started by criticising Crysis, it still has some great parts, that 
 makes you feel like it was worth trying.
  
  
  So in this game, you get in the shoes of a US special unit, equipped with a high-tech device, called 
 the nanosuit. Your real name, if I remember correctly, is not revealed. The others call you by 
 your codename: Nomad. Unlike other FPSs, such as Doom 3 or S. T. A. L. K. E. R. or Half-Life, your character 
 speaks, making him less mysterious than Doomguy, Strelok or Gordon Freeman for example. He will 
 answer the ones that talk to him and he will express his thoughts concerning the situation on many 
 occasions. However, unlike Half-Life 2 for instance, you will not be able to interact with people, 
 talk to them and find out useful information. However, you won't be needing to do that, since the 
 NPCs will talk to you directly. Unlike other FPS characters, this guy does have some super abilities, 
 that are only available when the nanosuit is on.
  
  The story of the game is good and quite interesting, although is nothing new or you haven't heard 
 before. It's the same "only one man can save the world" theme. And that is you obviously. Still, 
 that is not a bad thing. So in the beginning of the game, you are parachuted in the Philippine 
 islands, where you must deal with a North Korean invasion. But nothing goes as planned. In the 
 first mission you find one of your mates torn to pieces and hanging in the forest. Someone or more 
 likely something killed it. Later in the game, you take a glimpse at what kills other US marines 
 and North Koreans as well: a big and loud alien, that looks a lot like the sentinels from Matrix. 
 Some scientists find a remote cave that reveals astonishing facts: these islands are invaded by 
 aliens and their gigantic sphere that destroys anything between its range. It's now time for you 
 to forget about the useless Koreans and prepare to prevent the alien troops from destroying Earth.
 
  
  The whole game shouldn't take more than 10 hours to beat, and although it is said that it is very 
 open to explore, the main course is actually quite linear. Still, if you want to admire the gorgeous 
 landscapes, feel free to do it, but there no optional quests like in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl, 
 which is truly an open-minded game.
  
  One of the most important parts of a FPS is undoubtedly the weaponry. Crysis has good arsenal, 
 including: pistols, shotgun, smg, rifles (SCAR = G36, FY71 = AK-74, gauss rifle, precision rifle) , 
 minigun, grenades, flashbangs, missile launcher, an alien modified gun and TAC cannon, a gun you 
 can only use in the last level. This guns are beautifully designed and have ver nice shooting effects, 
 but many of them take a lot of rounds to bring down enemies. Most of them can be modified, by adding 
 scopes, flashlights, reflex sights and so on.
  Other weapons you can use are the vehicle mounted machine-guns and you can also drive tanks and 
 pilot the VTOL aircraft. The tank is fun to use, being able to fire high explosive rounds and use 
 the mounted machine-gun as well. The VTOL, although it looks interesting and can fire small round 
 and missiles at the same time, has very crappy controls. If you get down to much, you won't be 
 able to get back up before you crash, if you accidentally land you can't take off. Also there some 
 tornadoes that drag you down even if you don't go straight into them. The best thing about the 
 VTOL is that its shield regenerates.
  
  A major plus this game has is the nanosuit. You can boost different abilities with it. Only one 
 at a time can be used. The abilities are: increased armor, increased speed, increased strength 
 and cloak. Use them with caution, since they use the energy of the suit. Also, you can use different 
 abilities depending on the situation you're in.
  
  The graphics and sound effects Crysis offers are something you have never seen before. The whole 
 world, enemies, weapons are outstanding, looking very life-like. Also, you can do a lot of things 
 to the world, such as shooting trees until they fall down, shooting rocks and see them fall of 
 the cliff and experience lots and lots of great visual and audio effects.
  
  The AI is not very well done. Many of your enemies are behaving in a weird way. For instance, if 
 you shoot a guy from a distance he will not realise where you are shooting from and will often 
 turn his back at you and look for you in a total different direction. Also, many of your human 
 enemies are quite stupid on some occasions. Aliens on the other hand are quite a challenge.
  
  Like I said, this game is very overrated. Yes it has amazing graphics, a decent story and very 
 cool effects. But to be honest, the gameplay has quite a few bugs. When you drive a vehicle, you 
 can also fire the mounted machine-gun, which is kind of odd considering the fact you are th only 
 man in the vehicle, the VTOL aircraft is very irritating to pilot, when you take down a helicopter 
 the sound of its crash will last for minutes, cars can still be controlled even if one or two of 
 their tyres are broken, the AI is not near as sharp as you would have expected, on many occasions 
 being quite dumb. When a soldier falls down, you can't pick him up or if you shoot at his body, 
 it will stand still. That's not very impressive for such amazing graphics.
  Also, you'll need a NASA computer to run this game on high details.
  
  
  As a conclusion, 
 Crysis is nothing as special as you heard it was. Although it has some really good parts, it also 
 has serious flaws, story is nothing very special, AI is weird and it will get on your nerves on 
 a few occasions. Yes, it has the best graphics a game could have, but that is not enough to rate 
 this game with a 9.5. You will also need an amazing computer to run it on high details, meaning 
 that Crysis's requirements are way too big, considering it's just an average game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diioz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  This game is masterpiece. I never seen so much astonishing view of an island on screen before. 
 The game actually looks pretty close to real, I mean really. Bravo for Crytek, this is going to 
 be a well damn engine for a couple of years for sure. I can't wait for expansions and mods to be 
 done. This is a action-paced game, like in Crysis Warhead. Only a couple of bugs, a little short 
 story, and a boring Multiplayer. But still, I am not reviewing the multiplayer part. I had to buy 
 a new computer to play this game, I knew it a couple of months before it went out. That was a nice 
 thing, I was running the same old one for four years. Now I have a monster and Crysis is running 
 perfectly. Sometimes I can't even run it on Highest definition cause it becomes laggy. Maybe they 
 should have made it lighter. The sneak and power-on mode change completely the way of playing a 
 shooter. Reminds of me that Predator, that I liked very much. I know the campaign actually lacks 
 in length, I wish it lasted 10 more hours but I couldn't give under 9.5 only for what Computer 
 games are to, using the latest technologies to look the most realistic possible, and for now, this 
 game prevail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishalshine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  The best first person game i ever played, Its just too good, The gameplay is awesome ,with great 
 graphics ,The suit features are awesome. U will never get bored. The weapons are also good. U can 
 modify them ,, any way u want (add sniper scope to a assualt gun, etc)
  Were did the other 0.5 marks go... Well it has awesome graphics which need a supercomputer,,, and 
 there also a stage where theres nothin to do just move along ,,, Its very borin there ,,, u can control 
 from cars to helicopters ,,, jus tooo good . The story is based in 2020 were special forces come 
 to rescue hostages in an island. The members of special forces have the crysis suit ,,, givin u extra 
 strength .speed. armor .invisibility hen wanted .As u progress u see that the island has extra terristrial 
 in it ,,,,
  Buy this game if ur system can handle it ,,, well if it can dont wait go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hear-No-Evil
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok I finally bought a new computer that can run pretty much anything so I figured I would finally 
 buy Crysis. IT has been a huge disappointment. This is the reasoning.
  
  First off its a very loose first person shooter. The way you pick up weapons and grenades is just 
 plain useless. I am constantly in a firefight and have to bend down and look for weapons to use 
 and then hit a button to pick up more ammo. OK this is great if you wanna be ultra realistic, but 
 honestly who thinks this game is realistic anyway. This causes the shooting part very frustrating 
 and therefore not a fun shooter.
  
  Secondly on the first mission or so it seemed silly that I had to search for an appropriate weapon 
 to kill a tank. No amount of grenades or weapon fire or attempting to get in the tank worked. Weapon 
 fire is understandable. But there is always always always a weak spot on a tank for gun fire and 
 grenades will eventually destroy a tank. BUT NO; you must find a rocket launcher; which the game 
 doesn't help you out with finding in the event you spend 10 mins attempting to find it. Once you 
 do find it, it takes 3 missiles to take it down. EVEN AFTER I used 5 grenades on it; no f'ing way.
 
  
  Lastly the "super powers" of your nano suit are pretty much useless, they last so little time that 
 you can rarely do anything with them. I really believe that whatever "power" you choose it should 
 be pretty much indefinite; well except cloak which could be abused. Ok for example you could activate 
 speed and move from one space to the next easily without having to wait for it to recharge. Or 
 strength to punch punks for however long you want, or armor to reduce weapon dmg while equipped. 
 Why you can only take about 10 bullets and then the armor is gone, is beyond my comprehension. 
 Especially since Koreans with nano suits can take a rocket to the face, grenade and a clip of bullets 
 will remain standing... when their suit glows red (strength) WTF.
  
  All of the above mentioned reasons makes me really dislike crysis, its no fun to die constantly 
 or have your suit powers run out so fast you can't even use them effectively.
  
  Fear is still my number one sci-fi shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rohit_Dewaker91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  There can be no other game that can outrun this masterpiece...
  Not only the graphics are awesome but also the gameplay and storyline have themselves best fit 
 in the game. A novelty that hit the hearts of many professional gamers.
  A highly Addictive game.
  The graphics are the best. I have never seen such realistic graphics 
 in a game. The nanosuit, weapons ( especially the rocket launcher) , levels all make Crysis a perfect 
 game. The game can never be boring because all the levels are different. The AI is also good. One 
 can never resist or regret buying this game. First I was a bit skeptical about the game. I thought 
 the game would only contain good graphics and would lack storyline and gameplay but I am happy 
 I was proven wrong by CRYSIS. There can never be a game to compete Crysis!
  Thank you Crytek is all what I can say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgwii
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  if its online you want your better off with something like call of duty but if you just want a 
 good solid shooter with a great story this is for you. it starts off with a dull and kinda unimpressive 
 menu but dont let it set an example for the rest of the game. you then pick either multiplayer 
 or single player i will tell you about single player first. you can pick from four levels of diffuculty 
 that i do not remember what they are called. one thing i noticed was that only in the hardest diffuculty 
 do your enemys speak korean. maybe it would help in the first level but its not that neccesary 
 for the first three levels to have them speak english kuz they only say things like "I kill you" 
 or "reloading" so it dosent reveal anything or help you. what i like though is that each diffuculty 
 says what is more diffucult about it so you will know exactly what level to choose. once you pick 
 your level you see some kind of cut seen that dosent really make any sense but its short so it 
 dosent really matter. then you are on a ship with a commander who tells you whats going on, a scottish 
 guy cald psycho who wants to kill them and two other guys who dont talk much. after that you parachute 
 onto land and your shoot falls off but they tell you the suit will absorebe the impact and to head 
 for the water. this damages your sute and puts most systems off line and come back one by one so 
 that you learn to use the suite. i like this because you dont feel so overwelmed. after that you 
 take out your gun and start battleing and the game gets going and the story is great from there. 
 in multiplayer mode there is not alot to choose from and as i said this is mostly here to keep 
 you happy once you have beaten the game. you can only play either death match or power struggle. 
 i dont know how to play power struggle yet but i think it is like ctf a little. anyways i bought 
 this game because i own a wii and i wanted to play some kind of shooter so i decided to get cod 
 4 but i ended up choosing crysis and i made a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actsai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Everything here is good but nothing original, this is just a good package but nothing to consider 
 it a timeless classic.
  
  The real bad here is GPU requirement, you shouldn't consider this game unless you have a card that 
 costed at least $100 as used auction card. But if you do have that high price of admission expect 
 immersive game experience.
  
  Going back to the original part, on the outset it is labelled CryENGINE 2 so knowing Crytek pioneered 
 original CryENGINE with Far Cry there is certain predisposition you can expect here, namely open 
 environment and vehicular involvements.
  
  However most things were done before, only that in Crysis they are made bigger and better with 
 computing support itself being vastly improved over what was before. Put together as an all-around 
 good package, whilst the older games were ahead of its time and financially mediocre even though 
 critically acclaimed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wARLORD246
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  Don't worry my reviews are quite detailed and makes it easy to know about the game's qualities 
 and flaws.
  
  The Good
  
  Highly dynamic and cleverly designed free-form shooter gameplay. With huge replay value. A huge 
 singleplayer level can be repeated five times without boredom.
  
  Your maximum strength, speed, armor and invisibilty, guns, explosives, vehicles and physics make 
 for great freedom of how you can take down enemies.
  You can takedown your enemies in dozens of ways: guns, melee with maximum strength, knockdown with 
 maximum speed then kill, explosives, hit with vehicle, explode with exploding vehicle, make him 
 sleep with darts then kill, use as human sheild against other enemies, stranggle enemy, throw something 
 heavy at him with maximum strength, cut down a tree next to him and maybe more.
  
  Beautiful photo-realistic graphics with stunning shaders and landscapes.
  
  Great graphics 
 and in-game cinematics make it look very similar to an action movie.
  
  Power struggle makes for huge multiplayer battles.
  
  Destructible environment with great physics, 
 you can cut down trees and break every item into two.
  
  The music's good.
  
  The Bad
  
  Campaign is fun to repeat again and again, but the latter part's not very enjoyable 
 one already played, Therefore, I only play the replayable parts now.
  
  Campaign is short, around 10 hrs, with around 8 hrs having good replay value.
  
  Seems to be 
 the most hardware-demanding to this date.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtiscurtis06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I've heard many mixed reviews and I'm going to put it out here how I experienced this game and 
 what it really is.
  Crysis is definitely an amazing game that set the standards far, far beyond the graphic standards 
 prior to this game. The lighting is phenomenal, and the physics are superb.
  Having these attributes make Crysis seem like just a graphical display, but it is much, much more 
 than that. It's weapon customizing in real time and on the move is a great advent to the game. 
 The feel for shooting in this game really brought it together and can only be matched by COD4. 
 
  The only problem with this game is the demand of a strong PC, but is becoming less of a problem 
 with the ever quickening advancements in computer technology. 
  This is overall a must play game if your computer can handle it. Even if your computer cannot handle 
 the graphics to its max, it is still a fun game and definitely a FPS that set the bar for FPS to 
 come for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlineruler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  The story is crysis weakest point, it's bad, you start of in a plane that drops you on an island 
 you don't know why until later in the game, the cutscenes are off course beautifull but there aren't 
 many cutscenes.
  First you need to deactivate GPS jamming machines and suddenly troops will get kidnapped by the 
 aliens and you will find them dead later,
  You need to find a scientist that has captures an alien somewhat later it explodes and freezes 
 the chamber, also killing the scientist you must rescue his daughter and defeat an Korean general,
 
  Then you will enter the alien ship this part is confusing but shows the beautifull achitecture 
 of the game, it is very complex it can be hard to find your way because its a maze, the aliens 
 will attack you and there much faster than you, remember in the alien ship theres no gravity so 
 your flying around, much like swimming underwater, when you get like in a subway or something or 
 a warp generator you will find the exit,
  When you go out the island has been frozen most of your team is dead but you can pick up a signal 
 from one of your teammates, when you find him you must go to a house where the rest of your army 
 is and go to an aircraft carrier this is the most fun part of the game but the aliens can be hard 
 to kill, then there is a flying mission witch is very anoying because you have limited rockets 
 and it takes to long to get to the next destination ,
  The final act is when the aircraft carrier is under attack by the aliens, you must deactivate the 
 nuclear reactor witch is a cool part and then you must fight the alien boss when you kill him you 
 will escape in a plane and the island will explode,
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is great, in crysis you can costomise your weapons like adding flashlights, silencers, 
 
  Grenade lauchers, stun darts and more.
  You also have the nanosuit, its a suit that gives you powerfull abilities like speed, strengt, 
 armor, and stealth, It makes you very powerfull,
  The A. I; isn't very good in the beginning of the game, it will just run past you without noticing 
 you, but when the koreans suddenly have nanosuits it gets harder the A. I. will use the nanosuit 
 powers, like go stealth and sneak, get close in maximum strengt mode and punch you and other strategies,
 
  Later the aliens will come witch are look like flying tripods from the war of the worlds and also 
 the sentinels from the matrix, the vehicles are also cool theres a big tanks battle in the campaign, 
 and a lot of pick-up trucks, humvee's, boats, fighters to take control of.
  The most anoying thing is the areas that you need to travel they take to long even on the speed 
 mode you will travel a lot in this game some part you will able to take control of a vehicle but 
 only the humvee's are very fast, the vehicles are more to fight then to travel.
  
  Graphics:
  This is the best looking game up till now, the graphics are beautifull but it takes 
 a lot of system requirement to run smoothly on the higher settings, my new game computer van run 
 it on high without any problem, even if you can't run it on the higher setting the game still looks 
 amazing.
  The terrains look good the explosions are beautifull, and the face animations are impressive.
 
  If you can run it smoothly on the higher setting you will be amazed!
  
  Sound:
  The music is really good and so are the sound effects like bullets being fires and explosions going 
 off.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer is good, but it isn't like the new counter strike.
  A lot of people play this 
 game online so its easy to find a good game, there is power struggle where your team fight over 
 power points and more, the problem is that the maps are to big and it can easely take 5 minutes 
 to get to the enemy base.
  Deathmatch is much more fun the maps are smaller and you get more weapons than in power struggle, 
 it is really intense.
  The nanosuit and customiseble weapons make multiplayer unique but the graphics don't look as good 
 as in the singleplayer and you can't pick up and iteract with much items like in singleplayer, 
 team deatchmatch is also missing and you can't do these battles againts A. I.,
  
  Conclusion:
  Good game with good campaign maybe a little to short, great multiplayer if its your 
 thing, and the best graphics up till now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenLiquid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  With Half-Life going multi-platform, and console FPSes becoming increasingly more prolific, the 
 PC has needed a new champion title for the genre it does best. A few European developers though, 
 have kept loyal to the system. GSC Game World has developed S. T. A. L. K. E. R: Shadow of Chernobyl 
 and its prequel, whilst Crytek has created Crysis and its smaller brother, Crysis: Warhead. Whilst 
 the former titles are a FPS/RPG hybrid, the latter series is a purebreed that strives to take FPSes 
 to new heights.
  
  Set in the near future, a team of American archaeologists make a discovery on an island in South 
 East Asia. The North Korean Army soon move in, and the U. S responds by sending the Army's Delta 
 force to combat the situation. The game starts off as you, a super-soldier by the name of Nomad, 
 make an air deployment over the island, only to be interrupted by an unidentified object who sends 
 you crash-landing to the ground. Within half an hour, you've fought a platoon of Koreans and tracking 
 down a certain something that your squad just does not understand. Crysis comes up short on story, 
 even though it is a fair bit longer than most other shooters today. It is nothing that we haven't 
 seen before in science fiction, and it doesn't do anything to differentiate it self from other 
 stories. It does have surprisingly formidable storytelling, with a unique take on first-person 
 cutscenes that are not quite Halo, but not quite Half-Life either. It makes the story bearable, 
 and when the predictable twists do come, it's still enjoyable to watch it unfold. 
  
  Where Crysis wants to shine the most is in the game-play, and yes, it is definitely unique. There 
 are a few nice weapons to choose from. There's the assortment of pistols, shotguns, rifles, rocket 
 launchers, a minigun, vehicle-mounted weapons, and even a small tactical nuke. Though there are 
 a few weapons that are carbon copies of each other (merely U. S and NKA flavours of the same weapon) , 
 almost all these weapons are customizable, so you will able to run around with a precision scope 
 atop your shotgun like you've always dreamed of. 
  
  Another big player is the nano-suit. At any one time (providing his suit has the energy) , Nomad 
 can switch between speed, strength, armour, and invisibility. These increase your versatility across 
 the battlefield, and help define your play style in the game. It's a good thing then, that you're 
 well prepared, because for the most part, it's you versus an entire army.
  
  Unfortunately, that army isn't the smartest bunch. It seems that Crysis's A. I can't keep up with 
 its ambition, and really does disappoint. As I watch "Jarhead" right now, these soldiers are apparently 
 trained to kill when they least expect to. I did not find the same idea in the NKA. They run around 
 like goons, move with what can only be described as an inexperienced rookie, and this isn't even 
 Crytek's intentional programming to make the imperfect. I mean, how many people get into a flaming 
 car? If it weren't for the nano-suit, Crysis's game-play would feel very underwhelming. With kills 
 not feeling as "rewarding" as you would like, and the Koreans acting like idiots, it does not live 
 up to its potential, feeling loose and unpolished.
  
  Another attraction to Crysis is its large, open world. It's not quite the sandbox we were expecting 
 in games such as S. T. A. L. K. E. R, but the levels are big enough to differentiate itself from Half-Life 
 or Halo, and like the latter, you will need the vehicles strewn across the landscape. Two thirds 
 of the way in, however, the game becomes linear. There's one incredibly bad VTOL section (one of 
 the worst I've had to endure in FPS history) , but the rest of the third act feels much more tightened 
 than the first two thirds of the game. It's an unusual tradeoff that sees one of Crysis's main 
 attractions being traded in favour for tried-and-true game-play that its contemporaries have polished 
 to perfection in the Half-Life episodes, Call of Duty 4, and Halo 3. Interestingly, I would rather 
 Crytek keep the unpolished open-world feel throughout the whole game, than to resort to cinematic 
 linearity of the game's final levels.
  
  In terms of multi-player, Crysis opts to fill in a niche. Like the campaign, it is ambitious. The 
 game's main attraction "Power Struggle" is interesting, if not overly complex. It uses the foundation 
 that Battlefield first laid out in 2002. Essentially, players have to capture points in order to 
 destroy the enemy's base. Different points specialize in different military technology e. g a port 
 for water based assaults. Capturing all sorts of points is the key to success. Completing objectives, 
 however, is hard work. You start off only with a pistol, and have to purchase items and vehicles. 
 Games can go on for very long, and with the need for teamwork, trust, and a whole lot of patience, 
 it will be a love/hate aspect of the game.
  
  I won't say much about the graphics, but only to say it is indeed what everyone is making it out 
 to be. You will not find a technically more gorgeous title than Crysis unless A) It's Crysis: Warhead 
 or B) Your rig is severely underpowered. The audio experience is just as excellent as the visuals, 
 with the cracks, bangs, and other-worldly sounds sounding just as they should do, and the voice 
 actors doing a commendable effort with the script they've been given. The musical score, however, 
 is rather forgettable. Inon Zur has lost himself in this one, with generic orchestral music that 
 could have been from any other number of intellectual properties.
  
  Crysis is definitely an ambitious project. It's especially more amazing that it is coming from 
 a developer that's previous credits only include the (admittedly superb) Far Cry. Ambitious projects 
 require laborious amounts of final work and polish, and it is clear that Crytek could not keep 
 up with its own demand. That being said, if you are confident in your PC's ability to handle Crysis, 
 and you have any sort of interest in shooters, it is a game that is not to be missed. Watch out, 
 because this may just be the future of FPS gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmyttyGuy94
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so after upgrading my pc, to run this beast of a game, that is an ABOSULUTE system hog, when 
 it comes to system specs. i only managed to get high settings, but with configs it runs at very 
 high with a smooth fps, but enough about that, lets get to the game.
  
  First off, it is absolutely gorgeous, from the lush trees, silky smooth ocean textures to the amazing 
 physics, this game just plain kicks ass. The action is non stop, you can play the game however 
 you want, if you wanna go in guns-blazing you can, or if you wanna try and sneak your way around 
 the enemies you can do that too. 
  
  The story is somewhat dull, but it is there. you are nomad a military solider sent to recover some 
 hostages on this island and things go array and there is a higher power that seems to be extraterrestrial, 
 thats all i can really mention without spoilers. 
  
  This game is very hard, i had my the difficulty on easy the whole way through and i found it somewhat 
 hard, and i consider myself a vet at FPS games. 
  
  Overall this is a great game, the best part being the nano suit, which has 4 main advantages, Super 
 strength (higher jumps, harder punches) Super speed (self explanatory) cloak (invisibility) and armor (more 
 damage can be taken etc.) but it is a really good game that has got me hooked, mods and configs 
 make it more re playable, and the sanbox editor, is a great addition but it is hard to use for 
 noobs. So if you can run this game, i recommend getting it, it is awesome, non stop fun. 
  
  My only flaws with the game are that the traveling is somewhat monotonous after a while, but 
 it remains somewhat fun. Vehicle control is somewhat clunky making driving a pain sometimes, and 
 lastly the steep, steep systems reqs, really deter the overall score of this game. 
  
  all in all, i had a blast. 
  
  9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: youyou132
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  As you already know, the graphics are amazing. The special suit thought was very innovating. The 
 map is huge. There is no one way of doing missions which gives a lot of freedoms in the game. 
 
  Very impressive.
  
  Good:
  1. Amazing Graphics. Very impressed.
  2. Suit mode was very innovative.
  3. Vehicles, guns, realistic shooting feelings were just the 
 right FPS.
  4. Realistic environment, sound.
  5. Liked the North Koreans' voice. Could understand the bad words haha
  6. Map designing application 
 was very impressive and easy to use.
  7. Becomes to rely on to the suit cause of the hard difficulty in the game. With the suit you are 
 a Rambo, without it you are xxxxed..
  8. Great story line. liked the aliens' design and movements. 
  
  Bad:
  1. blows up your computer
 
  2. multi play is just... only death match..?
  3. If put the graphics level to low, it's just an normal FPS game. Looks dull.
  
  Overall:
 
  Very impressive game. Must play if you are an FPS user AND if you have REALLY great computer systems.
 
  Little disappointments on the multi play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALPHA772
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game shows some great new features. Its graphics are superior to any other game on the market 
 today, in every sense. The game play is relatively smooth, it isn't anything spectacular, but its 
 good. Its immersive, it has a reasonably good storyline and the animations are great. The real 
 pleasure is running this in a high resolution maxed out with AA, and just looking around. Some 
 still shots could actually be mistaken for reality. Its also a lot of fun to mess around in dev 
 mode and play with user-created maps. Even on the easiest setting it is a bit of a challenge, especially 
 the first play through, and the harder levels are perfect for a replay. While the AI might not 
 be all its cracked up to be, its acceptable, with only a few glitches. Vehicle levels are good, 
 especially the tank mission, but the VTOL flight is lacking. Overall Crysis is a great game that 
 is truly revolutionary in the graphics front, but is just a little above average in gameplay and 
 other features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SHADOW-DEMON-
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Not everything is entirely new. Crytek hasn't strayed too far from the impressive-but-imperfect 
 design of Far Cry. Crysis is a large-scale, mainly jungle-set shooter with a relatively linear 
 progression on primary and secondary objectives but an incredibly open attitude towards gameplay. 
 It is not a revolutionary game in the face of Far Cry; the two games are clearly of the same stock. 
 But neither is Crysis a rehash in the vein of most of the neverending string of World War II shooters.
 
  
  "Maximum Game"
  Crytek has adopted the company slogan "Maximum Game" for the promotion of Crysis -- it's a great 
 marketing line, perhaps a bit grandiose but fitting. It also handily sums up Crysis' relationship 
 to its predecessor. Crysis is the "maximum game" take on Far Cry; the version that largely sticks 
 to the same formula but tangibly improves upon it in every way; the younger brother that handily 
 outshines his otherwise-talented sibling across the board.
  
  The ambitious open-ended Far Cry formula is one that is rarely attempted at all in the pure shooter 
 genre, so PC gamers probably wouldn't have complained too much if Crytek had simply made another 
 Far Cry and given it the pristine coat of paint that we know Crysis to have. Instead, Crysis is 
 evidence of a studio whose work ethic and drive towards perfection is paralleled by few in the 
 industry. Every aspect is an order of magnitude or more over its predecessor: the grandiosity, 
 the variety of environments, the storytelling, the customization of play style, the multiplayer 
 offerings, and, of course, the visuals.
  
  The biggest new fundamental gameplay element of Crysis is its protagonist's nanosuit, which gives 
 the player the ability to boost strength, speed, or armor, or activate an invisibility cloak. You 
 can only have one of these active at any given time, and each one uses up rechargeable energy in 
 order to prevent overuse. Basically, what the suit does is amplify your gameplay choices -- if you're 
 a stealth-oriented player, you'll be cloaking a lot. If you're a sniper, you'll be using strength 
 to leap onto high vantage points and steady your hands while aiming. If you want to take a more 
 straightforward approach, armor is your all-around helpful attribute.
  
  Then there's the weapon modification system, which allows you to outfit your guns on the fly with 
 different types of ammo, scopes, attachments such as grenade launchers, and more. It all just works 
 towards providing an extension of your own style of play.
  
  Tell Me a Story, I Guess
  Those who played Far Cry will know that to say the game's story-related elements have improved 
 is such faint praise as to be essentially meaningless, but Crysis' plot and dialogue really are 
 fine by shooter standards. Crysis is influenced by the Half-Life narrative method, never breaking 
 from the protagonist's perspective except in the optional third-person vehicle control. Although 
 it does feature some lengthy non-interactive first-person cutscenes (they're skippable if you want!) , 
 the overall product is done well and remains immersive.
  
  The plot itself involes a military operation on a small North Korea-occupied island, where an apparently 
 groundbreaking scientific discovery has been unearthed. Aliens get involved too, blah blah blah, 
 who cares? You shoot stuff.
  
  The Power is in Your Hands
  No, it's still not about the story. And it's really not all about the graphics either. Really. 
 Crysis is about the gameplay. It's about being put in the middle of a dense jungle, being given 
 an objective, and being told, "Get there however you want."
  
  You have to be willing to actually do that, though. You can play Crysis as a bullet-ridden version 
 of connect-the-dots, in which case it will feel like a fairly average shooter. If you find yourself 
 in this mentality, just take a step back, look at your island map, and remind yourself that you 
 don't need to pick the straight line between points A and B. It's not always the fastest or easiest, 
 and it's certainly not always the most fun.
  
  In most games, if the guy telling you stuff in your ear (you may previously know this guy from 
 approximately half of all story-driven non-WWII shooters ever made) says something like, "I recommend 
 taking a vehicle and sticking to the road," it really means, "This game will only allow you to 
 take a vehicle and stick to the road, unless you lose or destroy the vehicle, in which case you 
 will be walking along the road." In Crysis, it means just what it says -- it's a recommendation, 
 and nothing more. Upon receipt of that particular directive, I completely ignored my overseer and 
 took a shortcut through a swamp.
  
  Due to our fairly extensive pre-release coverage in the months -- even years -- leading up to Crysis' 
 release, I had played through certain parts of the game several times by the time I finished my 
 review, even without taking into account the occasions when I replayed sections of the final build.
 
  
  At one point, I chose to enter a highly-fortified encampment from what I knew was the road I would 
 later drive down upon leaving the base. It was quite out of the way, and required both swimming 
 and foot-slogging. As I approached, I ran into a small squad of North Koreans traveling on the 
 road in the opposite direction, aboard a large armed transport. I quickly picked off the gunner, 
 then tossed a grenade underneath, which just barely toppled the vehicle and sent it tumbling over 
 a cliff as I dealt with the soldiers who had leapt out at the last minute.
  
  I don't know if that encounter was scripted, or a genuine result of AI enemies going about their 
 business, but I don't really care. There is such a plethora of possible permuations, and the environments 
 so open, that you are certain to get a divergent set of experiences if you actually attack your 
 objectives in different ways.
  
  The next time through, I traveled the same route, but cloaked myself as the truck passed me and 
 eventually drove out of sight. I infiltrated the base stealthily, rationing my cloak energy and 
 taking out my foes with silenced tranquilizer darts. I eventually snuck up into a watchtower while 
 cloaked, quietly strangled the stationed guard, and stole his sniper rifle. Then I went to town.
 
  
  It may not be particularly efficient or expedient to carefully eradicate a large open communications 
 base swarming with enemy soldiers, without ever allowing them to figure out just where you are 
 at any given moment, but it is nothing if not deeply satisfying.
  
  That works both ways. Once, I was holed up in a small wooden HQ building, sitting in the window 
 and alternating picking off enemies -- scanning while cloacked, squeezing off a headshot, then ducking 
 out of sight while my shield recharged, feeling very pleased with my stealthy self. I swear to 
 you, when an enemy grenade rolled up and blew away half the building, leaving me exposed to a group 
 of now very pissed off North Koreans, I nearly **** my pants out of sheer surprise and shock.
 
  
  The extensive destructibility and world physics have attractive aesthetic elements as well. I love 
 throwing grenades into densely wooded areas, not just because they are great for dispersing and 
 panicking enemy troops but because of the natural way they cause nearby trees to sway back from 
 the force of the explosion.
  
  Crysis' open-ended nature unfortunately means its checkpoint-based auto-save system will very often 
 let you down, because the route you choose to get to your objective may be considerably more involved 
 than simply drawing a straight line between point A and point B, which means you might go a very 
 long while without the game saving for you. This leads to an unfortunate reliance on quicksaving, 
 something that a bit outdated in this day and age. Undoubtedly it is not a straightforward design 
 issue given Crysis' huge amount of geographical freedom, but it does seem like a more versatile 
 solution could have been reached.
  
  The Whole Package
  I don't think most gamers have been thinking of Crysis as a multiplayer-oriented game -- I certainly 
 haven't -- so, if anything, the ambitious but flawed multiplayer mode will likely be a pleasant surprise, 
 at least to try out. It doesn't add lots of value, but the Power Struggle mode might be right up 
 some players' alley.
  this info can be found on shacknews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hl20302
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw Crysis, i was really amazed on how photorealistic its graphics looked. A few months 
 ago, i got Crysis and did it live up to my expectations? In my opinion, i think it did. 
  
  
  Storyline: ********* 9/10
  Gameplay: ********* 9/10
  Graphics: ********** 10/10
  Sound: 
 ********** 10/10
  Lasting Appeal: ********* 9/10
  
  
  THE GOOD:
  Graphics look almost photorealistic, Levels are very open and non-linear, Great destructible environments, 
 Sandbox2 Editor is a great tool to make maps and mods, Extremely replayable.
  
  THE BAD:
  This game will (I mean WILL) push your PC to its limits (Which means this game is a huge Graphics 
 hog) .
  
  
  STORYLINE:
  The storyline in Crysis is about an archeological team on a remote Pacific island is captured by 
 an invasion force of North Koreans, and your US Special Forces team is dispatched to investigate 
 and rescue the scientists. You're parachuted into a tropical paradise that's crawling with intelligent 
 enemies and something else that's tearing both the North Koreans and US forces to shreds. 
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay wasn't really the main part of why i 'bought' Crysis. But it 
 ended up the gameplay is better than i thought it would be. In Crysis' Singleplayer mode, you wear 
 a high-tech suit called the 'Nanosuit'. The Nanosuit gives you the ability of boosting your strength, 
 speed, and armour, as well as cloaking you temporarily invisible to the enemy. The levels are very 
 open and non-linear which is great. The AI isn't as good as Far Cry's extremely smart AI but more 
 realistic. The controls are great but not perfect mostly because sometimes, i had trouble pressing 
 the crouch button when i need to crouch. The multiplayer in Crysis overall isn't that great but 
 it's good enough to be decent. The multiplayer maps are actually very open and non-linear too. 
 Crysis' Multiplayer has modes like Power Struggle and Instant Action. The goal in Power Struggle 
 is that each 16-man team must destroy the opposing team's base. But to do so they have to construct 
 alien weaponry at a 'central prototype facility'. To power the prototype facility, though both 
 teams need to seize and hold power stations throughout the map. Instant Action is pretty much regular 
 deathmatch with Nanosuits. Crysis also comes with a map editor called "Sandbox2" which is a program 
 to make maps and mods for Crysis. Overall, the gameplay in Crysis' Single Player is amazing but 
 the multiplayer is good enough to be decent to play.
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics in Crysis are extremely detailed and almost photorealistic. The lighting, shadows, 
 models, textures, effects. All perfect. Although it isn't very optimized and it WILL push your 
 PC to its limits. So make sure you get a monster PC to run this game on the highest settings. Don't 
 worry, even at the lowest settings, it still looks more detailed than Crytek's 2004 PC game, Far 
 Cry.
  
  
  SOUND:
  There's absolutely nothing wrong with the sound effect in Crysis. I think the sound effects were 
 perfect in Crysis. The voice acting (Well, its good thats for sure) , the weapons, the Koreans, 
 your allies, the aliens, the music, every sound effect in Crysis is great. Enough said.
  
  
  IS THIS GAME WORTH RENTING OR BUYING:
  Yes, you really must buy Crysis. Not just for the 
 graphics but the great single player mode that can bring you to the edge of your seat. Buy this 
 game.
  
  
  SCORE FOR THIS GAME:
  My score for this game is:
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellequin85
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  I was excited. So excited that maybe this game was never going to meet expectations. I was right.
 
  Now don't get me wrong, this game looks stunning, unbelievably stunning at that. I was rather 
 pleased when I entered the disc, loaded up the game, entered the settings menu, hit auto-detect 
 and I swear I heard my pc laughing ( and muttering something like "what is this, bring me a challenge!") . 
 I was able to play crysis on the highest possible settings with a decent frame rate that barely 
 dropped... and I was not disappointed when I started playing. It's sexy, the same way that Jewel 
 Staite or Keira Knightly are sexy, it just looks so damn good. The problem is... that's it's only 
 trick (unlike the above mentioned women) .
  
  I was entertained, but that's about it. After about an hour or so I'd gotten used to killing mercs 
 and the nano suit made this pretty easy, even on the harder settings.
  To cut a long story short, I completed the game and had a profound sense of emptiness, somthing 
 was missing. After a bit of thinking and a decent pint I realised what was missing, quality gameplay 
 and replayability. It was fun, but that's about it, it wasn't outstanding, it didn't make me go 
 "oh cr*p arghhhhhhhhhhh" or panic at any point or worry that I was about to die. It just felt mundanem. 
 So much so that I sold the game after two weeks and only ever played it through to completion once.
 
  I look at this game as being in need of beer goggles but in reverse. Insted of drinking to make 
 it look pretty, you need to drink in order to give it substance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenmon666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Crysis; an intense, beautiful and immersing shooter. No PC gamer should not have this game in their 
 collection.
  
  From lying in a bush cloaked waiting for that perfect headshot opportunity, or duking it out in 
 full-auto on the icy tundra against alien scouts... you will enjoy every second of this game.
  
  The nano-suit of the protaganist is implemented perfectly, with the EXACT amount of power and 
 energy to get you through your fight. Whether it be to throw a grenade 60 feet to take out that 
 car, to absorb the impact of that tank shell next to you, or to speed across an open field to engage 
 that pesky alien scout that is following you... you will learn to love the suit.
  
  With great variety, amazing presentation, and an above average story, you will just wish this game 
 just kept going.
  
  Pros:
  Amazing Graphics
  Great A. I
  Great and open Environment
  Intense
  Strong Multiplayer
  
  Cons:
  Requirements for high-end graphics are... unattainable
 
  Some wierd bugs in multiplayer
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshjo9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  good game good graphics good concept good fighting all around good game 9.5 i like just punching 
 people to death its very pixle acurate the weapons can be tweek with any style u want fire bullets 
 lazer flashlight grenade launcher almost any thing i love just picking random thing up and throw 
 them and random things even talking about it makes me want to play it i never played crysis warhead 
 want to so bad because the first one is so good its alot better than far cry 2 i like the action 
 seqence shot them up :] its awsome this game is one of the top five of my favorite games good job 
 on the game and thanks so much for creating it creaters i hope if there is going to be crysis 2 
 it would be better that means the best game in almost the world so this is prety much what i think 
 of it but the way your going to know you if you lot it is to try it and probly love it like i did 
 just try love buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pondi123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying this. Crysis is the best F#$&*@g game ever. You think Call of duty 
 4 is the best game ever. Think again. Crysis beats everything in every way when you comapre it 
 to COD4. The graphics. the storyline, the enviroments, the sound, the cast, the characters are 
 all brilliant. The best feature in Crysis for me is the way you can use your Nanosuit. The Nanosuit 
 can make you stronger, faster, bulletproof (well sort of) and (for about a minute when standing) 
 invisible. It means you can approach certain situations in tons of ways. You can go in all guns 
 blazing or take enemys out one by one by grabing enemys and throwing them or with one single shot 
 shoot an expolsive barrel. Theres only one problem with playing the game. You have to have some 
 nuclear powered computer to play it (he he) . Truth be told i have to go to my friends Justin's 
 house or CMF (computers made fun) to play it. Still i cant wait to play the expansion pack because 
 you get to play as Psycho and it looks really cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onnipotente
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Quando ho cominciato a giocare a Crysis, ero un' p scettico, mi sembrava il solito gioco sparatutto 
 trito e ritrito. Andando avanti con l'avventura per mi accorgevo che la storia era ben costruita 
 e che la giocabilit e il divertimento facevano da padrona. Le abilit che si possono usare grazie 
 alla tuta permettono vari tipi di gioco, lo stile stealth oppure il trito tutto senza piet.
  
  Il gioco  strutturato bene la storia  ottima e scorre benissimo senza strani enigmi o cose 
 senza senso, la grafica  quella di Farcry che ha fatto tanto sognare per i paesaggi all'aperto 
 e la perfetta definizioni dell'interno degli edifici, la varieta delle armi l'uso dei veicoli e 
 la ia degli avversari rendono questo gioco un gioco ben fatto e divertente, ottimo per passarci 
 su diverse ore di gioco.
  
  La Crytek colpisce ancora con un gran gioco che rimarr a lungo in cima alle classifiche dei giochi 
 pi giocati. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMASHOOPDAWHOOP
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  I didn't give Crysis a 10 because it's so pretty. I gave it a 10 because it was everything I was 
 looking for in a FPS. Crysis needs to be played on high or very high, not just to enjoy the graphical 
 quality of the game but it makes the game much more immersive and exciting because it feels like 
 you're actually there.
  
  The combat is very exciting and frantic, and in some ways puts in RPG, or perhaps sandbox elements. 
 There aren't any stats or skills but it lets you traverse through the jungle how you want and approach 
 a situation however you want. That in my mind is a key aspect to any great game, I am not telling 
 you to buy this game, but I am suggesting you give it a test drive. 
  
  The difficulty level is perfect for me, Delta setting (the highest difficulty) gives the right 
 amount of combat and tacticalness but you have to be stealthy and patient to progress through the 
 game without ending up like a SWAT teams ballistic shield. 
  
  The story line is fairly good although if an epic Mass Effect storyline is what you are looking 
 for look somewhere else. [SPOILER] By now you should have heard about the aliens in the game, and 
 to me they are a total let down to the game. When Halo 1 came out for Xbox I was totally bummed 
 out to find out you fight against aliens but Bungie miraculously made fighting them enjoyable. 
 That is not the case with these enemies, and for me fighting them was stale and a complete waste 
 of time.
  
  If you don't like Crysis then it's perfectly fine, but in my mind Crysis has been the long awaited 
 return to action, for me.
  
  And Crysis on high is a site to behold because my comp runs it on high with no frame issues and 
 it is one incredible vista. Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero3one
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Wow! That about sums up the game. Visually it's probably the best looking game I've seen. I have 
 a pretty high end computer and with all the settings on max this game is as good as it gets. Everything 
 in regards to visuals is done right from the water to shadows to the way things move.
  
  Enemy AI will surprise most people unfarmiliar with this particular game (in this genre) . Enemies 
 actually do more than run at you with guns blazing so a little thought must go into every encounter.
 
  
  Levels are large with vast open spaces allowing lots of freedom of movement. This also allows you 
 to either try to avoid confrontation or jump in full tilt.
  
  Being an Infantry soldier in the army I generally don't enjoy military FPS but this one is pretty 
 much perfect. This has that perfect balance between fanasty and realism and I found myself actually 
 using tactics as apposed to most FPS where you can pretty much just go shooting through most of 
 the game.
  
  All the hype and good reviews is true for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilsonteo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game but it seemed to take a while until you got to the good stuff near the 2nd 
 half of the game. first half wasnt that interesting it was just like go hear kill a few koreans 
 and then go to the other place to kill more koreans and it also took a while to talk from abjective 
 to objective but it was allright since there was alot of beautiful scenery to look at. the 2nd 
 half of the game was much better how you intrude the alien spacecraft and how they invade the island 
 when they come out.. graphics were gorgeous and have set the benchmark for all games. The story 
 seems a bit typical at first in how aliens crash on earth and its up to you (the hero) to stop 
 these forces to save humanity but somehow it all works and the story keeps you playing and wanting 
 to figure out the mysteries behind what is happenning. overall a must play for all fps fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Wow I'm suprised.
  Crysis is based in a fictional future where an ancient alien spacecraft has been discovered beneath 
 the Earth on an island near the coast of Korea. The single-player campaign has the player assume 
 the role of United States Delta Force operator Jake Dunn, referred to in-game by his call sign, 
 Nomad. Nomad is armed with various futuristic weapons and equipment, most notably a "Nano Muscle 
 Suit" which, according to Crytek senior game designer Bernd Diemer, was inspired by the United 
 States' Future Force Warrior 2020 program and other projects relating from the Natick Soldier Systems 
 Center. In Crysis, the player fights both North Korean and extraterrestrial enemies, in four different 
 locations: a tropical island jungle, inside an "Ice Sphere" (consisting of the same jungle, but 
 frozen) , the alien ship itself (with a zero-gravity area) and a United States Navy aircraft carrier.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aip_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Physics are unmatched and graphic quality is beyond other games. Also had great game play and replay 
 value. 
  
  The games physics are unbelievable, you if you shoot it, it reacts. Palm leaves respond to each 
 bullet, certain buildings can be blown up, and actually effect you if you are hit. 
  
  The graphics on very high with anti aliasing to 16q absolutely blew me away. Ive never seen a game 
 pull off graphics like this, very realistic and still had a good artistic swing in some areas of 
 the game. 
  
  The game play was also a hit. Being able to switch styles of your suit made for several different 
 ways to play the game. If you like to go in with a bang... do it... if you like to hang out and peg 
 people one by one, do it... guerrilla warfare your thing (mine) do it. 
  
  If you want a good graphic game and enjoy playing first person shooters, I recommend picking this 
 game up. Not only is it good the first time, it is good the second... and third. 
  
  If you like a good challenge... the Delta difficulty setting is a good challenge. I like to think 
 I'm pretty good at FPS but the Delta diff got me yelling curse words at the screen. The AI in this 
 game is also unbelievable. The enemies really respond to your actions.
  
  very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a great game, and would of been probably the best shooter to date if it didn't self destruct 
 towards the end of the game.
  
  The last level is absolutely horrid and leaves this gamer scratching his head and wondering why 
 the developer made the decisions to create such a poor conclusion. Also there were a few serious 
 gameplay bugs. For example, in the last level the exoskeleton thingie that you have to kill either 
 bounced around on the deck of the carrier, got stuck in the hull, or was elevated 300 feet in the 
 sky. 
  
  I played with the game patched and current. Also, during this level, the game occasionally froze, 
 or became a slide-show. But, be that as it may, overall this is a great game because Crysis did 
 such an excellent job of creating an enormous, open ended FPS. But again, the closer you get to 
 the end, the less open ended, more scripted and linear it became. It is just downright painful. 
 It was such a shock because the first 3/4's of the game are just incredibly excellent.
  
  A bonus to owning this game are the single player maps you can play. Hundreds of them can be had 
 at crymod. com
  
  Despite horrendous end level, the game should not be missed.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  I ran this game with
  Phenom X4 9950BE
  2GB RAM
  ATI HD4850
  
  Crysis is a work of art. It's beautiful and the gameplay is surprisingly very good. The sandbox 
 gameplay is not boring at all. It lets you approach a problem however you want to do it although 
 some of them are riskier than others. The nanosuit is an intelligent incorporation into the game 
 and it works well. Instead of healing from medipacks, the suit has healing capabilities and allows 
 you to reflect some bullets for a short time. It also enhances your ability and cloaking which 
 can be used in so many ways in the game to the player's advantage. The game also integrates the 
 elements of weather very well which is beautiful to look at. The guns are powerful and feels right 
 when firing. The story is almost if not better than most sci-fi movies which will kepp you engaged 
 till the end.
  
  The graphics is outstanding and textures are pretty even in medium mode and it will make your system 
 weep. I found dirext 9 mode to be the best way to play this game on my PC. The difference is not 
 that much.
  Sound is also great from dialogues to monster sounds.
  
  If you are done with the single player, you can dive in to the multiplayer for more action with 
 friends or unknowns. 
  This is a game worth playing if you have the system to run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I was a late Crysis player, mainly because my old computer couldnt run it. Those days are behind 
 me now as my quad core extreme dual gtx 280's chew this game up. First off I just have to say Thank 
 you to the creators of this game. Within the first few hours of play, I was still amazed at the 
 game detail and how everything looked so beautiful. The enemy A. I. has to be one of the best ever. 
 I had guys flanking me while I was trying to kill the ones in front of me. Also, the destructible 
 environment is just amazing. I was using the mini gun and trees where falling down all over as 
 I was just spraying bullets trying to hit any and everything. The game is kinda long too, which 
 is good. I played it on normal and was pleased with the length. Overall, this game is a must play 
 if you have the rig to run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theavenger95
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the Crysis demo, i was unknowingly coming across one of my favorite games of 
 all time. 
  First of all, the graphics and visually designs are unmatched by any other game or console to date. 
 
  Gives you a massive open, sandbox 3d environment to play in a freeform way, making the game highly 
 replayable. 
  Satisfying destructive environments with plenty of big explosions and loud sounds to satisfy everybody's 
 thirt for destruction
  It is a system hog, I am running a 
  nvidia geforce 7950 GT 512MB
  2gb of RAM
  intel core 2 duo 6400 2.13ghz
  windows xp
  250 gb hard drive
  i can play it 
 very smoothly at medium detail and also at high detail with some points of lag during extreme action
 
  you need to have windows vista to play it in ultra high detail which is where the graphics look 
 truly futuristic and realistic, but even at low, you will be amazed
  Don't believe the lies from ignorant people who say this game is no good
  Give it a try, take 
 your time, and you will be happy
  Happy Gaming!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jinjoman93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is absolutely amazing. I just got it today the graphics are wonderful but not only that 
 in terms of substance and story telling it is very skillful. This combined with the gameplay and 
 graphics make me wish I could actually dive into my laptop (probably happened on a cheap episode 
 of goosebumps already) and get lost in the game. Truly amazing, the thing that sucks though is 
 that if I use up space the game starts to get so laggy that it looks like a slideshow in a powerpoint 
 presentation. In fact it would probably be more appealing to me if it was on the xbox360 because 
 every two minutes it seems like i have to save and reset the game. But nonetheless that takes away 
 nothing from the game and is supercalifragili... well it won't let me write a word over 25 characters 
 
  -__-!!!! Most games for the computer are laggy and I can't pay for a higher quality with different 
 symmes cards and whatnot. but it's still a great experience and i woulds reccomend it to everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is a first-person shooter game, where you must fight your way through both North-Korean 
 troopers or alien machines and creatures. It's amazing really, especially when you take into consideration 
 that its overall image touches perfection.
  
  The gameplay is a bit complex. There are, of course, many things to do. You can join, for example, 
 your teammates in a jeep or get into a tank. Your warsuit has also several functions, like a five 
 seconds stealth. The weapons you can use are way too good, but make no mistake. The fact that your 
 weapons are good does not mean that the game is easy. unfortunately, sometimes the enemy units 
 are many, resulting to a quick loss of your ammo (thogh you can reload by picking up other weapons) .
 
  
  The environment of the game is also very-very good. Nearly everything is destructible, which turns 
 out to be very helpful when fighting large armies. There is a very realistic jungle where the story 
 takes place, which is well-detailed.
  
  Now, the multiplayer of the game is also very good, as it features just everything the single-player 
 game has. It is, however, a great dissapointment that there is no team deathmatch to play in, which 
 I think is essential for every FPS game.
  
  The graphics and sound of the game are very good. Everything shown on the map is high-detailed, 
 while the sounds of the weapons and screams of soldiers are a masterpiece. Nevertheless, the game 
 is too detailed for every normal PC, and you will definately need something extra to play this 
 game, even in a 800x600 mode (highest resolution is just impossible) .
  
  Crysis is a must for every fan of FPS games, as it turns out to be a trophy for your PC games collection. 
 And that is because this time Crytek have overpassed theirselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunpreetdhillon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is an astounding achievement, a game worth upgrading for and something for us to treasure 
 - but it certainly isn't perfect. Still, we've had some good times...
  Suddenly caught in flagrante slap-bang in the middle of a dirt track without my stylish Predator-esque 
 cloak, a passing jeep with a rear-mounted machine gun begins to take advantage of my predicament.
 
  Leaping behind a nearby sturdy palm tree, I pause to gather my thoughts - but that gunner keeps 
 gunning. Suddenly the trunk of my sanctuary splinters, and I sit there paralysed by a bizarre mixture 
 of fear and delight as the tree in front of me slowly and inexorably begins to tilt, then fall 
 - leaving me staring down a delighted Korean's gun barrel with nothing but my imminent death in 
 mind. I scream with joy.
  I just have so many of these excitably expressed war stories I could regale you with. Times when 
 equal measures of my stupidity, cunning and luck coalesced into 100 per cent proof fun. Like picking 
 up a carelessly discarded outboard motor, turning on my super-strength and bouncing it off the 
 head of an angry Korean soldier - only to watch it bounce over a large rock and accidentally crush 
 his best mate as a bonus.
  Or jumping into a jeep, wondering what the hell to do with the guy manning the machine gun in the 
 seat behind me - then ploughing into a shed, colliding with the struts holding it up, causing the 
 roof collapse and leaping out just as everything went up in a fireball.
  Or with my dying breath tossing a grenade into a sniper's watchtower at that perfect angle and 
 seeing it collapse perfectly in on itself and crumple to the ground.
  Or sneaking up behind two patrolling soldiers while cloaked, grabbing the rear one then pelting 
 off into the undergrowth with the sole intention of bouncing him off a rock and into the sea. 
 
  
  Summary:
  Crysis has got to be the best PC game ever. 
  The graphics are 
  ground braking and the gameplay and storyline are simply awesome.
  This game is so addictive 
 because of his storyline.
  Crysis is a FPS game where you land on an island to save these hostages but you find out that there 
 is an alien race on the island. I won't go on from there because I will wreck it for you guys who 
 haven't played it yet. The cryengine 2 graphics are so awesome, everything looks real and the visuals 
 are stunning. Crysis gets hard in some areas but you will manage through easily. Also this game 
 is set in the future around 2020.
  I highly recomend anyone with a good PC to buy this amazing game...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mihipihi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to start. There are so many details involving this game, that its hard to find the most 
 out-crying one.
  Probably, the graphics. Absolutely stunning. Even if you don't have the best pc, its just inredible. 
 The shaders, texture, god's rays, everything just leaks in perfectly, and you aren't really sure, 
 if the intro movie is still playing or not (which you cant notice, its so good) . But, it uses all 
 of the available EVERYTHING even in a super computer to run at very high specs. A bit too much 
 for my computer. Well, at least it runs well at very high on 1024*768. OH, and I have to mention 
 the water effects, which are PHOTO REAL. and I mean it. Its the best water effect to be seen in 
 games.
  
  Then the physics. a little overrated, but still a piece of art. You can destroy baracks down to 
 their foundation. Oh, just the refrigerators and sinks are sticked to the floor. A weird bug, if 
 you ask me...
  You can throw Koreans away, then the Koreans can trip on other Koreans' bodies, and you can trip 
 them, by throwing anything under their feet. funny.
  
  The story and music are also great and blend with each other really nicely. I had so many goose 
 bumps through the game, and especially in the beginning, where you dont know what youll find, and 
 you are concirened, because you are playing at full difficulty....
  
  So, the ending is also perfect, with effects that take your breath away, and literally knock you 
 out your chair.
  
  I noticed a flaw in the Cryengine, that it doesnt delete the textures used in a previous chapter, 
 so every time the game reloads to a new one, it is slower. I can run at 1280*1024 at the beginning, 
 but after a chapter or too, not anymore.
  
  But still, the game is my absolute favorite, and I recommend it to everyone who likes either scifi 
 or fps games. and to those who have super computers and can just look at the incredible graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: js0823
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Crysis, when it came out, was a ringing bell for the new generation of gaming in terms of technology. 
 In fact, so much technology was put into this game that its next expansion, Crysis Warhead, didn't 
 have to do much except optimizing their engine further and add more stories to it. However, I'm 
 not reviewing Crysis Warhead, I'm reviewing Crysis and here's my review.
  
  Graphic - 10
  
  Simply amazing if you have the computer power to pull it off. At max setting, it will take 
 you to the next generation or more than that. At normal setting, it will still deliver current-next 
 generation of graphics. Optimization is pretty well done although we now see that it could be optimized 
 further through Crysis Warhead.
  
  Sound - 8
  
  Nothing special here. Koreans talking in Korean, weather effect sounds, and many other sound effects 
 that is normally incorporated into many other games. Only thing that bugged me was that Korean 
 language wasn't really Korean (Yes I'm Korean) . I couldn't understand some of their words not because 
 it isn't Korean, but they are just sometimes, bad at it.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  
  Game engine obviously counts for the gameplay. Everything is destructible. You can't stay in one 
 house forever when you know enemy is shooting cannons at you, thus destroying the house you are 
 in. However, the game is simply too linear. While there are alot of places you can go and explore, 
 it isn't needed at all. Storyline is linear and while the storyline is fun with big cannons and 
 what not, there aren't any side missions which you could enjoy. Multiplayer isn't quite thought 
 out as well. While suits are incredibly fun at times, in multiplayer it's more of a bonus than 
 everyone having each one. Crysis Warhead changed that and made it so everyone has one from the 
 beginning I heard.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Is it worth trying? Definitely. However, due to its short singleplayer and multiplayer not being 
 well thought out enough, I couldn't erase the thoughts that developers spent all their time on 
 the game engine, which is incredible by the way, that other factors were less thought out. Crysis 
 Warhead fixes that, by having game engine already made, they didn't need to spend their time on 
 making the game engine anymore, thus improving the overall gameplay.
  
  I'm guessing this game engine will go for another 4 years or so with around 3~4 more expansion 
 packs and the graphic won't get old until then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: komstadius
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  First let me say that Crysis looks freakin' amazing, no other games (well, maybe Conan: The Hyborian 
 Adventures) comes even close to the graphics presented in this game.
  
  However, when it comes to gameplay, Crysis does nothing to denote from the same boring fps formula. 
 I have been running around shooting stuff since 1992 when Wolfenstein 3d was released. It gets 
 old after a while...
  
  When it comes to music and sound effects there is nothing that catches my attention. The music 
 is pretty much non-existent and the sound effects sound like they should I guess.
  
  To summarize: Crysis is a solid, excellent looking shooter that presents a standard type A1 fps 
 experience. In my opinion, this is by far the most overrated game in recent years; I do not regret 
 buying Crysis as I use it a lot when benchmarking my computer. I never play it anymore though, 
 why should I? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Crysis is the best PC game I have ever played. The graphics are incredible and the gameplay and 
 storyline are awesome. This game is so addictive because of his storyline. This game needs to run 
 on an advanced PC system with the latest hardware. Crysis is a FPS game where you land on an island 
 to save these hostages but you find out that there is an alien race on the island. I won't go on 
 from there because I will wreck it for you guys who haven't played it yet. The cryengine 2 graphics 
 are so awesome, everything looks real and the visuals are stunning. Crysis gets hard in some areas 
 but you will manage through easily. Also this game is set in the future around 2020.
  Crysis is the best game on the PC I have ever played and I would recommend it to anyone who has 
 a good PC and loves FPS games. This game gets very addictive. Crysis gets 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Joker_15
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, this is my review of the singleplayer game only. I welcome criticism, so if you 
 have anything to add, or anything to say, please feel free to tell me. And yeah, a game is an experience, 
 and experiences are subjective. So you really never know a game till you play it. The whole game 
 is a technological marvel with a poorly done story attached to it. The ending is really lame and 
 when you think back about the game, you are Mr. fancy pants do it all", running around the island 
 shooting at people, doing everything everybody asks you to do. Crysis could have well been made 
 into a 'mountain rescue' game or 'Tropical paradise tycoon' or a dinosaur hunter game. Right now, 
 it looks more like a game engine was made and to put it into the market they wrote a story around 
 it. And if you look at it, it is real similar to far cry. Remote island, bad guys and monsters 
 to kill, boring ending. Your character is Nomad, a U. S Special Forces soldier. Ok, forget the part 
 about Special Forces. You're supposed to be a soldier. Apart from shooting enemy soldiers, using 
 fancy lingo and hearing clichd lines out of movies (Eg: Prophet says: The situation has gone FUBAR) 
 there isn't anything particularly military that you feel about your character. It might as well 
 have been Ironman squad or something.
  
  The basic outline of the story is ok. It revolves around a simple plot, which goes like this. Some 
 Korean forces take over an island with scientists researching some kind of mysterious rock. U. S 
 intelligence sends a squad of Special Forces with fancy suits to scope it out. All hell breaks 
 loose, aliens get released and you pull everybody out, drop a nuke. Okay, basic story is all right. 
 But the depth is poor. For having developed a technical marvel for a game, the story is so boring 
 that you plays just to enjoy the shooting etc. and not like you're interested in the story. Most 
 of the objectives are pretty lame. Traveling huge distances, alone, shooting at everybody, and 
 despite being the Special Forces guy, you end up doing everything, even pushing in nuclear rods 
 in the ship reactor. Characters are pretty boring and clichd. Your squad leader is close to superman. 
 (I'm not adding any more details so I don't spoil the story in case somebody hasn't yet played 
 so much) . He makes an interesting character in the beginning of the game. It sounds like he knows 
 more than what meets the eye and he can give you more info but doesnt. Later on in the game 
 after his daring comeback, his presence is more irritating than enjoyable. He becomes a liability, 
 and I feel the story could go much better without him around. He is smart enough to hook up alien 
 technology to some gun, which even the brains of your nano-suit cannot figure out, but hes 
 lost his cool to take a plane off to the island to single handedly fight those things. And the 
 admiral is ready to nuke that place. For a spec ops guy, and your leader, youd expect better. 
 And the U. S admiral on the ship is also another boring character whose words you can predict. He 
 is a lot like that army general from Final Fantasy, the spirits within movie, the soldier who wants 
 to fire that huge space cannon. Never ready to see reason, just wants to use force. And for a soldier 
 going AWOL, his main man, with the new Nano suit, he doesnt really seem to care. Makes it 
 sound very trivial. More like a kiddy thing than a serious military kind of person.
  
  The doctor Rosenthal as usual, like most movies, or TV series with similar themes teams up with 
 you and makes you do all the hard work. The regular good-looking girl who is the brains and gives 
 the hero the info he needs. She feels a lot like that CIA woman from Far Cry (forgive me I forgot 
 her name and I havent bothered looking it up) , or Alex from Half Life 2. Not that deep, 
 but a similar role. As usual she suggests researching what the aliens and not just attack them. 
 What if they are calling for help? she suggests later, after your trip inside the 
 alien structure where you figure out it is an attack force. I dont get the contradiction.
 
  
  The Korean General is a self-righteous power hungry stereotype, done to death role.
  He just wants to unleash the power of whatever he finds before the U. S does. It would have been 
 nicer if he was less egotistical and more of a calm calculated person. It would look interesting 
 and given the fact that you loose your team and face weird circumstances and here this guy doesnt 
 seem to worried about your presence here. This general however, you know, is the standard power 
 hungry bad guy saying stuff you always hear.
  
  As for the game play itself. The objectives are pretty repetitive. You just go around destroying 
 camp after camp (or sneaking around or however you approach each camp.) There are tasks you have 
 to complete which just get in the way of the story unfolding. And after the alien encounter begins, 
 there are a lot of unnecessary defend an area, cover the VTOLs, and cover your squad leader kind 
 of objectives, which get boring and repetitive, and you just want to get off the island and see 
 what happens to those creatures. There was a beautifully crafted, really well designed level inside 
 the huge alien rock. But for what? The half hour you spend floating around inside there is pointless. 
 You don't learn about the aliens, where they came from, what they are doing there, what is their 
 Achilles heel is. At one point you discover they are building an attack force. Then the good doctor 
 later says they may be stranded there and might be trying to signal for help. Sounds more like 
 the Final Fantasy Spirits within movie. A lot of the game is very unnecessary. It'd actually leave 
 you thinking. How is it that such an advance army, developing such Nano suits, actually is so dumb 
 that they always have trouble getting in air support, have soldiers who just complement you on 
 your nano suit, and you never see them in the action. Theyre always injured, tending to 
 the injured or just at some ridge ready to start an assault but you gotta go in first. Strickland, 
 the guy whom you report to later pulls off a stupid and really unnecessary move and gets blown 
 up. And in the end of it I'm wondering.... WHY? It's boring and so clichd.
  
  The AI can see things for miles. You can be on a cliff and the machine gunner on the boat in the 
 sea can shoot at you.
  But, you can't see so clearly, given the nano suit and fancy gizmos. And they're accurate at such 
 a distance. KPA may eat a lot of carrots, and may look like they squint a lot but surely they cant 
 have telescopic vision.
  
  Secondly, the nano suit is grey. It doesn't blend with the surrounding. It's a dead give away, 
 for anybody. No camouflage at all. And the cloak, hardly lasts for a short time and barely lasts 
 when you move. So in that respect, the developers must have made the cloak last longer or changed 
 the colour (which isn't really much of help since the A. I don't get confused, but helps make the 
 realism of the story more convincing) of the nano suit. Maybe something like the master chief's 
 suit from Halo. Weapons.... The basic assault rifles are ok. You don't feel the power but they're 
 tolerable as weapons. The shotgun is decent. Pistols are downright horrible. There is almost no 
 use for the pistols at all. They kill you if you try to shoot somebody with it cause the enemy 
 will shoot faster. Pistols deal too little damage, and have a low rate of fire. Either one of the 
 two should be changed to make them useful or worth including in the game. Frag grenades, most of 
 the time not as effective as it can be because you cannot cook the grenade. The delay is too long. 
 Smoke grenades, I say aren't much use without thermal vision. And since the AI has telescopic vision, 
 they'll shoot at the slightest sight of you. Machine guns, very accurate when the enemy fires, 
 not very accurate when you shoot, even if you're aiming down the sights. The machine guns need 
 to sound louder than the rifles as well. It just feels like a rifle with a high capacity magazine. 
 Smoke grenades, you have them, but no thermal vision. Youd use it mostly to stop enemy Armour 
 from seeing you. I just switch on the cloak, switch to the RPG and destroy the tank. No need to 
 use a smoke screen cause I cant see through it.
  
  The vehicles could use a power slide with the hand brake. It isnt very effective. And someway 
 to repair them would have been nice. The level with the tank, if you take a lot of damage initially, 
 you have to play the level on foot. And the suit abilities. I dont see why speed and strength 
 have become two different powers. Both can come from strength. And this gets in the way when I 
 want to run in on somebody and melee the guy. Switching isnt very easy mid run. It would 
 have been a lot more convenient if a Shift key were assigned to seed and strength, (with the suit 
 going red etc.) it would have made it a lot easier. And the suit can go into a default armour mode 
 when speed or strength is not active. The cloak could be another key, and it would be nice if there 
 were a suit voice, which could detect fractures etc (like the HEV suit from Half-Life) . That would 
 be cool. Or when you used your binoculars, every soldier you see, or enemy vehicle you spot, if 
 some stats came, like for the 4x4, Power: x BHP, carrying capacity, armour, weapons description 
 etc. like in the Terminator movies, the way the terminators CPU identifies things. Make 
 the presence of your suit better. Maybe small stats like, temperature, altitude, wind speed etc, 
 running around the screen. Or your sniper shots, let the suit calculate humidity, wind velocity 
 and stuff. It would be a nice touch to complement the very Force Power like abilities 
 your suit gives you.
  
  Over all, the game is a big disappointment for me. More so because the beautiful graphics, and 
 physics could have delivered a much better game if the developers paid attention to the reason 
 wed play the game, the story and the feel. The graphics alone makes it feel real, but then, 
 there isnt a very compelling story with it to hold the gamers interest. The characters 
 could have been made stronger. In so many ways. Maybe tit-bits about their past, likes or dislikes, 
 have more conversations in the game when youre just running about the island. The introductory 
 scene with the briefing scene, could have used another general, along with Prophet (your squad 
 leader) with a tactical map, marked with loacations of interest, satellite photos of critical areas, 
 photos of the researchers to make your time on the island more meaningful. Initially you believe 
 that youre just doing a recon mission. Then suddenly it becomes a war. And then alien holocaust, 
 with a Starship Troopers feel. Get out and Nuke the place. And there are many questions still unanswered. 
 What are those aliens? Where did they come from, what they want? How did the Koreans get nano suits? 
 How come those big flying things tore up your teammates in the beginning of the game and later 
 on, they dont seem so powerful to do anything to you. What is the point of freezing the 
 entire island? If it is supposed to show the aliens can live only in sub-zero temperatures, then 
 how did they follow you till the ship and parts of the island outside the huge sphere? What were 
 the other countries doing so long? If a war erupted between Korea and America on the island, how 
 did the U. S forces get there so quickly, if even a plane to para-drop you and your team mates had 
 to worry about the Radar. What happened to all the Koreans after the sphere appeared? Surely they 
 all couldnt have got killed. Crysis has lots of loopholes like this which makes the experience 
 of the game a frustrating one. Again, hats off to Crytek for the graphics. Absolutely stunning, 
 but, if they gave a little more interest in the story like they did for the graphics, this game 
 would have done far better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  My friend gave me this game for my birthday. A fake one though so i had few problems with the installation 
 but still :)
  
  I have Geforce 7800GS just a year before it was one of the strongest graphic cards available. Crysis 
 made it a joke!!! i had to play all the time on Low resolution and definition in order to play 
 smoothly.
  
  but even then, this graphic is I-M-A-G-I-N-A-R-Y!!! You can't even compare it to anything you saw. 
 Simply amazing graphic: L & S is like reality and the beautiful views in this game is breathtaking!
 
  
  You are Nomad, a Soldier in US Special Forces in 2020. An archeological team on a remote Pacific 
 island is captured by an invasion force of North Koreans. You and your unit are sent to investigate 
 and rescue the scientists. Clad in high-tech nanosuits capable of boosting your strength, speed, 
 and armor, as well as cloaking you temporarily to the enemy, you're parachuted into a tropical 
 paradise that's crawling with intelligent enemies and something else that's tearing both the North 
 Koreans and US forces to shreds which you'll find out throughout this 10 levels game. 
  
  The gameplay of this game is very simple which is one of the reasons it's so good, not to complicated, 
 the developers emphasized the fun and less sophistication.
  
  The main feature in the gameplay is your special nano-suite. Despite the normal "Armor" mode which 
 will let incoming bullets sap your energy levels instead of your health, it has 3 special abilities: 
 
  1. Speed - Allow you to move faster.
  2. Strength - Allow you to jump higher\destroy things with your hand.
  3. Stealth - Allow you 
 to be invisible.
  Of course not everything is shiny you have a blue bar under your life's bar which indicate your 
 suit's power, when you use one of these abilities this bar starts to go down and when it reached 
 zero you need to wait for it to recharge. When you use cloaking (stealth) and the power runs out 
 you are automatically go to Armor mode so you better use it smartly especially when you infiltrate 
 to an enemy base.
  
  Another cool feature in the game is the ability to upgrade you weapons with lasers, silencers, 
 light, and special scopes whenever you find a new weapon and a new scope along the game. This game 
 unfortunately doesn't have a lot of weapons however basically you won't find yourself switching 
 weapons throughout the game so much.
  
  You also be using throughout the game various vehicles which are located in the level. The typical 
 vehicle would be the armored jeep and the boat. however there are more vehicles in the game later 
 in the game. All of these vehicles can be controlled and easy to play with.
  
  The Maps of the game are so big which makes you choose your tactics and style of gameplay: Stealth 
 or Assault as this game is none-linear so makes it perfect and you can play as you wish.
  
  This Game also has a fantastic MP mode which like the SP isn't disappointing and that's even that 
 it's not the main part of the game. The MP mode allow you to fight with each other and control 
 all the vehicles such as the Helicopter which isn't available in the SP mode, in various beautiful 
 maps.
  
  This game is simply a masterpiece. One of the best FPS ever and a breakthrough in the graphics 
 of the video games. This is a must-buy game but you better check out your PC because you should 
 do it in order to play this game with the maximum experience. Crysis can be a very good excuse 
 to buy a new PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_bmx45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  Awesome thats all i have to say 
  
  but remember when buying
  
  -Need a expensive comp
  -and good net
  
   
 
  
  -Need a expensive comp
  -and good net
  -Need a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need 
 a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need 
 a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need 
 a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need a expensive comp
  -and good net-Need a expensive comp
  -and good net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluesteelMeGaSE
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is an ambitious title. It's the spiritual successor (but not the official successor) to Far 
 Cry, so it has a lot to live up to. Graphically, it definitely succeeds in that department. Everything 
 looks picturesque. To this day, Crysis beats many other games of it's genre by way of visual pleasure. 
 There's a lot of detail here, but that's common knowledge by now. 
  
  However, the bread and butter of any game is how it plays. Crysis sort of suffers from mediocre 
 gameplay, occasionally reaching fair level at the best of times. The AI is a total dive from Far 
 Cry, and that's a disappointment. The jerks in Far Cry, for instance, used their environment to 
 their advantage, never truly taking you on unless they were absolutely loaded for bear themselves. 
 In outdoor environments, they'd hide amongst the foliage and stay out of sight, flanking you later 
 when your hands are otherwise tied (that's happened several times, always surprising me a lot each 
 time) . Also, Far Cry delivers what it promises by way of gameplay completely, at least in my opinion.
 
  
  Crysis does not fully deliver what it promises. The nanosuit feature is a neat implementation of 
 course, as it offers you various ways to tackle the levels, all but one of which takes place outdoors. 
 However, it becomes a novelty part-way into the game. Only through multiplayer does it serve any 
 real lasting entertainment value, since you're playing against a diversified arena of players. 
 The weapon customization is a neat touch, but you grow so used to it that you hardly notice it 
 as an innovation. But my biggest gripe is as follows...
  
  The AI stinks, simply put. It does anything that should, I think, be common practice with artificial 
 intelligence, like dodging, taking cover, and etcetera, but the AI flips out so much it's not funny. 
 Often when approaching a KPA soldier, they'll say something to show that they've seen me, and try 
 to run through me, at a snail's pace mind you, and never really shoot at me. To compare with Far 
 Cry again, they'd never stop to just look at you when they see you, they'd pop your butt at any 
 given chance, and rather efficiently at that. I've seen enemies "locking up" on occasion, more 
 than it should, and there's engine-related glitches from time to time, like enemies being placed 
 under the terrain or their bodies in a static pose. They're not the best shots in the realm of 
 action gaming, and they're not threatening when you consider that this game is an "evolution" of 
 a heavy-hitting title made in 2004; a four year difference that should have really been felt.
 
  
  All is not lost however. The game has some pretty awesome engine innovations. It's not all visual, 
 it's also subtle things that are connected to the visuals. These subtle innovations are the real 
 star of the game. Such includes destroying buildings and foliage, actually serving a tactical advantage 
 in play. The destructibility feature of CryEngine 2 is spot-on. 
  
  Also, the facial-animations could be mistaken for movie cuts. They're pretty much as fluid and 
 convincing as a movie would be. If there's a breaking point for character animation, then Crysis 
 is that breaking point. They're terrific to say the least. 
  
  The characters are fine, namely those aside from yourself, like Prophet and Psycho. Your character, 
 whose actually called Nomad, is somewhat static. The KPA soldiers are a mixed bag, as they, like 
 your player character, suffer from being too static. It's all recycled dialogue and they are too 
 busy hunting you down to seem almost innocently at peace when there's no action going down. Crysis 
 may seem more "to the point" than Far Cry in this respect, and some may actually prefer this approach, 
 but it makes the AI seem less realistic.
  
  Lastly, if there's a real gripe about this game, is that it is too much of a hindrance on your 
 hardware to be able to appreciate it at it's best performance. While you can get the appropriate 
 hardware to allow you to play it at nominal quality and performance for a decent price nowadays 
 (and not at ridiculous highs, like 300 dollars for a GPU) , for us less able players, it's a bit 
 of a hassle. Not all of us has a CPU capable of handling the processing needed for the game to 
 run even at bare minimum. The memory is sort of a concern too for us less able folks, but not as 
 much as the payload out CPUs have to dish out. 
  
  Anyway, Crysis is a bit of a mixed-bag. It's solid, but could have been a bit better (than it is 
 already) if worked out a little bit more. The bugs that are present, even in the patches for Pete's 
 sake, don't help matters. Appreciate the game for what it offers, but you might not come back too 
 often.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigQz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  What is so good about Crysis????????
  Heres a simple check list of the games contents
  
  Stunning graphics: Check
  Realistic audio: Check
  Intense fire fights: Check
  Destructible 
 environments: Check
  A beautiful tropical island paradise: Check
  Wide range of available tactics: Check
  Damn fun to play: Check
  Vehicles: Check
  Customizable 
 weapons: Check
  Replay value: Check
  You have a nanosuit: Check
  A tank battle: Check
  Fun multiplayer: Check
  The ability to pick people to by the throat: Check
  A satisfying ending: 
 Check
  
  
  What more can you possibly want in a FPS game? Choose to go in guns blazing or sneak round the 
 flanks and pick your enemies off slowly, theres so many fun options. Once you've finished the game 
 it is still fun to do it again and try a different tactic.
  Sucked in if your computer is crap though... but for those lucky enough to have the hardware, buy 
 this game and you are in for something amazing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozmagneto
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  - the open world, of course
  - the amazing graphics and special effects, of course
  - suspenseful story, perfect for a shooter, because it has a variety of game modes like surviving 
 on tour own, tactics , the war craft, the alien invasion and the different kind of enemies etc...
 
  - a choice of vehicles and weapons, but also the choice of how you play this: do you want to sneak 
 trough the whole game, or do you prefer the Rambo-mode more?
  - the gameplay is never boring but in fact very addictive
  - nice suit
  - good A. I. (perhaps 
 sometimes to good)
  - good characters (and the mystery of own characters face of course.....)
  - and everything is 
 and looks so cool....... :) :) :) :)
  
  - also a nice thing is that this one is exclusive for pc, so everyone can play this (nevertheless 
 you need a good computer!)
  
  -  play it, and you'll see it isn't just fun!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  I've encountered countless games with high requirements for the PC, but Crysis is without doubt 
 one of the worst in that aspect.
  
  Crysis has stated, that their intention was to make the game last longer, and the very high setting 
 was only intended for future systems.
  
  How very nice of them to think about the future, but at the time of release it was nigh impossible 
 to make the game run at the more modest 'high' setting, forcing most gamers to run it in a mixed 
 'medium-high' mode, custom tailoring the game to run smooth even the most expensive 600$ GPUs. 
 
  
  This is, plainly put, a very discouraging strategy for the system requirements, and Crysis did 
 manage to anger both enthusiast and casual gamers alike, and IMO the game runs about equally bad 
 on both laptops and high end computers, unless you dial down some of the graphical enhancements, 
 that made the game special anyway.
  
  Looking purely at the gameplay, the main feature of the game - aside from the very predictable 
 story - is the nanosuit. The nanosuit has about 4 or 5 different modes, from the standard 'armor' 
 mode to the sneaky 'stealth' mode, which gives you some options when encountering the enemy. 
 
  Of course the singleplayer campaign puts you in situations that forces you to use the nanosuit 
 in different ways, but aside from this rather gimmicky feature, Crysis plays and feels like high 
 quality FPS game - in many ways it feels exactly like Far Cry from the same developer.
  
  Crysis is not a bad game, but neither is it great. The game still looks very nice on medium settings, 
 which is playable on most medium-high end systems, and the gameplay is solid, but not exacltly 
 breaking new ground.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptnPrice
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  - the open world, of course
  - the amazing graphics and special effects, of course
  - suspenseful story, perfect for a shooter, because it has a variety of game modes like surviving 
 on tour own, tactics , the war craft, the alien invasion and the different kind of enemies etc... 
 
  - a choice of vehicles and weapons, but also the choice of how you play this: do you want to sneak 
 trough the whole game, or do you prefer the Rambo-mode more? 
  - the gameplay is never boring but in fact very addictive
  - nice suit 
  - good A. I. (perhaps 
 sometimes to good) 
  - good characters (and the mystery of own characters face of course.....) 
  - and everything 
 is and looks so cool....... :) :) :) :)
  
  - also a nice thing is that this one is exclusive for pc, so everyone can play this (nevertheless 
 you need a good computer!)
  
  -  play it, and you'll see it isn't just fun!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  This game is big. It really is, every area you can see, you can explore. Which is great isn't it? 
 Except wait, this game is linear. Yes, despite this big open ended world, exploring wont help you. 
 You must go from objective to objective and thats it. The objectives are basically same, go kill 
 koreans, get some info, go kill more koreans and get more info, save a hostage every now and then 
 but thats about it. However the nano suit is what makes the gameplay in this game shine. You can 
 take about 10 enemies at a time due to the suit. Stealth, grab a guy, switch to speed, run up to 
 a few people, switch to strength and throw him onto the people to cause the death of 5 or so people. 
 Also stealth is good for cover and the speed is great. It's also fun to launch a rocket on a group 
 of people inside a house. or blow up a car since everything in this game is destructible. But the 
 same goes for you, you cant hide in houses or stay in a car for too long.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The shining point of the game. The graphics. This is where it delivers. The graphics are so 
 good that when playing on max its a great experience but playing on normal settings is still damn 
 good.
  
  Sound:
  
  Nothing special. Korean talking, the sounds of bullets and grenades, however nothing special that 
 catches the eye. The lack of sound in this game is huge and thats not a good thing.
  
  Value:
  
  Is this game for the money? Yes and No. Yes because once your done with the single 
 play adventure you can go onto multiplayer for basic death matches and such other than that, however 
 compared to other first person shooting multi players, the multiplayer in this game isn't great. 
 Also the single player isn't what you call a great adventure either
  
  Lifespan:
  
  Not long at all. The single player is linear, short and straight forward and trust me you won't 
 be playing it again. You can try out the multiplayer for a day or two but then move onto some first 
 person shooting multiplayer thats worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biophoton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This is the best FPS I have ever played, and the best game for computer.
  
  I start with the story.
  
  The story is pretty solid, you play as a Special Ops guy named Nomad, 
 your going to this island to find out why these north Koreans interfered with this US research 
 place. your wearing a suit that enhances your ability's called a Nanosuit. There are four other 
 Special Ops Troops with you, Prophet, your commander, Psycho, Jester, and Aztec. You jump from 
 a plane to the small island. On your way down you are hit by something and miss the LZ. You then 
 meet up with Jester and run to Aztecs potion. Upon arrival you find four dead Koreans and Aztecs 
 body which is almost ripped into. You then play a series of levels fighting Koreans only to learn 
 that the Koreans aren't your only enemy. 
  
  Now on to the Graphics.
  
  The Graphics for this game are amazing, they are the best for any system yet. What I really like 
 about the graphics is the water, motion blur, and the shadows and lighting. The water is simple 
 stunning, very realistically done. The splashes can look faky at times but not often. The motion 
 blur really helps to blend in things one turning, it gives the game a crisp look. The shadows and 
 lighting are amazing, there are so real. The light will shine throw the trees making light spots 
 on the ground. When the sun rises certain areas will remain dark until its all the way up. The 
 shadows are very nice, the give the game a very nice look. The textures are nice, some rocks look 
 very stupid but other than that there awesome. The trees look great, they blow in the wind, and 
 all have individual leaves and branches. The faces and models are very good, the animations are 
 truly stunning as 
  well. Explosions are cool and very satisfying.
  
  On to Gameplay.
  
  Your Nanosuit enhances your strength, speed, gives you armor, and cloak. Strength mode enables 
 you to break down walls, over turn cars, jump 10ft into the air onto houses and and give very satisfying 
 punches, you can also steady your aim. Speed mode helps you weave in and out of waves of enemy's, 
 making easier to make use of other ability's. Its also fun to charge and enemy and go flying over 
 his head and finish him as you pass over him. Armor mode is awesome, being able to storm troopers 
 with taking physical damage is fun. Cloak is a very sneaky way to get past enemy, snipe them, or 
 to sneak up on them, it also helps if your health is low. The only down side to these awesome ability's 
 is that your suits energy does not last long, your life and energy will replenish if you take cover, 
 but it goes fast. 
  
  AI.
  
  I really saw nothing wrong with the AI very realistic. I only found one bug with it, every once 
 in a while, a enemy would just be standing there, nit moving at all. The only thing I didn't like 
 about the AI was that they are like night owls, if its dark and you can't see, you walk out into 
 the open and the will see you right off unless you have cloak on.
  
  Weapons.
  
  The weapon selection was very poor in this game, theres was not very many, you'll end up using 
 the some gun through out the whole game, of course other game fetchers will help make up for this 
 but, theres only around 11 guns. You can dual wield your pistols which is pretty cool. What I really 
 liked about the weapons is the in game customization. You just simple click a button and you can 
 add scopes and grenade launchers to your guns.
  
  Sound/Music.
  
  The sound and music in the game are nice, although I really only care for graphics so I don't pay 
 much attention to sounds and such.
  
  Bugs and Downsides.
  
  You will come across some texture bugs, and video taring but that about it. The really big downside 
 to this game is you need an high end computer. I'm playing this game with-Geforce 8800 GT, 2GB 
 Ram, Windows XP, Intel Core Duo CPU 2.33GHz processor, and it runs fine, but I spent some money 
 on upgrading.
  
  Story-9/10
  Graphics-10/10
  Gameplay-9/10
  Sound/Music-8.5/10
  AI-9/10
  Weapons-8.5/10
  
  All and all, a very very awesome game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fraustbite_0
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I heard about this game a while back, so after upgrading from an IGP to a Sapphire Radeon HD 2600PRO, 
 I got this game. In benchmarking it, I averaged 26 FPS @ 1024X768 on Medium. I wanted more, so 
 a month after getting the Sapphire card, I upgraded again to a Palit Radeon HD 3850 SUPER and it 
 woke this game up in a big way. I was able to get 34.9FPS @1024X768 on medium (no AA or AF) and 
 that works fine for me. 
  
  The visuals in this game are stunning, to say the least. After I figured out that activating armor 
 strength mode helps with weapon recoil and accuracy, the body count rose steadily as I tore through 
 the enemy ranks like a hot knife through butter. The level design is great in my opinion and the 
 game play is fantastic. My only real gripe was the VTOL controls, but once I got a handle on that, 
 the fun continued. 
  
  After completing the single player, I went into Multiplayer and there fun continues there as well. 
 I've mostly been playing instant action. Haven't dipped into "Power Struggle" yet, but that promises 
 to be enjoyable as well. 
  
  This game will definitely cause many folks to either purchase a high powered gaming rig, or upgrade 
 their current rig once or perhaps twice like I did, but it was worth the money and this game was 
 everything I heard it was and then some!!! Looking forward to playing and reviewing Crysis Warhead. 
 Hopefully Crytek will let a demo of Warhead out of the bag!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakaroti4
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I had recently set up a new PC system which had cost me an arm and a leg, yet when I installed 
 this game it made all the difference, I cannot explain how much fun this game is the detailed environments 
 and fantastic crisp textures make you feel right at home! And when you mix that with fantastic 
 physics that the game engine delivers you have an instant winner. It just needs to be tried out, 
 you will need a strong machine for this though.
  
  I am able to play the game with all settings on VERY HIGH and 2x anti aliasing with the resolution 
 cranked all the way up without a hitch, if you can run this game, then by all means run it!
  
  Crysis is simply put amazing, and with lots of great mods available and not to forget the highly 
 anticipated "The Lost World Returns" mod Crysis still has infinite potential. I recommend this 
 game to anyone who enjoys fast paced action and stunning visuals. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sexyman123abc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  i lovet it is destrucive and great game play!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !  !!!!! !!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! 
 !!!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!! !!! !!! ! !!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!! !!! !!! !! !!! !! ! ! !! !!!!! ! !! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!! 1! 
 !! 111 !!!!!!! !!!! !!!! ~~!! ! !!!!! ! !!@@ !!!!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!! !! !!!! !!!!! 
 !!!! !!!! !! !!! !! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! !! ! ! !! ! ~~~ !!!! !!! !! !! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!! !!! !! 
 ! !!!!! !! ! !!!!! !!!!! !! !! !! ! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! ! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !! 1!!!!!! !!!! 
 !!!! 1!!! ! !!!! ! !! ! !!! !! !! !! !! !!!! !! !! ! ! ! !!111111111 11111 111111111 1111111 1111111111111 
 111 !! !!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliozaroot
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  The history of the game is good. In the game we saw a lot of possible realistic features:
  *Change the equipment on the weapon.
  *Destroy the objects.
  *The physics of objects.
  *Explosions 
 with expansive wave
  *Etc.
  This game is a FPS, but also you need a strategy to attack and cover and is what i love. Multiplayer 
 looks like a campaign, but is too incredible and fantastic, like the CTF of Halo.
  If you play Cryis with an excellent computer and sound system, you can stay until you complete 
 the game. This game is only for those who wait to get the last graphic card to play with the highest 
 setting and all the available games. 
  The better of the game is the revolutionary Cry Engine that will be the future of games engine 
 and is something that the PS3 can't handle. All the other stuff is great, but i don't want to talk 
 about that, because are a lot of things to explain.
  Crysis is not only a FPS, also is your life in your beloved computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  The one thing that this game really has going for it is the visuals! I must admit I spent many 
 a time just standing around admiring the incredible backdrops. As fot the game it is good, but 
 not very original. There were parts that drew me back to playing FarCry and Prey. That said travelling 
 through the alien hub is a very fulfilling experience. 
  
  My one big gripe with this game was the ending! I, like many others, suffered from the "TAC Cannon 
 won't lock on" problem. This really ruined an otherwise top notch game. I had to reload an old 
 save game a play back through to get round it and even then the ending was a little weak. Like 
 one of those film ending where they leave it open for a sequel. Don't get me wrong I'm all for 
 sequels or even prequels for that matter, but when you've invested 40 on a game you expect a decent 
 ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbart10384
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic, immersive shooter. Still has a few bugs, even after all this time, but overall, a worthwhile 
 game. I am not generally a fan of games that are hyped b/c of eye-candy, but this game has it all. 
 
  
  Be warned, the stories of system breaking on the graphics front are not exaggerated. This game 
 will put the hurt on your PC, even if you are running the latest and greatest hardware. 
  
  My main complaint is that the game still appears to have quite a few glitches -- this is not acceptable 
 after being out for nearly a year. 
  
  In addition, I think that the trend toward games that push a system's specs to the limit is the 
 wrong direction. Example: Sins of a Solar Empire -- it works on virtually any system. Newer systems 
 get prettier effects, etc., but if you buy a game, it should run on your PC, period. 
  
  Don't let this dissuade you from purchasing the game, however. It is very, very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebrown07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  The main reasons why you should be playing this game right now rather than reading my review.
 
  1.) Price - This game has been out long enough now to either pick up second hand or brand new at 
 a very competitive price. Worth every penny.
  2.) Gameplay - There is not a dull moment while playing this game. Constant action and interesting 
 storyline keeps you sitting at your computer playing for hours. The fact that the game allows you 
 to play how you want to is awesome, so for example some people may want to be a stealthy player 
 that is all about cloak and dagger (or punch in the face in this case) . Where as others will want 
 to go all out throwing grenades while shotgunning a Korean soldier in the face.
  3.) GameMechs - Cysis is a high end game made for high end computers. For non-laggy or non-jittery 
 results you really need to comply to the recommended specs. I found the game to have amazing attention 
 to detail, which ran very smooth. The physics are great and realistic. The controls are no problem 
 after a bit of reassigning keys.
  4.) Multiplayer - Its good fun. To be honest I found it very similar to alot of other FPS games 
 out there but thats not exactly a bad thing. There are enough modes to keep you happy and again 
 playing for hours.
  
  Its hard to find any major negatives with this game. There were some annoying glitches that occasionally 
 got me stuck between two rocks lol. I also didn't feel that the stealth aspect was all that rewarding. 
 For example using a silenced gun you would work your way into the base, even hiding bodies, but 
 lots of soldiers would still walk over to your location (i think due to lack of radio contact for 
 the killed soldiers) . This just made it way more tempting to run in and blast everyone.
  
  This game is hopefully signs of things to come within the gaming industry (amazing graphics, gameplay 
 etc) .
  Buy this game!
  
  Peace Out
  
  Icey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is superb! It's physics are completely amazing and i think it must have a 10! The single 
 player is not too easy or too difficult and the i have no words for the multiplayer! There is only 
 one word that can describe it, awesome! Especially the power struggle! Cooperating with other players 
 and tying to defeat the other team just makes me don't want to stop! Instant action is also very 
 exciting and lots of fun, but it's not my style! I like more strategy and cooperation! Some people 
 don't know that there is also a team instant action! You just have to download it. Many sites didn't 
 give crysis a good score ,because they thought that there was no team deathmatch like most of FPS 
 games. Well, thank god crysis warhead has one!!!!!
  The most discussed disadvantage of this game is it's requirements. There are many people that there 
 pc does not support crysis , so they just say bad words about it! I have no problem with that because 
 my pc can handle it! Thank you for the attention.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: troll-killer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  the good:
  the best graphics ever, the best sound ever, amazing game play with outstanding weapon design and 
 unique customization,, great physics, excellent and realistic AI, open ended maps, very interesting 
 story! sharks are amazing and fun!
  
  the bad: on line is not perfect! the last level is not perfect because u don't were to go sometimes
 
  
  this is a great and a exciting fps that you will remember for years to come! it's a outstanding 
 experience! don't trust the reviews that they give the game 9,4/10 or less. this game is perfect! if 
 you don't like this, u don't like the first person shooter games! play it! you have nothing to loss! everything 
 in this game is just perfect, man!!! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 
 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 
 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 
 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 
 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 
 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 
 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 
 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 
 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! crisis 4 ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Crysis is an interesting game someone could play with the proper PC ( you gotta have a freaky pc 
 with 3 GB ram and video card 512 mb minimun to run it properly) .
  
  So, story line is not impresive but quite interesting. You assault an island full of koreans and 
 kill em all while you suddendly discover an alien base full of unfriendly dudes.
  
  Gameplay: one of the best things i consider this game offers. Lot, lot lot of freedom. The island 
 is quite big and you have nice options to take down your objetives. (sniping, frontal attack, etc)
 
  
  Graphics: AWESOME if you got the right pc to run it. 
  
  Sound: OK, inmersive.
  
  All in all, great FPS, if you want to have a game where you use a nano suit capable to make you 
 stronger, faster and invisible, and enjoy of a delicious (graphically speaking) adventure. then 
 buy this one.
  
  Good game, until Far cry 2 kicks it asse. ;P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  Most likely we all already know what this game is. A graphical galore. We're talking breakable 
 environments, stealth systems, a super suit that makes defeating enemies a whole lot of fun. Yes, 
 Crysis is a somewhat revolutionary game.
  
  This is not to say it does not have its issues. Crysis was only short of being epic because of 
 its well-known hardware 'crush'. It will destroy your computer and suck the living life out of 
 it, even though you think your pc is a 'strong build'. Because no pc is a 'strong build' for Crysis 
 really, unless you're one of 'those' techie-individuals, and even then you need a pc over $1300 
 bucks.
  
  That problem aside, due to me luckily having 8800GT SLI, I enjoyed what is known as the "semi-Crysis 
 experience" [well.. not on very high, but high and dx9..] . This game is certainly a lot of fun. 
 The story was done FAR BETTER than FarCry as well, which was a relief. Bottom line is, if you love 
 shooters, you can't gone wrong with Crysis. But wait.. actually, make sure your pc can handle this 
 monster. Otherwise, you may be heavily disappointed. 
  
  Objectively, however, a great game hands down. But watch the temp of your video cards ;] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H17OK1
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  One of the bests grafics ever made, ok, the game stop here...
  
  About the graphic, is really really good and the phisics is just superb.
  
  The Action, i think 
 they forget that when they made this game... The real action of the game is to fight with at most 
 10 enemys.
  
  The game is just about jungle and some houses, thats just it.
  
  Dont expect to choose the best weapon to your kind of gameplay, you almost have no options, and 
 all of them will just sux all the time, they will miss hard all the time and the enemy will refuse 
 to die.
  
  The suit feature is just complicated and has no function at all, you can hide for like 10 seconds, 
 have a little shield for a while, you can run a short time or you can be the hulk, just useless.
 
  
  The 3 is what the graphic and phsics do. To a first-person shooting game, Crysis is very far from 
 the shooting part, it doesnt worth the money spent on the game and on your PC. If you want a real 
 firts person shooting game where you will need to really shoot, choose Call of Duty 4... If you 
 want a really great looking game, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmebaby25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Ok,
  
  The main gripes about Crysis have been that you need a monster PC to run it. This isn't entirely 
 true.
  
  You need Vista and a DX10 card to run it at Very High settings (altho an XP patch is out) and even 
 then you're gonna need a quad core CPU and some decent RAM to do your high end graphics card justice. 
 You have all that and you'll be treated to the most visually stunning game in history.
  
  I've just bought a high end PC and Crysis in itself is worth the upgrade.
  
  But is it more 
 than just a pretty face?
  
  I've previously been running it on an AMD FX-57, 2 GB RAM and a 7900GTX. Not a bad system, but 
 nowhere near the hardware required for High settings. So I was reduced to playing on Medium-Low. 
 Guess what - Crysis was still awesome.
  
  The AI was good enough to be challenging but just dumb enough for your well thought out traps to 
 lure them into the open. The suit modes brought a fresh approach to the modern shooter whilst the 
 physics were a revelation. Being chased through a jungle by the KPA with trees falling all around 
 me as their bullets thud into them - fantastic.
  
  As with Far Cry and other FPS - the need for a sci-fi/supernatural/monster threat was forced into 
 the game. This was a shame, because whilst the aliens were alright - it's the multiple approaches 
 to attacking the KPA soldiers that provide the real thrills here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelzebuVlad
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This is not a great review, this is only a short description of what I found on Crysis. I finished 
 it once and I'm not planning to finish it again. CRYSIS was the new-gen game that bla bla bla bla 
 and such graphics and bla bla bla, and now you can get invisible and THIS IS NOT a Farcry sequel, 
 yes it is a wannabee side story of Farcry with a bad story and a great physical motor, when I say 
 say great it is really great. But despiste this great motor is just a common game like Kane & Lynch 
 with some marvel heroes powers, the next crysis sequel, after warhead, will be named Crysis Fantastic, 
 and you'll turn Invisible, or turn into a big big flame, or get extra strength and turn orange 
 or even you'll be all to strain your members... and have a suit with a BIG 4 in the chest... Come 
 on people, such a great motor for a bad story that only 10% of worldwide population can play? You 
 are giving many people a relieve. You can play this game, it's not bad not very good, it's like 
 I say "playable"... and you can even play with your powers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aereck
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Ok, I have played crysis enough to come to the conclusion that it is far from good.
  
  Graphics:
  Ok, this part is great, if you run it on max it will blow your mind. Although it isn't 
 optimized for every PC I won't downrank it because of that.
  
  Setting:
  Ok a whole island to go whereever you want, sounds cool huh. You don't want to go anywhere else 
 than your objectives, and mostly that gives you two ways to go there. I can even go as far as calling 
 this game linear.
  
  Enemy's:
  The AI is terrible, it sees you trough almost everything and suddenly 'spawns' some other guys 
 to get to you. There's no such thing as stealthing in this game, your camo holds for about 10 secs (if 
 you stand still) and the silencer doesn't work since the enemy will see you from 1km.
  
  Shooter part and vihicles:
  The aiming is very bad and not fun at all. The enemy's don't die 
 realisticly, you need to shoot them allot. The guns arn't fun at all. As for vihicle's, they are 
 no fun. And there's also not much variaty in the vihicles, just like the weapons.
  
  Conclusion:
  A verry dissapointing game. If this game had normal graphics, nothing over the top, 
 it would've been overlooked by almost everyone. It's just a mediocre shooter with amazing grapics. 
 So if graphics is your thing than this is your game, but if you like to play games instead of looking 
 at them this is a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niema20
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  This game takes fps to a whole new level. It gives you amazing freedom to tackle the missions however 
 you wish. Graphics are brilliant and the same goes for the story line. The choise of weapons is 
 good but i think they could do with adding a few more. Th levels range from tank and aircraft levels 
 to normalfps gameplaying.
  If you have a good upto date pc, this is a must have. The AI are also very good on tthis game, 
 epecially on delta mode.
  The game took be roughly 12 houres, which is good but i wish there was more!
  The nano suit is 
 probaly my favorite part of the game. It is great being able to switch between different strenghs, 
 it makes you feel  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whyteboy776
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  This is maybe one of the best games ever made. Whether it be a FPS or not, this game sets standards 
 for other games and engines and shows that it can achieve some of the highest games awards both 
 from users and major game companys. I would say the biggest let down for this game is not taking 
 it onto the console world for more recognition. All and all this is a great game to try, buy and 
 play for hours on end. My recomendation is to go through it slowly and plan your strategy and observe 
 the enemy AI and use it to your advantage. observe and apprieciate the fluid enviroment and have 
 fun with the destructables and have fun wiht it. It has a great story line and cinematic cutscenes 
 worth the watch. Highly Recomended for every one whether it be your first Fps or your latest you 
 will share my opinion on this game and enjoy it as much as i did and do right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a superb game! It sucks you in for good!! The first time I saw such graphics I was looking 
 at the screen for five minutes or something!!! I mean how more realistic can it be when crysis 
 2 arrives !! It has the best visual effects and realism ever made in a game. Gameplay fantastic 
 Story is very nice and grows suspense to the gamer (at least to me) as it combines Science fiction 
 very nicely with future technology, aliens and maximum action. I cant find any visual glitches 
 in the game as it is the most photo realistic game I have ever seen! The way you turn around, smash 
 objects, throw objects, fire on water is so realistic and of course my favorite "explosions" it 
 is so stunning!! The fire that emits from an explosion is very well rendered awesome! This game 
 is a must for every FPS gamer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmeCata
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is an excellent game. That being said, it's also rife with bugs. Slowdown, of course, is 
 a factor, along with frame freezes and game crashes. This is especially maddening during multiplayer (you 
 can imagine) . But overall, it is a very good game. The gameplay itself, in the early stages, is 
 incredible, with the suit's various abilities making for very fun action sequences. You're having 
 a grand old time with North Koreans when (spoiler alert) the game switches environments, and you 
 head into the alien ship. It's an interesting change, though I found it a bit challenging at times 
 to find my way. You emerge from the ship to find... EVERYTHING IS FROZEN. From this point on, the 
 game becomes much more linear than it previously was, but I very much enjoy the level where you 
 encounter the exosuit and try to defend the VTOLs. The multiplayer is not as revolutionary, with 
 two modes: deathmatch and power struggle. Power Struggle is a bit complicated, and it takes some 
 time to move up in ranks, but it's a good mode. Deathmatch is, well, deathmatch. All in all, Crysis 
 is a good purchase for those who want cutting edge graphics and good gameplay as well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxfox93
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  U need to have a very good PC if u want to play this game on high quality... 
  I dont have a very good computer and i dont play this game on the highest quality but i think it 
 makes a lot of fun and the effects are very good...
  If u like many action this is a game for you!
  The graphics awesome...
  Effects are awesome 
 too ...
  The atmosphere is awesome.
  I LOVE THIS GAME...
  Its AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME ...
  I hope i got 100 words now XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praksplay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  Its one of those games which gives plenty memorable moments that you remember for the rest of your 
 gaming life! It simply redefines, storytelling-in the middle of the action genre, completely. It 
 is a classic in the modern world, comes with a bang and even raises expectations for the sequel. 
 
  Its one of those games which gives plenty memorable moments that you remember for the rest of your 
 gaming life! It simply redefines, storytelling-in the middle of the action genre, completely. It 
 is a classic in the modern world, comes with a bang and even raises expectations for the sequel. 
 
  Its one of those games which gives plenty memorable moments that you remember for the rest of your 
 gaming life! It simply redefines, storytelling-in the middle of the action genre, completely. It 
 is a classic in the modern world, comes with a bang and even raises expectations for the sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virtualmatrix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Okay so i've had this game awhile, its now September 27, 2008. Two patches and one hotfix later 
 this game is great. Its fun, its so entertaining and I love to blow **** up and there's plenty 
 of that to do so I have a blast with this game. First off I'm going to give you my to-date specs 
 and thats:
  
  Asus Socket AM2 Mobo
  2 gb 800mhz ram 5-5-5-7
  AMD Athlon 64 X2 6000+ OC 3.2 Ghz
  EVGA GeForce 9600 GT Superclocked/720 core clock
  
  So 
 thats what we're looking at through this review, doesnt seem like much and 8800 and 9800 enthusiasts 
 will probably laugh at these specs but I'm 21 years old and mommy and daddy dont give me hardware 
 for christmas. All in all I play this on High and Very High settings at 35-53 FPS, its such a beautiful 
 game and you feel like you're really there in that nano suit blasting away at the KPA and going 
 rip **** riot through villages with Humvee's and Tanks. The sheer physics of the game is awesome, 
 everything is affected by what you do and how you do it. Blast through trees and watch a few of 
 them fall along with your counterparts. Pick up new weapons and modify them the way you want and 
 need in terms of your environment. You need to be quiet? Quickly engage the weapons modification 
 abilities quickly and put a silencer on your weapon, get in close and make memories of your enemies. 
 The game is long or short, some people **** and moan about it being too short but if you're guns 
 blazing, not taking anything in and just running through the game than yeah its PRETTY short, but 
 not very short.
  
  Then Nano Suit, your survival depends on how you use this as well. Sync it to your specifications, 
 if you need to aim more carefully with less blowback on your weapon engage your strength mode. 
 Taking fire? Use the default armor mode, need to get the hell out of there quick? SPEED MODE! and 
 the most favorite I believe, Cloak mode. Now with your cloak mode your time is varied, stand still 
 and you will last about 2 minutes cloaked, walk and your cloak will only last for around 30 seconds 
 and if you sprint 15 seconds so use it wisely and precisely. Use trees for cover and always be 
 aware of your surroundings, use your binoculars to scan the trees and villages to get an idea of 
 what your enemies habits are and how many enemies are out there.
  
  So, this review was more or less a possitive review about this game. Now here's some downers:
 
  
  Ice and alien parts of the game really degrade your CPU/GPU quality, make sure you have a fan (s) 
 on your computer because this is nicknamed the computer killer because it overheats your system. 
 Also, make sure you have a nice video card to enjoy the game. Hell when I got this game I played 
 it on medium with a 2400 HD and I loved it. Now back to the ice levels. The AI on the aliens are 
 a little off, they kill pretty fast so you need cover and a heavy trigger finger. They're more 
 like robots than an organic NTI species so therefore I always saw them as one. Not a big rant on 
 that part but eh. Also, at the ending there has been alot of system crashes and even being forced 
 to the begining of the last level which I hope they fix soon. All in all Crysis is a great game 
 to own if you have the hardware to run it, again at first I was running it on a 256 mb video card 
 with 2 gigs of ram okay on medium settings but upgraded because this game is a trip. I hope you 
 found my review helpful, and I hope you buy the game or even enjoy it as much as I do. Much luck 
 to you all and have a great time gaming!
  
  -John- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 26, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be short but as a hardcore gamer im goignt o say Crysis is only just a good game. 
 the re is plenty in there to make you go wow . . which you do if you have the spec but you get 
 so frustrated with the games play.
  
  Problem 1 - The Suit. Balance. Your powers just dont last long enough, maybe if you added another 
 15 seconds it would be better, especially in the camo mode and speed mode. If you switch to these 
 modes and move you drain the suit fast and flick back to normal (armour mode) . I getting totally 
 sick of now of having this choice to do what i want (or so they say) only to not really be able 
 to do anything. Eg Camo wont last for more than a few meters if youre moving . .so really you cant 
 sneek past anyhting . . which leads me into AI . .the enemy can see you either for miles, not at 
 all and stand still or do it as you would expect. You cant hide behind massive trees. i was deep 
 in the woods well off the road and then i hear a shjout and then they are all on me . . .how? this 
 tree was meters off the road . .down a ravine and i do mean MASSIVE tree.
  
  Problem 2 - Aim/firing . .whatver you want to call this
  If you are playing this game and saying 
 there inst a problem with this then you have never analysed this game compared to others like UT, 
 Halo, CS, even conker live and reloaded had better hit detection than this game. what im saying 
 is, half a clip later . .they may start to look like you hit them EVEN if you are 5 ft away and 
 aiming center mass . .This issue is the whole reason for this review . . its really bad. 
  
  I love the customisation of the weapons but albeit . .toally useless... in some cases. I only 
 find the most satisfying weapon is the launcer and near enough point blank 
  
  in fact i cant go on . . .this game is only just ok. im putting it in the same bin as prey, good 
 story . . or at least something you want to know more about but a very poor physics (trys to do 
 something different but its own technology lets it down . . and before the flames i am aware that 
 they are two engines) this game just seems to have something missing. People really need to look 
 at CS for a bit and really study why this games modification on an engine is still number one when 
 it comes to consitency, if generic war/sci fi games mimiced this we would have a much better game 
 experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  It was hard not to be completely impressed when the first images and videos of Crysis appeared 
 about 18 months ago. Scenes of lush jungles and towering alien war machines looked light-years 
 beyond what seemed possible. Of course, the two questions that revolved around Crysis since its 
 announcement were whether it would deliver on those visuals and whether it would deliver a game 
 worthy of those fancy graphics. It turns out that the answer to both those questions is a resounding 
 yes, as Germany's Crytek has proven that its 2004 hit Far Cry was no fluke. In fact, it was just 
 the beginning from this studio. With its sophomore effort, Crytek has managed to deliver an incredibly 
 advanced and exciting first-person shooter that practically rewrites the rules for the entire genre. 
 This is a game that pushes the envelope in terms of both technology and gameplay and does so with 
 aplomb. Crysis raises the expectations for every shooter to follow when it comes to graphics, interactivity, 
 environments, immersiveness, AI, and gameplay. Quite simply, Crysis represents the first-person 
 shooter at its finest, most evolved form. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Crysis. Crysis indeed. One of the most photorealistic games ever made and it holds to be one of 
 the greatest games I've ever played in my life EVER!
  
  Despite the hardcore system requirements demanded from Crysis, every part of the game will wow 
 you, whether it is game play or stunning visual scenery. 
  
  When you begin the game, you are immersed into espionage and tactic in order to fulfill your objective. 
 
  
  You can plan your own way of fighting, whether it be to sneak in and infiltrate the base or to 
 rush in and blow stuff up. You can plan your tactics carefully in order to succeed with ease because 
 sometimes it gets difficult having enemies flanking you.
  
  If the game doesn't pose difficulty for you, go ahead for the Delta difficulty, definitely making 
 the game just as hard. Here is where you need to plan real careful or else you'd end up getting 
 flanked.
  
  Anyway, the visual graphics are just as good as any other game. In fact, the guys at Crytek have 
 gone ahead of the generation of graphics and brought to us a heck of an island that can't be told 
 between a real life photo.
  
  Although room for improvement for part of the gameplay can be made, it is still a game where you 
 would sit for hours on the computer and play because the game play brings out the true nature of 
 Crysis. I mean, who doesn't want to blow stuff up, especially a shackled old house filled with 
 KPA soldiers.
  
  If your new to the FPS titles or are an FPS gamer freakazoid, then your definitely going to love 
 this.
  Prepare for the ride of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabre772
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  As soon as i read the review on Gamespot and checked out the Crysis website i immediately went 
 and bought it. When i first started Crysis single player i was amazed the graphics were absolutely 
 amazing and gameplay was easy to understand and a extreme amount of fun. Although the single player 
 mission was constrained to the island it was still an enjoyable campaign. With the ability to chose 
 either to do the mission silently or with brute force was very enjoyable especially. If you chose 
 to do it ninja like it proved a challenge and fun sniping enemies from afar or going camo and sneaking 
 up on them. Even brute force was fun with the ability to mow enemies done with a machine gun or 
 shoot them point blank in the face with shotgun. As soon as i finished single player i tried multiplayer 
 and played Power Struggle and my mind was just amazed! with the ability to fly choppers, take command 
 of tanks and other vechiles, lay mines, nuke people or snipe from afar along with the mission objective 
 it created hours upon hours of fun. 
  Advantages
  -Mod types for weapons was outstanding
  -realistic destructive environment (breaking of trees created a lot of fun for me)
  -Amount of 
 vehicles you could take control of
  -Graphics
  -Nano suit
  Downsides
  -Hacking was a bit of a problem in Multi-player i still found it very enjoyable. 
  -Lack of gameplay 
 types, in multiplayer there was only power struggle and instant action, a lot more could have been 
 done
  -How quickly the nano suit enhancements wore off
  -Amount of computer space the game used up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Above all, Crysis is beautiful. It has the most realistic graphics I've ever seen in a video game, 
 and it uses them to great effect. In how many games did you stop simply to enjoy the sunset? In 
 Crysis, you will. The physics, too, are well-executed: everything blows up and caves in most convincingly, 
 and you can interact with (read: destroy) most of the environment. Sadly, this doesn't extend to 
 enemies, at least as far as humans are concerned: bullets make no holes in their bodies, explosions 
 don't blow them to pieces, powerful blows don't break their bones  they simply drop dead, looking 
 like they died from a heart attack. This is a major drawback, but one I can live with, considering 
 the overall quality of the game. Another good thing regarding realism is that Crysis is the only 
 first-person shooter I've played that makes you feel like you actually have a body, instead of 
 just a gun and a pair of eyes: when you look down, you see your feet, when you are driving a vehicle, 
 you see your hands on the wheel, when you pick something up, you see your arm extend and grab it.
 
  As for the gameplay, it consists of basically killing things and blowing them up, but you can 
 use different approaches, considering the size of the levels and the nearly magical abilities of 
 your nanosuit. Still, I had to spend too much time for my liking hiding in the bushes during the 
 first half of the game, where you are seriously outnumbered. Eventually, things get more exciting 
 as you get to fight alongside other soldiers and even drive tanks and fly a VTOL. Those were the 
 parts I enjoyed the most, because I liked feeling like I was a part of a massive assault, and my 
 actions mattered. The alien ship was beautifully done, but it didn't leave me in awe like the Citadel 
 in Half Life 2. The organic aliens aboard the ship look rather ridiculous, and as for their mechanical 
 brethren, I'm surprised the Wachowski brothers didn't sue the game developers for so blatantly 
 ripping off the design of the squids from the Matrix. A little more imagination here wouldn't have 
 hurt. Still, it's fun to shoot them down and see them explode, and they can be quite a challenge, 
 especially in numbers. The final boss, however, is rather easy to beat, and I was quite surprised 
 by the game's cliffhanger ending. I can only assume it would have taken too much effort to make 
 it any longer. Nevertheless, it was a very satisfying experience that I will definitely return 
 to in the future.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrlMnkyBtt
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. I love this game. I remember playing the first 1st person shooter ever. Catacomb 
 of the abyss. I remember thinking how innovative and amazing the game looked compared to anything 
 I had ever played before. And then wolfenstein 3d came out. It literally blew me away. The midi 
 music was top notch and the secret doors made every level an endless hunt for that last door for 
 all that nazi treasure. Then Doom came out. I nearly crapped myself. The storyline and atmosphere 
 was revoulutionary. And the Duke nukem 3D came out, and the Quake, etc. etc. so on and so forth. 
 
  
  In the end I would reccommend this game to anyone. Is it revolutionary? Maybe in the way that Doom 
 III was, meaning only in its pushing of the envolope in reguards to visual imagery. Its story is 
 a little light, but it makes up for it by the suit that it gives to the player which opens up a 
 few joyful powers such as invisibility and super strength. Good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Above all, Crysis is beautiful. It has the most realistic graphics I've ever seen in a video game, 
 and it uses them to great effect. In how many games did you stop simply to enjoy the sunset? In 
 Crysis, you will. The physics, too, are well-executed: everything blows up and caves in most convincingly, 
 and you can interact with (read: destroy) most of the environment. Sadly, this doesn't extend to 
 enemies, at least as far as humans are concerned: bullets make no holes in their bodies, explosions 
 don't blow them to pieces, powerful blows don't break their bones  they simply drop dead, looking 
 like they died from a heart attack. This is a major drawback, but one I can live with, considering 
 the overall quality of the game. Another good thing regarding realism is that Crysis is the only 
 first-person shooter I've played that makes you feel like you actually have a body, instead of 
 just a gun and a pair of eyes: when you look down, you see your feet, when you are driving a vehicle, 
 you see your hands on the wheel, when you pick something up, you see your arm extend and grab it.
 
  As for the gameplay, it consists of basically killing things and blowing them up, but you can 
 use different approaches, considering the size of the levels and the nearly magical abilities of 
 your nanosuit. Still, I had to spend too much time for my liking hiding in the bushes during the 
 first half of the game, where you are seriously outnumbered. Eventually, things get more exciting 
 as you get to fight alongside other soldiers and even drive tanks and fly a VTOL. Those were the 
 parts I enjoyed the most, because I liked feeling like I was a part of a massive assault, and my 
 actions mattered. The alien ship was beautifully done, but it didn't leave me in awe like the Citadel 
 in Half Life 2. The organic aliens aboard the ship look rather ridiculous, and as for their mechanical 
 brethren, I'm surprised the Wachowski brothers didn't sue the game developers for so blatantly 
 ripping off the design of the squids from the Matrix. A little more imagination here wouldn't have 
 hurt. Still, it's fun to shoot them down and see them explode, and they can be quite a challenge, 
 especially in numbers. The final boss, however, is rather easy to beat, and I was quite surprised 
 by the game's cliffhanger ending. I can only assume it would have taken too much effort to make 
 it any longer. Nevertheless, it was a very satisfying experience that I will definitely return 
 to in the future.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiiaan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  First of the visuals are the best around. It has a very authentic feel, even indoors without overdoing 
 it. Many other games use excessive bloom, blurring and some even end up looking plastic with all 
 that shininess but Crysis is as real as games can get. First time i couldn't play this game at 
 max, so i used a mixed low/medium settings and it still looked brilliant.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much non linear until the later part of the game. The levels are pretty 
 much the same sandbox style of Farcry. You have a choice on what path you want to take and how 
 you get about doing it, that's where the nano suit comes in. With the nano suit you can increase 
 your armor, speed, strength and also cloak yourself. At first i thought the nano suit is a gimmick 
 but after playing the demo it proved it was an integral part of the gameplay. The weapons also 
 have real time customization, you need to acquire the parts like laser sight, assault scope etc 
 by picking up weapons from the Koreans which have these attached.
  
  Also unlike Farcry there is some diversity in Crysis with the environment. At first you start off 
 in the tropical island setting then end up in a alien ship to an arctic like island and finally 
 a navy ship.
  
  The AI is average, not much improvement from Farcry but still pretty tough even on normal. Things 
 are sometimes spiced up by including enemies with suits similar to your own. The first time they 
 appeared and surprise you, you're forced into a difficult close-combat battle.
  
  The games length is just about right on FPS standards. Voice acting is perfect and the storyline 
 is not so great but isn't the worst either. The cut scenes are from first person perspective and 
 are executed perfectly. There seems to be a lot of Matrix and Independence Day influence in the 
 art direction too.
  
  If you have a high end PC or even mid range, i highly recommend this game. It's all that it was 
 hyped up to be and one of the best games i've played in recent years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerkane246
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  For Starters I have a PC that can run this baby at 50 fps. It is the most gorgeous game I have 
 ever seen. Everything is destructible and you can choose your own path into a fight. The cryengine 
 2 is the most sophisticated engine I have ever seen and the physics are amazing as well. Not only 
 does this game break records technically but in game play as well. I mean what other game gives 
 you the ability to sneak behind a guy, hurl him 50 feet into a house, then you can throw pieces 
 of that house at enemies. You can pretty much do anything you want in this game. Fly, skydive, 
 swim, run really fast, jump 20 ft in the air, cloak yourself, weapon customization on the fly, 
 and throwing animals. This game is absolutely insane! If your PC can take this I highly suggest 
 getting it. It would be the best game you have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  
  How many of us have craved to play or even see this game running on his computer? 
  Crysis is here and ready to let you feast on the beauty of its unprecedented graphics. However, 
 does it live up to the promise of a great FPS experience, or did it fell flat right in the middle?
 
  Crysis is a beautiful game from a technical perspective. It offers the most advanced graphics 
 that no game has matched up to date. Using Cryengine 2, Crysis makes the most of all the latest 
 eye candy aspects offered by this new generation of PC graphics cards, including DX10. Everything 
 from Textures to Shaders and particle details look photorealistic enough to make you confuse the 
 game with a movie on your favorite TV-channel . Seriously, this game blows in the graphics department. 
 However, all this comes at somewhat a high price of having a beast of a machine in order to be 
 able to play it with most eye candy stuff activated. Actually, Crysis is an extremely demanding 
 game on our systems that even the most powerful machine will experience some stuttering or lag 
 at several instances. Nonetheless, the game scales up well on different gpus and can still look 
 great on medium setting on a med-end machine. 
  
  As much as I loved the graphics in Crysis, I was disappointed with the game play. There's nothing 
 wrong with it, for sure, but it somehow fails to keep up with the other superior aspects of the 
 game. I personally felt like playing yet another ordinary FPS, not that it's a bad thing, but I 
 was kind of hoping for more. Sure, you have a bunch of weapons to choose from, a nanosuit with 
 different abilities, but I think that all those features have been done before and don't necessarily 
 add much to the game or make it original. Moreover, I hated the Alien portions of the game, especially 
 "THE CORE" mission where you had to blast your way through a ship full of Aliens with Zero gravity. 
 Other people may love these kind of settings/missions, but I just didn't. Nevertheless, Crysis 
 managed to set a single player experience full of diversity, which makes the game feel fresh with 
 multiple kinds of levels and things to do (avoiding spoilers) . The Nanosuit abilities are also 
 fun to use and the weapons are well balanced but unfortunately less varied even with the ability 
 to attach different gadgets like scopes, grenade launcher, silencer and various types of bullets. 
 The enemy AI is a bit lacking as most enemies would do stupid stuff sometimes, like standing around 
 while you're shooting at them, or turn into circles when you use some of the Nano-suit abilities 
 like "clock". The multiplayer in Crysis is good and has some nice modes and while it doesn't match 
 the multiplayer of say Cod4, it's still a fun ride for some time. 
  
  To the people who might have more interest in the story of the game, Crysis has a good story with 
 some twists that can be enjoyed by most players. However, don't expect anything unusual or Bioshock-like 
 type of story. Crysis doesn't even give away much of its secrets by the end of the game, assuming 
 it would do so along with sequels. 
  All in all, Crysis is a great game with an amazing experience and mind-blowing graphics, but unfortunately, 
 the taxing requirements along with some other issues brings it down from Excellent to a another 
 great game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sergei666
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I ever played!!! Stunning visuals, excellent AI, dense action scenes, 
 and great plot make this amazing game a "must buy" for everybody. Hold on though... wait till you 
 have a PC powerful enough to play this baby smoothly on "very high" settings thoughout the game; 
 trust me, you don't want to spoil the experience. In order to enjoy it really well, you need at 
 least Radeon 4870/Geforce 280 plus e8400 CPU and 2Gb of RAM, anything less that this and you want 
 be able to play without all the features maxed out, especially as the game progresses and becomes 
 more demanding. Crytek deserves an Oscar for this creation, and I can't wait play expansion pack 
 called "Crysis Warhead" as the original game leaves you in suspension with an opened end. Good 
 luck everybody in your monsta blasting and head smashing! :) I'm firing up my PC for the next big 
 thing from game developers across the universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtherT
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  Crysis is one hell of a FPS one of the best ever made which comes with Intense gameplay
  Great story and the pinnacle of game graphics
  
  Storyline: You play with First Lieutenant 
 Jake Dunn codenamed "Nomad" as Crysis Begins A team of American
  archaeologists is taken hostage by the KPA (Korean People's Army) And you are in the Delta Force 
 Grout Deployed to recover
  the archaeologists Now you're going to be air-dropped over a Korean Island now all you think is 
 that all you're going to fight
  are Koreans But an identified attacker attacks your Chute and you free fall into the ocean have 
 no fear You high-tech state of
  the art nano suit can handle a fall I'll stop now for the spoilers.
  
  The Gameplay: The Gameplay 
 is great overall, It's a little bit hard at first, but that might because I was playing it at Normal
 
  Anyway, so one of the unique aspects in this game is the nanosuit that you're equipped with this 
 suit is capable of 4 Modes
  Maximum Armour: protects you from Bullets, attacks etc.... the suit's power bar essentially acts 
 as a second health bat
  Maximum Speed: Gives a boost in speed while sprinting and running normally, But sprinting uses 
 Suit Power
  Maximum Strength:, This isn't as cool as it sounds, it gives maximum strength allowing you to do 
 high jumps, steadier aim, and
  Choke the life out of Koreans haha
  Cloaking: hence the name, give you invisibility, arguably the most used power in the game
  There 
 is also modifications to weapons like installing a laser pointer on a SMG or Shotgun and adjusting 
 scopes putting a Sniper
  Scope on a Machine gun.
  
  Sound: Although there is an inherent lack of music during walking in the forests and the soundtrack 
 is barely heard during Boss Fights
  Only Bullets and Rockets are heard loudly which adds to the game's Adrenaline Punch
  
  Graphics 
 and Visuals: One of the finest, and can easily be called the pinnacle of game graphics, It doesn't 
 get better than this, from PolyBump to Advanced Physics
  Crytek Engine 2 is kickass!, from Destroyable vegetation to an intricate design, as best as it 
 can get
  
  Replay Value: Not much unless you like to play a FPS all over again, But I think Multiplayer will 
 take car of that
  
  Bottom Line: A FPS that would rank as good as Half-Life 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anitrex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  In the era where the PC is vanishing as an gaming platform (due to the sheer preference of game 
 developers for consoles due to piracy of PC games) here comes a saviour!! Just when we thought the 
 PC was no more a match to the consoles as a gaming platform there came a game, a PC exclusive game 
 to be more precise which revolutionized the PC gaming industry.
  
  This game was quoted the best looking and the most technically advanced game in the history of 
 mankind and also most demanding game ever. Infact so demanding that the consoles like PS3 and Xbox360 
 would simply be f**king their ass around trying to figure out how to run this beast. But the PC 
 proved itself by running this game at a level that you couldn't even imagine with the console mainly 
 due to new and upgraded hardware being released continously which is not an option for the consoles 
 !!
  
  And this game is none other then the unrivelled 'Crysis' which rained down storms of Crisis on 
 the consoles!! Games like Crysis remind me why i still own a PC as my main gaming platform. Beleive 
 me if you have a rig that can run this game at maxed out settings then you will simply be addicted 
 to the beautiful graphics and the level design of this game.
  
  To be true the only FirstPersonShooter game out there that is better than crysis in terms of sheer 
 quality is 'Call Of Duty 4'.
  
  So after playing Crysis your expectations will be so raised up that you will not really enjoy playing 
 the average Shooter games which we are used to!! And that can really be a problem. But luckily Crysis 
 is the first instalment of a trilogy with many parallel instalments to be released. The first one 
 of them being the Crysis: Warhead which has aldready been released. The latest Call Of Duty game 
 i. e "Call Of Duty: World At War" will also be released in november of this year.
  
  Its more than obvious that Crysis has raised the standards to a neverbefore seen level if not gameplay 
 wise than atleast from the graphics point of view and promises to continue to do so.
  
  However it is worth taking a note that the gameplay in Crysis is not as involving and action oriented 
 as the gameplay of the latest games in the "Call Of Duty Series".
  
  As far as the bugs are concerned there are a couple of game stopping bugs in Crysis. But these can 
 be overcomed by simply loading the game from a previous checkpoint.
  
  So if you are a graphics freak than i recommend you go for Crysis first but if you are really twitchy 
 about the gameplay part then i really recommend you give first priority to CallOfDuty4.
  
  Still irrespective of the fact that to whom you decide to give the first priority, both the games 
 are defenitely worth a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfire1218197
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  this game is very good 
  
  good graffic 
  =9
  
  The protagonist, callsign Nomad, is also capable of selecting various modes in his military prototype 
 "Nano Muscle Suit." The suit is capable of four modes: armor (absorbing damage) , strength (allowing 
 for stronger melee attacks, higher jumping, steadier aim, and lifting and throwing heavy objects, 
 including enemies) , speed, and cloak (providing minimization of visibility and generated noise) . 
 [13] Due to the ability of constantly regenerating health, the game is completely devoid of first 
 aid kits. All of these actions, however, use rechargeable energy reserves that power the suit; 
 health is recharged most quickly while in armor mode. The suit can be quickly switched between 
 modes using a rapid mouse gesture system, which adds a strong tactical element to combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is so perfect I have nothing bad to say about it.
  I have been playing this masterpiece of a PC game since day one with of course all the maps that 
 other gamers have developed and worked so hard on. Some maps are almost better than the real game 
 its self. I sincerly hope in the near future though another game for the PC will come out. I doubt 
 a game of the magnitude of Crysis will ever happen again though. Crysis is so addictive that one 
 just cannot put it away or move on to something else. To date I have played well over 3000
  different Crysis maps including the original game, on all the difficulty levels available.
  Crysis 
 has been bashed about its heavy hardware demands etc. With some patience it can almost be run on 
 any computer though. The graphics are so stunning its hard to belive one is not really in the game 
 its self or a cocanut might fall out of your monitor and damage your PC. A few sound issues are 
 here and there but none to take Crysis off of the best ever game for PC's list.
  The developers have out done themselves with the original game. All the gamers out there that developed 
 their own maps for Crysis and submmited them to be played by others, should also be very proud of 
 them selves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeslicehass
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Putting it simply, this game is amazing. It brings a sense of realism to the table that seems to 
 be forgotten in FPS's these days but also keeps the player intrigued with a sense of sci-fi fantasy... much 
 like what Halo accomplished. If your CPU can handle the immense power of this great game you have 
 to try it! The nano suit technology is a simple innovation that makes sense as well and makes you 
 wonder, "Why didn't I think of that?" The environments and settings are top notch and really make 
 you feel as though you're on an island in the pacific. The level of interaction within the environment 
 keeps this attention to detail. The AI are very smart and will react to and problem solve your 
 actions very intuitively. To anyone that has ever liked playing an FPS and has a powerful up to 
 date CPU must try this game. You won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorty_wTF
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a science fiction first-person shooter computer game developed by German video game developer 
 Crytek and published by Electronic Arts, and is the first game of a planned trilogy. [4] It was 
 released on November 13, 2007 in North America, November 15 in Australia, November 16 in Europe 
 and November 23 in New Zealand. Well-received by critics, early NPD figures for the US market were 
 taken as a sign that the game had flopped; [5] however, EA has recently reported being happy with 
 sales, reporting that the game has sold over 1.5 million copies world-wide. [6]
  
  Crysis is based in a fictional future where an ancient alien spacecraft has been discovered beneath 
 the Earth on an island near the coast of Korea. [7] The single-player campaign has the player assume 
 the role of United States Delta Force operator Jake Dunn, referred to in-game by his call sign, 
 Nomad. Nomad is armed with various futuristic weapons and equipment, most notably a "Nano Muscle 
 Suit" which, according to Crytek senior game designer Bernd Diemer, was inspired by the United 
 States' Future Force Warrior 2020 program. [8] and other projects relating from the Natick Soldier 
 Systems Center. In Crysis, the player fights both North Korean and extraterrestrial enemies, in 
 four different locations: a tropical island jungle, inside an "Ice Sphere" (consisting of the same 
 jungle, but frozen) , the alien ship itself (with a zero-gravity area) and a United States Navy 
 aircraft carrier. Crysis uses Microsoft's new API, Direct3D 10 (DirectX 10) for graphics rendering, 
 and includes the same editor that was used by Crytek to create the game. [9]
  
  A standalone expansion pack, titled Crysis Warhead, was announced on June 5, 2008. [10] [11]
  
 
  The game is set to release on Steam September 17, 2008 in North America and September 18 worldwide.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Multiplayer: 9
  Storyline: 8
  Impression: 10
  
  Score: 9.5 (9.5 real)
  
  When i saw the first pictures of Crysis, it 
 was mind-blowing. The comparison shots between real-life photos and game pics were uncanny. Along 
 with the boasted 'technologies' behind the game, including improved performance under DX10, physics 
 at a huge scale, weather/climate change and the most sophisticated AI ever in a sandbox environment 
 - it wasn't difficult to capture any gamer's attention. Enough about yesterday's news and let's 
 concentrate on 'now' - the game is out, i have a high-end PC - did it live up to my expectations? 
 A short answer would be Yes, but there was a lot of deliberation behind that.
  
  Crysis takes place in the future, 2020, in a time of tension between USA and North Korea. You, 
 'Nomad', is among several elite soldiers equipped with nano-suit technology. This American team 
 is sent to a remote tropical island for the retrieval of American archaeologists excavating there. 
 It turns out that North Koreans have occupied much of the island and are intent on harnessing the 
 island's uncovered technologies for military strength. Within moments of deployment from a jump 
 jet, it becomes clear that there is a greater enemy than North Korea out there.
  
  One major thing about Crysis when it comes to gameplay is that it is heavily linked to the performance 
 of your machine. Taking the graphical fidelity and immersive environments out by lowering the settings 
 is like trying to type up an epic essay with the letters 'o, w, s' missing from the keyboard. The 
 game becomes that much more an experience as the sandbox environments draw you, the gamer, into 
 its world when it feels so believable - in a Hollywood way. Graphically, this game has a hunger 
 for raw power as it brings my Q6600 + 8800GTX to its knees - why it does so is easily explained 
 away by the gorgeous pictures it produces. And this is only in DX9 mode with tweaked settings - 
 DX10, a feature of the Vista operating system on higher settings would look another league better, 
 if only if it ran a playable framerate. Grass, leaves, dust is blown about by the wind. Each individual 
 leaf casts a soft shadow created by an actual sun and the people are modelled to an extreme that 
 could haunt you the moment you see their faces close up. This is not to say that this game is only 
 fun to play because it looks and feels 'so good', but it is pretty much half the story.
  
  The game is sandbox, meaning that anything goes in how you want to play the game. Your experience 
 through the game is never exactly the same after playthrough after playthrough - it is something 
 people describe as emergent gameplay. The nano-suit that is made available immediately gives you 
 the choice of strengthening your armour, boosting your physical strength, boosting your speed or 
 even cloaking yourself. And those are your choices - boosting your strength allows you to jump 
 to higher places, punch/throw objects/enemies harder/further. Speed past guards or run away from 
 them if you want to avoid unnecessary effort (or saving bullets) . Sneak past defences whilst being 
 invisible etc. The destructible environment itself can be used as weapons such as punching down 
 walls, throwing large objects or using it as cover - in a way, the game becomes as much fun as 
 you'd like to make it. Do want to conserve ammo and just use a large trash bin as a weapon? You 
 can. Want to kill the enemies by just grabbing and throwing them? You can. You can use the vehicles 
 to run people over or use its mounted gun. The vehicles do feel a little buggy at times though 
 because there are times when there are unexplained unresponsiveness. Vehicles and large machines 
 are particular highlights of the game and that also complements the weapons that are made available. 
 There are many vehicles in the game and are very fun to drive, particularly when the game lends 
 itself to opportunity. You can customise your weapon, such as silencers, scope, type of ammo, flashlight/grenade 
 launcher etc. It offers so much variety that actually impacts the gameplay. Using silencers is 
 particularly useful for disguising your exact location but sacrifices the damage inflicted - and 
 is something i almost always used because it suited my styIe of play.
  
  The audio fidelity in this game parallels the visual department. Just as the game is a visual treat, 
 the immersive audio in particular beats out as good as your sound system has to offer. Cranking 
 up the volume, people in the house would think you were watching an epic war movie as explosions, 
 gunfire are realistically emulated in a action-movie fashion. The complementary soundtrack is just 
 perfect; never sounding 'too recognisable' to alienate the mood, but rather complements the action/mood 
 in your surroundings in an almost-subconscious way. By the end of the game, you'd be hard-pressed 
 to single out a single soundtrack of the game, but you'd know it was there exaggerating the peaceness 
 of your surroundings or cranking up the tension in the appropriate situations. An audio-fright 
 experience i had was when my 360 pad rumbled/rattled my pc case - unknowingly, i was thinking my 
 PC was going to 'die out'. I had wanted to experience the rumble action from the joypad but the 
 awkwardness of the button configurations (and aiming) forced me stay with keyboard/mouse.
  
  There are certain criticisms i have to make as someone who's played a huge variety of games. 
 While Crysis goes above and beyond as a FPS by creating an amazingly sophosticated sandbox environment, 
 it underutilises some of the advantages of sandboxing. Crytek played the emergent-gameplay card 
 but considering what Grand Theft Auto San Andreas (a sandbox PS2 game) accomplished in both depth 
 and variety, Crysis seems lacking, at least in sandbox-terms. It feels as if Crysis was inhibited 
 by its shooter genre (and striving for the best visuals) and need to tell an engaging, but ultimately 
 linear and predictable plot. While these criticisms mar an excellent game, they are borne out of 
 my expectations from the technologies behind the game. For a first person shooter, this sandbox 
 element is thus far unparalleled.
  
  One big 'however' factor that comes into play is the community aspect. With the sandbox editor 
 being flexible and easily accessible, it offers incredible user-generated content and is something 
 not to be sniffed at. Along with mods and all-sorts of 'jazz' you can easily find something entertaining 
 once the campaign is over. Even if the game does not feature ragdolls or explicit gore, i think 
 there is something out there to change it even if Crytek condones it. And then there is the online 
 multiplayer - while it can be entertaining, the lack of players in a huge map ultimately means 
 encounters aren't as often as you'd like. 'Power Struggle' as it is called, is about trying to 
 destroy the enemie's base of which is best done by acquiring nukes. It has its own plus points 
 being that it's unique, you get to use your suit powers and it looks very nice. But the multiplayer 
 just simply pales in comparison to what else is on offer, like Counter Strike, Battlefield, or 
 Call Of Duty 4. Simply put, the multiplayer is not something you'd buy Crysis for, but for its 
 touted 'ultimate single player experience'.
  
  In the end, this is definitely a game to get once you have a very decent machine (up to date gaming 
 rig) . I wouldn't recommend it to people who don't have very capable machines as it is an experience 
 that can be spoiled even if it is playable on older machines (due to good scalability of the game) 
 and thus, Crysis is a game to be enjoyed later but shouldn't be a sole reason for a PC upgrade 
 or a complete new build. There is a slight bitter taste for the aftermath because it uses a clas-sic 
 cliche for the sequel to Crysis. That bitterness though is overwhelmed by the sweet sensation that 
 is the taste of adrenaline-fuelled action that just FEELS epic. And maybe if you don't have a capable 
 machine, just wait, wait till the second game of the trilogy to come out. Maybe then, playing it 
 though from 1 to 2 in a more capable rig will be that much better an experience than if you played 
 the games separately.
  
  The Good:
  -graphics 
  -gameplay
  -kill aliens
  -nanosuit
  
  The Bad:
  -few minor bugs which can be solved by patches
  -the plot is similar 
 to Far Cry
  -it needs a lot (RAM, Processor etc.) to be run properly
  -for the best video qualities, better use at least a 256 MB video memory card. Recommended a 512 
 MB.
  -sometimes, it seems that you need 10 shots to kill a normal Korean soldier (without nanosuit) .
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhearted
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  The hype surrounding Crysis leads those who have not truly experienced it first hand to some unfortunate 
 conclusions. First and foremost, that Crysis is primarily a technical showpiece, developed and 
 released to show off the insanity of Crytek's CryENGINE 2. And second, that Crysis is more of the 
 former and less of an enjoyable game, as the story is a shallow rehashing of sci-fi cliches and 
 the gameplay is no more than an average, bare-bones FPS with some gimmicks thrown in to divert 
 players' attention from that.
  
  Take it from me; both are dead wrong.
  
  Let's start with the obvious. The CryENGINE 2 is the most technically advanced game engine in existence 
 today. No non-Crytek game even comes close to matching the realism of the visuals, effects, and 
 physics generated in real time. Water seamlessly laps onto the island shores with photorealistic 
 reflections and ripples. Gunfights kick dust up all around you, rock foliage, and cut down trees. 
 Explosions throw massive flames and smoking wreckage in all directions with no indications that 
 you aren't watching footage of a real war. The setting sun casts incredible shadows of you and 
 all objects around you as the rays form surreal beams of light casting through trees. Make no mistake, 
 Crysis is an absolutely gorgeous world to be absorbed in. The mind-blowing audio and visual experience 
 truly encompasses the goal of the first person shooter: to cast you, the player, in the shoes of 
 the protagonist and give the sensation that you are the one navigating the world and battling enemies.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the intensity of the graphics doesn't come without a hitch. Crysis is easily the 
 most technically demanding game to date. I was fortunate enough to play it on beastly rig headed 
 with dual NVIDIA GeForce 9800 GX2's so I was able to crank everything up to 'very high' and play 
 at my monitor's native resolution and still maintain a consistent 60 fps, but I'm sure I'm one 
 of very few who had the money (or motivation) to drop on a rig like that. But it must be said that 
 the graphics do much more than provide eye candy. Playing at max on DX10 produces an environment 
 so captivating you can't help but be sucked in, as no game has ever felt so real.
  
  Story-wise, Crysis seems far too often sold short by critics. From an overall perspective, it's 
 nothing intuitive. A US Special Ops team, code named Raptor, is sent on a mission to a Pacific 
 island where North Korean KPA troops have seized control of a major archeological dig site. Your 
 team is given little to info on why both the US and North Korea are so interested in it, nor are 
 you told what was discovered at the site. I'll spare the spoilers, but to summarize, it's no epic 
 novel. However, what really made the storyline so impressive was the way it was presented. Early 
 on, during the sandbox portion, you get a steady stream of objectives en route to securing the 
 dig site and the hostages held there, but one you reach the site and uncover what's been going 
 on, the game becomes an incredible thrill on par with big-budget Hollywood blockbusters, despite 
 becoming a more linear campaign experience. The solo escape through the mines had me glued to my 
 computer for hours, soaking in the dreamlike environment, craving to know what would come next. 
 It flew right into some of the most intense and unique sequences ever seen in a so-called "typical" 
 FPS.
  
  The gameplay in Crysis is absolutely unmatched. If you've ever played Far Cry, Crytek's only release 
 prior to Crysis, you know they're no strangers to massive sandbox-style shooters. Crysis is no 
 exception. The island the game takes place on is massive and a player can easily spend countless 
 addition hours exploring, gunning down KPA, and finding new weaponry. The nanosuit abilities only 
 make it better. With strength, speed, armor, and cloaking to choose from, the possible approaches 
 to every scenario are endless, so much so that a player can really make or break how much fun they 
 have. Charge in Halo style and try to force your way through gets old and will be very difficult. 
 However, experiment with stealth and the superhuman combat abilities you're equipped with and suddenly 
 you'll find a whole plethora of badass new styles of play.
  
  I could go on and on about the mastery of this game but I'll spare you all my mindless ranting. 
 I was a console kid from the time I was old enough to hold an NES controller right up until I bought 
 my PS3 less than a year ago. However, Crysis is proof that no console will ever be able to touch 
 the possibilities of PC gaming. After decades of consoles I splurged for a huge gaming rig and 
 I can say that Crysis was good enough to get me into an entirely new realm of gaming. 
  
  So please, if you're a PC gamer or a shooter enthusiast, you owe it to yourself to play Crysis. 
 No title has ever reached a level of immersion or innovation that Crytek has with Crysis, and it's 
 far from likely that any other developer will reach that level anytime soon, since Crytek is only 
 improving with Warhead and the coming Crysis sequels. From start to finish, Crysis is an endless 
 gateway to hours upon hours of some of the best FPS gameplay you'll ever experience.
  
  PS: Source Engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Yes the game takes a lot of resources but you do not need an uber PC to enjoy this game. The graphics 
 are spectacular and so are the gunfights. You really need to enjoy sandbox game play to get into 
 this game, if you need a game to tell you what to do next then Crysis might not be for you. You 
 choose what to do and where to go next. I pre ordered this game and have pre ordered Crysis Warhead 
 coming out soon. These games are a PC gamers mecca and should be in every true PC gamers library 
 of games. These game separate PC gamers from console gamers and good PC's from Awesome PC's. Don't 
 get me wrong I love playing consoles also but I will forever be a PC gamer till the end. If you 
 want to see if your PC will stand up to the test of being good or great play these games and you 
 will know the true answer. The game plays smooth and crisp and I hear rumors that Crysis Warhead 
 will play even better which has the PC gaming world waiting in anticipation. 
  
  Good luck and good playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biokrysty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  This game rocks ... I like very much that you can break almost anything and the physics are so 
 realistic , cool weapons... I like the sniper rifle very much because of his strength and precision. 
 Crysis is almost a perfect game and maybe this is the weak point of it that is too realistic but 
 i like it and I play it over and over again.
  The end of the game was nice but showed us that they will make a sequel for it and they did so. 
 Psycho I can' wait to kill a lot of 
 
  
  .................... crysys forever.......................
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullking224
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 13, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I think it just depends on what kind of a person you are
  Like a bragger will like is game just to piss off his friends 
  first of all I can't even imagine 
 why their bragging in the first 
  place this is one horrible game 
  
  
  First the graphics. they made the game but also destroys your graphic card 
  There the best I've 
 ever seen so far in gaming. But impossible to run had to over
  Clock like crazy just around 34 frames run able.
  Crytect is far ahead by making the best graphics 
 but not stories or game play
  The thing is the game doesn't live up to it. yeah graphics are great but they just pleased the 
 eyes
  Not the gamer. eye candy covers the sad truth
  
  My rating 7 out of 10 (for the graphics)
  
  
  
  The physics aren't really physics for this 
 game. horrible rag doll effects
  Yeah you can destroy buildings and watch it fall apart put that's not physics you need other things 
 just beside shooting trees and destroying buildings.
  5 out of 10
  
  The story 2 out of 10
  The story made me cry it was so sad to see a beautiful game fall because 
 of it's story
  And it didn't really have one its just not compelling the stories is what gamer wants not eye candy 
 
  This is one of those games you say I can't believe their making a another one
  One of the things I hated was the AI was maybe a bug that didn't fixed (there's a lot more bugs) 
 
  But any way they can see you form miles away and the helicopter comes form no where
  Takes like 20 bullets to kill some one once you kill them you die because another guy come out 
 of the bushes and kills you
  Only ten freaking hours to beat it WHAT. the ending was miserable 
  It's not even worth 59.99 
 more like 15.99
  Left me disappointed I was expecting a lot more but ended up with a lot less
  Just like I said 
 in the beginning its all eye candy 
  Leaving the gamer disappointed
  
  
  Game play 1 out of 10
  Best shooter my A$$ worst game in the world 
  It takes a round of bullets 
 to kill some one in the game
  I shot a man in the head and he did not die 
  don't even start with me people don't wear body armor on their faces
  
  Story was pathetic 
 never again will I ever look at crytect 
  
  AI sucked see you any where
  
  If your playing the demo and say o this maybe be awesome 
  Think again I returned this right 
 after I had beaten it 
  the demo is the best way to go its free and not 59.99 for the same pace of crap
  
  If you get 
 it just to brag you've wasted 59.99 just to brag I can not believe some one would buy this just 
 to brag about it 
  
  Do not get this game truest me if you do then your stupidity was in action 
  1 out of 10
  
 
  Over all It had some (when I mean some I mean very little moments) that where really good
  Rest of it was so much garbage if you put this on your list to get items you may want to consider
 
  To get some thing else
  One thing that would have made this better was no aliens 
  The bad the story was absolute crap the graphic where good maybe to good
  Ai sucks see you any 
 where
  
  And Crytect didn't come up with they own ideas 
  If it wasn't for crackdown (xbox360) Crysis wouldn't even be here
  The agility suit look exactly 
 the same form crackdown guess what you do the same thing 
  In crackdown super jump super speed armor has exactly all the same items
  You guys can say no 
 it coped Crysis well look here
  If you play it you would see they every similar in many ways
  
  
  
  http:// 0000 www. gamespot. com/xbox360/0000 
 
  
  Crackdown Feb 22, 2007
  
  
  Crysis Nov 13, 2007 
  
  All most a year after words
  
  Crysis coped crackdown now before 
 accusing me of being a fan boy I own a 360 and a pc
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashmanalum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  When I got my hands on Crysis I was expecting a game that would change my mind, like Bioshock, 
 but that's not what really happened.
  
  Don't get me wrong, Crysis is a great looking game, packed with a lot of action, well implemented 
 features like the nanosuit and a bit of strategy on how to use those features. 
  
  The only difference I noticed from other FPSs while playing is the strategy on how to use de abilities 
 of the nanosuit for each situation or gaming style. If you're a Rambo-like player put either armor 
 mode or strength mode and go straight to the enemy base like a WMD. Or you could use a more stealthy 
 approach and use cloak mode to become invisible and take your enemies out one by one.
  
  The graphics are indeed stunning as everyone says but for me it has a great downsize: even top 
 notch machines will have a hard time running it. IMHO it's unnecessary to make a game so hard on 
 your machine just to say "Our game has the best graphics (so far) " =P. 
  
  Also the history is quite common, nothing our good friend Dr. Gordon Freeman didn't show us already, 
 but characters like Prophet and Psycho are quite charismatic.
  
  Overall, Crysis is a cool FPS not like many others on the market (that's why I gave him a 8,5) 
 but it's not a mind blowing or anything else, it's only REALLY good to look at, if you have a great 
 machine that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobster2142
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  SO this game is a very good game but you have to have a good computer to run this game . The gameplay 
 , the story and the graphics are amazing . Graphics are breathtaking and the gameplay is very fun 
 because of the destructible environment and other features . The story is amazing but i saw better 
 ... Call of Duty 4 for instance . The AI in the game is an inteligent one ( not like in mercenaries 
 2 ) , they take cover and do alot of things ( depending on the dificulty u chose ) . Ea and CRYTEK 
 did a good job making this game . About the graphics u need a 8800 GT to run at very high anti 
 aliasing x0 and 1024x800 resolution witch cost 160 $ . For better graphics you need video cards 
 like nvidia x280 witch cost alot more = ( But if u have it , the grapcis will be ... like in the 
 real world ( or almost ) . I liked alot this game and recommend it because it is a very good one 
 ! I am waiting for Warhead now and I hope it will be as good as the first one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alarausibun
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  a great sf shooter, almost perfect! desapite the huge resources it consumes its graphics is revoutionary, the 
 sound is impecable and the magic suit ideea is outstanding, after hours of playin` i finally managed 
 to combine the suit's power in order to obtain thrillin` action and perfect cower! for example: i 
 saw two soldiers, one of them facing me... try this out: cloack engaged grab the first by his throat, throw 
 him over the edge, put a grenade at the other's feet the full speed! :D i love hit them behind, they 
 don't even know what hit'em! anyway i love this game, mostly when you throw rocks, washing machines, dumpsters, ammo 
 boxes or everything that could be thrown, at them... bowling effect! :D hoo-rah people! buy it, start 
 playin` and then come to me, i'll show ya some tricks! mwa-ha-ha-ha!
  i can't wait to see crysis warhead, that psycho dude is just.... psycho! :D :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hkshinfug
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I'll admit it. I got hyped up over this game when I saw Gamespot's 9.5 rating of the game. 
 It had universally good reviews, and I saw it as the next big FPS to get excited about. So I did, 
 but perhaps too much.
  
  Like many modern games turned sour, this game, at its core, has a good foundation and creative 
 ideas. I'll always love any hero in a power suit (from Megaman to Freeman) , and this game is no 
 exception. Although a bit shallow in character, our hero Nomad is equipped with a unique power 
 suit that not only boosts his base abilities, but features customizable powers that lets you pick 
 an choose which style of gameplay you want to progress through the game as, which was one of the 
 game's biggest highlights for me. You can choose between extra armor for the Counter-Strike method, 
 extra strength if you want to go bowling with the Koreans (not in the traditional way) , invisibility 
 if you're a fan of the stealth genre, and extra speed for the infamous and widely used  
 tactic. It also features a decent array of weapons which are customizable with different scopes, 
 silencers, and a grenade launcher. So we have a good amount of content, but the execution's where 
 they fail to deliver.
  
  The very gameplay of it feels off and makes Nomad seem more of a rookie than a powersuit-endowed 
 veteran, especially during combat. The way the guns are fired makes aiming strange and it can get 
 frustrating very fast. The suit seems a bit underpowered at times, and overpowered at others. At 
 first I assumed this was on purpose to try to force the player to try out different powersuit modes, 
 but this is where I was further letdown. Each individual mode by itself seems like it was underdeveloped 
 and not thought out very well. 
  
  The armor mode by itself seems fine, but you'll quickly realize how difficult the game becomes 
 without it. If you're not constantly in armor mode, you have virtually no defense and are extremely 
 vulnerable against even the weakest weapons. 
  
  This is why the strength mode is so hard to pull off. While you can ambush a group of enemies in 
 strength mode and sling a few of them into a nearby tree, you've already used up more than half 
 of your energy, and you're about to die because you weren't using armor mode. So unless you see 
 a single, lone patrol on the beach waiting to get skipped across the water, it's not practical.
 
  
  The stealth mode was what upset me the most, perhaps because it was what I was most anticipating. 
 While it's expected that invisibility isn't full-proof and you can still be noticed if you move 
 too close near an enemy, the downside is how short a distance you can actually move before it drains 
 your energy. The invisibility mode has a unique draining system where it lasts a good two minutes 
 or so if you're standing still, but you can only move about ten or so meters before you're completely 
 drained, and you find yourself visible in the middle of a group of obscenely racist Koreans with 
 no power for armor mode. Nomad's definitely no Predator, and the only real thing this powersuit 
 mode's good for is if you see a group of Koreans about to walk past you and you want to pretend 
 you're not there.
  
  Speed mode is perhaps the most tolerable mode, but it has the same weakness as the strength mode; 
 you can dash around and cover distances quickly, but you leave your ass wide open, and for how 
 pathetically weak you are without armor mode, this might as well be literally. If that wasn't bad 
 enough, while it doesn't drain energy while you're walking in speed mode, which is about as fast 
 as you can run in default armor mode, it drains your energy completely if you sprint with it in 
 about two or three seconds. This lets you cover about ten or fifteen meters before putting you 
 in a temporary sluggish pace until you recharge your energy reserves. I assume this was designed 
 for the 70% of the game you'll be running away to heal yourself after killing three members of 
 a mob of thirty. And no, before you ask, you cannot dodge bullets and are as easy to hit while 
 running in circles around a group of enemies as you are sitting still in armor mode.
  
  The greatest failure of the different powersuit modes is how they don't transact with each other 
 very well at all, which makes shifting tactics in the middle of battle difficult, if not at times 
 impossible to do. Because of how greatly the speed, strength, and invisibility modes tax your energy 
 reserves, by the time you've actually used any one mode to any useful extent, you'll have insufficient 
 energy to use any other powersuit modes except armor. And because if you get hit one by an attack, 
 your energy recharge halts until you can remain uninjured for about five or more seconds, you're 
 best with sticking with a single mode until you either manage to finish off your targets, or you 
 die.
  
  While this review is already a bit longer than I anticipated, I couldn't submit it without mentioning 
 the terrible physics engine that's out to get you. Yes, you. Crysis is the only game I've played 
 in the twenty-first century where you can survive a barrage of enemy bullets in armor mode, then 
 get killed by getting tapped by a revolving radar dish at the wrong angle. This engine is great 
 for stunning effects which you'll only be able to see if you have the most modern computer, but 
 when it comes to conventional gameplay, it can kill you. That's no metaphor.
  
  In the end, I can't say there wasn't one or two instances in the game where I didn't enjoy the 
 punishment (you read me?) , and I have played it twice to date. If you're looking into the game, 
 the only advice I can give you is to not raise your hopes for an unrealistically great game, because 
 this game isn't. But still, this game leaves its mark in terms of creative customization and a 
 compelling story that leaves you asking questions, and perhaps it's the tingly feeling you get 
 from hurling humans into each other with a force that can shatter every bone in their body that 
 makes this game worth it. I hope you enjoy the game even more than this review, and here's hoping 
 for an even better game in Crysis Warhead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IXIWhistIXI
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Crysis isn't a terrible game, but it's by far anything good.
  
  The most fun you'll get out of this game is playing around on the first leveling discovering what 
 you can do, which can be accomplished in the sandbox mode buried in the game folders.
  
  If you've only played terrible shooters on the PC, I can understand why you'd find this game amazing.
 
  
  I rated this game as hard, not because it's actually HARD, but more of annoying.
  Once you start fighting enemies in crytek knock-off suits, it just gets annoying.
  
  Nothing's 
 more fun than blowing clip after clip into an enemy who just screams and blasts his minigun in 
 your general direction. Oh wait, uninstalling the game is more fun.
  
  The only reason to really buy crysis is because you're fooled by the moron gamers of today who 
 think that graphics are what make games good or because the game engine interests you.
  It's an amazing engine, and what you can do with it is really cool. I'd say instead of buying the 
 game and getting endless levels of boring stuff with a mediocre story line just download the demo... it's 
 the entire first level which is really the best one.
  
  Don't listen to gamespot's review, they're notorious for having reviewers who seem to have no experience 
 in the genre of game they review (or are told to be extra nice with the review because the company 
 mass advertised on the site) If this game were reviewed by somebody who was an avid PC shooter 
 player, it wouldn't get a score like this. I sometimes wonder if the 5 points of the score is the 
 engine and the 4.5 is the game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heinz09
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  So many people waited for this game, so many people upgraded their systems and for what? The game 
 does have fancy physics and looks rather good, but other than that the game is utterly hollow.
 
  
  I expected a follow up to Far Cry, and got so much less. I sure as Hell hope that Far Cry 2 will 
 be more satisfying, as long as it has less hype.
  
  The story line is very unsurprising and takes tips from so many other games, without really improving 
 anything.
  The Alien invasion was hardly an unexpected turn.
  
  For something that is suppose to be Next-Gen it is still old stagnant game play rehashed. It keeps 
 you busy, but that is where it ends.
  
  Graphically the game is superior, if your system can run it. The effects, the water everything 
 is breath taking.
  So this just goes to show you, something might be pretty ,but if the personality fails to keep 
 things interesting the game will ultimately fail.
  
  The sales for Crysis reflects this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is an absolutely superb shooter with stunning graphics, amazing gameplay, and an intense 
 story. The game's only downside is that in order to run it well, let alone run it all you will 
 need an extremely powerful computer.
  
  Crysis requires a computer with a vast amount of hard memory and at least 1.5 GB RAM (Vista) and 
 one or two very good graphics cards to run this bad boy. You would also need a monitor with a high 
 resolution so everything fits and runs nicely. That is the only downside to this game, and if you 
 can run it well then congratulations. Gameplay absolutely rocks because not only is Crysis a terrific 
 shooter but it also completely redefines the genre. You play as Nomad, one of a group of marines 
 who are sent to this little island to locate a research team and get them out. So far the game's 
 story sounds pretty standard, but believe me -- as the game advances you will see that there is 
 something very sinister happening on the island. The one thing that stands out in Crysis' gameplay 
 is the versatile 'nanosuit' which allows you to use special abilities like super speed, super strength, 
 turn invisible, and enhanced armor. Every one of these abilities has some sort of use at some point 
 in the game. Some abilities such as the cloak come in handy in almost every situation, and other 
 abilities you will hardly ever use would be super strength for example. And of course, these abilities 
 can only be used if you have power in your nanosuit which is easily recharged by not using one 
 of the taxing powers (speed, cloak) . Energy is consumed in speed when you sprint because you move 
 extremely fast, and it is again consumed quickly while in cloak mode. Cloaking is a challenging 
 mode because not only does it consume energy quickly while moving, but it also will be automatically 
 disabled when any weapon is used. The enhanced armor mode uses energy in a different way because 
 it acts as armor and when you get hit the energy bar will soak the damage. The strength's only 
 one useful purpose is to allow for very high jumps either onto low buildings or over geographical 
 obstacles. These powers offer numerous routes through a level, and it really depends on how you 
 like to play. If you like to run in and shoot up the place then run behind a wall and turn invisible 
 and wait for the first unlucky sucker you see then so be it; if you want to sneak in quietly and 
 pop off each enemy with a well-placed silenced shot you can do it; or you can always just blast 
 through with super speed and avoid the whole thing, though that route is probably not the best 
 way. The flexibility of dispatching enemies and moving through enemy territory really adds to the 
 game's appeal. Aside from the nanosuit Crysis offers many weapon choices in the forms of shotguns, 
 rocket launchers, sniper rifles, and submachine guns. Though the weapon choices are not really 
 that varied you can tweak your current weapons with a load of features. And it is all done in real-time. 
 You can take your default assault rifle and fit it with a silencer, a sniper scope, a flashlight, 
 a grenade launcher attachment, and even a laser pointer. You can add special features to all of 
 your weapons though they do not all share the same features. And some features have an adverse 
 effect on your cloak because they will give you away. Weapons can be exchanged for dead enemies' 
 weapons and you can harvest any dropped weapons for their ammo if you have the same one in your 
 inventory. And aside from simply using guns there is also a healthy selection of vehicles such 
 as jeeps, pickups, boats, and even helicopters. These vehicles are a nice breather because they 
 are significantly faster than on foot (unless you are using super speed) and some of them have 
 machine gun mounts. Crysis overall is a difficult game and it is tough even on the easiest level. 
 Generally you are all alone in a hostile world and more often than not you will find yourself outnumbered 
 and outgunned, but if you use your abilities wisely you can even the odds. If you take too much 
 damage you can duck behind something solid and your health will regenerate quickly along with your 
 energy, but on later difficulties it is not so quick to refill. And be wary when ducking behind 
 obstacles during a firefight because the AI will often toss a grenade to flush you out. Crysis 
 clocks in at about 12 hours for your first time through and while that figure is not huge you will 
 feel like you have seen a whole lot, and that is not counting the multiplayer. It has absolutely 
 stunning gameplay and if you have a computer that meets (or exceeds) its epic system requirements 
 then you should most definitely pick up Crysis.
  
  Graphics in Crysis are the core reason its specs are so beefy. Huge jungles, foggy swamps, and 
 worlds only seen in one's imagination adorn this game's campaign marquee. Everything in Crysis 
 looks better than Microsoft or Sony could ever hope to achieve on their consoles from the grass 
 to the cutscenes. The shining gem of this game is easily graphics with gameplay a very close second. 
 I must rant on the jungle because during firefights if you happen to shoot past the foliage (which 
 you will) the leaves will jerk and sway according to where the bullet went. It's fun just sitting 
 in a military jeep manning the machine gun and blasting away at the trees and leaves and watching 
 them react. And vehicles are fun to use because not only do they look amazing inside and out, but 
 in the trucks and jeeps their speedometers actually work! It is a small aspect of all of Crysis 
 but I was pleasantly surprised enough to mention it. Ground vehicles can also be used to run over 
 trees (which actually fall over) and plow through thick foliage. And there is a major dearth of 
 wildlife in these jungles you will be too preoccupied with the rest of the game you will not even 
 think about it. Geography in general is very varied with the long beaches, the rolling and dense 
 jungles, and the whole scale of the land in general. Guns look absolutely gorgeous in Crysis and 
 you will be amazed at their realism in both presentation and action. The one gun that stands out 
 in the game is the incredible rocket launcher and the projectiles it fires. The weapon is astounding 
 to say the least. And the attachable accessories such as the laser or the flashlight look great 
 as well. Your nanosuit's powers are identified by the color change in your nanosuit. The only two 
 powers that actually can be seen are cloak and speed, the shield is passive and the strength is 
 rarely used. The game's cut scenes are always done very nicely as it moves along the engrossing 
 story. Each character is rendered to near-reality and they have their own looks and actions. You 
 have the sort of default group of marines like the stoic leader named Prophet and the tough man 
 Psycho (who is featured as the star of the first Crysis expansion pack called Warhead) . Overall 
 graphics in Crysis stand tall as the prettiest gem of this incredible masterpiece.
  
  What would a marine-themed game be without some voice work? Crysis features a lot of very well 
 done voice work for just about every character from the British marine Psycho to the hardened marine 
 stereotype of Colonel Strickland. The skillful work in this aspect moves the story along and it 
 adds to the captivation of the main game. During most of the game you will fight against Korean 
 KPA soldiers and they will speak English shouting "Reloading!" or something like that, but on harder 
 difficulties they will speak Korean so you can't telegraph their tactics. Gun sounds are fun to 
 listen to because they are done so well. The two weapons' sounds you will almost pleasure in hearing 
 most will be the rocket launcher and the powerful gauss rifle. Crysis features the best explosions 
 I have ever seen on a PC game (or console games for that matter) . Sound is tops in Crysis.
  
  Crysis is a simple game for the most part early on with quite a few scrapes and scuffs that 
 can be equalized if you are smart with your nanosuit, but later levels toward the end of the game 
 can be painfully difficult. Enemies tend to kill you faster and easier than before, and sometimes 
 it feels like the nanosuit is not enough to make it through to the end. And quite honestly, at 
 times during some of the later levels I become quite frustrated because I did not know where to 
 go or enemies would kill me too quickly. Harder difficulties should be met with more thoughtful 
 methods of dispatching enemies and infiltrating bases. If you are a casual FPS fan just in it for 
 the ride Crysis may not appeal to you for a second or third time through, but if you are a hardcore 
 shooter fan then Crysis is perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierrot_Lunaire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  I just finished the game. And I couldn't understand whether I'm playing a game or watching a great 
 movie. I think Crysis merged those into one. My brother doesn't like video games but he just sits 
 with me and watches me killing all those monsters. And I'm not sure which one of us gets more excited!!
 
  
  Soundtrack is excellent, voice acting is terrific. And that adrenaline! I can't have more with 
 bungee jumping! Last year I thought much whether to have a PC or PS3. But I think Crysis gave me 
 the answer.
  
  I think Bioshock and Crysis are the milestones for reforming the video game industry into something 
 big, different and innovative. 
  
  I can't wait for the warhead... I'm really curious about what happened to Psycho during all the 
 journey. Maybe Crytek should consider launching another expansion starring Prophet...
  
  Definitely, Crysis will be remembered as one of the biggest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommoz0r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  Well, wow. Thats all i can say. From most reviews people have gathered that running the game is 
 a problem, and alot of people would want to run the game at full capacity for the ultimate experience; 
 So i'm going to base it on the experience. Considering the fact i played the game on all High settings 
 i got a great action-packed first-person adventure, start to finish. I must say the jungle levels 
 do tend to drag on, but the use of dynamic lighting, and also the effects you have on the jungle 
 are outstanding. 
  
  The game has a great weapon system, and the weapons themselves are amazing, different ammo types, 
 and the customizable options and upgrades are second to none. From the click of a button you can 
 do just about anything to your rifle. The graphics (If you have the system to run the game) are 
 simply amazing, as i said the use of lighting, shading, volumetric effects, game effects and the 
 detail on everything from the jungle leaves to the scratch on your hand, everything is filled in 
 just right. Also the gameplay is fantastic, second to none, just about anything is destructible; 
 trees, buildings and vehicles are great to destroy, even better is using an enemy as the object 
 to destroy it with.
  
  So, we've covered graphics and gameplay pretty simply, another thing i will have to mention is 
 the story, it takes a while to get into the depth of it, but once there the game just totally transforms 
 into a struggle for survival (in a good way) not spoiling the story for you i won't say anymore 
 so you'll have to play for yourself. 
  
  A few points do raise slight concern, but i won't slate the game totally. The enemy AI could be 
 better, the odd enemy will stand there occasionally, doing nothing while you pump a round into 
 him or so. Also the amount of bullets it takes to kill an enemy is something that needs to be tweaked 
 a little. 
  
  To wrap this quick review up, i have to say Crysis is a pumped up adrenaline rush, that no major 
 FPS fan should miss, if you can run it, buy it and play it. I have to say you won't be disappointed. 
 A hands down 9.5 for its gameplay, graphics, great story and overall design. A masterpiece.
  
  TPJ McGinnes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koospetoors
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a game from the people who brought you Far Cry: Crytek.
  
  overview:
  The story starts off with you, some plain boring guy going on to some island with uninteresting 
 teammates to save someone, and what he finds out is that there is more to this than just a rescue 
 mission, something big..... something boring, is hiding inside the island... or on it, I don't know.
 
  
  gameplay:
  basically all you do is get from point a to b in any way you want
  
  you get this super suit that has a few nice things like: it gives you a shield
  it makes you 
 stronger and jump higher
  it makes you faster
  it can make you invisible
  
  actually, the suit is nice and helps alot in combat because the weakling you play as can't take 
 much damage. so this feature actually is quite good and useful.
  
  the ai also is good, but only for the human players though, the aliens are just stupid and boring, believe 
 me, its more fun shooting the trees down in this game than killing them. Its just not fun killing 
 them, hopefully warhead won't have any aliens...
  
  you can also modify your weapons, but not much, you also pick stuff up to add to your weapon like 
 a sniper scope attachment, but its mostly a bit of a gimmick. a nice one that is
  
  there are also vehicles, nothing special about them though, you get the normal jeep and tank and 
 you also fly a plane, helicopter thingy in the end. and thats about it.
  
  the game also features multi-player, where both teams has a suit, and its cool, but when I tried to 
 test it with my friends at a lan party I couldn't get it running... not cool, but its good. graphics 
 remain the same, suit powers etc. also there is a mode which name keeps escaping me where two big 
 teams should try and take over each others power core or something like that.
  
  graphics:
  this game has the most beautiful graphics I have ever seen, its just so realistic looking 
 and good, but best graphics needs a good, a really, really good pc, trust me, even some high end pc's 
 will cower in fear when you put the game disc in their dvd drive..
  
  from the lush forests to the snowy wasteland, this game is really a masterpiece.
  
  also there 
 is a level where your inside the alien base, and thanks to the zero gravity and the fact that this 
 craptastic level looks the same the whole way through, I sometimes traverse almost back to where 
 I started because I don't know if I'm going forward or backwards through it.
  
  all in all:
  
  the game is alot of fun, but that fun disappears right when you shoot your first 
 alien and when the aliens come, those nice smart humans disappear.
  
  thats about it, only the graphics are THE BEST, the aliens are boring, the weapons are ok (the nuke 
 launcher is pathetic though) and the suit is also good, but it doesn't save this fps from the bowels 
 of plain-ness
  
  so to sum things up:
  
  this is just another average game
  
  groundbreaking? no
  
  good? maybe
  
  buy it? your choice, if you like this review, I still 
 recommend reading other reviews just so that your completely sure about what your going to purchase!
 
  
  rent it? yes
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnsucks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Playing through this game, I was surprised how well it ran even though I was averaging 10-20fps 
 at most, it was still playable. I felt that there were a lot of extras tacked on to make the game 
 longer. The environments were immersive and very realistic even though I ran on Meds and Highs, 
 and the storyline made me wonder what was to come. Enemy AI was pretty intelligent, knowing when 
 to hide and when to shoot at you. Glitches include falling through things or walking through them, 
 very annoying when you're scrambling for cover and you fall through or get hit even though you're 
 behind a seemingly solid object. I wondered why some of the weapons were so hard to come by, making 
 you stuck with the assault rifle for about 1/2 of the game, though near the end you get to use 
 the better weapons like the minigun and gauss gun. Vehicles were pretty fun to drive except for 
 the VTOL which "handled like a breadbox". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhruv7000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  To start I would like to say that crysis is a must have game for any gamer. It is no ordinary game 
 to say the least. It has stunning visuals realistic audio and amazing game play. It starts when a 
 group of American scientists go to an island along with some archaeologists when the south Koreans 
 take them as hostages. Thats when you are sent to that island to take out the Koreans with your 
 awesome crysis nanosuit. through the middle of the game a mountain starts shaking violently when 
 you are in combat with the Koreans. When you go to explore that mountain you find that it is the 
 hideout of the Korean leader. Unfortunately the mountain starts to crumble and you are stuck in 
 the mountain with the aliens. You have to find a way out of the mountain and then take on those 
 aliens. At last you reach an American ship which plans a nuclear attack on the island which makes 
 the conditions more worse. An alien exosuit followed by another larger alien appears with whom you 
 have to fight. After defeating the latter you making your daring escape from the ship which sinks 
 into the water. I personally felt that the game should have been a bit longer though it is an excellent 
 game for the modern gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry_james_pot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  crysis is one of the best games ever, the graphics are
  amazing and incredibly realistic, great environment 
  where u can destroy almost anything including 
 trees
  and buildings, great physics.
  The story is very interesting which makes the gameplay
  not repeated, the sounds and voice acting 
 is also great.
  
  the only bad thing is the AI, the enemys can see u from
  great distance and when if u get so close to them they
  can`t aim well. also the helicopters, 
 even if it`s dark
  or ur hiding inside a building or inside the jungles or under water, it will see u.
  but that 
 won`t affect the gameplay, it still a great game.
  
  one last thing is the game requirements ,some people get
  worried because they wont be able to 
 run the game at
  max settings. the differences between low, medium, high
  is like every one is a different game , but from high and
  very high is little and not that much.
 
  high settings will be great, even medium is not that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karthik1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Crysis is an amazing game. It has stunning visuals, excellent but short 12 hour game-play, It is 
 a bit too short in my opinion. An experienced, crafty gamer can finish it in 2-3 days. It has insanely 
 high system requirements, the only letdown to an otherwise fantastic game. It has an excellent storyline 
 and the voice acting is not bad at all. But u need a powerful graphics card to run this at high 
 settings, so a 8800GT will be sufficient. The environments are brilliant ranging from dense forests 
 to frozen landscapes. The story and exotic graphics will keep u hooked to your seat your and will 
 never feel that the game-play is repetitive thanks to the interesting storyline. Crysis definitely 
 is the best game of 2007 and it is truely the best first person shooter.
  This is a must play for all gamers. It's graphics is the plus point. The graphics are so realistic!!!!. 
 It's hard to describe it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: codenameaf7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  This will be a quick, but painful review, due to the fact that the game itself was a painful experience 
 for me since I returned the game immediately after about 4 hours of gameplay.
  
  First of all, graphics. The game pays far too much attention to branch falling physics while at 
 its very core, it tries to somewhat become a "superhigh-resolutioned" Far Cry/Halo imitation. Whether 
 you're talking about its setting & environment, the game's vehicle selection or its kill-em-all 
 gameplay with a horrid attempt on some stealth moments, which fail miserably.
  
  To those that complained about some of Far Cry's AI issues, this game takes Artificial Stupidity 
 to a whole new level. The enemies will see you miles away before you even sense their presence. 
 They will still spot you behind vegetation as well as in darkness, even if you can't quite see 
 them.
  
  The sound is still at the Far-Cry level due to the fact that you can't quite surpass Far Cry's 
 amazing 6 channel surround sound experience yet, from vegetation rumbling to the shots being ired 
 somewhere behind you. No comment, since I don't want to connect my 6 channel speaker system to 
 my PC just to say how good it is. Ive heard it at a 2 channel sound experience and it was good. 
 That's enough.
  
  Now onto its main problem. Why did I give it such a low rating? Umm lets see -- vehicles, weapons, 
 power-ups -- everything ripped out from elsewhere. Tanks, extra armor and invisibility straight 
 from Halo. Helicopters, super-run power-up, weapons and enemies slightly polished, but straight 
 from Far Cry. Hardly any variation of gameplay (Far Cry has crazy experiment labs, caves and so 
 on to add some extra worth beyond the jungle's eye-candy) . Don't expect that from Crysis. Eye candy 
 is all you get.
  
  Far Cry was a very well optimized game and was very generous spec-wise. It could run on the crappiest 
 of computers. Hell, it even had 2 Xbox ports which kicked the original's butt, graphics and gameplay-wise 
 with its amazing multiplayer and campaign. The first thing a lot of people like me ask the developers 
 before playing this game -- "Why isn't there a console port of the game, and why is it so spec-demanding?" 
 Simple. This is one of the worst games you can possibly get thanks to its computer-crunching crapola 
 of technology and due to the very fact that it poorly developed and programmed. It's un-optimised 
 and very un-resourceful, which is why I doubt even PS3's supercomputer CPU will ever handle the 
 sloppiness of Crysis, not to mention that Crysis would probably cause Red Rings of Death on anyone 
 with a 360 if a console port would ever be attempted.
  
  So just what is it that makes this game good besides it eye candy? Absolutely nothing you haven't 
 tried before, if you've had your fair share of FPS games, like me. I've played some pretty poor 
 imitations of some amazing games and still rated them generously due to the fact that they attempt 
 something of its own to add some identity. CRYSIS HAS NO IDENTITY of its own, nor does it attempt 
 to add any whatsoever. Now, if there's one great big failure that I will relate back to and say: 
 "Remember how crap that game was?" in about 10-15 years time, I could very well relate to Crysis. 
 I've been there, done that, showed it to my friends to drool over for about 5 minutes and chucked 
 it straight back at the store that sold me it. Before you buy this game, ask the shop if they accept 
 PC games back first and make sure they do. This game is not worth your money or time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  I love playing First Person Shooter's and when I heard about Crysis I couldn't wait to get it and 
 play it. Well I got to admit it was really worth the wait, I don't have or play that many games 
 on the computer but I play Crysis all the time.
  
  This game came out in 2007 and it's got some of the best game play and graphics and an amazing 
 storyline in the game to. Crysis also have a ton of environments' that are destructible in the 
 game but that's not all there's a lot more in the game to.
  
  In Crysis you play as Jake Dunn or as he is better know as Nomad he's in the United States Delta 
 Force Operator. Your first mission will be in North Korea were they is a big surge going on so 
 that's where your going to. And you equipped with an awesome Nano suit built just for you and a 
 select few others to.
  
  In my opinion Crysis is an awesome game for the PC and a must have at that. So if you ain't got 
 it and you like to play and a big fan of PFS than you like this game a lot. Crysis also has a lot 
 of replay value in it because I have play it over and over.
  
  My final score for Crysis is 9.8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ladyperfectmind
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  And pretty is all this game is. 
  The intricate story basically sums up to this: you kill Koreans and then you kill the evil aliens 
 that want to take over the world (mwahahaha anyone?) .
  I have to admit I found the first part of the game quite appealing. Killing some Koreans in very 
 scenic settings... lovely. The aliens however ruined the entire game, bye bye immersive world, so 
 long believable characters and farewell Crysis.
  The aliens look as real as Pamela Anderson's breasts. 
  The final battle is a total let-down! 
 The giant ship/creature packs the power of a super soaker. 
  If it wasn't for all the hype in the media about this 'revolutionary' game I really would have 
 give it a higher mark for the graphics, physics and the Koreans. 
  Crysis promised so much, but delivered so little.
  All in all it is a 'pretty' game if you like 
 jungles and if you don't care what you are shooting at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMaBIOHAZARD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short and sweet; this game has basically revolutionized shooters.
  
  Although a few certain objectives forced you to perform a certain way, every other one (bar the 
 alien missions) was open-ended and purely amazing. 
  
  Now seeing as I can play the game with all the bells and whistles turned to "high" whereas most 
 of the community has to stick with "medium" and "low", the greater part of the PC gaming community 
 can't experience the graphics. That, and the alien missions are my greatest (and only) problems 
 with the game.
  
  Considering that they really weren't that good, we're just going to leave the missions where you 
 only fought aliens out. You were basically forced to platform, and after so many levels of relatively 
 open-ended huge map beautiful jungle bliss, it's just absolutely infuriating that the developers 
 would go so blind all of a sudden.
  
  Moving on, multiplayer is iffy; no team deathmatch (which would've been great!) but at the same 
 time Power Struggle is still really fun, so you can't really call multiplayer a success but in 
 turn you can't call it a failure.
  
  The story is great - the cutscenes tell an intriguing story that, in the style of Aliens and other 
 disaster movies, just keeps getting worse and worse as the alien menace spreads and your team members 
 get picked off one by one. On the first playthrough, I was enthralled..... until I got to that of 
 which I will not speak, the alien levels.
  
  Actually, I just have to confess this: I've never finished the game, even after all this time. 
 The final boss fight is just such a disappointment after such revolutionary gameplay was introduced 
 in the beginning. I was just disgusted and went back to the menu to boot up another playthrough 
 (that's another strongpoint - replayability) .
  
  AMAZING gameplay, DROP-DEAD GORGEOUS graphics, half-decent multiplayer, but a really bad ending 
 to an otherwise perfect game. I really personally like the game and count it as one of the most 
 revolutionary ever.... sort of. Mostly the graphics are the revolutionary part but whatever - you 
 have to agree that it's at least worth checking out, if not only for the ability to super jump 
 off a tall building and use super-strength to punch a helicopter while in mid-air, then shoot its 
 rockets and make it explode and crash on the convoy of jeeps headed towards you, causing pileups 
 and more explosions. Seriously, buy this game now.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrvtChurch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, It looks that damn good. Even on my laptop (Intel Core 2 Duo T8300 2.4GHz|4GB Ram|NVIDIA 
 GeForce 8600M GS 512 MB VRAM|Windows Vista Home Premium 64Bit) it runs well with low effects and 
 High texture quality.
  
  The story is kinda bland and meh, the characters are compareable to eight year-olds on pixie stix, 
 and the enemy AI is retarded, meaning that half the time they will snipe you with a shotgun from 
 2000 yards while you're hiding in a bush with your camo on, and other times wont notice world war 
 3 going on behind them.
  
  The big alien things are a total rip-off of the squidies from The Matrix Trilogy, Seriously, look 
 it up.
  
  But in spite of all that, IT KICKS ASS. Graphics are awesome if not a bit processor intensive. 
 Destroyable environments are OFF THE F*CKING CHAIN! (I actually went into the config files to make 
 my ammo, health, power unlimited and have the AI ignore me, just so I can walk around and make 
 ramshackle huts disappear in giant explosions of several hundred pounds of C4 and Petrol, or motor 
 boats fly 50 feet in the air because I put several barrels of Gasoline, 5 blocks of C4 and a few 
 grenades on it.) And the ability to turn invisible, walk right in front of a North Korean Soldier 
 and shoot him square in the face is borderline orgasmic.
  
  
  In a nutshell, Crysis is AWESOME despite its flaws, and if your PC can run it, and you haven't 
 bought it yet, GET OFF YER ASS AND BUY IT! NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SceaduHyrde
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Crysis, having someone uttering that word itself which many would remember this incredible game.
 
  
  Crysis, Developed by Crytek team using the CryEngine 2 Which is a powerful yet, polished, multi-functional 
 or simply known as the 'Beast' engine of '07 Which, attracts many developers of it's success since 
 Far Cry the game. 
  
  Crysis was released in late 2007 Internationally and stunned many by it's breathtaking graphics 
 along with great gameplay, story line, physics, destructible environments and much, much more.
 
  
  Crysis is a First Person Shooter game where the player assume the role of Jake Dunn, better known 
 as Nomad of the United States Delta Force Operator or simply as US Special Forces equipped with 
 a juicy and classified nano suit technology built just for them and only a couple. Their first 
 mission lands them on North Korea from a distress beacon of some sort telling of a paranormal or 
 simply a very large surge going on in North Korea where they were sent a week later after a distress 
 call.
  
  Not to write a full review or spoilers throughout, I will make it short.
  
  Crysis features not only a breathtaking singleplayer storyline experience but offers a multiplayer 
 option which would keep you busy for quite awhile equipped with a Sandbox Editor, known as a map 
 creator which will keep you even busier.
  
  Despite some very small flaws from such a marvelous game. Overall, should not be missed regardless 
 of any reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmjam4209211
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I should say this game rocks. Great graphics. Excellent game play. It is pretty addicting as my 
 classification says. I took my time playing it. Say I would take a break after a mission and come 
 back to it a day or two later. I like the way you can choose your powers while in the middle of 
 a showdown. I didn't enjoy the last battle much since it took place at night. Well that's maybe 
 because most of the combat before it was during daytime. Another part that got me a bit bored is 
 when I lose gravity and basically have to swim pretty much the whole mission. I did enjoy the idea 
 of being weightless for a bit but then it did get a bit boring.
  
  Anyway I enjoy the game and it's a great addition to your FPS collection. I suggest you do play 
 it. You won't be disappointed.
  
  This review is for single player mode only. I have not played this game online or any type of multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  Crysis is the first shooter in what i'd call a "cinematic shooter" series which could at some stage 
 define it's own subgenre. The game developers clearly had ambition in ample supply for this game.
 
  
  Having just completed it, i'm left with a satisfied feeling, enough was explained and covered so 
 that i'm not feeling empty over the game, and that warm fuzz is there knowing Crysis: Warhead is 
 just around the corner :) From start to end, the game maintained a quality feel to it, with good 
 cutscenes and respectable characterisation. The musical score is appropriate and maintains and 
 exquisit level of momentum and pumps adrenaline into the action, while sometimes also generating 
 a placidity in the quieter moments of the game.
  
  The visuals are of course incredible, make no mistake. You do need a strong DX10 card to enable 
 those "Very High" DX10 mode options, something like a 9600GT or better is a must. The initial optimisation 
 fall-shorts of the engine caused a lot of grief getting any cards to run those modes, but with 
 the second patch, the game is now in a perfectly presentable condition. The game is a serious memory 
 hog, if you're in Vista 1.5Gb of RAM is really only gunna work if you're running the settings at 
 Medium level or lower. For High you will need 2Gb definitely, and for Very High, ideally you should 
 have 3Gb. For video memory you will need 256Mb for Low settings, 386Mb for Medium, 512Mb for high 
 and 640Mb+ for Very High. So the engine is very scalable, however it also has the extreme demands 
 once you go up high. Thankfully, Crysis: Warhead promises to make Very High settings a bit easier 
 for an average gamer's PC to achieve. Also to note is shader performance. Running the game at Very 
 High shader levels is not possible if your card does not support the DX10 API. Also, running it 
 at High will not make anything less than a 7800GT/X1950-Pro give happy framerates.
  
  The game initially received a modicum of flak for it's lake of engine optimisation. Motion blur 
 especially was notable for it's responsibility for major fps drops in-game. With the 1.2 patch, 
 this was thankfully fixed. It should be noted that it's not the fact that the engine is not optimised 
 now, that causes low framerates. It's the fact that on screen with High or better settings, there 
 are hundreds upon hundreds of trees, extremely hi-def textures, amazing shading and very realistic 
 physics. The game is incredibly large, map sizes some of the biggest in any game ever, and the 
 AI is quite complex. A lot often is going on at any one time, this is a lot for any computer to 
 work on. So forgive any framerate shortfalls and/or reduce the game settings to fix this, it's 
 the most demanding game on the market as i write this.
  
  The story is multi-layer (hence the need for a parallel storyline expansion) , reasonably deep and 
 definitely interesting. Although on the odd occasion the game nods respectfully as some of the 
 famous works of sci-fi over the generations (i. e. The Matrix and War of the Worlds to name two) , 
 none of the referances are outrageously vivid, they're subtle and merge well with the game's own 
 unique ideas.
  
  So there we have it, that's pretty much all i have to say about the game now. I give it a 9.0 overall 
 with the following breakdown:
  
  Visuals: 10
  Sound/Music: 9
  Gameplay: 8
  Physics: 10
  Immersion: 9
  Story: 10
  Optimisation: (see subnote *)
  
  So go out, buy 
 this game, it'll work on your computer just don't expect it to run at full settings unless you 
 have a good Dual Core processor, a 70/$120+ recent Graphics card and a good 2Gb RAM :)
  
  
  *Initially was a 6, has now improved to an 8 with patches :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HufflePuff-TLH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  Crysis
  
  ****MAY CONTAIN STORY SPOILERS****
  
  Crysis the big hit game from 2007 and is still to this day the most beautiful FPS ever seen, and 
 with the standalone expansion (Crysis Warhead) comming up soon i realize i haven't done a review 
 for this one so here goes.
  
  - Story / Gameplay
  The story in the game is quite good, the game startes with you been droped of a plain i midair, 
 and as you are making your way down though the air something goes wrong and you crash land on the 
 island where your mission starts, without reviling to much the story unfoldes itself, and you are 
 the man that has to take care for business kill lots and lots for evil human enemies, completing 
 missions, collection weapons and exploring the island. When you start to think at all you will 
 see in this game is the tropic environment, green plamtrees and crystal clear water, hell breaks 
 lose. You realize that they have awoken aliens on the island, after some missions where you face 
 em head to head the break lose from there prison and takes over the island. Everything turns the 
 winter, snow and ice, even the aliens have frost attack, and trust me it can hurt big time to be 
 hit with that. Now it is up to you to hurt down theres monsters and save the island.
  The gameplay is realy nice, it flowes and are well worked out. the ememy AI is great, they run 
 for cover or to the help, move around alot and investergate alot, they are very nicely made. The 
 way you move is allso awesome you have different "stages" maximum armor, strength, speed, and clock, 
 you change "stage" alot and it works out very nice, and make you enjoy the game to the fullest. 
 
  
  - Graphics 
  Wow, the game graphics is just amazing realy, it is very photorealistic, and i have never "at this 
 point" seen anything like it, it requires a monster rig to make it run fluid at high and a desent 
 resolution and with some AA, and very high settings is just totaly in the wild. - The crysis standalone 
 expansion should have a optimized engine, so it will be very exciting to compare the fps from the 
 old to the new. Crysis of course runs in full DX10. I must say this it truely amazing.
  
  - Sounds
  The sounds and music in the game are good to, weapon sounds make the adrenaline run 
 wild, and when you put on a silencer on a gun, it sounds just right. music as in the background 
 and work out just fine aswell. 
  
  - Overall, Score and ending words.
  Solid soild game, truely amazing to look at, makes you feel you are realy there. All i can say 
 is WOW what a game, now i just look forward to Warhead. - 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmaeno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I played this game three times, each time taking 12-15 hours. First I went through it on normal 
 and found it too easy, so I played it through on very hard mode and found it about right. The third 
 time was also on very hard mode but I didn't use guns except vs. aliens and vehicles (this was 
 easier than using guns in some ways oddly) . Overall I'm not totally satisfied with the game's difficulty -- It's 
 just too easy, and it seemed like most the time when I died it was because of weird glitches (like 
 sprinting into a guy and dying instantly, without anyone shooting you. Huh?)
  
  The nanosuit dynamic is excellent and there are many ways to use it's abilities effectively in 
 combat. You can sprint as fast as a car, knock over a couple guys, then 1-shot punch them in the 
 neck while they are getting up. What's not to like?
  
  One of the best aspects of Crysis is it is very re-playable. I've probably put 45-50 hours into 
 the game on single player (I usually don't bother with multiplayer) .
  
  The graphics are amazing and few games come close to the realism in Crysis. Unfortunately, the 
 game looks terrible on medium settings and lower. The difference between high and medium graphic 
 settings is HUGE, so I DO NOT recommend this game unless your system can play it on max or near-max 
 settings. The motion blur looks incredible if your computer can take it, which is my favorite aspect 
 of the graphics.
  
  Probably the biggest problem with Crysis is the physics system. Not many games are worse. For example, 
 I once drove over a corpse and the car flipped over like it weighed 10 pounds. Huh? Usually the 
 bad physics are easy to ignore though.
  
  The storyline is not bad albeit fairly one-dimensional -- it has strong macho-militaristic overtones 
 which annoy some people (including me) . It's nowhere near game ruining, but you'll often say to 
 yourself "Wow, that line was overly dramatic and cheesy." Then you will blow up North Koreans and 
 forget about your petty gripes.
  
  There's really only one thing I'd personally like to see changed beyond the obvious physics and 
 whatnot: I want to see horribly gruesome and unnecessary gore. I mean come on, if you blow up someone 
 with a grenade, they are sure to lose a few limbs, right? I guess that's an issue related to the 
 physics though.
  
  I guess to sum it up: Don't expect Crysis to be an amazing experience unless you can overlook the 
 often dumb script and bad physics, and you MUST have a high-end system to fully enjoy the game. 
 Seriously, the graphics are half the reason why it's enjoyable to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kscott_nine
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  I play mostly SP maps, wanna thank those who took the time making and post their maps for downloading.
 
  
  As to updates. Purchased this game when it first came out. Lot of bugs! Think that those who purchased 
 this game then, paid to become game tester. Three updates are out now, but you pull up console, 
 lotta errors, calls to missing files posted there in RED text. A. I. {i call them Bots) are what 
 really makes the game for mature players. I get a pretty good laugh at a lot of the things they 
 say or the tense in how they say it.
  
  Could be more bloody. There is mod out, but I'm to inept on this box to run it. E. A. games should 
 have borrowed some code from Doom III. Can you run it? I ran it on 2 X 7950GT RAID, but it was 
 bit choppy "lag@!", So, I R&R Motherboard to 780i and upgrade cards to 1 X 9800GX2. Plays pretty 
 good. Going to upgrade to 2 X gx2's see what that does. 18 months from now, they will be outdated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sMeAgOl_VaDeR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Crysis is... as i have said... an instant classic. It combines strategy and action into one amazing 
 game. The graphics make the game all the more intense. If you want to savour the game you better 
 get your computer upgraded to the max because this game is worth every penny you use on upgrading 
 your computer. It barely worked on my computer but i am happy the way it is. The great thing about 
 Crysis is how the way the AI bots interact with the game. Its not like those other games where 
 they would just stand there and start shooting at you. It's the type of game where they actually 
 take cover. The annoying thing is that SOMEHOW they know of your presence even though you are invisible. 
 The Nano-suit makes the game even better. I said strategy at the beginning because you need to 
 plan on how you use your suit. You have 4 powers. Super-strength, super-speed, super armor and 
 invisibility, which is the only power that wares out. The missions are short but filled with action. 
 In the game, you have a variety of weapons. You can pick up weapons from the floor for ammo or 
 you can pick up weapons you don't have. You can also upgrade thee weapons with silencers and flashlights 
 and scopes and many other things... depending on the type of weapon. The variety of vehicles are 
 small, but then again, you don'y use them much in the game. The dissapointing feature of the game 
 is the online multiplayer. The online lags a lot even though your connection is good, and the game 
 only has 2 different online modes, which don't have team deathmatch. Still, you can enjoy the game 
 without the online. If you own a computer you MUST get this game... its worth more than what you 
 pay for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Crysis was spawned from the success of Farcry; it's predecessor FPS that intertwined a catchy B 
 movie plot with hardware intensive graphics that pushed the boundaries of the desktop computer 
 bringing most custom built high end machines to their knees. 
  
  Crysis is a ground breaking graphically intense marvel to incite drooling and awe from hungry fans 
 looking for a worthy successor to the one man army tropical island rampage. Is Crysis worthy? simply 
 put: No. 
  
  Why?
  
  The story is just awful. There is really no fun and humor anymore, all the characters in the game 
 have wooden, unconvincing dialog while trying to act tough and serious. While in the first game, 
 our hero was clad in a Hawaiian shirt and sandals running around killing mutants, in this game 
 the hero is a supersoldier (a la Halo) who's mission is to kill Koreans for the first half of the 
 game, and aliens for the other half. Now mind you these aliens look like direct ripoffs from War 
 of the Worlds... on ice, literally.
  
  Crysis is a game that takes itself too seriously, what will producers come up with to keep the 
 player interested for about 10 hours? The game play is driven by simple elements: You get a team 
 of meat-head supersoliders who seem to have no chain of command and do as they please and radio 
 you for help, so you need to save them by traveling from point A to B and kill things on the way. 
 Occasionally, there are optional objectives such as sneaking in enemy camps and disabling a GPS 
 radar, those objectives can be completely ignored with no penalty.
  
  The hero gets a power suit with different modifiers. These take up power from the suit, which is 
 automatically recharged for example, increased armor protects from bullets, increased speed lets 
 you run faster. Although its fun to use, after a while it becomes more of a chore to use. 
  
  The music and sounds are nothing special to write about. I was hoping for a more fitting sound 
 track, but was left with a cheesy military styled anthem that replayed over and over, sounds reminded 
 me of Battlefield 2142. Again, nothing new.
  
  Ok so what is there really to like about this game?
  If you've got a powerful machine, you'll 
 enjoy the graphics, they are very pretty, take my word for it. Isn't that why everyone bought it 
 in the first place? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlyforthetrnty
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Ever thought of killing a frog with a pistol, and throwing it at an enemy? How about picking up 
 a watermelon, lobbing it at a foe, and watching it burst into pieces while simultaneously stunning 
 the victim? Crysis to be brief, is stunningly realistic. Its graphics are beautiful, its possibilities 
 are endless, and most anything and everything can be used. The AI intelligence isn't lacking in 
 anything, your suit is better than master chief, you have numerous weapons including vehicles, 
 and there is a ton of enemies. The only down side of this game, as you probably already know, is 
 that its a pain on people who's computers aren't new or perfect. It takes a fairly recent graphic 
 card to play, and a whole lot of RAM. But besides its steep requirement, all in all, its how a 
 game should be made. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkReaper123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Now where to start? Ah yes, the graphics and system reqs. I have a: 32-bit Vista SP1/2.13 GHz Dual 
 Core/2GB RAM/500GB Hard Drive/ NVIDIA GeForce 7300 LE with apparently 888MB Memory running DirectX 
 10 that i bought over a year ago for $2000AUD and i ran everything on low and while not gobsmacked 
 by the scenery i was suprised that such very good graphics (even though they were toned down ALOT) 
 could run on my comp so smoothly. In this day and age, if you buy a comp for around the same amount 
 as i spent, you will get a much better experience than i am getting now (but i am saving up for 
 an 8800) . Next, the Asians. For some reason, in Crysis the Asians can kick your ass from over 100km 
 away while you are prone in the forest. Asians are good, but not that good. Their asian screaming 
 and shouting makes them sound really annoying and really, really stupid. They can absorb a hefty 
 amount of rifle fire, (i found myself favouring the single-shot function of the rifle for some 
 time) but thankfully not a shotgun shell. But one thing i must admit is that in this game the smoke 
 grenade actually does its job against NPC's. But then again, even if u were to tone down the asians 
 spot on marksmen skills, u would still be a walking american bullet magnet. As for the vechiles, 
 they are a giant load of sh*t and chips. Their handling is sucks great amount of ass and they have 
 the opposite amount of health to the Warthogs in Halo 1. And as for the jet you have to fly, just, 
 don't get me started. Save for the tress and exploding gas stations, the environment isn't very 
 destructable so watch out when driving because it is definatly NOT GTA. The game can get really 
 fun at times like wen you can blow up a gas station and kill every1 in it, and raiding armouries 
 is really fun (just like in Halo) providing u haven't got the infinate ammo cheat on. (i sure didn't 
 and i mean it!!!) However, infinate ammo will let u let loose, but i if can survive the game without 
 infinate ammo, so can you! Your suit can switch into different modes such as: max speed, max armour, 
 max strength or cloak. You can also mod your weapons which will help if you use the right parts. 
 It took me less than a day and a half to finish it and im pretty sure i could finish it in a day 
 if i wanted to (just like COD4, LOL) . So in other words, it's a criminally short game. Oh, and 
 yes, i will be getting Crysis 2 (^_^) . If i was locked inside my house with something that could 
 play any and all games, but i could only choose 2, i would pick Halo 3 and Crysis. I guess when 
 you look at it from any angle, Crysis and Halo are very similar in many ways. So wheen you finish 
 playing the game, and some1 asks you what you have been doing all day, you can say "I was killing 
  
 Aliens, yes, Aliens. Hehe. 
  
  TO EACH HIS OWN!!! DARKREAPER123 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatefull
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  this game is like those blockbuster movies. you have a hot star, special effects, well-timed release 
 date, an appealing presentation and tons of action. it can't be bad. at worst, you will enjoy it 
 for the action alone.
  the question is - how good it is ?
  well the game starts great. awesome jungle, cool weapons, korean killing, and it gets better - 
 koreans butchered hanging by the trees, aliens! awesome!!
  then you realise how superficial this game was made. wicked korean tactics? - nop they're dumb
 
  wicked nano^koreans? - nop almost the same AI as the regular ones, probably their suit is stuck 
 on maximum-armor mode
  traps in the jungle, survival guide needed? - nop, nothin
  wicked predators like in the Predator movie maybe? hunting you across the jungle? - nop, brainless 
 medusas who imo hired the koreans to hang Aztec up the tree (?)
  epic long territorial tank battles? - nop, instead you get 1! short! tank action in which you didn't 
 even need a tank as you can wipe the map alone, with your l33t suit
  right, and then you get 1! jet fight, doh. but i think the devs missed a page when they read "general 
 guide on making blockbusters" because there's no motorcycle scene! damit: (
  and all this doable in a  manner. here is our rushed game 
 - we removed any feeling of old school shooting so you can rush too! through it!
  a dumbed-down version of the original farcry and this is why i think farcry2 will do better then 
 crysis (or warhead)
  and now the thing most developers miss - the hero. bad (or nonexistent) presentation, zero personality, 
 zero motivation. you're cool! you're the maximum soldier in our maximum game now go play with your 
 maximum suit and shut up.
  Crytek could have put some FEAR into the soldier, instead they completely removed it - thanks to 
 the suit. Nomad is no mad, ALWAYS in control and nothing bad happens -.- happy end.
  Oh dear Yerli according to you console shooters are at the level of PC shooters 5-6 years ago? 
 if i look at games like Stalker i definitely agree 
  but were you talking about your pc game too? because really, i cant see much except some neat graphics.
 
  the engine is great but your game isnt, there's suposse to be much more to a game then his engine
 
  oh who am i kidding, people only care about their graphics card, resolution, high detail vs ultra 
 detail, and right now i'm staring at this topic "brag about your computer who has the best lets 
 compare"so yeah...
  Crysis is great! and Yerli agrees! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wood_duck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Back in the the year 2004, the then small time studio Crytek delivered a First Person Shooter titled 
 Far Cry. Little was it expected that this game would raise the bar for visuals and A. I. for years 
 to come. Three years later and we are presented with Crytek's second masterpiece, Crysis; another 
 First Person Shooter that manages to take the genre to a new and exciting level.
  
  Crysis takes place in the near future, the year 2020, mysterious activity has been reported on 
 a tropical where the North Korean military and American scientists are working closely together 
 to dig up an 'unknown' object. You take the role of Nomad, a member of an elite US military squad, 
 equipped with high tech nanosuits that allows superhuman abilities such as boosted strength, temporary 
 increase of speed, armor and a limited cloak. 
  
  You could be mistaken to thinking that Crysis is just Far Cry with updated graphics and a somewhat 
 different story. The fact that it's set on a tropical island doesn't seem to help either. But from 
 the get go you will see that Crysis offers so much more than Far Cry and your typical First Person 
 Shooter for that matter. Crysis is primarily a sandbox game, this presents the player with lush, 
 open jungles that allows for a wealth of opportunities in the way that a player approaches a situation. 
 This level design coupled with the Nanosuit and instant weapon upgrade system create a game bursting 
 with uniqueness, innovation and freedom. Your are able to play stealthy, attempt a full frontal 
 assault or maybe you would rather to find a good vantage point, strap on a sniper scope to your 
 AK and pick your enemies from a distance. All the gameplay mechanics incorporated in Crysis ensure 
 that the player will have a unique experience each time they play through. However, all this freedom 
 isn't consistent throughout Crysis, the second half of the game becomes a somewhat linear shooter, 
 ditching the huge, open environments for tight level design that really limits how you use your 
 Nanosuit. 
  
  Crytek once again manages to raise the bar in terms of A. I. When your not blowing up buildings 
 and throwing chickens, the A. I. will go about their own business, talking, listening to the radio 
 and even taking a leak. But don't think for one second that they will stand their like lifeless 
 dummies as your round of bullets zip past their ears, they will work as team and attempt to outsmart 
 you in anyway possible. Take out one of their mates from the bushes and they will actively seek 
 you out, randomly shooting into the bushes in hope of wounding you. As perfect as the A. I. sounds, 
 they don't come without their hiccups, as some refuse to leave a flaming jeep and they can sometimes 
 spot you in the most difficult to see places. Though these issues are minor and don't detract from 
 the overall experience.
  
  The first thing many gamers will notice about Crysis is it's stunning graphics, running on the 
 CryEngine2 allows Crysis to be the most visually advanced game to date. I can guarantee you that 
 you will spend a good chunk of your time soaking in the sights, from lush jungles to the sandy 
 beaches and even the inside of an alien ship, everything in Crysis looks stunning. However all 
 this graphical beautiful comes at a cost, Crysis will bring most beefy systems to their knees at 
 higher settings and resolutions, so be prepared for some fiddling with graphics options to achieve 
 playable framerates. Though thankfully even with Crysis's graphics tiers set on medium, it still 
 manages to give all current gen games a run for their money in terms of visual quality.
  
  Sound plays a vital role Crysis, not only does it some completely amazing as bullets fly past your 
 ears and jeeps blow sky high but it can also be used as a tactical advantage. You are able to hear 
 when Koreans are flanking and moving up, but notch up the difficulty and that advantage is gone, 
 they no longer speak in English but instead speak in their native language; Korean. So unless you 
 speak Korean, your out of luck. Many may remember Far Cry for its terrible voice acting, though 
 thankfully this isn't the case with Crysis, all voices are done superbly and are incredibly believable. 
 
  
  The initial campaign lasts about 12 to 15 hours for the first play through, but thanks to the freedom 
 presented to the player, you will find yourself playing through sections over and over again just 
 to see how different you can do it. Not to mention that massive selection of user created maps 
 that allow for diverse new environments and more replay value.
  
  Crytek manages to prove that they aren't just a one trick pony, delivering a game that is innovative 
 and takes the genre to a new and exciting level. If it weren't for the somewhat linear second half 
 of the game and the small A. I. hiccups Crysis would be near perfect. However these minor complaints 
 don't ruin the experience. If your a FPS fan, don't go past Crysis, even of your not into the genre 
 i strongly suggest picking up Crysis anyway, there is a unforgettable experience to be had here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlb030769
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are fantastic and the physics are awesome and the nanosuits are great. The sandbox 
 world is awesome.
  
  The only thing I don't like is that you can kill someone by hitting them faster than shooting them. 
 I've unloaded entire clips on people and they keep coming. If it wasn't for that this game would 
 be a 10.
  
  If you spray and pray and like getting into close gunfights where you run through a village shooting 
 at everything in sight then you might not notice the problem with the bullets not killing people 
 fast enough. I like sniping from a distance and I think the bullets get a lot less powerful the 
 farther you get from the target.
  
  The game also went downhill for me when the aliens came into the picture in a big way. I don't 
 like games with zombies, scary aliens or anything you'd see in a horror movie. I never liked horror 
 movies and I don't like horror in games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatgaminglife
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt this game is beautiful. However, thats the only thing that really gives it a 
 great review. Once you have killed one or two different men, you have basically killed them all. 
 The story line is aweful! If you have a computer that can run this game at its peak performance 
 that would be a huge plus. Great system tester for sure. This games "looks" will blow you away. 
 If those that built great games in the past could redo them with Crysis-like graphics... WOW! This 
 will really give us all something to look forward to in the future. So really its all together 
 a stunning piece of work for the "i crave eye candy player". Maybe "Warhead" will have a little 
 more knowledge to go along with great looks. Well done EA, those that say they hate EA games must 
 not have much taste for superd gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  So lets open the review, first thing im gonna say is that Crysis is one of the Best PC games ever 
 made!!
  
  graphics: the best greaphic i saw just perfect everything lookes so amazing from the peoples to 
 the amazing visual effects of the water and explosions
  
  sound: again, the game holds an amazing sound, the people are screaming when you kill them and 
 the sound of shooting and explosions are also great
  
  story: so now here is the problem.. the game start and you have a nano suit, first problem in story, 
 the fact that theres a lot of people with the suit is lame.. i mean its better if you are the only 
 one with the suit and now the second problem, the game starts perfect! you can feel like a king 
 when you can do what ever you want, like jump high, super speed, and more.. but in half of the 
 game theres a parts when you are against aliens and thats where the game is not that good, i think 
 that the game should be against humans not against aliens or monsters.. in every game that has 
 monsters become lame like.. mm.. FAR CRY fun and great game but since the levels of monsters the 
 game isnt that good so any way..
  
  i wanted to give crysis 10 but insted i gaved to crysis 9.5 beacuse the part of the aliens in the 
 story
  
  but if you see this game dont think, just buy it beacuse this game worth playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alensolman
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is really something special. The graphic in this game is phenomenal and the physic of 
 everything is realistic. The deep game story really suck you in and you quickly forget that you 
 are playing the game. This game will blast you with graphic world reality but your PC to.
  The Crysis System Requirements are huge so you must prepared your rig with super graphic card, enough 
 memory and really good CPU. The basic what will you need is Intel Core 2 Duo on 2.5 GHz,8800GT graphic 
 card and 3 GB of RAM. The most important thing is that Crysis looks phenomenal on "High" and better 
 settings but on low the game is just ordinary and not as impressive. Don't do mistake like me and 
 check first the low settings and only then check the high. My opinion is that you must play this 
 game on the best possible you can to really enjoy. Save money for strong PC and when you are ready 
 play this game and you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scigeni
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest, shortest games you'll ever come through. But it is long enough for 
 you to enjoy for hours. It has a great storyline, great gameplay, and above all, great graphics. 
 Crysis has the best graphics in a game a human being has ever seen. But I doubt that you're going 
 to be able to experience its highest-quality graphics, as most computers can't meet the requirement 
 for that high-quality graphics. But don't worry, the gameplay is so amazing that you'll forget 
 about this issue. The single-player is amazing, but the multiplayer is ultra amazing! It's so fun 
 and addictive that you'll never even want to go to eat your lunch! Better grab a couple of boxes 
 full of food before beginning to play. I really hope the sequel keeps all its greatness and more. 
 And I really hope Crytek makes it longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary-73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I didn't give the game a 10 because of that part when you pilot the VTOL, I found it extremly stressing 
 that i want to break the disk so bad.
  
  The story is about a team called Raptor Team in which every member wear a Nanosuit. The Nanosuit 
 has 4 modes : Maximum armor which protects alot against bullets, Maximum speed which lets you run 
 extremly fast , cloak which makes you invisible for some time and Maximum strenght which lets you 
 jump more and lets you pick up heavier things. 
  
  You arrive to an island controlled by Kpa forces which are Korean who are doing some excavation 
 on the island. The only thing they do not know is that there are aliens buried inside a mountain.
 
  
  There aren't many weapons in this game but there isn't much ammo also so you will have to use the 
 same weapons all the time..... This is a bad point bout the game.
  
  weapons can also be customised like in other games. The thing that makes it really fun is that 
 it doesn't take alot of time to get all the attachments.
  
  Overalll i really recomend to buy this game. Just if you have stress problems i recommend to tell 
 a friend to do the VTOL part for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  One of the big thing that made Far Cry a great game was not its graphics, but its gameplay, you'd 
 think that Crytek, the developer of Far Cry would know that and implement it in Crysis, but no. 
 Crysis is a game of out most graphical level but no substance. Its story is a cheap reversed future 
 alien story set in a tropical paradise and aliens threatening the world. And you my friend play 
 as a nameless guy who is the hero that's going to save the world.
  
  Where to start with the gameplay, its just so plain that nothing comes to mind to describe it. 
 Well you have the uber suit and have 5 options with it, of which all, but the shield are practically 
 useless. Stealth does not last more than 5/6 seconds, power is good for killing one enemy or jumping 
 high, but taking into account that you mostly encounter several enemies at a time, its practically 
 useless, speed is also useless since it only lasts a few seconds. The weapon option is purely like 
 cosmetic option to the suit, since its part of a standard weapon "modification" system, in which 
 you can attach flashlight, bullets that make the enemies sleep and things like that. So 95% of 
 the time your suit will be set to "shield" and no need to change it, except in very few cases. 
 
  Health regenerates itself over short period of time and coupled with the suit "shield" make for 
 an easy game. Not that there are not challenges in the game, but that's more because you'd probably 
 be low on bullets and you'll have to shoot very carefully.
  The levels are basically all the same, its a tropical jungle all the time until the very last levels 
 where its still a tropical setting, just white (frozen) .
  Far Cry for one was very interesting, since it had varied levels, it was in tropical island of 
 course, but in different settings. For example there was a boat level, underground caves level, 
 inside "terminal" level and so on and it wasn't all the time in your face tropical island setting.
 
  Crysis is all about the same thing, with different missions that were basically shy of go to where 
 the aliens are.
  
  Shamelessly the game is unoptimized and so heavy on requirements that most of the people surely 
 played it on low settings and apart from the medio-core gameplay didn't even get to experience 
 the game with all its graphical beauties.
  The graphics are not a lot better than newer FPS games like Call of Duty 4, Bioshock, Unreal Tournament 
 3, Half Life 2: EP2, but are a lot more demanding and its partially fault by an unoptimized engine.
 
  
  Again I'd like game developers to finally learn that its not the high system requirements that 
 sell the game, but the gameplay and secondly its also the graphics and they should be made with 
 as low system requirements as possible so that the game can sell because of its mass availability 
 and great gameplay.
  It would be at least 1 more year until people can play Crysis on a bit higher settings than the 
 lowest one and only then will the game be more accepted.
  
  Overall the game is lacking in story, gameplay and its own unique identity to make it anything 
 more than a mediocore game. Currently I'm giving it 7 for its "supposed" great graphics which I've 
 not seen, since I can't play it on high settings.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dronnor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  At first I looked at Crysis and thought, 'hmm... doesn't look to bad.' But Since I bought it all 
 my friends love it to :) . The ultimate feature of Crysis is the functions of the Nano Suit. Using 
 the four different modes, Strength, Speed, Armor and Cloak, you can approach an enemy in many different 
 ways. In Crysis almost anything or everything is destroyable. You can punch down the walls of a 
 house using Strength and have a door out of there instantly. Customizable weapons adds to the amount 
 of different ways to do something. Throughout the game, Crysis builds up tension. There is a couple 
 of downsides about Crysis. There are random glitches where they haven't been fixed. But luckily 
 you can download them from websites and they add even more features to make it even better :) . 
 I think that all up Crysis is supercalafreakinawesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarHasChanged
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a pretty one. Despite the fact that my system couldn't run it higher than Normal on 
 most settings (rest on High) in the graphics menu, the level of detail, the textures, lighting, 
 everything was just beautiful! Some of the stages are so well made, I just had to walk around and 
 take a look. Of course, the enemy quickly punished me for this with a barrage of bullets.
  
  But while the areas look (and sometimes feel) like something out of the first Predator movie, 
 too little attention has been given to enemy AI. That's not to say it's bad or anything, but the 
 Korean troops might as well be shouting "kekeke" as they charge at me like a bunch of zerglings, 
 completely forgetting the fact that they're carrying guns, and that said guns are ranged. Fortunately, 
 that doesn't happen all the time.
  
  Another problem with enemies is their apparent immunity to bullets. They are annoyingly hard to 
 kill, to the point where you shoot them several times with a Gauss gun, only to see them continue 
 their onslaught of gunfire (happened twice) . Your character, on the other hand, despite his impressive 
 Nanosuit, is a bit squishy. While it looks cool to charge up to an enemy with Maximum Speed, grab 
 said enemy while using Maximum Strength, use the enemy as a meat shield while dispatching his friends 
 with your sniper scope equipped shotgun (oh yes) , then throw his dead body into a nearby river, 
 you're probably not gonna get close enough to grab him before your health goes so low, you're forced 
 to change to Maximum Armor. Most of the time you're gonna find yourself sneaking around using your 
 Cloak, as it's your best ability.
  
  Occasional enemy invulnerability isn't the only minor (but annoying) bug you'll encounter. Standing 
 or moving near a moving object (be it a tank or a small oil drum you happened to walk into) kills 
 you, whether you stand in front of it or not. While annoying this is pretty easy to avoid. Just 
 don't push... THE BARREL OF DEATH!
  
  But despite these bugs, and some annoying AI and damage systems, this is a game worth every last 
 cent you spend on it. "Why?" you might ask. Because of the beauty. Because of the destructible 
 environment. Because of the epic battle sequences. Because of the gun modifications. Because I 
 said so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drek4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Now this is one great shooter with a very good choice of weapons, it`s good to great in all even 
 in the times you want to almost complain but just can`t because this game has got what it takes 
 to be a winner. I was riveted to this game that at times seemed almost impossible to accomplish 
 some of the missions on hand and always looked forward to the next mission because they all where 
 such a joy to experience. All in all this is one great game play experience that I will always 
 keep fond memories of! The idea of that cool armored suit that has almost a life of it`s own because 
 of all the different options and the precision of the modifications you can make on your player/armor 
 and game play (with a single file) is simply out of this world! My only complaint... would have 
 just liked a few more missions :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VideoGameNerd77
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  When I play Crysis, I can't help but think how realistic and awesome this game is. This is by far 
 the best game of all time.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  The gameplay is exceptional. I've never played a game with more action and high-quality gameplay. 
 The AI is intelligent; the AI units actually work together, The physics are indescribable. The 
 story is very good as well. The only thing I can complain about is that the campaign is a little 
 too short.
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  Words can't describe this game's amazing graphics.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  The sound is also indescribable.
  
  Overall - 10/10
  It's an insult to give 
 this game a 10; 10 is far, far too low of a score to give Crysis. If I could, I'd give this a 100/10. 
 Overall, this game has revived the PC game genre and has revolutionized the PC industry. I don't 
 understand why this game sn't ranked number 1 for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanisfat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I have read a lot of negative criticism about Crysis, and I have no idea why these people dislike 
 it so much, but I will explain why it is such a great game.
  
  First off, the gameplay. You get a suit that can regarge (similar to halo) , but it also has numerous 
 physical abilities, such as the ability to jump high, or cloak. This feature made the game different 
 from others, because you can choose your way of handling a situation, you can sneak in with the 
 cloak through the jungle, or you can get super strength and punch everyone out of your way on the 
 road, the choice is yours. The weapons were also good with a good variety to choose from. I found 
 driving a little awkward, i think it might be the way I had my controls setup though. Overall, 
 the gameplay is very different from other first-person-shooters.
  
  Secondly is the graphics, i'll make this short, they're amazing, the textures, water, characters, 
 environments..., but you also need an amazing computer.
  
  The sound was very good too, lots of different effects for the explosions and stuff.
  
  I believe 
 that the gameplay is what made this game such a great experience, not the graphics (I had them 
 on low anyway, my comp isnt the best) . There is so much to try out in this game and its very good 
 fun, and you should definately give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bredeyabo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  this game is very good i believe its the best game with graphics but it has some errors in the 
 game. people have been complaining about bugs errors and lets not forget very low fps of course. 
 the game does have allot of improvement to do indeed but its good so far by the graphics. it can 
 get very boring if you don't have good graphics for it and its very slow. i recommend if you want 
 to buy this game you should get a computer good enough for it. this game is worth buying an expensive 
 computer to play in my opinion because the graphics are so good and the creators of the game must 
 of spent a whole lot of time making it.
  
  for those you people who cant afford or bother to get a very good computer can wait for the new 
 Crysis game to come out. it has great graphics like this Crysis maybe even better. but they said 
 they would make the graphics also low enough quality for people who have a normal computer thats 
 not expensive. but if you want the full story of the whole series you have to play this game and 
 see it for yourself. its a great game but too many bugs and i hope most people will buy it because 
 if you're really into games you should buy a good computer and this game can make your computer 
 be at their bests.
  
  i hope this has changed your opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  First things first : for a second time, I had my doubts and disbeliefs about a Crytek -game (first 
 one was Far Cry) . And for a second time, they proved me wrong. I didn't become a total fan, but 
 I have to admit that Crysis is one of the best shooters to come out of late.
  
  Unfortunately, me and my machine are a bit void of saying if the game looks gorgeus or not, so 
 I'm going with "one of the best looking games ever, if not the best". I wasn't able to play it 
 with higher than medium level in details, so most of the stuff that really make the game look great, 
 weren't there. Nevertheless, it still looked great enough, by bringing out some great views of 
 a jungle once again.
  
  Actually, only thing making a clear difference between the two games from Crytek, is the nano-suit, 
 providing the means and ways for a very different experience for the most parts of the game. Juggling 
 with the modes in different ways can be some good fun, even when I mostly ended up just going fully 
 stealth all the way.
  
  While the suit is good, the weapons mostly lack something, namely firepower. They sound pretty 
 good, but it seems a bit stupid these days that you often have to pump a clip to a guy's torso. 
 Sure, they're often armored and whatnot, but still. Headshots drop the guys from one shot, so often 
 that's the way to go.
  Sounds on the weapons are ok and explosives rock the stage quite good. Also the amount of ammunition 
 there's available is fine, since there's often shacks and armory-spots to fill up your ammunition 
 or change a weapon completely. Also, some voluntary modifications are available, which make a nice 
 contribution as well.
  
  After the halfway mark, the game takes bit of a nosedive for me, however. What happened in Far 
 Cry with the mutants, happens in Crytek with the aliens : the game gets boring. Often there's no 
 point using stealth tactics or the run-and-grab moves you honed on the soldiers, because often 
 mobs require one or few shots from a RPG or Gauss Rifle. So while the first half is excellent fun 
 when you fight against the military, it gets much much more straight forward and numbing later 
 on against the aliens that can really take a beating most of the time. However, if I really want 
 to try to find some positive about the aliens, it's the fact that they have a rather small part 
 in the actual killing, but a big part setting up a certain state of mind and creating some nice 
 scripted scenes. But any game would be better without aliens and mutants of any kind, if it's not 
 otherwise totally sci-fi related shooter.
  
  There's some story behind the game, basically involving a hostage rescue for the most parts, with 
 a twist or two. Have to give credit for the few re-occurring characters and their characteristics, 
 they give some face to the voices quite well.
  But then comes the biggest of lacklusters of all time - the ending. There's a huge battle in the 
 end (mostly between save and loading times, since the guy is barely passing snails with his speed 
 when he's carrying any of the stronger weapons) , but the whole thing doesn't end there, but instead 
 already establishes that there's going to be Crysis 2 sometime. It's kind of like having a football 
 match, but they only play the first half. Abrupt and disappointing would be the two words to describe 
 the ending in my mind.
  
  Despite the ending, the game is definetely worth playing, if your computer can run it at least 
 in low settings. You won't be seeing all the candy, but you get to see some of the store. Crysis 
 isn't very long, but long enough if you don't just run through the game, and replayability is supposedly 
 high, due the mostly open jungle areas and the suit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alhenriq1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  This game was excellent. It was very addicting, and one of few FPSs that keep me from wanting to 
 take a break. The graphics were great and the game ran perfectly for me (I read that some people 
 had issues with bugs, this was not the case for me) . The story started off pretty good, but it 
 got extremely interesting towards the end. The games physics were sweet and the sound quality was 
 great, but I wish the Koreans would have said more instead of repeating the same things over and 
 over. 
  
  Overall the game was great, but you could definately tell it was made by Crytek. If you have ever 
 played Far Cry you'll instantly see the similarities. They definately spiced things up, however, 
 with the fancy suit and its array of powers, not to mention the intense battles at the end. This 
 game was definitely worth buying, but make sure you have a system that can handle it. If you do, 
 it will make it that much better. All in all, very fun and I'm definately looking forward to Warhead. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This is the future of gaming, to say the least. i just finished it and what i have experienced 
 is nothing short of amazing. So much that even my parents who dont approve of gaming that much 
 were amazied, my dad said to my mom: "Honey, you have to see this game, its really unbelievable." 
 I WAS AMAZED. My Parents like a game i play? Well, thats how good this game is
  
  The gameplay in this is really, really fun and immersive. You can really do anything you want to 
 get to your objective, my only complaint is the controls in the ending plane sequence, which was 
 hard because it was hard to control. The A. I. is really good, but its still fun to kill them:) 
 They arent too hard..
  
  The story is like a standard blockbuster movie except you are playing it which makes it an even 
 more enjoyable experience to play. Imagine your favorite tropical action movie, and put yourself 
 in the protagonists' seat and that is this game.
  
  The graphics are simply amazing, as everything looks photo realistic, and my machine could run 
 this game relatively smooth at very high settings, which is comforting. If you are wondering whether 
 to upgrade your pc or not for this game then DO UPGRADE. you will not regret it.
  This is the most fun i have had in a game in a while, its realistic, fun, and amazing. A fun game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornycorn09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing. It had good graphics, good gameplay, and lots of choices about how to get 
 through the game. For example, if you wanted to take out an enemy, you could sneak up from behind 
 and hit him with your gun. Or you could turn invisible, choke him, use him as a human shield, or 
 throw him. The one thing i thought wasn't really good about the game was the AI. You'd think that 
 if you were walking past somone they would notice a laser pointer on a nearby tree ( that is, if 
 you use laser pointers) . Also, when you are invisible, you are not completely invisible, so they 
 would be able to see you farely well. The destruction engine was pretty good, but a bi turealistic 
 at some times. It was a good length, and i think that it has a good replay value. So overall, i 
 thought that this was a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobbz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Let's preface this by telling about my rig:
  
  2.4ghz Intel Core 2 Duo
  2gb ram
  8600GT 1GB
  
  Not amazing, not bad, but whatever the game runs mostly on medium at like uh... 
 1024x768ish.
  
  Moving on; the feats that Crysis pulls off are evident from the very beginning of the game. You 
 begin in a plane flying over an island which you jump out after a brief conversation with your 
 squad. As soon as you jump out the first thing you notice is the island below, followed very shortly 
 by the fact that you can keep spinning in any direction as if you were truly freefalling. No big 
 deal, ok so they figured out how to make you feel like you're falling, wow, I upgraded for this? 
 
  
  Let me tell you something, when you hit the water and start picking up turtles and messing with 
 your gun settings and suit modes and encounter your first enemy... how should I put this... I haven't 
 felt that excited since I saw the G-Man again in HL2. I'm sitting there thinking.. oh my god I'm 
 finally going to play a good fps for the first time in... forever.
  
  As you play on you start to realize just how much effort they put into making this feel realistic 
 and authentic. From being able to pick up enemys and choke them out and toss them to not being 
 allowed to get in car wrecks without dying, they did very well polishing this up while at the same 
 time literally giving you any option to complete your objectives. There are minor flaws, like picking 
 up an object, not being able to gently drop it, and therefore tossing it and having a barrel kill 
 you. Or when KPA soldiers are walking on a rope bridge only to have one of the boards glitch out 
 and kill him, but those are merely small prices to pay (Oh also when the KPA soldiers take a piss 
 the stream looks like a firehose) to have such freedom in a game. In the very first objective they 
 say "Take out that radar jammer". You have no explosives. I shot the first red barrels (we all 
 know what red barrel means) in the beginning, so that option was out, I couldn't make the barrels 
 blow up the jammer. So I begin to look for grenades... none. Rocket launcher? None. Finally after 
 wandering around a bit, I see a jeep that had pulled up after one of the soldiers shot a flare 
 for backup. I take the jeep and park it by the jammer, and shoot the extra tank of gas on the back 
 of the jeep and nearly pee myself as it ignites, the gas leaks out underneath the car, and it explodes 
 and takes the jammer with it.
  
  I know it's impossible to blow up a tank of gas let alone set it on fire with a bullet but still, 
 it was pretty f*ckin awesome. 
  
  The sounds are dead on, on harder difficulties the KPA soldiers speak actual Korean, guns sound 
 powerful, when you shoot someone it just sounds right, etc. The AI can zero in on you pretty quick, 
 and even on the more basic difficulties, if you can't utilize your suit properly, you'll die with 
 a couple of shots. However with the latest patch to, I think it's like 1.3, the AI responds pretty 
 intelligently, and physics glitches are very few. The vehicles are a lot of fun and very detailed, 
 for example you can read a car's gas and speedometer, however they don't handle like a real car, 
 and I've driven one of those pretty fast. 
  
  Overall there the flaws don't come close to the feats this game pulls off. It's just... you just 
 have to play it.
  
  Oh and on another note, multiplayer is nonexistant, this game should've had co-op or something 
 because the physics and such it just... it's just not built for multiplayer unfortunately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpdolphins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  in this EA game crytek show his hardworking and we know about the rating.
  and when i play the far cry i have minimum requirements in my pc like i have amd athlon 64 with 
 512 x 3 ram ddr and my card is 6600gt and i play the farcry in medium requirments but last time 
 i buy again my new pc in 2008 and now i have intel core 2 quad with 4 gm of ram ddr 2 n i have 
 a good pci card nvidia 8800 gts 512 mb and when i play crysis i feel a trraffic battle against 
 aliens and soldiers and this game is so good very great graphics and more and now i wait for far 
 cry 2 if you compare both games like farcry 2 and crysis then we see who will be the winner i suggest 
 crysis offcourse cuz his game play is so good i know tht farcry 2 is also so smart game but i think 
 we should check the game play first then we decided what we have 2 play.. crysis big mistake is 
 they not give us an opportunity 2 play the night stages in crysis only one when we are at first 
 mission of crysis and there is no other effects like raining at night thunderstrom in water and 
 the electricity in the sky we not seen in crysis so but the game is exellent superb graphics and 
 i wait for expension of crysis. the games name is also good and ea have a another gr8 game now. 
 crytek is also a good company i ve ever seen aliens are good in this game and i like 2 drive in 
 jeep and i like also a strength of our man and armor and specialy the cloak ability i like this 
 all thanks EA and crytek who give this so good game and i wait now the expansion of crysis.. take 
 care... of you guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpph
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  After playing this, i must admit to feeling very unsatisfied. That is because the ending and the 
 last few missions sucked. I don't really think that anyone could argue that in comparison to the 
 quality of the rest of the game, it was disappointing.
  I won't bother describing the plot because everyone already knows it and to be honest, what plot?
 
  This is why i think it is a 9 game, otherwise it would have got 9.5.
  
  These two points aside, this is a fantastic shooter.
  Don't listen to people when they say it 
 is a rehashed far cry. It isn't.
  I hated far cry but i loved this.
  Firstly, and obviously, the graphics, they are amazing, even on medium detail which i was forced 
 to play on, they look incredible.
  The gunplay is excellent, it couldn't be faulted, unlike a lot of other games, the bullets actually 
 exist, it doesn't just show damage where you've aimed, there is even a delay over long distances.
 
  The nanosuit brings another dimension to the game, and is undoubtedly the best thing about Crysis. 
 The control of it is intuitive and seamless, and allows for astonishingly quick reactions which 
 are often necessary. 
  The nanosuit is essential to survival, and coupled with the weapon customization and open environments, 
 allows shootouts to play out in many many different ways, not just stealthy and all guns blazing. 
 
  Unfortunately it was nearly useless (for me anyway) in the last levels, another reason why i didn't 
 enjoy them.
  
  Before playing this, i was skeptical, because all people seemed to be talking about was the amazing 
 visuals, but really, they mean very little in the scale of things, once you forget about what settings 
 your playing it on, and how well your graphics card can handle it, then it is a real roller coaster 
 ride.
  
  This is an amazing game, and one not to be missed.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoracleofgame
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This review is an independent review and a response to those who call it "a piece of crap", "a 
 tech demo", and "over-hyped". It's not. It's a great game with some little flaws, and good graphics. 
 I shall bring this review into two sections: Review and Response.
  
  Review: Crysis is a standard shooter with some tweaks and changes to the formula. These tweaks 
 are so good though, that it makes Crysis something new entirely. The first tweak is the nanosuit. 
 This is basically a super suit that makes you stronger. It gives you four different abilities that 
 increase your options. Armor is the most obvious one (absorbing bullets) , strength is a cool one (picking 
 up guys and chucking them) , speed is a little unnecessary (running fast, what did you think?) and 
 cloak lets you turn invisible. 
  
  The weapons are run of-the-mill, but the thing that makes them good is that you can customize (not 
 upgrade) and differentiate (not upgrade) the weapons. You can make some powerful combinations with 
 this tool, such as a FY71 (assault rifle) with laser light, sniper scope and grenade launcher. 
 There are more ridiculous ones such as shotgun with sniper scope as well.
  
  All of those weapons and their combinations make great sounds as does everything in this game. 
 Sometimes you'll hear a giant roar coming from a mountain with a stone avalanche coming down on 
 it's side as the ground shakes beneath you. When you are in cloak, all sounds will be muffled slightly. 
 The sound is so good that it's almost as immersive as the graphics (later) .
  
  With all of this, and the open (ish) environments, there's a lot of room to do different things 
 in Crysis. Say there's a Korean base that you have to infiltrate with turrets looking out for it. 
 There are many different ways to handle this. You could find a heavily armored vehicle and go in 
 there guns blazing to get past the turrets, then go into cloak and run from the vehicle while the 
 Koreans investigate it. You could take cover in a tree line and sneak into the base without killing 
 anyone and saving ammo. Or you could just take them down slowly with a sniper rifle and watch as 
 a small army amasses there.
  
  There are some problems, though. First off, the AI, while good in theory, is OK in practice. They 
 set up good positions and try to flank you, but when you get up close, they'll just take out their 
 pistols. What the heck!? Do they even want to kill me? Then there's the story, which reminds me 
 of a cheesy Area 51 arcade game. You are a Special Forces Operative named Nomad, and you go onto 
 an island taken over by North Korean soldiers, due to unknown reasons. Then it turns out there 
 are aliens on the island. Yep, you heard me. Granted, the aliens themselves are awesome, the fights 
 are intense and entertaining, and like everything in the game, look great (later) .
  Finally, the final level is, at best, annoying. The parts in it which you don't have to repeat 
 again and again due to cheap errors, are parts where you just shoot at aliens, which is nothing 
 compared to high quality fire fights in the rest of the game. 
  
  I wanted to leave this until last, the graphics. They are the greatest I have seen on the PC ever. 
 Explosions are colorful and vibrant, and they blur your vision. When grenades explode at your feet, 
 you'll blink for a second and wipe the dirt off your face. While you're running through the forest 
 in an intense fire fight, the shadows casted through the foliage land on your feet. Then you fire 
 at a Korean who has taken cover behind a twig-like tree, causing it to fall over and cast more 
 light into the forest. Gunfire in a dark room will light it up with every shot. That's the graphics 
 in Crysis. That's why so many people (including me) will pay hundreds and hundreds for it. It will 
 cost you, but it's worth it.
  
  All in all, Crysis is one of the best shooters ever, and it ranks right up there with Call of Duty 
 and Half-Life. It has flaws, but I enjoyed the good parts of it so much that I just had to give 
 it a 10. You will enjoy Crysis.
  
  Response: Here are my responses to several complaints about Crysis: 
  There are many options, 
 but all of them lead to a slaughterhouse: Not true. There's the stealthy approach, the all-out 
 approach, and the controlled chaos approach. One of these gets you killed. Guess which one it is.
 
  
  The graphics stink: I did actually see this comment in a review. I wonder what quality that person 
 was playing on.
  
  The game is nothing special besides the graphics: The sandbox nature of the game is only as good 
 as you make it. Doesn't this person know how to have fun blowing up stuff?
  
  It's a recycle of Far Cry: It's made by the same developer so it's bound to be sort of similar.
 
  
  Please do not listen to these people. Crysis is a great game, and it deserves to be played by any 
 shooter fan. Even if you have to put it on low graphics I still recommend it fully.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoltcsas
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  A straightforward and fun FPS, nothing more and nothing less. Crysis is undeniably the biggest 
 hit coming to the PC in the past few years, a lot of people spent a lot of money to upgrade their 
 computers in order to be able to play the game. So did I :-) . And now I have to tell that Crysis 
 is not the game for which any money is worth spending. 
  
  Why? Crysis is beautiful game, that is a fact, it offers so spectacular moments that it will remain 
 on my hard drive for a long time. I like the physics of the game, it is fun to blow buildings and 
 even trees into the faces of the enemies, but it is far from being realistic. It is fun to shoot 
 the enemy soldiers; it is fun when they try to surround you or when they chase you. It is fun to 
 drive the vehicles. If offers a lot of fun, and I am disappointed nonetheless. 
  
  To be honest, and this is only my opinion: the game offers nothing really new, it is a straightforward 
 FPS, no better than Far Cry was and it makes it even worse that a few years have passed since Far 
 Cry. Yes, I know, that there is the nanosuit, which is unique to the game, but is it really so 
 new? Does it offer real improvements over the old FPS-style gameplay? I think otherwise, the core 
 gameplay is the same as it is in all FPS games, no matter what special suit you have, the main 
 thing is to aim precisely, be on your guard, and stretch the limits of your reflexes. Is it a problem? 
 Of course not, if you look for a decent shooter, Crysis will be a pleasant experience, if you look 
 for something revolutionary, you will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  READ CAREFULLY I DONT HATE THE GAME BUT APART FORM GRAPHICS THIS GAME IS CRAP, I AM NOT KIDDING 
 HERE ESPECIALLY TH AI THE COMBAT AND BUGS THE GAME IS CRAP ITS ONLY THE GRAPHS THE REST IS BETA 
 IF YOU DONT CARE ONLY ABOUT GRAPHS DONT BUY THIS GAME DOESNT WORTH A 9.6 EVEN A 2 RATED GAME HAS 
 LESS BUGS, WHAT I DO HERE IS EXPLAIN WHY PEOPLE HATE IT AND WHY ITS NOTHING REVOLUTIONARY AND PRETTY 
 BAD DESIGN ALSO EA RELEASES GAMES WITH BAD DESIGN QUALITY THEY SET THE STANDARDS ON LOW QUALITY 
 EG UBISOFT GAME HAS VERY FEW BUGS THE PUBLISHERS SET THE STANDARDS DESIGNERS ONLY DESIGN TRUST 
 ME AM AT THIS BUSINESS, NOW LET ME TELL YOU WHY IT DOESNT DESERVE A 9.5!
  
  PS AM NOT TRYING TO ANNOY ANYONE HERE APART FORM THE CRAZY KOREAN SOLDIERS YOU FIGHT IN THE GAME!
 
  
  
  
  Now quite honestly graphs didnt attract me am more fan or artistic and cool post proccesing decals 
 and lighting than detail, also the jungle in far cry was far better fo me, i dont really like the 
 realism thing i thing tropical islands need to be like those holydays cards and not looking like 
 crysis also the maps were bad compared to far cry and kinda cut down to be smaller overally that 
 was a disappointment to me, let me show you some crysis pre- beta screens:
  
  http://ve3dmedia. ign. com/ve3d/image/article/745/745255/new-crysis-dx10-screenshot-20061110001316019. jpg
 
  
  
  this wide area doesnt exist, NO wide jungles hope far cry 2 has them!
  
  http://www. hardwired. hu/img/wg/2/743/Crysis_44. jpg
  
  not like that at all!
  
  my friend 
 was playing front lines and he said wow graphs, while he was running dx10 on crysis, WHY
  
  Because the levels were not pretty they were graphical excel now but not as good as far cry or 
 just cause the whole freedom thing. there are a lot of games with better freedom gameplay eg frontlines 
 MOHA stalker bioshock postal 2 so it doesnt show anything we havent seen before, 
  
  FAR  CRYSIS the trough cannot be ignored for graphics sake, Becasue if crysis is the best game 
 ever then crysis warhead will come out and will have better graphs so it crysis will be forgotten 
 and everyone will say crysis suck, crysis warhead is awesome, now how immature this is?
  
  The sound was ok to me voices too guns could have sounded better! however i dont really like the 
 power rangers MAXIMUM SPEED sounds!
  
  physiques, YES IT GREAT you can blow up a hut, great more stuff to be careful, you can also cut 
 down trees, almost some of them stay in the air (overatd physiques) and if you set them on low 
 you crash on barricades and vehicle explodes.... anyway the thing is that crysis doesnt EVEN HAVE 
 RAG DOLL A TECHNOLOGY THAT WAS USED IN FAR CRY 4 YEARS AGO! if you shoot someone he wont feel a 
 thing, super mega armor they dont fall down they usually dance like bots and they dont bleed no 
 blood on them no dismemberment like soldier of fortune and in cod4 if you shoot someone to the 
 leg he will fall down, NOW THATS REVOLUTIONARY, BUT in crysis you dumbly shoot hundreds of ammo 
 or one on the head, right very realistic! if you shoot a corpse it wont move no rag doll, nice 
 game!
  
  game play despite the bugs the crazy i move all the time like and idiot shoot you hit you and never 
 miss from 2000km behind trees and tun your screen red all the time while losing most of you hit 
 points and shoot him 1000 times , which looks dumb to me to hit someone more that 4 times expect 
 the bot ai and that the fact that they dont take cover because anything its decorative and breaks! 
 well, hmm crappy but challenging 
  
  ai.... CHALLENGING???? hey you am THE ENEMY SHOOT ME PLEASE! 
  
  Need less to speak that once 
 the fell off a bridge or that a tank was shooting me from 10000 km in the sky or that the damn 
 gunner of a boat was trying to turn his machine gun behind me and not simply leave the machine 
 gun ( WHY THE MACHINE GUNS IS SO GARBAGE ANYWAY) to kill me? ohhh simple because you cant stay on 
 the boat if you get out youll fall in the water, id like to say that id like to, get on a boat 
 ... system! freedom they say.. go everywhere do anything, so tried to to get on that boat.... nah 
 it didnt work, 
  
  CHECK THIS VIDEO! http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=c5jLqQcXzQ8
  
  ill tell you what stop comparing with cod4 and play front lines fuel of war far more freedom and 
 bigger areas!! the ai and physiques often break and i think that those are crap of a 9.5 rated 
 game! cod4 is nothing like crysis so dont compare it!
  
  ATTENTION I AM NOT KIDDING HERE IF YOU ARE A SERIOUS BUYER YOU WONT CARE ABOUT GRAPHS, THE REST 
 OF THE GAME IS UNFINISHED HAS A BAD STORY AND YOUR ARMOR IS WEAK WHILE THEY NEVER MISS AND ARE 
 TOUGHER THAN YOU
  
  The suit is crap, one shot and armor is almost out (nice halo armor) , also Koreans dont feel anything 
 when shotted but you get a headache and the unarmored Koreans are tougher than you, speed is too 
 short id like to run half second more plz and cloak is running down very fast ,its a DAMN beta 
 version and it doesnt quite look cool or camouflaged, eg the predator movies... also if you shoot 
 its out if you meele its out (no kidding and how you pick up stuff or run and it doesnt say bye 
 on you) but if you get shotted, you still invisible! bah SUIT IS CRAP BURN IT!
  
  story is good but is a copy, game didnt offer anything its not long enough and the patch 1.2 increase 
 weapon damage and decreases the damage you take to balance gameplay and fixes bugs like the no 
 drain energy from cloak while climbing a ladder... AM I PLAYING A BETA VERSION,
  
  
  also forthose who havent being convinced yet.... if you are in a vehicle and somebody shoots you 
 with A PISTOL!!! you get a red screen a AAAA and a headache also blood spllater everywhere DID 
 THEY JSUT PENETRATE MY SHIELD AND ARMOR WITH A PISTOL? i should get a falsh indicating that i got 
 shield ON!!! but if you shoot them they dont feel CRAP, yeah cuz they wearing armor (or not) AND 
 WHAT AM WEARING A HALLOWEEN SUIT!!!
  
  Also the nano Koreans supose to use speed to avoid shots or cloak to suprice you however they jsut 
 stand still like retards, while their cheap knock offs suits use both armor and strength modes 
 at the same time AND are tougher than mine, nice ai.... FOR CRYST-SHAKE!
  
  
  GARBAGE game....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryDaBeardON
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  
  If you recently built a new rig, like I did, then you'll probably get Crysis not matter what you 
 hear about the game, if only to see how much your machine can bench. It's a good thing, then, that 
 Crysis is so much more than a benchmark, because spending 40 bucks on a stress test is not everyone's 
 idea of a good investment, especially since you just spent over a grand to build the rig. But how 
 much more is it? To figure that out, we'll have to see how much Crysis can bench, and the benchmark 
 will be the game that spawned it, or, as it now fashionable to refer to such games out of licensing 
 and trademark considerations - its "spiritual ancestor," Far Cry.
  
  First benchmark, then: Graphics. A no-brainer really, and everyone knows it. Everything Far Cry 
 - and every other game out there - did, Crysis does better. Jungle, water, snow, explosions, draw 
 distances, destruction are all gorgeous, photo-realistic in places. Some of the effects are so 
 good, Neo-like "whoa" is guaranteed to escape your lips. The character models are slightly less 
 perfect, although by no means distractingly so. By less perfect I mean you actually recall, when 
 looking at characters, that they are not real.
  
  Moving on to Sound, including voices. Sounds are harder to compare and grade, especially if you 
 played your fair share of shooters over the last few years. The score is decent, not terribly exciting, 
 and sometimes a little too blunt, but it does the job. The weapon effects are up to modern shooter 
 standards, although you'll soon notice the "target hit" sound being a little too accommodating 
 as a gameplay tool. Where in BF2, for example, your crosshair would change to indicate that you're 
 hitting your enemy, in Crysis you get a characteristic "bullet-sinking-into-flesh" sound, which 
 is a bit of a headscratcher if your target is two hundred yards away. Still, it's an original way 
 of doing the familiar, and I'm sure some people love it. But what Crysis truly excels in, sound-wise, 
 are the grenades. Frags explode so violently, so abruptly, you'll catch yourself ducking. I often 
 tossed nades away just to hear them go off. Awesome stuff.
  
  Voiceovers integral to the story are generally much better than Far Cry's meat-handed exchanges, 
 and so is the dialogue script, but in my opinion the enemy chatter is not as good as in the previous 
 game. The North Korean foes don't discuss the latest happenings like the mercs of Far Cry did and 
 are mostly limited to accented, and sometimes maniacal exclamations addressed at your person. The 
 aliens (if this is still a spoiler to somebody out there, they probably deserve it ;) ) utter pretty 
 generic "robotic wraith" sounds, mostly to let you know they're coming.
  
  Gameplay. Crysis will seem very similar to Far Cry when you start the game on a tropical island 
 with your trusty rifle, but you'll realize pretty soon that it's far from being an expansion pack 
 with better graphics. The main new gameplay feature is your nanosuit, which may feel gimmicky at 
 first to an FPS vet, but I think you'll eventually come to love it. All four functions of the suit 
 - Strength, Speed, Armor and Stealth - come in handy depending on the situation and your style 
 of play. And the ability to regenerate health rather than use medpacks is simply genius. Weapon 
 add-ons, another new feature, is sadly not as useful. It's really more of the one-way upgrade system 
 rather than modify-as-needed, which is what I'd assumed it was meant to be. Still, that's a minor 
 flaw.
  
  The enemies are pretty skilled if they see you, a bit less so when they don't, but you probably 
 won't be mad at Crytek for that, because unless you get headshots on them, the North Koreans can 
 absorb crazy number of bullets - sometimes it seems entire clips - before buying the farm. And 
 there is whole bunch of them on that tiny god-forsaken rock. The aliens, with their rush tactics 
 and devastating melee attacks, are actually a welcome sight, because the shottie likes it up close.
 
  
  Aside from the Far Cry "alone in the jungle" style of gameplay in the first couple of levels, you 
 will encounter many more different modes, including intense set-piece battles towards the end of 
 the game. The quote above comes from one of these and it's one of the best moments in the game.
 
  
  The story is pretty straightforward, which is slightly disappointing. If you read the first paragraph 
 from any of the game's previews you pretty much know what it is about. Don't expect any of the 
 Far Cry twists and revelations. There's one twist, to be fair, but it's not really explained in 
 any way, so I don't count it. But the main flaw of the story, and indeed the game itself, is that 
 it's too short. It's roughly half the size of Far Cry and ends on the lame, Dreamfall-esque "buy 
 the sequel" note that makes you want to choke somebody.
  
  Crysis multiplayer looks really good on paper, and there are probably servers out there where people 
 were able to reach its potential and are having a kicking good time even as you read this, but 
 I couldn't get into it myself. It might just be that the game is so different that it's hard for 
 a CS/UT2004/BF2 player like me to adjust, but I did try, and after walking away three hours later 
 with a tally of something like 5 and 40, had to admit that it probably wasn't for me. Check it 
 out for yourself, though. Who knows.
  
  All right. To wrap up, the verdict:
  
  One of the best shooters ever made, while it lasts. Probably a must have, as long as you understand 
 what it is and don't expect to spend a hundred hours on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  The level of hype Crysis received was comparable only to Half Life and Halo series. Before the 
 game came out we knew practically everything about it - except that it has lots of serious flaws.
 
  
  The story is your average Hollywood cliche - in very near future a group of archaeologists find 
 some odd artifacts on a tropical island, which belongs to now superpowerful North Korea. No doubt 
 Uncle Sam would let it slip, so, in order to "free the archeologists" and "find out what koreans 
 are up to", a group of five bersoldiers are sent to the island. These bersoldiers are not the 
 usual bersoldiers - these particular sons of America are equipped with the most advanced technology 
 yet - nanosuit, what makes them practically invincible. But as soon the operation starts, it`s 
 clear - this mission will be more than it seems like.
  
  Ha, ha, ha. I should write scenarios myself. No, my dear friends, don`t expect something spectacular. 
 However it is interesting to follow the plot, the characters say and do exactly what you expect 
 and overall there is no brain effort necessary. We are put in shoes of (or rather I say - "nanosuit"?) 
 one of the bersoldiers - Nomad. And he will have the pleasure to experience the dangers of lush 
 jungle and outerworldy powers.
  
  As you might have guessed, nanosuit is the main feature of Cryisis. It can act as a shield, boost 
 your speed or strenght or make you invisible. In order to keep gameplay balance right, amount of 
 energy is strictly limited, but regenerates with time. However "Predator - esque" invisibility 
 mode is almost useless - a single shot from any gun disables it, and it won`t work longer than 
 8-9 seconds simply walking. While the armor can take only 4-5 pistol shots before turning into 
 2 billion dollar worth radioactive trash, the game doesn`t seem hard at all. Even on Hard, it`s 
 like a walk in a park. Two paragraphs below the question "why?" is answered.
  A nice feature is modifying weapons. No, not upgrading. You can add laser sight, flashlight and 
 silencer, change weapon sight and bullet types and the like. Bu ti is still not upgrading. Shotgun 
 won`t become more accurate if you add assault scope to it. Silencer won`t increase weapon force. 
 You can only modify the gun for your comfort and liking. Also, it seems rather odd that even while 
 proning, sniper scope is still trembling as standing tall.
  Weapon variation is another flaw of Crysis. A handgun, 2 types of assault rifles, shotgun, sniper 
 rifle, sub-machine gun, minigun, portable rocket launcher - sounds poor doesn`t it? Oh, yes, there`s 
 also Gauss Rifle - shotgun type of weapon with epic kickback. Watching Koreans fly in entertaining 
 quite a bit, but the maximum ammount of shots would be only 40! Why? Because Koreans carry only 
 assault rifles and shotguns with rare exceptions. 
  But how about 3 types of grenades? Shouldn`t it add some strategical feel to the game? No, my dear 
 folks, "strategical maneuvers" doesn`t work here. AI is RETARDED! Incredibly retarded! Koreans 
 can do nothing but stand in front of you and open fire. Sneaking is useless, every battle ends 
 in massive Asian genocide. No squad tactics, no tactical maneuvers, no ambushes - nothing! Y`know 
 Crytek developed Far Cry, what was celebrated by it`s superb artificial intelligence. But this, 
 it`s something abysmal.
  Free roaming? What a stupid joke. Every level is restricted by sea and unpassable mountains. Near 
 end, Crysis turns into highly scripted tunnel. Yes, there are various ways how to get into korean 
 base, but as I mentioned earlier, eventually everything will turn into a slaughterhouse.
  But it`s not like we kill koreans all the time. Cryisis is separated in three different parts - 
 war against North Korea, inside of alien ship and aliens in frozen jungle. Alien ship level sucks. 
 We``re put in anti- gravitation tunnel, shooting incredibly agile, green things. Uninspired, is 
 it the word? Oh, yes, there is no anti-gravitation. It`s just like being underwater. No uncontrollable 
 spinning around, no pushbacks after shooting from shotgun. Frozen jungle is a little better, yet 
 all we have to do is to move down a valley. Aliens can`t be proud of AI, but their unfair agility 
 and endurance makes fights rather annoying. But we get to shoot one of their guns for a change.
 
  And then there comes the flying futuristic helicopter (VTOL) sequence. Formula "slow, awkward 
 controls + almost-impossible-to-defeat enemies = frustration and annoyment". 
  
  Now to the most unimportant point - graphics. Yeah, yeah, photo-realistic games are now a reality. 
 Of course if you play on high settings. However even medium is quite stunning. But the ridiculous 
 system reqs will make game playable for masses no earlier than 2012.
  Now to the small stuff. Destructible environments, explosions like no other, amazing facial animations 
 - oh, the greatness. But wait! How about God-awful physics, absolutely intolerable corpse poses 
 and terrible optimization? No, my friends, CRYEngine is NOT finished. Lots of small, annoying things, 
 what are really disturbing are waiting to be patched.
  
  Crysis is fairly average on sound. While most of the music is unnoticeable, in dramatic moments 
 it succeeds. Voice acting is great, no doubt a benefit of a big budget. Unless you listen to quickly 
 annoying korean soldier screams. Seriously, why should anyone say "GRENEED OOOUT!!!" or "WEEERE 
 UNDAR ATAAAKK!!!!" Kinda remind me of guys on crack trying to write something.
  
  What can I say? People are stupid. "OMG CRYZIS IZ THA BEZT GAIM IN THA WORLD CUZ IT HAZ GUD GRAPHIKS" 
 is the strongest argument for it`s protection. All I can say is, that Cryisis is a flawed tech 
 demo what will sell millions of copies worldwide. Yes, it has some really memorable moments, but 
 overall, the game doesn`t deserve neither the massive amount of attention paid to it, nor the high 
 ratings from game journalists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedfacekilla57
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  Simply put, this game is a must play whether you have the ability to play it at high specs and 
 only have 30 fps, or whether you have to tune it down in order to handle it's ungodly very high 
 specs. Either way, the game shines not only through it's next generation graphics, but it's beautiful 
 immersive storyline and masterful soundtrack that makes you feel like your the protagonist himself.
 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay
  
  What more is there to say? Crysis throws you (literally) onto an island of unknown suspicious activity 
 in which you (U. S. Special Forces X2) are sent in to investigate. There are thousands of ways you 
 can approach situations, as you are free to pick the way you want to kill. Simply put, it is a 
 sandbox fps.
  
  Graphics
  
  Do I really need to spell it out for you? This game is GORGEOUS, even on high settings, it looks 
 beautiful, and even though we may not see it in full 60 fps dx10 very high settings for another 
 two years, who cares? This game will last you until they invent some type of virtual 3D world in 
 which you are literally in the game. But thats the beauty of this game, is that you will most likely 
 be playing it 5+ years from now because of the graphics being so advanced.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Multiplayer IS in the game if you didnt already know, and can be somewhat punishing 
 if your new to it, as it is different because it adds the whole nano suit technology into a Battlefield-like 
 match. The maps are huge, and even though it only features 2 modes (deathmatch and *powerstruggle) 
 it has its moments and the replayability. I didnt suffer from any lag that i didnt already have 
 in the singleplayer either, so its easy to play. 
  
  *Powerstruggle is similar to an objective based game such as ET: QW where you must capture certain 
 bases or alien technologies in order to build a stronger armada for your team such as alien-based 
 weaponry, alien enhanced vehicles (such as tanks) and nukes (yeah, nukes) . then you must destroy 
 the enemies HQ (which is a fortress full of it's own defenses)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  You can blow through the singleplayer story within 7 hours, but that isnt a bad thing because you'll 
 be playing it over and over again, exploring new ways to engage your enemy and other ways to kill 
 them, etc.
  
  
  Sandbox games arent for everyone, however, because some people need that linear gameplay in order 
 for them to understand or play the game. (the game's own push, if you will) However, if you learn 
 to accept the freedom that you are given and recognize that it is a sandbox game, then you will 
 be rewarded with one of the best first person shooters of all time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beaveboyca
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  At first you would think from the pictures that the game was going to be another "Far Cry" but 
 boy was i wrong... 
  
  Set in 2019 after a colossal asteroid crashes to Earth, Crysis begins amidst a tense military standoff 
 between the North Korean and United States governments for control of the impact zone. Amid rising 
 tensions, the asteroid suddenly bursts open revealing a massive alien ship, which begins freezing 
 vast portions of the island and altering the global weather system. The invasion of Earth has begun. 
 Crysis features an epic three-act story of alien invasion where players are able to customize their 
 armor and weapons in real time to confront an ever-changing enemy and a harsh, dynamic environment
 
  
  I didn't like far cry but this just blew me away. I love picking up guys by the neck when using 
 strength option and throwing them into buildings. I can say nothing bad about the game there wasn't 
 one thing I didn't like. The best graphics in anygame i've seen. I can run it on Very High with 
 no Anti-aliasing. It still looks awesome even on XP in DX9 mode! On the island you can go where 
 ever you wanted if you pleased. I got lost so many times from not looking at the map.
  
  Lastly put, theres not a game that beats it in gameplay or graphics right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strider_ATI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  This game is the best FPS game ever made. Long and very enjoyable campaign, excellent graphics, and 
 the power struggle muliplayer mode makes it ALMOST perfect. Why almost? Because, as you all know, the 
 game requires a very powerful computer to run it on high quality; and that's why i am not giving 
 it a perfect score. 
  
  Crysis really has everything: Nano  the weapon modification 
 system is very useful, and the environments are destructible and objects like tires, water bottles 
 and even garbage can be picked up and thrown at enemies! And on top of all that, it can be played 
 on the Xbox 360 controller, which makes it a lot more fun! 
  
  Anyway, this is by far the best game of 2008 on PC, and the 2nd best game of 2008 on all consoles 
 because I think that Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the patriots is the best game of 2008.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazorGR
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  I really do believe that Crysis is one of the best first person shooters ever made and that it's 
 up there with classic games like Half-Life and Deus Ex. It may not be as revolutionary as Half-Life 
 was or nearly as deep as Deus Ex but it is such an extremely fun and exciting game with intense 
 action that you will not want it to end.
  
  The graphics are nothing short of phenomenal when set to High/Very High while still looking very 
 good even on medium settings. Unfortunately you need a fairly powerful computer to experience Crysis 
 in all its glory at high resolutions but that doesn't mean it won't be enjoyable on a medium-end 
 PC.
  
  But there's more to Crysis than meets eye. Beyond the stunning graphics lies a shooter with superb 
 and varied gameplay. The nanosuit and the huge jungle levels in the first-half of the game offer 
 a lot of possibilities to deal with your enemies and tackle your objectives in a number of different 
 ways.
  The second-half of the game differs quite a bit though, as you will find yourself in environments 
 much different to the lush jungles that you will be used to until that point. The game becomes 
 more linear around the time you have your first alien encounter but that doesn't mean the game 
 becomes boring or anything like that because the aliens have a few of tricks of their own that 
 will keep you on your toes. Near the end, the action becomes much more intense as the game reaches 
 its climax. 
  
  The change of pace in the second-half helps to keep the game fresh and interesting and even though 
 a lot of people have expressed their disappointment over this change, I thought it was great. After 
 all, there are enough levels in the game that provide sandbox gameplay which can be replayed in 
 many different ways.
  
  Story:
  The story isn't all that original but it's interesting enough to keep you hooked and it is very 
 well presented. Every cut-scene is rendered in-game and in first person. Most characters aren't 
 memorable but they aren't bad either.
  
  AI:
  The AI is pretty good but it also has its bad moments, which is to be expected I guess. Some times 
 the soldiers' tactics will impress you and some other times they will act awkward. It's solid most 
 of the time though.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is top-notch. Everything, from various jungle sounds to the explosions and the game's 
 score sounds great.
  
  Weapons:
  There are enough weapons to keep most people happy and they can be customized on the fly with a 
 variety of attachments which include scopes, silencer, laser aiming module, flashlight, grenade 
 launcher, tactical module (tranquilizers) and different types of ammo.
  If you run out of ammo however, you can use your suit's strength mode to throw objects or even 
 small animals at you enemies. If everything else fails, you can always use your fist to send them 
 flying.
  
  Multiplayer:
  I have played only a little and I have to say I didn't like it much. I haven't much to say here 
 really. Some will like it, most won't. Crysis is mainly a single-player FPS and if you buy it for 
 the multiplayer you will probably be disappointed, especially if you're used to games like Call 
 of Duty.
  
  Closing comments:
  The campaign consists of 11 levels. Most of them are in the jungle and offer sandbox gameplay. 
 Others are more linear but equally exciting and well designed.
  It took me a little over 20 hours to complete the game the first time around on Delta difficulty, 
 so I guess you could say that it's a pretty long FPS by today's standards, unless you play on an 
 easier difficulty level or just rush through it. For reference, I completed COD4's campaign in 
 8 hours on veteran, The Chronicles of Riddick in 12 hours on Hard (including most side quests) 
 and FEAR in 11 hours on Extreme.
  
  Crysis is not perfect (no game is anyway) but I enjoyed it so much that I just had to give it a 
 10. It's an amazing single-player experience that no FPS and/or sci-fi fan should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flUx_
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The first level is really easy, even on "Delta" (hardest) difficulty mode, but fear not- it gets 
 better. Wow, the graphics. Even on the very lowest settings the graphics blow most other games 
 out of the friggin water. The weapon modification system, which let's you add things like a reflex 
 sight, silencer and flashlight, is cool and well integrated, but still pretty useless- you don't 
 really need to add anything or take anything off to do anything special. The gameplay is still 
 very fun, I don't get people complaining that Crysis was all graphics and no gameplay. The AI had 
 some minor glitches, but it was still a great game over all.
  
  The special abilities options I liked most. It gave you different ways to go through the levels, 
 and gave each one re-playability. For example, one level you can go through turning on and off 
 stealth mode behind cover, taking out your enemies one-by-one with your silencer attached, the 
 next you can go in all guns ablazin' and punching your enemies to death with super-strength. 
 
  
  Great game over all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anakin198
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  I just don't know what to say about this game. I know everyone is going to rave about the graphics 
 any way it goes, but they are stunning. I'm just glad I have the computer to run it on very high 
 quality. The graphics are not all that the game has to offer. All the objects you encounter, including 
 the tires on the jeeps to palm trees, react realistically to whatever you do, whether it be shooting 
 or punching. The only thing that make this game sucks is the multiplayer gameplay. No team deathmatch. 
 I think the gameplay is better than Call of Duty 4 because you're free to do anything you want. 
 In this game, you're the main character, Nomad. You are an elite special forces operative with the 
 latest nanosuit technology. This is the best game of 2007. Really words cannot describe how good 
 this game is. Lets just say I wouldn't doubt it's going to be Game of the Year. I don't know why 
 you're reading this. You need to play this game now. Hopefully it will not come to console. It's 
 so deserving of success it's incredible. Surpasses Gears of War, Halo 3, and any other game that's 
 coming out in 2007. Perhaps only the mighty Mass Effect can stand near it due to it's massiveness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomashtom
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  I will review multiplayer
  It sucks, you need 100 bullets to kill someone , you must wait 10 seconds before respawn, helicopters 
 are raping spawn points , sniper bullet kill instantly regardless of your super suite. gameplay 
 in multiplayer is stupid as in the single player .
  Bad game. Bad recycling of far cry Play cod4 it's the best fps in the world. Better gameplay , 
 nicer look .crysis is realistic in look , but I hate stupid rainforests . I don't know how crysis 
 got such great score, it's same as kane&lynch. For what can you use good look , when in inside, 
 game is stupid and boring .
  
  Bad game. Bad recycling of far cry Play cod4 it's the best fps in the world. Better gameplay , 
 nicer look .crysis is realistic in look , but I hate stupid rainforests . I don't know how crysis 
 got such great score, it's same as kane&lynch. For what can you use good look , when in inside, 
 game is stupid and boring . (copy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyrone0us
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  Let's preface this by telling about my rig:
  
  2.4ghz Intel Core 2 Duo
  2gb ram
  8600GT 1GB
  
  Not amazing, not bad, but whatever the game runs mostly on medium at like uh... 
 1024x768ish.
  
  Moving on; the feats that Crysis pulls off are evident from the very beginning of the game. You 
 begin in a plane flying over an island which you jump out after a brief conversation with your 
 squad. As soon as you jump out the first thing you notice is the island below, followed very shortly 
 by the fact that you can keep spinning in any direction as if you were truly freefalling. No big 
 deal, ok so they figured out how to make you feel like you're falling, wow, I upgraded for this? 
 
  
  Let me tell you something, when you hit the water and start picking up turtles and messing with 
 your gun settings and suit modes and encounter your first enemy... how should I put this... I haven't 
 felt that excited since I saw the G-Man again in HL2. I'm sitting there thinking.. oh my god I'm 
 finally going to play a good fps for the first time in... forever.
  
  As you play on you start to realize just how much effort they put into making this feel realistic 
 and authentic. From being able to pick up enemys and choke them out and toss them to not being 
 allowed to get in car wrecks without dying, they did very well polishing this up while at the same 
 time literally giving you any option to complete your objectives. There are minor flaws, like picking 
 up an object, not being able to gently drop it, and therefore tossing it and having a barrel kill 
 you. Or when KPA soldiers are walking on a rope bridge only to have one of the boards glitch out 
 and kill him, but those are merely small prices to pay (Oh also when the KPA soldiers take a piss 
 the stream looks like a firehose) to have such freedom in a game. In the very first objective they 
 say "Take out that radar jammer". You have no explosives. I shot the first red barrels (we all 
 know what red barrel means) in the beginning, so that option was out, I couldn't make the barrels 
 blow up the jammer. So I begin to look for grenades... none. Rocket launcher? None. Finally after 
 wandering around a bit, I see a jeep that had pulled up after one of the soldiers shot a flare 
 for backup. I take the jeep and park it by the jammer, and shoot the extra tank of gas on the back 
 of the jeep and nearly pee myself as it ignites, the gas leaks out underneath the car, and it explodes 
 and takes the jammer with it.
  
  I know it's impossible to blow up a tank of gas let alone set it on fire with a bullet but still, 
 it was pretty f*ckin awesome. 
  
  The sounds are dead on, on harder difficulties the KPA soldiers speak actual Korean, guns sound 
 powerful, when you shoot someone it just sounds right, etc. The AI can zero in on you pretty quick, 
 and even on the more basic difficulties, if you can't utilize your suit properly, you'll die with 
 a couple of shots. However with the latest patch to, I think it's like 1.3, the AI responds pretty 
 intelligently, and physics glitches are very few. The vehicles are a lot of fun and very detailed, 
 for example you can read a car's gas and speedometer, however they don't handle like a real car, 
 and I've driven one of those pretty fast. 
  
  Overall there the flaws don't come close to the feats this game pulls off. It's just... you just 
 have to play it.
  
  Oh and on another note, multiplayer is nonexistant, this game should've had co-op or something 
 because the physics and such it just... it's just not built for multiplayer unfortunately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickstat
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is an epic, a fantasy and a real master piece. 
  All FPS have been different, i never understand why people say they are a;; the same... anyhow... Crysis 
 is something out of this world.
  YES it is true what they say about the graphics, AMAZING.
  But, just the graphics alone dont make Crysis, it is everything about it, it is truely love at 
 first sight.
  The begining is Fantastic, personal and full of emotion and clarity.
  The End is as such that you want more.
  You may even Cry when it ends.
  without going into 
 my personal detail about the game and its maps, i will leave that to you, as its so ritch with 
 life and reality it is different for everyone. its is Massive! 
  The weponry you have is classical style with many add'ons along the way, from granade launchers 
 to tacticle scopes. classic style but built to perfection. bullets go when you want them to go, 
 range is perfect and detailed sound as you hit your target is made. make sure you have the newest 
 patch, huge difference in sound.... and i mean HUGE!!!! 
  the tanks and jets and 4wheelers you drive and use are aso perfect, no flaws and they react to 
 environments better than racecar games. 
  Crysis i repeat is Amazing.
  combat... you can choose you oun style, long rage sniper to close up fist fights, if your good you 
 can strangle every single enemy in a vilage if you want, even use them as sheelds!!! holding them 
 in your left hand.
  game play..... is by far the best the world hase so far come across, without a doubt. to denie 
 this you would probably be a person born angry.
  THE IS THE BEST GAME OF ALL TIME
  its been a while since i have finished it and i still remember the suit voice when chaging suit 
 functions. im simply in shock and now all the new games im playing seem lame and S*!#.
  thats the only price you pay for playing Crysis, all other games will always seem like they are 
 missing half the alphabet.
  
  final coment?
  
  'MAXIMUM GAME' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PabloExobar
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 15, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  Let me start with what PC i played this game with. Well... multiple pc's.
  
  First:
  
  C2D 1.86GHz, 2GB RAM, X1950XT.
  
  Barely, but playable @ 1440x900 / DX9 / High
  
  Second:
 
  
  C2D 1.86GHz, 2GB RAM, 8800GT.
  
  Perfectly playable @ 1440x900 /DX9/High, but Vista + Very high was unplayable.
  
  Third (current) :
 
  
  C2D 3GHz, 3GB RAM, HD 4850.
  
  Very high is OK, though there are FPS drops. 1440x900, DX10.
  
  
  Now seeing that HD 4850 
 is faster than the best card that was available at the time the game was released (8800GTX) I guess 
 its fair to say that yes, it does look amazing (photorealism...) but it's system demand is unrealistically 
 high.
  
  What a pity, that, once you get over the looks, the physics... the game doesn't offer much. If 
 you haven't played Far Cry, the game might have a few tricks up it's sleeves. But if you have, 
 not really. You just rumble through the jungle. At first, you just fight humans, but then later, 
 you fight aliens. 
  
  The thing is, I actually would have preferred if the game was more realistic. I thought the whole 
 idea of the alien invasion and nano suit was unncessery. It could've been a Rambo Style fps where 
 you can stealth anytime you want.
  
  While according to the gameplay you can stay stealth anytime, it's not true.
  
  The AI sucks. 
 The AI soldiers will spot you from miles, and even if you hide in the terrain... they'll hear you. 
 It's almost impossible to play stealth.
  
  Another issue is that unless you pull off a PERFECT headshot, it's extremely hard to take down 
 the korean soldiers. I understand they are wearing bulletproof vests, but, in my opinion, their 
 high tolerance to bulletts can turn the game into a bit Quake-ish. 
  
  Once you reach the middle point the scenery changes into winter, plus aliens start coming at you. 
 While it is kind of a cool change of pace , there are certain levels that are extremely boring. 
 And the ending of the game feels really.... uninspiring. 
  
  It's short too. Due to the open enviorment I actually feel that it's extremely easy to make up 
 hours and hours of gameplay. All the developers should have done is just place random enemies on 
 random sceneires. And done. An extra 2 hours would've helped make the game much better.
  
  Once you finish the singleplayer, there's not much of a reason to go back to it. Only reason you 
 should is if you get a new PC and want to see how the game looks like with more eyecandy.
  
  Unfortunately, the multiplayer is crap. It's way too complicated, the maps are way too big, 
 and the gameplay is way too tiresome. Not to mention there are so many cheaters, it's almost impossible 
 to have a 100% fair game.
  
  Another huge issue is that Crytek stopped supporting the game.... so no more cheat prevention from 
 them. So... the mulitplayer is dead. Bugs remain. And........ that sucks. 
  
  Overall, its a must have game for people with good computers who also enjoy shooters. But unless 
 you have at least the recommended PC specs, just skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This was just one sweet game. I gotta go into detail, but let me get my 1 gripe out of the way. 
 HOLY SYSTEM HOG. The most recent updates have fixed that some what, but seriously this thing needs 
 an amazing system to get the gorgeous graphics it has the potential to show you. If you got th 
 emoney, go for it. If you don't, it is still worth playing just int he single player alone.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. Amazing lighting affects, trees move to gun fire! Guns can damage certain 
 objects and explosion happen beautifully. It is amazing how well enemies can blend in.
  
  Gameplay: This is the most freedom based game I have seen in sometime. You have massive areas to 
 work your way through in almost any way you see fit. Do you get options on which mission to take? 
 NO. And if you where in any portion of the military it would be the same way. You are assigned 
 a mission, you complete it. If this is hard for you to understand, don't join the military. Anyway, 
 the freedom you are given is in how to complete your mission, or even how to get the objective. 
 You can race in and try to use speed as your allie. You can come in cloaked, recon the area, find 
 the quietest way in and go from there. You can grab a truck, smash in and destroy everything in 
 site. My famorite move, when I see a small unit of enemy, is to let them pass until the tail gunner, 
 come out cloaked, grabe him and increase my strength and throw him at the rest of the enemies. 
 Then I just mop up the ones I didn't kill. it is almost as good as throwing a nade at them, but 
 I get to keep my nades! As if that wasn't enough, you can do almost whatever you want with your 
 guns too. Want a sniper? Take one then. Want to use iron sites on it, you can! Want ot put a 12x 
 scope on your smg, the scope will be bigger then the gun but you can do it! The game givbes your 
 freedom.
  
  Multiplayer: This is another shining star for the game, Objective or not based games still give 
 you freedom to choose. It is literaly the normal game in that sense, but you play against other 
 nanosuited enemies with better (or sometimes worse) intelligence. YOu get limited perks as well, 
 like one guy may have a motion sensor, one guy may be able to repair vehicle... ect. each has it's 
 value and when used together can become really affecive. The key is to get other people to harness 
 this possiblity. 
  
  All together an amazing game with only 1 problem, the amount of system required to run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBatFreak777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  this is one of those games that, if played on the right PC, can showcase an all new reality to 
 FPS gaming. this game has simply set a new standard in graphical achievement and the game isn't 
 half bad either.
  
  to be honest, the only thing this game is missing is a little bit longer single player campaign. 
 i would have loved it to be longer as it's just such a fun game to play.
  
  the alien world in this game is like nothing I've enjoyed in a long time in a game. It was just 
 so immersive and real. The artistry that went into this game shows through each and every minute 
 you play!
  
  I hope that anyone with a computer will pick this one and play it through. Even more, I hope that 
 the graphical quality of this game will set a new standard in PC gaming!
  
  Take some time and pick this one up at your local Gamestop! You won't regret it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is a great game, dont get me wrong. However, it has its shortcomings
  
  -Pros-
  *Grade 'A' gameplay
  *Awesome VIsual Effects
  *Detail on everything is Amazing
  *AI acts 
 Fairly Intelligent
  *Aliens from Outer Space look Awesome
  *Nanosuit Abilities are Pure Fun
  *First 1/2 of the Game Draws You In
  *Quality Voice Acting
 
  *Open Ended
  *Interactive Environment
  
  
  -Cons-
  *Hardware Demanding
  *AI gets Stumped once you Cloak
  *Typical Save the World Plot
  *Doesnt break any New Ground
 
  
  I'll say it again, its fun to play. The best way I can describe it is a pretty FPS. It doesn't 
 revolutionize anything like Half Life did back in the 90's. The Nanosuit is great fun but the game 
 lacks that extra pinch of love, and it shows time from time!
  
  Hardware/Software- Get a new Rig! Get the new drivers! Save the World! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McSpazzotron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  I just don't know what to say about this game. I know everyone is going to rave about the graphics 
 any way it goes, but they are stunning. I'm just glad I have the computer to run it. The graphics 
 are not all that the game has to offer. All the objects you encounter, including the tires on the 
 jeeps to palm trees, react realistically to whatever you do, whether it be shooting or punching. 
 I found many areas where I felt I could tackle the situation however I wanted, but I also felt 
 that my stealth tactics didn't usually go over so well, as reinforcements were almost always called 
 on me. Sneaking around can be quite satisfying, though, and is a lot easier that Far Cry thanks 
 to cloaking. I liked the length, but I still wanted to play it after I was done. I really wish 
 they would have put more of the jungle scenes in an removed more of the alien parts, although it 
 was fun, and sometimes disorienting, to be in zero gravity. It has weapon variety that I liked, 
 mostly because I liked the weapons that weren't based on real ones. The difficulty is a lot lower 
 in this game, so if you found Far Cry to be difficult, you will be right at home. Although, if 
 that game was easy, you will have to raise the difficulty some. For most of the game, I felt immersed 
 in it. Of course, outside distractions were kept to a minimum, and I don't find non-antialiased 
 graphics distracting. I felt that the multiplayer was a bit tacked on, though, and didn't add to 
 the excitement very much, me being more of a single player gamer. All in all, if you have a computer 
 that can run it and like shooters, you should at least download the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperQ-2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry appeared out of the blue in 2004 and quickly became an international PC favourite.
  
  The same developer, Crytek, has created plenty of hype about its latest outing, though, since 
 it features an interesting game engine, dubbed Cryengine2, along with updated graphics that Microsoft 
 has been touting as proof of DirectX 10's brilliance.
  
  Crysis' gameplay centres on a high-tech 'nano suit' that you and your comrades don to out-manoeuvre 
 enemies. The suit has four main functions: invisibility, strength, speed or armour.
  
  Armour is the default setting and lets you take a lot more bullets without dying and enables your 
 suit to recover the energy needed to perform the other functions. Invisibility will appeal to stealth-minded 
 gamers, but it drains the suit's energy and wears out within a few seconds, which is a real disappointment.
 
  
  Strength is the most innovative suit setting, allowing you to jump several feet in the air onto 
 buildings, over walls and even over enemy jeeps. Strength also means you can grab a bad guy by 
 the neck and do away with him in one go.
  
  It takes a lot of practice to get used to changing suit types (you use the middle mouse button) 
 but once mastered, different suit types can be called upon at speed, allowing you to use the skills 
 you prefer.
  
  The plot is top-drawer stuff with decent voice acting throughout. You start off investigating a 
 disturbance on a North Korean-controlled tropical island, the atmosphere of which feels a lot like 
 Far Cry. After a few hours of dealing with the Koreans on foot, you get to a tank level which is 
 unnecessarily difficult. We had to admit defeat and turn the settings down to 'easy' to get through, 
 but even then we died a number of times. Get past that point, though, and aliens come out of the 
 woodwork in some truly epic settings, the most impressive being a zero-gravity alien spaceship.
 
  
  The tank, jeep, flying and zero-gravity levels make the suit abilities less relevant, which is 
 a shame because you'll only just have mastered them. Another major flaw is that the game ends halfway 
 through the story. Aliens remain on the planet and other loose ends regarding the nano suit technology 
 are left dangling. A sequel is undoubtedly around the corner and the boring online mode (which 
 lacks any kind of team deathmatch) makes it very unsatisfying in the light of Half Life 2's The 
 Orange Box, which provides several more hours of gameplay.
  
  Crysis has sincere graphical importance though, since Microsoft packed its Vista coverage with 
 screenshots from the game to prove DirectX 10's value. In fact, several small configuration file 
 changes have been uncovered that enable you to play Crysis with the DirectX 10 special effects 
 on a DirectX 9 system.
  
  Despite this, the extraordinary character detail and gigantic visuals are undeniably jaw-dropping. 
 One level has an entire mountain falling apart, while another has an alien sphere engulf that same 
 mountain. It is cinematic gaming in every sense, although the visuals are dumbed down on all systems 
 not containing a Geforce 8800 or ATI Radeon 2900 or 3800 series card.
  
  The gameplay in Crysis is superb - probably the best we've experience this year so far. The Orange 
 Box and Call of Duty 4 last longer and are more complete than Crysis, and the fact that we award 
 Crysis four stars rather than five is simply an indication of the golden era of gaming on the PC 
 that we currently live in.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asad_azam
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  
  
  Crysis definitely marks the beginning of a new generation in the gaming world. After such a long 
 wait , Crysis provides its players with an experience which has rarely been provided by any game 
 till date. Crysis's main attraction is its JAW-DROPPING graphics , and the upper cases shows how 
 serious I am .This is easily the best looking game ever with each and every element improvised 
 to near-perfection. This game in not just about the eye candy. Crysis offers stunning gamelay and 
 sports superb audio.
  The developers are the same one that gave us 'Far Cry'. Crytek proves that the success of Far Cry 
 was not a fluke.
  
  Towards the story now , an asteroid crashes in the south china sea. The koreans are quick to react 
 and secure the site. The americans sends Jake Dunn (you) to investigate the matter and to find out 
 the true motto of the koreans. 
  You are provided with a prototype suit called 'the Nanosuit' which is your best ally in the game. The 
 Nanosuit gives you the speed of 'superman' , agility like the 'spiderman' ,armour like the 'ironman' 
 and strength of 'the thing'. The suit can be switched to 4 different modes as per the situation 
 and preferences. You can use the 'speed mode' to escape from a tricky situation. It makes tou sprint 
 at an unbelievable speed for a around 3-4 seconds. 'Strength mode' is helpful when you are low 
 on ammo. It makes your punches a 1 shot kill. It also make you jump much higher.'Armour mode' gives 
 you the an extra protection in the heat of the battle.
  Probly the best and the baddest mode is the 'Cloak mode'. You can use it to become invisible for 
 a limited period of time. Its very helpful to sneak around without getting too much of attention. If 
 you fire while in the cloak mode, you become visible again. Cloak mode can be reactivated only 
 after the suit's energy level reaches 100. Just keep yourself out of the enemys' bullets for a few 
 seconds and it regenerates automatically.
  
  The game offers weapon customisation on the go. Press 'C' and a menu pops up which lets you choose 
 between scopes ,flashlights ,laser guides ,ammo type and silencers. This feature is very neat 
 
  as you can adopt quickly to the everchanging dynamics in Crysis.
  
  Further down the storyline, you find out that the asteroid was acrually an alien ship. Now begins 
 the battle for survival. You enter the 'alien-o-sphere' and you fight in ZeroG. Sweet. Not much of 
 strategy is required to fight the aliens as you can pretty much 'run and gun' combined with proper 
 use of the cloak mode. I have Finished the game 3 times and its always great fun. As a matter of 
 fact ,I am so obsessed with this game that have forgotten the word 'crisis' !!
  
  And Yes, there is also a very good multiplayer mode waiting for you. The popular 'team deathmatch' 
 has been omitted though.
  Crysis is a game which you simply have to play, provided you have a heavy duty machine.
  
  
 Miss the game at your own risk .. because it is amongst five best games of all times !!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysis-matter
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  crysis is a fun game with amazing gameplay and AWESOME graphics. this game is mainly fun fighting 
 the humans. the aliens are ok but it loses some intrest when fighting them but there still ok. this 
 game has amazing gameplay. it is fun when you either grabing a dude a throwing him with strength 
 mode or runing them over. the nano-suit is cool it comes with cloak, speed, strength, and armor 
 these abilitys are cool but dont last forever so you will have to let it "recharge". you can customize 
 your gun to had little things like a sniper scopes and silencer. the fraphics in this game are 
 Awesome. it is the most relistic game ever. Leaves move whens you shot them and trees fall down 
 it is so real. since this game is so relistic it likes lots of system requierents for it to run 
 real well. the only issue I have is the AI is actually dumb. for a game thats so advanced they 
 could have made the enemys not GET run over. But crysis is still awesome!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosuchsol
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Now, I'm not saying that this game wasn't exciting, but I certainly wasn't impressed with the actual 
 gameplay. It's a beautiful game that really punishes a system. I was able to play on High settings 
 on my new comp without massive load times or a lot of slow down. The world is lush, the characters 
 are incredibly details, and the physics are hilariously fun. The cavaet was the fact that I've 
 been there before. I've played HL/HL2, BioShock, Unreal, Doom, Quake, RTCW, Halo, etc, and it just 
 takes certain revolutionary ideas from those games and makes them a little more pretty. If you 
 have the system for it, pick it up on sale and give it a whirl. If you're looking for something 
 that blows you away with the story and single-player game play then look more at Bioshock or HL: Orange 
 Box. David Spade: I liked it better the first time when it was Far Cry.. yuck yuck yuck... =\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp0svolc0mx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Crysis is the "next-gen" follow-up to Crytek's previous masterpiece: Farcry. Farcry delivered on 
 its beautiful graphics, solid gunplay, great A. I, and open-end gameplay. When its running full 
 steam, Crysis, in stunning. All the details in the graphics and in the game are amazing. But that 
 is the problem, the game screams promises but never delivers. The A. I is questionable at best: 
 you shoot, they respond, they cover, they shoot back, they throw grenades, repeat. Also, they can 
 take a couple of clips of ammo until they finally die. Which waters down the experience. The story 
 is a silly C+ summer action flick that does not worry about the bad writing, only delivers on mindless 
 action. Since the game is a power-hog, pop-ups and slow downs are so frequent that you are forced 
 to play and a lower setting. Playing Farcry on MAX settings looks much better. But if you are looking 
 for a solid FPS, with a fun multiplayer, and mindless action. Crysis is a solid choice for you. 
 Crysis is a step foward, but due to the technical issues of the game, it is a small step. But playing 
 on MAX settings, nothing looks better than CRYSIS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toomsuba2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed this game, but it does have flaws. 
  
  Graphics: 10/10. This game has absolutely amazing graphics, although I don't think any computer 
 can handle everything maxed out right now. I like how you can destroy the environments, which leads 
 to a new feeling of fun. 
  
  Gameplay: 8.2/10. This game features good gameplay, but not as amazing as F. E. A. R.'s. It is fun 
 to be able to choose loud, full frontal assaults, or silent, hitman style assaults. However, the 
 game's gameplay is no-where near as amazing as its graphics. 
  
  Replay Value: 9.7/10. Period. Best replay value other than Mass Effect's. 
  
  Sound: 9.5/10. 
 Great sound. 
  
  
  Impressive as it is, this game's graphics are far better than the rest of its features. Worth the 
 money, but short. I recommend it, but not as much as I recommend Halo or F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeriousSean
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  You'll probably hear people betchin' about the fact that Crysis is but a clone of FarCry. They're 
 both taking place on a (n) island (s) . They're both filled with enemies who scream bad insults at 
 you (however entertaining they may be, they're bad) . They both contain a separate enemy that pops 
 up (be they aliens or trigens) . Yes, they're very similar. You could probably say that Crysis is 
 a "spiritual sequel" to FarCry. And you could also probably say that if Crysis were in fact FarCry 
 2 people wouldn't have betched about them being similar. But whatever it plays like, it's just 
 too damn fun to pass up.
  There are few things that separate Crysis from other modern first person shooters, but these few 
 things are more than enough the make the game recommendable to any first person shooter enthusiast. 
 Firstly, there is your super-suit. You can set it to armor, which gives you armor (really?!) . You 
 can set it to speed, which makes you do everything faster (gasp!) . You can set it to cloak, which 
 makes you virtually invisible (although alerted AI is likely to spot you up close, and firing from 
 cloak instantly drains you suit power and leaves you extremely vulnerable) . You can set it to strength, 
 which makes you super strong, and is by far, in my opinion, the most entertaining (you can reduce 
 recoil, punch down buildings, swing pots, rocks, branches, etc fast enough to kill instantly, and 
 throw anything not nailed down, including unruly Koreans, at speeds fast enough to smear your enemies 
 to a fine paste) . You can also collect a fine amount of modifications to fit your weapons. Pretty 
 much every gun is customizable. You get scopes, sniper scopes, red-dot sights, lasers, flashlights, 
 silencers, grenade launchers, and in one case incendiary ammo. If you want, you can put a sniper 
 scope on your shotgun and fire away.
  And with all this stuff they basically drop you on an island and say, "do this, and this, and that," 
 then they leave you to your own devices. You can sneak, you can mow everyone down, you can grab 
 hold of a pot, turn on super strength, and run about the whole level bashing in peoples skulls 
 with it. I've only played on hard (I'm just that cool; I would have played on "Delta" mode, but 
 it's no fun tormenting those poor Koreans unless I can hear them shrieking in English) and you 
 must use your suit to survive, but even if you didn't need to use your suit it's just fun as hell 
 to do so. You can use vehicles to attack by land or sea; you can do whatever the hell you please. 
 This game is a sadist's dream. No, there is no gore, but just read on.
  You can grab Koreans by their throats. You can see the fear in his eyes as you hold him in one 
 hand and use the assault rifle in your other to shoot his clueless buddies in the backs of their 
 heads. Then you can turn on super strength and hurl his body through the side of a building. Let 
 me just list some of the awful things I've done to these poor Koreans. I've beat them to death 
 with a stone, with a pot, with their own friends, with a piece of a tree, with a barrel, a tire, 
 with my bare hands. I've broken their backs on stones, trees, vehicles, buildings. I've held them 
 by their throats in one hand and beat them to death with the other. I've used them as shields. 
 I've purposely held them so that they've been shot by their friends, thrown them into claymore 
 rigged fences, into mine fields, and, one time, into a shallow pool of water then stood on him 
 until he drowned. Awesome, simply freakin' awesome.
  I'll be the first to admit that soon after the aliens show their smug faces the game goes downhill. 
 It becomes linear, and chances are you'll be using your suit in fun ways a hell of a lot less. 
 But that isn't to say it's no longer fun. Just not as fun.
  This will be the only paragraph I mention the graphics in. Yes they're awesome. I can't run it 
 at the highest settings. In fact, I run it at mediums across the board except for textures (which 
 I switch back and forth between high and very high) , water detail (very high) , post processing 
 (very high) , shadows (high and very high) , motion blur (very high) . I run it on an e6750, two gigs 
 of memory, an old ass Audigy sound card, and a 512mb Geforce 8600. This is a good gaming rig, but 
 it's not s**t your pants awesome. I feel bad for the people who complain that they can't run in 
 on the highest settings because they can't just shut the hell up and enjoy the game. If I weren't 
 stuck with Vista (my XP hard drive died violently) I could probably run it a bit faster.
  Just buy the damn game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grampy_Bone
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Crysis was released to much fanfare and anticipation, heralding in a new age of cutting edge graphics 
 and innovative gameplay for the PC. While the game sold decently enough, it didn't prove to be 
 the smash hit the developers were hoping for. They promptly went on several rants blaming piracy. 
 While game piracy certainly is a problem, could it be that maybe the game didn't sell well because 
 the system requirements are so obscene they would make John Carmack blush, and the gameplay is 
 mostly derivative of the standard shooter formula?
  
  Yeah, the graphics of Crysis are good. Really, really good. It doesn't exactly open with its best 
 trick though; the intro sequence consists of an air insertion at night which isn't very impressive. 
 When day breaks the first real glimpse of Crysis's true potential is seen. When you get to the 
 stranger parts in the later areas of the game, you will see how impressive the graphics can get. 
 The problem is, while a good high end PC can run the game on the high settings, to run it on max 
 setting requires the kind of computer a billionaire playboy installs in his secret lair to fight 
 crime. The kind of PC shadow governments use to control the world, before they become sentient 
 and try to kill us all. All of this so you can see bushes and trees in a jungle. The thing about 
 the graphics is that an open, outdoor, expansive jungle environment just isn't as impressive as 
 it used to be. When Far Cry came out we were all impressed by the unprecedented view distance; 
 nowadays that just doesn't cut it anymore.
  
  In Crysis you play Nomad, a member of a US special forces commando team using high-tech nanomachine-powered 
 combat suits. You team is being sent in to an island occupied by North Korea in order to rescue 
 some scientist-type person. Things go bad almost immediately and you realize there is more on this 
 island than just the Koreans. This could have been a moment of true suspense and surprise as they 
 slowly reveal what the hell is going on. Except that every preview and screenshot released by Crytek 
 had the answer plastered all over it: ALIENS! The island has aliens on it!! Good job spoiling your 
 own plot twist, guys. Other than that the characters are cliche stereotypes, the plot is mostly 
 forgettable, and the ending is a massive cliffhanger. It just serves as an excuse to shoot Korean 
 soldiers and alien robots.
  
  The game opens with a video of the gameplay, which shows your character leaping over cars and blowing 
 them up, charging enemies and punching them into oblivion, jumping on top of houses and gunning 
 down dozens of bad guys, and other crazy-awesome looking things. It is important to note that if 
 you attempt to play the game this way, you will quickly and spectacularly die. In the actual game 
 the best way to proceed is to take potshots at the bad guys from as far away as possible while 
 hiding behind a tree. This is the main problem with Crysis: it just doesn't deliver on the incredible 
 cool gameplay it seems to promise.
  
  Your nanosuit has four settings and a recharging power meter. Each setting uses the power for different 
 effects; the armor setting uses the power meter as a second health bar, the speed setting lets 
 you sprint for a short time, the strength setting lets you jump high and punch hard, and the stealth 
 setting turns you invisible. The problem is despite your high tech nanosuit, you are still incredibly 
 fragile. A few bullets will drop your shield, and a few more will kill you; this makes the speed 
 and strength settings essentially useless (because they take away your shield when activated) . 
 The stealth setting is quite handy, but it deactivates when you fire, so you have to make your 
 shots count. While Nomad's aiming skills are probably very good by realistic standards, they suck 
 as far as videogame heroes go. You can aim down the sights of the gun, and eventually find scopes 
 and such you can attach to your weapons, but a significant amount of scope-wobble prevents you 
 from ever aiming accurately, even while prone. It doesn't help that the enemies can withstand a 
 ton of gunfire, despite lacking high-tech nanosuits and only wearing crummy old body armor. God 
 help you when enemies show up that are wearing nanosuits. Though they are described as wearing 
 'crappy knockoffs,' they can still sustain far more gunfire than you can, even from the game's 
 more powerful weapons. The only real advantage your suit has is regenerating health, as long as 
 you can avoid getting shot for a few seconds, which is why hiding in the bushes as far away as 
 possible is so important. The enemies have eagle vision and are crack shots though, so good luck.
 
  
  There are some other interesting gameplay elements thrown in, such as the the HUD system which 
 highlights enemies when they shoot at you or when you spot them with binoculars; it also highlights 
 grenades. The stealth meter from Far Cry returns, letting you know when the bad guys see you. There 
 are vehicles to drive, consisting of Humvees, gun boats, one section where you drive a tank, and 
 another where you control a helicopter-thing. The vehicles are characterized by their lack of armor 
 and extreme vulnerability to bullets, and without regenerating health this makes them basically 
 mobile coffins. The tank section is particularly frustrating because if you take too many hits 
 early on (from enemy tanks you can't even spot) you simply won't have enough health left to complete 
 it and will have to start over.
  
  There is something to be said for games with good graphics which are still functional. The focus 
 of Crysis is on gimmicky bells-and-whistles while delivering a sloppy plot and inconsistent gameplay. 
 It isn't very long, although the final boss battles are so incredible you may not even realize 
 it at first. Still, without the rapid fanbase of a game like Halo, consumers could see Crysis for 
 what it really is: a somewhat above average FPS, and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Rocky-X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Crytek anounced that there new game "Crysis" was going to be a revolutionary mark to pc gaming, 
 and so it was. The new Crytek engine put the xbox 360 and the ps3 to the ground, Crysis was a total 
 humilation for the next generation consoles, a lot of people said that pc gamimg was over a soon 
 as the ps3 and the xbox 360 were released and for some time, it was. But then new games started 
 to be produced also to the pc, like call of duty 4 and others, but no one was expecting one game 
 exclusive for pc to be what crysis is. CRYSIS it's the better graphical game ever seen or made 
 until now, crytek engine made crysis look beautifull, directX 10, also helped the game, its fantastic 
 i my opinion, the jungle consumes you with the realism, the sea, the reflexion in the other, it's 
 realy, realy beatifull, but there is one little problem with all this, its that this game was made 
 for pc's but not normal pc's that exist in our time, they were making a game for pc's that not 
 even exists on market, if they waited like 2 years, maybe people were able to play the game right 
 how it should be, maximum graphics.
  In 2 or 3 years this game would fit better in pc's.
  But Taking all those graphics and stuff like that, its a really good game, an interestic history 
 and good gameplay, the suit really give you some fun like becoming invisible and killing guys from 
 beyond, good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I really really enjoyed this game... or what of it I could play. With a good solid gaming computer, 
 or anything with a duel core processor and at least a 8800 card this game runs like a charm on 
 all but the ULTRA settings. but in all reality there is only so much better it can look between 
 HIGH and Ultra high. the game play is really fun. depending on your difficulty you can run and 
 gun or sneak and snipe like a true spec ops beast. the story is also fun and will absolutely draw 
 you in. and the AI is pretty good too. the physics can also be a ton of fun once you get a feel 
 for them. All that said there are deffinatly draw backs to this game. the first and the one everyone 
 talks about is sys requirements.... they are huge... if you dont have a brand new computer or lots 
 of upgrades dont even try... Second there are way to many flaws with this game even after a patch. 
 Saves can randomly disappear, missions will fail to complete for no reason OR the objectives wont 
 be where they are supposed to be or wont spawn at all... also there are two missions that feel kinda 
 tacked on for the sake of having them *tank* *VTOL* while the tank mission can be done on foot 
 and is actually kinda fun the VTOL mission took FOREVER because the thing flies about as well as 
 a Gray hound Bus. Lastly there is a severe lack of guns in the campaign. The multiplayer *when 
 I could get it to connect* was really fun but for some reason and im not sure if this was a general 
 thing or just me, but gamespy would randomly not recognize my account and not let me to play. I 
 guess that would be another downsider, the MP is only accessible through Gamespy that im aware 
 of... All in all this game was really fun to play but the bugs TOTALY ruins the experience... but 
 i have to recommend this game... just dont be surprised if the game goes nuts randomly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  10 - 1 = Very short single player mode and end adruptly. Come on, make it a standard version of 
 longer single play mode, please? Expensive to buy it! 
  10 - 1 = low various type of weapons and vehicles.
  10 - 1 = Multiplayer mode not for amateur 
 player like me. Also dislike the feature armed with a pistol for start up and I prefer EA's approved 
 servers rather than other 3rd party servers. e. g. BF2 ranked servers are one of the best. One word 
 : simplicity stills the best. 
  10 - 1 = Enemy AI should be improved! pretty dumb for single player mode.
  10 + 1 = Astonishing 
 graphics, anyway, most of the games can do that except the content, the theme and the story line 
 games are hard to please players.
  10 + 1 = Online Cheat protection features, this is what makes me bought this game but still very 
 disappointed cos players still cheat online when playing. Sugguesting 2 type of servers, one for 
 normal play no cheat and another for do whatever as u like when playing online.
  10 + 1 = U can play various of tactical mode to achieve your objectives. e. g. Direct confrontation? 
 Infilration? stealth mode? that's why I love best. 
  
  So 10 - 4 + 3 = 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LA_BooM_420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  i'm hopelessly addicted to this game, and in truth nothing looks better. physics are great with 
 the rite processor, you can destroy just about everything in the game with a well placed grenade 
 or demo pack. shame not everybody can enjoy it as i have. the multiplayer follows through with 
 the amazing single player but its littered with hacker d-ckheads than ruin the game .... nukes 
 in conquest ... big big nuclear explosions .... looks real sweet. i wouldn't recomend this game 
 for anyone with less than late dual core or better cpu with at least 3 gigs of ram and dual 8800gt's 
 in sli otherwise. you're really missing out on the graphics side and anything less couldn't offer 
 much of a frame rate without some serious config modding. otherwise just wait for warhead on xb360 
 and ps3.
  
  p. s. dx10 is a scam i've seen it with my own two eyes. dx9 capable cards can unlock missing features 
 within the config files and its as easy as downloading them from gamespot. it looks exactly the 
 same. having the power to run it maybe an issue tho if your forced to that alternative.
  
  i run it in dx9 on my hdtv because dx10 won't alow this game to sync at higher than 27hz with my 
 samsung. weird i know but like i said dx9 is more stable and there is virtually no quality loss 
 at all + i get my 60hz :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  First person shooters are a dime a dozen now a days. It seems that every time you turn around there 
 is another FPS being developed, and whether you are a console or PC fan, there doesn't seem to 
 be a shortage of good and bad FPS games out there. This is what makes Crysis so great. A FPS game 
 are typically known to be showcases for stunning next gen graphics, but Crysis goes way beyond 
 that, and even boasts futuristic gameplay and sandbox style action.
  
  Crysis begins with an elite group of soldiers going to a remote island to rescue some American 
 archaeologists being held captive by the Korean army. Clad in Nano suits, Nomad, Jester, Aztec, 
 Psycho and Prophet, are air dropped in, where the trouble begins. The team is separated, and almost 
 instantly things go wrong, and Aztec is killed in a mysterious fashion that could not be done by 
 man. As Nomad, you are set off onto the huge island to find out what is going on.
  
  Just about the only complaints about Crysis came from how demanding the game is. Even on very strong 
 rigs, this game can and will drop in frame rates at times. This game was, however, very playable 
 about 99% of the time on very high for my machine, considering I have a 20 inch monitor. And it 
 is worth it. The game is stunning, with the richest and most realistic water effects ever seen 
 in a game. Trees sway in the wind, and will flop about when a bullet whizzes past it. Trees will 
 snap in half when shot, and topple over with very realistic physics. If you look at the sun through 
 a tree, the sun beams will glimmer through the leaves. The nano suit will glow with the appropriate 
 enhancement selected. Explosions look extremely realistic, with large explosions mushrooming up 
 with arms of smoke extending out. Not enough can be said about the graphics. There truly has not 
 been a game out there that can match the graphical output of this game. 
  
  The sound is also just as stunning. Explosions will make your speakers shutter, gun shots pop and 
 whiz around you, the splash of water when a bullet hits it. This truly is the closes thing to real 
 life at times. The voice acting is top notch. Nomad, you player, sounds a bit monotone compared 
 to the other characters, but is great when he does speak. Other team members have there own disticnt 
 voice acting as well, with Psycho's British accent and Jesters cocky speech. The Koreans have a 
 thick accent, and on a certain difficulty setting will actually speak Korean. 
  
  The gameplay is also a blast. This truly is one of the greatest sandbox FPS games out there. The 
 majority of the game you can decide where to go, and how to approach objectives. With your nano 
 suit, you can switch between different settings, which include armor, which protects you from most 
 damage, strength, which allows you to punch harder and jump higher, speed, which gives you a large 
 boost in running speed and allows you to punch faster and reload faster, and cloak, which allows 
 you to go invisible. This may make you seem invincible, but the suit runs out of power pretty quickly. 
 Plus there is a voice that says "Maximum (power) " every time you use a power, which is neat. The 
 nano suit really enhances the gameplay, because it gives you the freedom to choose how you want 
 to engage a situation. If you want to go in stealthy, you can put a silencer on your weapon and 
 engage cloak. Or you can go in guns flying with armor engaged. Most of the time, I would use a 
 mixture of each, cloak till you get close enough, speed in, kill most of the enemies, then pummel 
 the rest with strength. It is the freedom of each situation that makes it great. Unfortunately, 
 at the end of the game, it gets a little linear.
  
  By the time you get to one of the most touted aspects of the game, the aliens, things get a little 
 less interesting. The alien ship is quite linear, and floating around in zero g is not too fun. 
 The ship is absolutely gorgeous, but is difficult to move around in and find your way. There was 
 literally a time where I was doing nothing but killing aliens because I couldn't find a way out, 
 but I was supposed to wait nearly 10 minutes for a door to open. The alien segments are interesting 
 though. The aliens like to freeze everything, so seeing a tropical island frozen like the arctic 
 is really cool. The final fight on a ship was a little boring as well, as it seemed like it was 
 tacked on at the end. 
  
  Multiplayer is another strong aspect of this game. There is two modes, a deathmatch mode and a 
 Power Struggle mode. In deathmatch, all the suit powers are available, which makes the matches 
 unique and fun. The Power Struggle is where most of the fun is at, with two teams trying to take 
 out the others headquarters. You start out with a bare bones "prototype" suit and weapons, and 
 can upgrade when objectives are completed or kills are achieved. Most games can be judged by the 
 amount of community support, such as mods. And this game is almost as expansive with its mods as 
 Morrowind or Oblivion is. There are great mods out there, such as a neat prehistoric mod and even 
 a mod that makes this game look even better! This is all achieved with the Sandbox Editor, which 
 is a a little difficult to use, but very expansive.
  
  This is one of the first games to use Direct X 10 to its fullest, but the differences between DX9 
 and 10 is kind of minimal. This is important because, despite being as demanding as it is, the 
 game actually does play decently on lower end rigs. Even the lowest setting looks great, usually 
 on par with some of the releases today! Medium looks incredible as well, with high and very high 
 looking breathtaking! Unfortunately, the game came with its share of bugs. When it was first released, 
 it was completely unplayable on SLI rigs, something that was thankfully fixed on a patch. And frame 
 rate was enhanced across the board with later patches. This was unfortunate at first, as it kept 
 me from enjoying the game till months after I purchased it. Other small bugs reared its face. One 
 specific time, while I was stalking out in a forest, a group of Korean were walking my way, when 
 one tripped and fell, then all the others tripped and fell on top of him, so a grenade to their 
 face was to follow. 
  
  Not enough can be said about Crysis. Any FPS fan should not hold themself back on this great game. 
 Despite how demanding it is, it should run fairly good on most computers. I rarely go back a replay 
 a game, but this is one exception to that. The best single player experience since Half Life 2 
 and superb multiplayer since Counterstrike should not go unplayed by anybody!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitjob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  First off, the specs on my machine can handle Crysis on all high settings albeit playing in dx9 
 and at 1024 x 768 resolution. This keeps the framerate steady. But it still looks great.
  
  My comp:
  Intel quad core Q9495 2.66
  4 GB of RAM
  Nvidia Geforce 8800GT
  750 GB HD
  
 
  granted I could probably play it at higher resolutions and with more AA (but I've yet to try it) .
 
  
  Overall I completed Crysis in about 12-15 hours. It's a very fun game for the first half but tapers 
 out in the second half. And like any game, it does come with some flaws and limitations.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Crawling around the jungle and blasting North Koreans couldn't be more fun. The 
 game starts out pretty simple and quiet, but gradually ramps up the action. From raiding NKA villages 
 in a covert operation, you move on to being dropped into full blown war with the Marines coming 
 ashore. From then in it just gets more intense when you hop in a tank and are greeted by an entire 
 valley shooting at you. Guess what, you and your buddies are outgunned by Korean tanks and rocket 
 carrying infantry. It's an impressive display of chaos as shells and rockets fall short of impacting 
 your tank and some get lucky. The freeform gameplay of letting you choose how to accomplish your 
 objectives by keeping you on course is great fun. Although the maps are huge, I've found that there 
 physical boundaries (mainly cliffs) that prevent you from exploring about 1/4 of the map. The second 
 half of the game sees you fighting aliens. From here on, it turns more into Call of Duty style 
 gameplay with you following orders and being lead around by the nose. You have no choice but to 
 stay on track and do as your told. No more roaming around, no more deciding between stealth or 
 force, you just follow orders and blast away at the aliens as they mindlessly charge at you. The 
 saving grace is that the set pieces are epic, but replayability in the second half is diminished.
 
  
  The nanosuit is not particularly revolutionary (many other games have attempted similar elements, 
 e. g. Project Snowblind) . But, it does add an extra element to the action. The modifying of weapons 
 on the fly is fun, but I wish they given more accessories. Furthermore, I rarely found myself using 
 grenades, and when I did, I only used frags.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is excellent and does well to set the atmosphere. The rustling of leaves as you walk 
 through them, the powerful sound of the weapons, and later, the thunder of having tank shells shot 
 at you is exhilarating. Furthermore, I must say that the grenades in this game (though I didn't 
 use them much) are terrifying. When the Koreans first threw a frag to flush me out of a tin hut, 
 I nearly jumped out of my seat when I heard the loud bang of the detonation. The music is a bit 
 understated and not powerful enough for my tastes. But it works. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  If you have a strong system to handle it, then it looks great. The jungle looks terrific. The fire 
 and explosions look excellent. The alien ship is surreal, but unfortunately, there's not much you 
 can interact with in it. The ironic thing is, I remember when Far Cry, or if you prefer, F. E. A. R. 
 came several years ago, and we all said it had jaw-dropping graphics and it was a hardware hog. 
 But now, any decent machine can handle those, and their graphics have definitely aged. Point being, 
 in few years we'll be saying the same things about the graphics in Crysis.
  
  A. I.:
  
  The artificial intelligence works well. The North Koreans use squad tactics and come at you with 
 fervor. It takes about 3-5 rounds to the torso to kill them, but it's understandable since they 
 wear body armor. The aliens are a different story. They basically charge at you and dodge some 
 of your attacks. That's it. Personally I would've liked to see more variety in the enemies (kinda 
 like with Halo) and how you would need to change tactics depending on the adversary. It would have 
 also been neat to come across some skirmishes between the Koreans and the aliens. It would've made 
 the second half of the game more free form.
  
  In short, the first half of the game does have good replayability due to it's free form. But the 
 second half merely holds you by the hand and throws large epic set pieces at you, much like call 
 of duty. It's a fun game no doubt, but it does have some weaknesses that show through.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuke_rochill
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  No, not that destructible environments beautifully rendered like tropical getaways is distasteful. 
 But Far Cry and its successor Far Cry 2 also gave us the same theme. A change of scenery would 
 have been welcome. Crysis however delivers in terms of immersion and game play. No other game in 
 the market feels close to realism as Crysis does. In terms of firefights or interaction. That said 
 there are of course plenty of areas that Crytek could have made the game feel and play better. 
 But since I don't quite have any knowledge how to make fantastic games I'd rather keep mum.
  Crysis takes you through lush tropical jungles to frozen terrains with a dose of clich alien environment. 
 Though the storyline isn't exactly a breath of fresh air the game play certainly is. Playing and 
 adapting to various scenarios through the different nano suit modes is engaging however at lower 
 difficulties the game is simply too forgiving, the Delta mode is the most challenging but at times 
 unnecessarily brutal. For instance soldiers manage to hear you from quite a distance, attacking 
 with unbelievable courage (if I may say so) and ferocity. With ammo and grenades not exactly plentiful 
 and hordes of soldiers bent on search and destroy, its gets painfully difficult. If North Korean 
 soldiers are eerily good of hearing with awesome skills then I'm at fault. 
  Sound effects are brilliant and adds a greater degree of realism to the game. With that said I 
 recommend the game for fans of Far Cry and Halo. Now of course I could simply go on about the game 
 being a franchise which redefined FPS but, you must have already heard that a ton of times. With 
 that, next time again, adios amigo. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: santig91
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  if you are expecting for an encouraging game sci-fi shooter styled, this is the best choice. Crysis 
 is in all an excellent and purifying game that turns your into an elite future soldier that needs 
 to handle an hominid alien invasion, but in all you make all your way trough a misterious island 
 that protreys enemies everywhere..... the storyline as you can see it is amazing, the sound unveliebably 
 real and the graphics, OMG the graphics!!! are the best damn graphics ive ever seen in my videogame 
 experience, its awesome, excellent and i think i wont regret putting to this game the highest rank.... but 
 really, it deserve it !!!! ........  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacnar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Wow! That is the first thing you will say when you see this for the first time. The graphics in 
 this game are top of the line. Once you start playing you will get sucked in. With the suit powers 
 and the multiple approaches on most maps, you have many options on how to reach your objectives. 
 The game can sometimes throw too much at you and you will have to replay parts over and over again. 
 The levels that were inside the alien ship were really cool at first, but quickly became tedious. 
 The multiplayer is good, but since I am mostly a team deathmatch player it is lacking in my opinion. 
 Also the buying system for multiplayer is a little annoying to me. I prefer the unlocks and weapon 
 classes in other games like COD 4. If your computer can run this game, I highly recommend it.
 
  
  As a footnote, when I built my latest computer, I made sure that it would run Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeyDoYaThang
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed Far Cry then you will most likely enjoy Crysis. Your US Special Forces team clad 
 in high-tech nanosuits that can boost your strength, speed, and armor, and cloaking is parachuted 
 above into a tropical paradise to investigate. You will soon find that you have more than just 
 the North Koreans to worry about. 
  
  Crysis is what you might call a sandbox game where you're put into very large levels and given 
 objectives to carry out. Although the island is crawling with enemies you will have your nanosuit 
 to aid you in all your tasks. You can switch between strength in order to jump and reach hard to 
 access places to cloak and quickly hide from your enemies. Have to cross a large distance? With 
 super speed covering those long distances are a breeze.
  
  The game is a cinematic experience and you will notice this once you begin leveling the jungle 
 in front of you with a wide variety of weapons and vehicles. If you manage to get your hands on 
 a nuclear tank make sure that whatever you are firing at is no where near you because it can cause 
 quite the blast.
  
  You'll storm North Korean villages;, take part in a assault on a North Korean harbor; and enter 
 some areas never seen before by man. I prefer the wide open jungle to some of the other environments 
 but it all comes down to preference.
  
  The single-player game is amazing by itself but there is also a multiplayer mode called power struggle. 
 The goal in power struggle is that each team of 16 players (32 total) must destroy the opposing 
 team's base. Then there's instant action which is a deathmatch mode.
  
  After you have played the game once you will want to play around with the editor and put in all 
 the neat toys you are not suppose to get your hands on.
  If you are not good with editors and modding games you can always download maps created by other 
 players. 
  
  Unfortunately there are installation issues with Crysis that prevents many from being able to install 
 the game. So far they seem either unwilling or unable to fix this problem. So you might want to 
 think twice before picking up a copy of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Today I am going to review one of the best shooters in the market and also the best looking one. Now 
 I thought of reviewing Crysis vanilla but then I said what the hell it's my review and I do whatever 
 I want with it and so I decided to review it with 2 mods that I absolutely love. One is the TripleCPackV1.31 
 and the other GOC Mod (Gears of Crysis) .
  
  The TripleCPack is a graphical update of sorts. It is a config that allows many of the "very high" 
 graphical effects (like sunshafts and more) . There are 5 levels of the config 5 being better than 
 Very High (or so I heard) and 1 being lower than low (again so I have heard) . I am running at level 
 4 and it looks great thanks to my HD 3850. I tried lvl 5 but it ran very slow and lvl 1 I would 
 not dare to try. The mod also has UltimaRage's ToD mod which makes the lighting look way more real 
 and the Time of Day transitions look more real.
  
  The other mod called GOC is a mod that allows a 3rd person perspective and more importantly bullet-time 
 which allow you to be more accurate and change powers faster than you did before and combined with 
 3rd Person it makes the game feel more "cool" but also makes the game more easy. The only bad thing 
 about the 3rd person perspective is that you have to turn back to first person to pick up items 
 and weapons cause the crosshairs in the 3rd person aren't good for picking up stuff cause they 
 are not accurate.
  
  Now we're done with the mods that I use let's review the game.
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. The gameplay of Crysis has somewhat depth. Because you can change 
 your style at any time. You can go in a camp guns blazing in a jeep and kill everything or you can 
 sneak around and pick of NK with silencers. That is what I love about the game. The guns have a very 
 realistic feel and the enemy AI is realistic. I stalked a camp and I would reveal myself then go 
 in bush and go cloak to see what the enemy would do. I took that guy in my hand and hid him. Then 
 the camp realized that someone was missing and tried to find him. Then I revealed myself and killed 
 them all. This is the tactical depth I love in a game. You can throw a grenade to a far off point 
 then sneak in their base and get data and ammo. And the GOC mod made it even more fun to go in guns 
 blazing with the slow-mo and in 3rd person. It showed that the game was meant to be played in 1st 
 and in 3rd person. The Onslaught level is amazing as well as the level Core. In the second half of 
 the game it gets more linear but more... action-oriented and difficult because of aliens that can 
 kill you in a few blows. That part of the game was a little bit disappointing but was to be expected 
 that the game's sandbox nature would get killed.
  
  Let's go on with the graphics. I think there is nothing to say here other than the graphics are 
 the best I have seen in any any game. Crysis Warhead will go on to be even more that Crysis was. Also 
 the Config really helps the game and it somewhat optimizes it a bit on the different levels of 
 the config.
  
  Sounds. The voice acting is great and really believable and the music really surprises in some points. Like 
 if you are alone it will go on and play some freaky music that makes you have your guard up and 
 in battle it will play some really cool battle music. The weapons sound good and the overall sound 
 is very well constructed.
  
  Well that about wraps it up. I would go on about multiplayer but I never played it and never will. Also 
 the links to those 2 mods are here:
  
  CCC http://www. incrysis. com/forums/viewtopic. php? id=18999
  and GOC http://www. crymod. com/filebase. php? fileid=1444&lim=10 
 also just start a new campaign with the mod it will automatically load.
  
  These 2 mods really make this game better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blinckz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  I don't honestly know why I just said that, I was probably thinking about the ad right next to 
 this text window.
  Anyway, we are talking about this game Crysis right?
  
  I've finished this game two times already, funny isn't it? Not really.
  The first time I did 
 it was with my old graphic card ( don't get nasty things going on your mind, please.) . Since the 
 game basically laughed at my computer, just like a chick laughs at you when you ask her if she 
 wants you to buy her a drink (of course she doesn't want that, why would you buy a drink to a girl 
 you don't even know? you think you are the G-Man and you know everyone and everything including 
 the content of your own suitcase ? Well you are not, get over it.) , or when you go to the popular 
 pretty girl and ask her how is she going, like you actually care more about her well-being then 
 you care about your desire of getting physical with her.
  But since the game laughed at my computer, I got mad, and I said to myself: "I might get low FPS, 
 but I'm gonna finish this jungle game anyway, just because I want to tell everyone I played and 
 finished Crysis". And so I did it, I finished it, and I was actually proud of myself. I wasn't 
 so happy about the fact that I had to load the game over and over again on the last seconds of 
 the last battle of the last boss because although I was sending mini-nuclear-mega-bombs inside 
 him he wouldn't die because of this things that sometimes games have called bugs.
  
  I still enjoyed the game the first time I played it... it was OK, I found myself calling all my 
 family to see this amazing graphics that the game has, and that forced me to go get some hygienic 
 paper to clean the drool on the keyboard, so yeah, the game looks OK. But are looks everything? 
 On Evangeline Lilly probably yes.
  So I had this little DeJaVu when I started the game since I saw this tropical island with revolutionary 
 graphics, I wonder where I saw that before.
  Anyway there I was, dropping myself out of a plane on a parachute, watching my teammates passing 
 by like little birds, and then, something totally unexpected happened, I got a problem with the 
 parachute so I wasn't able to land on the proper landing zone with the rest of my team, instead 
 I landed near a turtle, which, in case you want to know, I immediately killed and didn't feel any 
 remorse after, at all.
  After that, I learned the basic controls of the game. WASD to walk, and mouse to point and shoot. 
 It was kinda difficult for me to get used to this since all the other FPS games like Half-Life 
 (you probably never heard of this one though) have very different key settings.
  
  After a while of getting used to this controls, I found out that my character had super powers 
 thanks to the suit he was wearing. Which is fine. You get to move faster then a Ferrari, get on 
 stealth mode like a boring rogue, get mega strength like Mr. T and resist bullets like...... your 
 enemy's, although they don't have any suits, that we can see at least.
  So I was told by my superior to start shooting at those Korean troops, which are bad people and 
 kidnapped some American researchers which, and this will probably surprise you, you will have to 
 save! Yes, this is the story, and there are aliens too, but I won't tell you anymore because I 
 simply don't care.
  
  It was not very exciting you know... there I was, being able to sneak past enemy's in stealth, and 
 then suddently changing to Mr. T mode, jump to the roof of their houses, punch the roof, kill everyone 
 inside (because the roof fell over them thanks to the amazing game physics ) , going Ferrari mode, 
 to dodge the bullets, start shooting with dual pistols like Neo while running around my enemy's 
 at an extreme speed, and using the environment to destroy their half-trucks, or simply stealing 
 those to get to their next base after leaving a trail of massive destruction behind me on the totally 
 destructible and beautiful scenarios this game has.
  
  Next mission? Go to the next camp and do exactly the same. Only this time you have a chopper on 
 your tail. Which I find very amusing to destroy, since the first time I did so, I exploded him 
 while he was on middle air, and then I stood there watching his pieces falling to the ground and 
 expecting them to by-pass me like I was invisible, but they didn't. I got hit by one of those pieces 
 and died. I got over it.
  
  Then you also get to customize your weapons..., you can put a sniper scope on a shotgun, which 
 I think it's an amazing choice for anyone who is stupid enough to do so. Personally I prefer to 
 put that sniper scope on my SMG, and put a red dot laser on the sniper, since you will be able 
 to shoot with more precision then looking through the scope and get nausea because your so super-hyper 
 mega soldier character can't stand still, not even on Mr. T mode.
  
  While I wasn't listening to Mozart I actually listened to the soundtrack of the game which is pretty 
 epic, although.....
  
  .......!
  
  I finished the game in about 7 hours. This because I was too scared on the alien part to move forward 
 very fast. Yes, there is an alien part on this game, did I spoil you? I don't care, If you don't 
 get that there is an X-Files plot on the first 5 minutes of the game then I recommend you to spend 
 a week with Mulder.
  
  Did I already tell you that I had to load the game over and over on the last boss? But that is 
 probably because I didn't have the patience to download a patch.
  
  Anyway, if you are sensitive to insults, then I don't recommend this game, the Koreans insult you 
 while you are fighting them. They must have reunions where they actually decide which insults to 
 give you because they all say the same thing.
  
  If you have a good PC, and you want to tell everybody how good it is, go buy this game.
  If you 
 want a very nice First person Shooter, go buy this game.
  If you want to play online, go buy call of duty 4.
  
  I didn't told how was the experience 
 with my new 8800Gt did I? Lol, I so didn't... and I never will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrant1x
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  This is the best FPS i have ever played (and i have played a lot such as F. E. A. R, half life 1/2, doom 
 3, CS, bioshock for example) 
  
  Firstly, Crysis has the best graphics of any game i have ever seen and luckily i could run it on 
 high smoothly. From the detail of the vegetation to amazing effects and explosions in war everything 
 looks stunning.
  
  The plot isnt the greatest but it makes the game a lot more fun towards the end, basically some 
 scientists think they have found fossils and remnants of an ancient civilisation but the Koreans 
 take over the island and take them as hostages. At first your just in a standard mission to rescue 
 them in your Nanosuit which allows you to become invisible, faster, stronger or tougher. The Nanosuit 
 is one of the best gadgets in a game and the best one since the gravity gun.
  
  The weapons in Crysis are amazing but you can only carry two apart from the pistol. Theres the 
  Rifle (which is possibly the strongest till the end, 
 but you dont get it for ages anyway) , Rocket Launcher, Infinite ammo alien gun, Turrets and a weapon 
 you get at the end which is kind of like.. a gun that fires mini nuclear missiles.
  
  You can also customise them a lot, my favourite time was when i had a silenced, sniper scoped, incendiary 
 bullet SMG.
  
  The missions are very varied and make the game much more fun. They range from normal battles, strategic 
 missions like blowing up AAs, tank fights, turrent fights when your on the back of a jeep being chased 
 by alien robots, two MASSIVE boss battles at the end, a boring aeroplane fight which is the only 
 bit i dsiliked and a half an hour section when your in an alien ship with NO GRAVITY.
  
  In the end Crysis is one of the best shooters ever made, but it is very short like all shooters 
 usually are and im looking forward to the sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  *Plot* 10+++++++/10
  
  The year is 2020. When a group of scientists discover a monument out on a remote island in the 
 middle of nowhere, they lead themselves to believe they have found fossils of an ancient civilization. 
 But when the monument sends a distress signal, the scientists soon come to realize... maybe these 
 aren't fossils. To make matters worst, North Korea has to show their faces and take full control 
 of the island to investigate what is going on.
  
  So you play as a elite commando sent in with his squad to rescue the hostages, if any, and recon 
 what the North Koreans are up to. Of course you're going in with the latest technological weapon 
 the "Nanosuit."
  
  *Graphics* Infinity/10
  
  That is correct. Infinity (the never-ending number) out of 10. Crysis has, to this date, the best 
 graphics period. I have no idea how Crytek does it. When they made Far Cry back in early 2000s 
 those graphics were considered at least a couple years ahead of it's time. Well Crytek managed 
 to make Crysis's graphics atleast 5 years ahead of its time. It's not even funny how good they 
 are. My 8800GT which maxes out every game I've played... or so I thought... only allows me to play 
 at 1024x768, HIGH, 2AA, V-Sync enabled. You may laugh and say thats nothing because Oblivion allows 
 me to play at 1200x1024 with 8AA and HDR... well my friends Crysis still looks MUCH MUCH better. 
 As a matter of a fact I don't think a single card can max out this game. If the 8800GT's (not GTS) 
 112 stream processors can only manage that then the GTX's 128's stream processors won't do much 
 better. That leaves the 9800GX2's 256 stream proeccesors. They are going to break a sweat if they 
 try to max the game out. But don't get discouraged. Like I said Crysis is the best graphical game 
 to date.... Too bad you're going to have to pay a lot of money to have this game "maxed out"... which 
 I cant even imagine how good that will look. Nevertheless ATI and Nvidia are at it like always 
 trying to out-do each other so high end GPU's prices are going down. Nevertheless Crysis looks 
 really good at even settings that my seem low if applied in other games. The only analogy I can 
 make is "Crytek are graphic engineers on steriods".
  
  *The Nano Suit* - Almost infinity/10
  
  The two best words to shooters since Half-Life 2's 
 Gravity Gun... the... Nano Suit. The Nano Suit is the multimillion (possibly billion) dollar suit 
 you and your squadmates wear. The suit has 4 special powers that add so many unique elements, when 
 combined with the non-linear objectives, to give you so many different strategies to conquer whatever 
 may stand in your way. All powers can be switched up on-the-fly using your mouse scroll button.
 
  
  -Strength - Allows you to grab, punch, and pistol/rifle whip people with devastating blows. Also 
 you can jump higher, fall from a further distance, and if necessary, punch through shacks in order 
 to create another door. (Yes a lot of your environment is destructable)
  
  -Armor - The Nanosuit will transfer its power into your kevlar allowing you to take a lot of damage. 
 Ideal for those who just want to go in guns blazing, shoot first, ask questions later.
  
  -Speed - Allows you to normal run faster, as well as give you insane faster than Olympic runners 
 sprinting ability. Great for making a run for cover or trying to get away from something about 
 to explode.
  
  -Cloak - Ideal for that "Predator" style of gameplay. Simply cloak yourself and pick your enemies 
 off one by one. They will never see it coming. And great for if your pinned down. SImply throw 
 a flash bang at your enemies get them disoriented and cloak yourself and leave and they will have 
 no clue where you are and trying to flank you will be useless.
  
  *Weapons* - 10++++++++/10
  
  I loved Crysis's guns. It was frustrating how you can only carry 
 2 at a time but oh well. You can have a Pistol, Scar (which is a G-36) , FY-71 (AK-47) , Shotgun 
 (... you guessed it a shotgun...) , High Precision Sniper Rifle, Mini-gun, a Gaus Rifle (like a suped-up 
 shotgun with an energy blast) , rocket launcher, and of course a very sick weapon that is used to 
 fight the final boss but i'd rather not spoil what the weapon is... it goes BOOM....
  
  Crysis's best feature is the ability to customize weapons on-the-fly. This allows so much more 
 to strategy when combined with the Nanosuit. You can take your crappy AK-47 and put on all kinds 
 of things like a silencer, flashlight, laser sight, grenade launcher attachment, an array of scopes, 
 as well as incendiary bullets.
  
  *Sounds* - 10/10
  
  All of the game's music, sound effects, and voices are well done. The blasts of sniper rifles, 
 and shotguns, as well as the freaking out/choking of the North Korean soldier as you hold him by 
 the neck using him as a human shield are well done. Even the surroundings like the F-16s flying 
 over head, and tanks exploding, even the aliens screeching, and yelling sounds are well done.
 
  
  *Level Design* - 10++++++++++++++++++++/10
  
  Every level you could want in an FPS game is in Crysis. Crysis's mission variety is varied and 
 not repetitive at all. I have to list many of the mission types
  .
  1- The large open-ended environment that allows you to use your Nano Suit powers, and custom and 
 modded weapons to tackle your objective any way you like.
  2- A tank battle. And the best tank battle I've ever played in a game. Honestly it was amazing. 
 F-16's flying overhead, enemy apaches shooting rockets at you, Anti-tank infantry missiles being 
 fired at you. Simply amazing.
  3- A get-away driving sequence where you have to fend off enemies on the turret. Aliens are flying 
 all around you and its your job to hold them off as you look for an exit route.
  4- That large scale battle. You have to cross a valley swarming with friendly marines and enemy 
 Koreans. Help them tackle the large obstacles and break off and fight "behind the scenes" and take 
 out the large guns that are suppressing your advance or air support
  5- Very large boss fights. Really... big...
  6- Hold your ground, and prevent you and your fellow 
 marines from being overwhelmed those are always fun.
  7- An airplane flying mission. Shooting aliens out of the air with heat-seeking rockets.
  8- 
 An escort an important person mission.
  9- Walking through the Alien's lair gives you that strange, odd, other world, experience.
  10- 
 A beach assault that happens as the sun is rising. This mission shows just how beautiful the lighting 
 affects are in the game. Oh yeah an F-16 crashes like 5 feet over your head... it was awesome...
 
  
  Crysis gives you a large variety of missions and levels. It makes them even better because of the 
 guns and Nano Suit powers. There is no sense of repetition in Crysis. All the missions are varied 
 and are extremely fun to play. This gives Crysis TONS of replayability.
  
  *A. I.* - 7/10
  
  The A. I. can kind of lack in some areas. There are some instances where they are pretty stupid. 
 Of course some of that could be expected. I mean as a soldier in an army seeing a Nanosuit would 
 probably make you think back to basic training then be like "oh crap, we didnt have that in basic". 
 Of course thats no excuse for the A. I. but it would be kind of stupid that a highly top secret 
 technology (early in the game you get to see how they keep this technology hidden) could be well 
 prepared for and know how to be countered with tactical precision. To sum it up the A. I. will suffice, 
 but not revolutionize.
  
  *Final Thoughts*
  
  Crysis exceeded my expectations greatly. I knew this game would be good but I did not expect truly 
 superb game. Crytek crafted a masterpiece. The amount of mission variety really took me by surprise. 
 Although there are some instances where the AI will lack some tactics making it easier to kill 
 them. The graphics like everyone knows are groundbreaking and laugh at any current high-end GPU 
 or CPU. It is a shame people never got to play this because of the high end requirements. Really 
 the tank-battle with the F-16 bombers, and all the tank explosions and rockets flying by you, is 
 one of the most historic memories I have of a videogame. Crysis is very good at making you say 
 "wowwwwww" and my most popular "HOLY S**T". Crysis gives you everything you could want in mission 
 variety and some missions may be average like the driving getaway missions and the flying mission, 
 but some like the beach assault and tank battle are really great, very fun to play, and showcase 
 just graphical beauty. I laugh at the fact that people said this game was bad just because their 
 computers cant handle it. Well dont play PC games if you have a WEAKSAUCE computer you idiots. 
 All in all if you want to see the absolute "beastness" of your computers power play Crysis. There 
 are some technical issues but the overwhelming graphical beauty of the game and its utilization 
 in missions will easily make you overlook them.
  
  *My system specs* - Some help to see how your computer compares.
  
  Game settings - 1024x768, 
 HIGH, 2AA, V-Sync enabled (a rare frames per second hiccup, but it doesnt bother me) I did have 
 4AA running smooth but some things would appear blurry, I think that was due to my aging CRT monitor
 
  
  *Gaming Rig* - Antec 900, XFX 680i LT SLI, Q6600, Arctic Cooling Freezer 7, GeIL 2GB DDR2 800 Dual 
 Channel, EVGA 8800GT Superclocked Edition, Antec Neo HE 550W, Seagate Barracuda 320GB 7200RPM, 
 XP-32
  
  *Peripherals* - Phillips 107T6 CRT, Microsoft Wireless Keyboard, iCEMAT 2nd Edition Mouse Pad, 
 Razer DeathAdder optical mouse, eDimensional AudioFX 5+1 Gaming Headphones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bLiNCks
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  Hello, here is my review on Crysis.
  
  [b] Gameplay [/b] - Crysis is a FPS game, so you go out there and shoot people. The different thing 
 about crysis is that your characters wears a special armor - the Nano Suit - This armor allows 
 you some special ability's like Maximum Speed - Run at a very high speed, Maximum Strength - You 
 get stronger, you kill enemy's and destroy houses with your own fists, and you also jump alto higher 
 with this feat ; Maximum Armor - Makes more resistant to enemy's attack's; and then your suit is 
 also able of making you invisible to all enemys. - All of this, only for the time you have until 
 your energy goes down, although she recovers pretty fast when you are not using any abilitys.
 
  You can also customize your weapons with different scopes, different types of bullets and even 
 with laser pointers and flashlights.
  All of this features give you the possibility to run your missions in any way you like, you can 
 go into an enemy base like crazy, or you can just go stealth and do your work under cover.
  Also, the physics in this game are very realistic, which will give you even more variety on the 
 gameplay.
  I found some minor bugs along the way, but nothing very serious. The only big one I found was on 
 the last boss, where in the two times I finishes the game, I couldn't kill him so I had to reload 
 over and over again. but that's probably already fixed in a patch
  
  [b] Graphics [/b] The graphics, as everyone knows, are amazing. Great textures, great facial expressions, 
 fantastic lightning throughout the whole game. You need a pretty good computer to max it out though.
 
  
  [b] Sound [/b] The sound is very good, nothing special, but nice. The weapons have a nice sound to 
 it, when you enter in combat a music pops in to go along with the action, some musics from the 
 soundtrack are very inspiring, but they play mostly on cut scenes so you don't really get to feel 
 them that much. The voice acting is very nice haha
  
  [b] Story [/b] The story is nice, and the way you go there and finding more about it is even nicer. 
 You are part of a special ops group, that goes to a remote island to investigate the plans of the 
 Korean there, and free some hostages. Although, along the way you will see that you and the Koreans 
 are not the only thing on that island, but I don't want to spoil that for you.
  
  [b] Length [/b] Ok for an FPS. But it has a nice replay value, since you can play the game in so 
 many different ways! It took me around 8 hours to complete it. To be honest, I didn't try the multilayer 
 yet, so I guess I can't add much to that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samuelreay
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  
  Crysis is a truly immersive game, roping you in in under 5 minutes of gameplay. 
  
  The story starts with a quick introduction featuring beautiful voicing acting and characters that 
 look so lifelike you could almost be watching a movie. Parachuting down to the beach, you are slowly 
 taken through the options of the game, the weapon modifications you can make, your nanosuit's array 
 of powers and also the introduction to one of the most convincing physics systems ever seen.
  
  Now, just let me extrapolate on that. It feels so good, when your confronted with an enemy 
 hideout, with a pesky sniper trying to delete you, to find any number of ways to take him out. 
 From cunningly shooting down a pine tree so that it falls onto the watching post and collapses 
 it, or another favourite, driving your jeep at high speeds into the base, jumping out just before 
 it collides with the tower, and then shooting the fuel canister with your incendiary ammunition 
 and running for you life. Just watching these thing fly, collapse or explode is unbelievable.
 
  
  Now, back on target, the storyline follows that you, one of the highly trained infiltration combat 
 unit (or whatever its real name is) , your to investigate, with your team, a number of unusual... events... that 
 have occurred on a North Korean Island. Fighting your way through, or sneaking around KPA camps 
 to rendezvous at certain locations or disable the odd GPS jammer or two leads to the eventual discovery 
 of some sort of mechanical alien life, and a frantic escape out of an alien ship and off the doomed 
 island.
  
  Throughout the game, your continually challenged by tough AI, snipers that can pick you out of 
 underbrush, or AI that will attempt to use grenades to flush you out of your favourite hiding spot. 
 The only flaw, which Crytek has turned into its greatest advantage in the developing Far Cry 2, 
 is the inability of AI to properly use vehicles. Many times, when coming under fire, the driver 
 of a jeep will simply get out of the vehicle and see cover or try and shoot you, not a very effective 
 maneuver. 
  
  But I believe I'm rattling on, all in all, Crysis is a superb first person shooter that combines 
 unbelievable graphics and amazing gameplay to create an experience you wont soon forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilean_demon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot of things I like about Crysis, and the first one is the story who gets you involved 
 very soon. Its nice having a shooter in a modern war against North Korea. I have to mention the 
 graphics too, who let you have so much fun with a great environment around you (you can anywhere 
 you wanted) and have a realistic game and experience. This is a kind of game you have to play with 
 your 5.1 surround and a very good computer (the only bad thing about crysis) .
  
  The option of you character is great, with you nano suit you can choose between have extra life 
 (more resistance to bullets) , a invisibility option, the strong option (who is very useful to jump) 
 and the last one is the one I call "RUN LIKE HELL" option because you can start to run very fast 
 (very useful too, if you want to escape from a great group of enemies) .
  
  The game also gives you the chance of personalize your weapon with sniper views, laser point, grenade 
 launcher and all of that who helps you to make a better decision about what do you want to do before 
 attack the enemies. 
  
  This is not a easy game where you can jump inside a room and start to shoot, nohere you have to 
 start moving very fast, hide, run away from enemies and a lot of times the best decision is avoid 
 the fight and just pass (hiding or running away) because there is no way you can survive some attacks 
 (specially at the beginning when you dont have too many munitions and dont know what is happening) .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xialon
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Get ready for a long read, mates.
  
  This game was originally just a video made by EA and Crytech just to show off their ability in 
 making an ultra realistic game. People were so amazed by the graphics that they wanted more, and 
 hence they made the game.
  
  Several people have rightly noted that this game is a computer hog. Only the best of the best computers 
 can run this game on the "Ultra High" graphics and a high resolution. I ran this game using a 8600GT 
 OC graphics by nVidia, and I was able to enjoy the game on Medium-High graphics.
  
  Literally this game starts off with a bang. As soon as the game began I was completely amazed by 
 the shear magnitude of the island itself and its details. Furthermore, the physics of Crysis was 
 flawless in many cases.
  
  The island itself is quite destructible. One can find bushes being shredded, massive palm trees 
 being torn down, and mud flying in their faces while fighting the Korean soldiers. The game play 
 environment is very interactive and helpful during one sided fire fights. There are intricate road 
 systems, random yet conveniently placed outposts, rivers, lakes, waterfalls, cliffs, and a surrounding 
 ocean that one can swim in. There are also some nagging flies and mosquitoes that (with a 7.1 surround 
 sound) can instinctively force you to swing your hands over your head. Overhead the sun moves along 
 with time and it's rays beam through leaves. In all actuality this game has a very and almost total 
 interactive ability that is seemingly engaging.
  
  Artificial intelligence (AI) and non-player characters (NPCs) are relatively smart. For example, 
 they will find and take cover, and they will communicate with each other on the battle field. One 
 can often find patrols strolling around the island time to time. They respond to both sight and 
 sound. However, they only carry about three kinds of guns with them. This limit to the AI's carrying 
 power can make them predictable and easy to kill. Also, sometimes the AI will bunch up together 
 if you happen to alert more then one patrol. This came make the game play either really hard (extra 
 bullets flying in your direction) or easy (grenade) . Yet, overall the AI present a convincing comprehension 
 to their surroundings and times of conflict.
  
  The game starts off with you jumping off a plane in a multi-million dollar nanosuit. Since your 
 parachute gets jammed, you are forced to take the full impact of landing. However, this suit of 
 yours has the ability to drastically reducing the impact of any external objects. After barely 
 surviving the hard landing, you have to meet up with the rest of your team. I want you to take 
 notice of the time of day upon landing (if you have never left the monitor to see the outside world 
 since you were born then I will like to tell you the time is just before the crack of dawn) . The 
 game allows you to check out your new suit, the surrounding environment, and the physics capability 
 of the game. Your suit has the ability to allow yourself to take extra damage (maximum armor) , 
 become invisible ("cloak engaged") , extra strength (maximum power) , or extra speed (maximum speed) . 
 However, there is no way that you can excessivly use these powers. Energy consumption is very quick. 
 Therefore, most of the game play deals with your skills and your ability to manipulate the surround 
 the environment to your advantage. The use of the suit if solely for the purpose of turning the 
 tide of battle. Which in a lot of cases will be to your disadvantage, because of numerous AI and 
 their smartness. In the beginning you can see the entire island while falling on top of it. Only 
 the grandest of computers will allow a player to enjoy the environment to its full extent. At the 
 beach you will find several broken boxes and crates lying around. Pick one up and throw it around. 
 This is a good way of seeing how masterfully done the physics implication was. After playing around 
 for a bit and killing a patrol of Koreans, now check out the sky and see that either the sun has 
 come out or the sky is at least less dark.
  
  There are many ways of approaching this game. You can either sneak around, openly fight, or engage 
 the enemy with both techniques. If you don't feel like fighting you can run around the island which 
 is massive and enjoy the sights. Not only were the graphics of this game wonderfully done, so was 
 the story. The story itself was not original, but it did not allow the game to become a ruin because 
 of its linear appearance. Though the story is one of the weaknesses of the game itself. The beginning 
 of the game drastically changes before the end. The second half the game (when hell breaks lose 
 and all the aliens burst out in a lust for destroying the entire known world) is much harder. The 
 world becomes a frozen paradise. From now on the game is more action packed then anything else. 
 In the end with the two bosses are easy yet hard at the same time. If you don't know what to do 
 then you will die in a short time, however if you know what you are doing then the battle becomes 
 quite easy. The end of the game is open ended which suggests that there will be a second game.
 
  
  There are also rumors of there being a Crysis game coming out for PS3 in November of this year. 
 Therefore, some of you who are complaining of the their computers not being able to handle the 
 game can now play it with ease. However, those who could not afford a nice computer nor a PS3 are 
 in a predicament. My suggestion is to just forget the game entirely for about a year then buy a 
 computer that will be able to handle it which by then will be under $600.00. Or you can wait a 
 little while (about 6 months) and buy a PS3 for about $300. This game is worth playing. Those who 
 are rating it otherwise are a bit pissy because their computer can't handle it. Well, this game 
 was aimed for hardcore gamers with $1,200+ gaming systems. Some games are just intended for certain 
 people. If you were not included with them then there is no reason to pout about it.
  
  I recommend this game to all those who own a computer that can handle this game. (Specs to handle 
 the game on Medium/High settings: 2.8Ghz dual core, 2GB RAM, Vista, 8600GT or better graphics card) 
 Or you can wait for it to come out for PS3 or Xbox.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariusyka
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Minimum Requirements
  CPU: Intel Pentium 4 2.8 GHz (3.2 GHz for Vista) , Intel Core 2.0 GHz (2.2 GHz for Vista) , AMD Athlon 
 2800+ (3200+ for Vista) or better
  RAM: 1GB (1.5GB on Windows Vista)
  Video Card: NVIDIA GeForce 6800 GT, ATI Radeon 9800 Pro (Radeon X800 Pro for Vista) or better
 
  VRAM: 256MB of Graphics Memory
  Storage: 12GB
  Sound Card: DirectX 9.0c Compatible
  ODD: DVD-ROM
  OS: Microsoft Windows XP or Vista
  DirectX: DX9.0c or DX10
  
  Recommended 
 Requirements
  
  CPU: Core 2 Duo/Athlon X2 or better
  RAM: 1.5GB
  Video Card: NVIDIA 7800 Series, ATI Radeon 1800 Series or better
  VRAM: 512MB of Graphics Memory
 
  Storage: 12GB
  Sound Card: DirectX 9.0c Compatible
  ODD: DVD-ROM
  OS: Microsoft Windows XP or Vista
  DirectX: DX9.0c or DX10
  
  if u want to play this game 
 my advice is to get a new pc because this game eats powerfull resources and doesnt work on any 
 pc.
  Belive me, the system requirements are to high...... Look at the system requirements and you shall 
 see.
  BUT DO EVERYTHING IS NECESARY TO PLAY THIS GAME...... You have nothing to lose and besides you cand 
 obtain new stuffs..... Play it and you shall see what am I talking about here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaybbq
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok I know I'm late to review that game but before to do that I wanted to play through many times 
 and my computer is not powerful, so I wanted to see the graphics on high-end systems before to 
 review it.
  
  First of all the game play well on old rigs. Even with a single core processor and a AGP video 
 card the game run well at lower settings and resolution. A friend of mine showed me this game with 
 high setting on a powerfull computer and its amazing.
  
  Like I said, I finished this game many times (3 times) and its very awesome to be able to beat corean 
 soldiers from different starting points. For instance you can blow up an enemy camp with a sniper 
 tactic the first time, destroy all with heavy fire the second time and infiltrate the same base 
 with cloaking the third time.
  
  The problem with this game begin with this last tactic. The nanosuit have so low energy capacity 
 that you gonna ask to yourself why would you use it. The cloaking feature last for a very brief 
 moment, like all the other features named armor, strengh and speed. So brief that you can't use 
 them properly. For instance, try to infiltrate a base with cloaking and you gonna be trapped in 
 the middle of an ennemy camp without the possibility to shoot because your cloak will turn off 
 if you shoot a single bullet, and same thing if you walk or run (shooting instantly turn off your 
 cloaking abylity, walking spend a lot of your nanosuit energy and running is worst) . You will eperienced 
 the same thing with all the other nanosuit abylities. Speed=run very quickly for only 2 or 3 seconds. 
 Jump 3 times with strengh and your energy will be depleted. Take 2 or 3 bullets and your armor 
 will be depleted too.
  
  But if you forget the nanosuit flaws the game is very enjoyable. I mean very enjoyable until you 
 reach the alien part. Like FarCry that game is divided in two scenarios. The first one with human 
 encounters, and the second one with aliens. The aliens part is as boring as the human part is enjoyable. 
 The first alien level in the UFO ship is so frustrating and badly made that you gonna wish someone 
 will send you a saved game letting you skip this awful level.
  
  Once you pass trough this horrible level, the nightmare continue with boring combats againts no 
 more than 3 differents aliens creatures models (The kind of ghost monsters in the alien ship, the 
 so like frost dogs running at you on the ground and the flying octopus directly came from the Matrix 
 movies. Its like Halo but without the originality and the variety of this former game. 
  
  Ok I admit it, the figth with the last boss is awesome but its not enough to compensated for the 
 boring and miserable gameplay of the alien part. I think this game is separated in two part. One 
 very enjoyable and challenging (the corean part) and the second one deserving to fall in the oblivion 
 for the lack of anything near quality! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SollidSnake_
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is like a conquest for crytek.. It was a great victory.. A game with such intense action.. 
 Quite an achievement. Starting by the graphics.. This game is visually outstanding.. It shows in 
 your monitor some of the most beautiful graphics you've ever seen and will see! (It won't be that 
 easy to get some graphics that people could say "ok, those beat Crysis") . But Graphics are an addition 
 to what it is.. (a well accepted one) . because this game is made of some intense action.. That 
 will make your heart PUMP! The gameplay is amazing.. You'll feel like your in a real battlefield.. 
 And that you are a Hero.. Because of your Nanosuit.. It will give you a feeling of superiority 
 in the battlefield.. This was an idea i found Amazing! The story is well achieved too. This is 
 one of the games with the most amazing visual design and also one of the best FPS ever. A must-buy 
 for PC and FPS addicted! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopyflyfish
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  Players take the role of Jake 'Nomad' Dunn, a United States Delta Force Soldier sent to an island 
 in the South China Sea to rescue a group of archaeologists kidnapped by the powerful North Korean 
 army. Things turn sour quickly, as their chilling discovery awakens, proving itself to be history's 
 greatest threat to mankind. Nomad must use his customizable arsenal and high tech nanosuit to fend 
 off the North Koreans and the terrifying alien threat.
  
  Crysis is highly anticipated, as it is one of the first DirectX 10 games. Some of the technology 
 it utilizes includes dynamic day/night cycle, fully interactive environments, sunrays and diffuse 
 transmission, real time soft shadows, soft particles, interactive/destructible environments, volumetric 
 clouds, and advanced shader technology. * You play in first person perspective, but in vehicles 
 you get the choice of first or third person perspective. To keep the immersion factor high, all 
 cutscenes will be from the first person perspective keeping the player right in the action. 
  
  * All your weapons will be customizable. 
  
  * Every object in-game can be manipulated 
 as you would expect in real life according to Hollywood movies - leaves bend, trees fall, rope 
 bridges break, concrete crumbles, gas tanks explode, timid wildlife runs from humans and nuclear 
 explosion shockwaves destroy anything in their path. 
  
  * Some of the wildlife that will be found on the island are sharks, fish, birds, turtles, crabs, 
 butterflies and chickens. The animal artificial intelligence will react to the player as real animals 
 would in the wild. The specific species of these animals are not known at this time. 
  
  * You will be able to control land, sea and vehicles including trucks, tanks, boats and so on. 
 
  * You will have a customizable nanosuit where you can specialize in four different modes: Stealth, 
 Strength, Speed and Armor. 
  * You will encounter alien species that uses its senses and technology against you. These terrifying 
 aliens are extremely intelligent and will use squad tactics to hunt and destroy their prey. 
  * Enemy and ally AI will use real-world military tactics. 
  * The environment is dynamic and 
 will include earthquakes, breaking ice, landslides and tornadoes. 
  * Actions taken place in Crysis will affect future outcomes giving an unique experience for each 
 player. 
  * There will be four different difficulty settings for the single player campain. They range from 
 Easy to Delta. Delta is the most realistic setting. 
  * Environments, special effects, physics, lighting and enemy AI will be run through CryENGINE 
 2
  
  Minimum System Requirements.
  
  OS  Windows XP or Windows Vista
  Processor  2.8 GHz or faster (XP) or 3.2 GHz or faster* (Vista)
  Memory  1.0 GB RAM (XP) or 
 1.5 GB RAM (Vista)
  Video Card 256 MB**
  Hard Drive  6GB
  Sound Card  DirectX 9.0c compatible
  
  * Supported Processors: Intel Pentium 4 2.8 GHz (3.2 
 GHz for Vista) or faster, Intel Core 2.0 GHz (2.2 GHz for Vista) or faster, AMD Athlon 2800+ (3200+ 
 for Vista) or faster.
  
  ** Supported chipsets: NVIDIA GeForce 6800 GT or greater; ATI Radeon 9800 Pro (Radeon X800 Pro 
 for Vista) or greater. Laptop versions of these chipsets may work but are not supported. Integrated 
 chipsets are not supported. Updates to your video and sound card drivers may be required.
  
  Recommended System Requirements
  
  OS  Windows XP / Vista
  Processor  Intel Core 2 
 DUO @ 2.2GHz or AMD Athlon 64 X2 4400+
  Memory  2.0 GB RAM
  GPU  NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GTS/640 or similar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joubei2000
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  first i'll start by saying this game is awesome!
  the world of Crysis is a totally interactive sandbox
  
  you can go and do what you wand - at 
 your own pace and with the methods you wish to do it.
  the best thing about this game is that you can change your methods during action with the twitch 
 of a button.
  faster or stronger or stealthier or armored - its your call.
  
  the world is breathtaking, literally the visuals are the best ever, and the fact that everything 
 is destroyable makes it even better.
  the first time i picked up a big dumpster (the big green trashcan) - with strength mode - and threw 
 it on an enemy - then crashed it and him into the house behind him - making the entire house break 
 apart made me grin so hard my face hurt!
  
  the best part though is the Engine - the CryEngine2-Sandbox2 engine lets you take over and create 
 your own game with ease where the only limitation is your own imagination.
  
  all in all
  best game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theniel92
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely sick. to bad most computers can't even run it well on mediaum. the graphics 
 on high are literaly photo realistic. It could be said that its worth spending thousands of dollars 
 on a computer just for this game. 
  
  The best part i find is sneaking up to the koreans with invisibility changing to strength and strangle 
 them, then throw them into the others.
  
  This game is worth every penny.
  
  Get the collectors edition, you get the soundtrack and a shiny metal case with nanoskin texture 
 on it.
  
  !!!!!!!!!!!    
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  SSSSSSSSSSS WWWWWWWWW EEEEEEEEEEEEEEE EEEEEEEEEEE T!!!!!
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy4Ever
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  +Graphics are amazing.
  +The multiplayer, although the same old thing, is still a blast with the suit.
  -Runs like crap, 
 even for those $5,000 computers.
  -The story is a run-of-the-mill linear game. What did you expect from EA and hype?
  
  After 
 reading and hearing the hype this game was getting, I decided to check it out for myself. I actually 
 upgraded my computer with a new GeForce 8800 GT just for the event. Like most games I jump into, 
 I didn't know much about it so I wouldn't oversell myself on the game. All I knew is that the physics 
 and the graphics were superior to none. That they are. But sometimes, graphics can't make the game 
 more than what it is: a basic sci-fi shooter.
  
  For starters, the story line is generic. It's what every game has been doing these days. Aliens 
 are unleashed, causing havoc, you take out their HQ, find out that you need to "finish the fight", 
 cliffhanger ending. I hate cliffhanger endings, but I will say, at least we didn't get a "To be 
 continued..." generic ending like Rainbow 6: Vegas. The ending of this game is more like the Marvel 
 movies. They tell you right at the end that there will be another game. Can we please do something 
 more original? It's the 21st century! The story puts you in the role of a soldier from the US, 
 taking out Koreans on one of their islands. Upon traveling through their land, you begin to notice 
 strange crafts flying around, even capturing one of your squad members (who actually do nothing 
 in the game aside from talk to you) . The rest I can't really reveal because it may ruin it for 
 some, but you'll have the same "I knew that was coming..." as you would in any Halo game.
  
  The first few missions are probably the best in the game, aside from one of the last missions. 
 You really get to experience what the designers put into the game. One of the biggest things in 
 the game is the ability to pick up random items from the ground and tables. There's almost unlimited 
 ability to what you can pick up. This really isn't a revolutionary feature, as an older, much more 
 generic shooter did this in the 90's called Trespasser. It wasn't the best game, but it's feature 
 of hurling a rock that you found on the ground or a stick and hurling it at a raptor was all fun. 
 The problem with Crysis' items is the lack of really. There's a dozen items you can pick up ranging 
 from broken garbage, barrels (those generic things used in every shooter) , and animals. There's 
 also a lot of generic items inside Korean huts, such as fruit or bottles. It's a nice feature, 
 but really hardly used in the game for a purpose other than a certain "wow" effect. For instance, 
 when you're in the middle of the game, you'll almost have deja vu on how much of the stuff is the 
 same, like the one hut you'll run into several times through the game. It's the hut that is fun 
 to blow up but after a few times of blowing up the only hut in the game, it loses that coolness 
 effect. Maybe next time, we'll get two or three huts and houses to blow away.
  
  The graphics are outstanding, but at a very steep price. The game is a powerhouse of a game and 
 you're really lucky (or rich) to have the game with everything running on Very High with 30 frames 
 per second. PC Gamer claims that games have been doing this for a while, and it just means that 
 the game wasn't meant to be running at full graphics at this time. Well, that's fine and dandy 
 but after you beat the game a few times, you probably won't care about it afterwards. (I'll explain 
 later) . If you don't mind setting the graphics (or at least just the shaders) to medium, then the 
 game should run outstanding with very little choppy frames. The game on medium looks fantastic 
 and is something to really be admired. One of the best graphical features in the game is the water 
 effects. They're absolutely stunning, especially with the settings set to the highest. Water flying 
 through the air and hitting the bloom effects in the game create a realistic rainbow effect that 
 is just wonderful to look at. The trees at really good looking too. Throwing a grenade in a mix 
 of them will cause the most realistic looking effect on the way the tree moves around that I've 
 ever seen. As far as character models and such, the game is top notch.
  
  AI is one of the big problems in the game. At first they seem really smart, but once you master 
 the suit you wear, you'll quickly find out that jumping into the invisible mode is basically the 
 best option for crowded combat. You can jump in and out of it so fast that it quickly confuses 
 the enemies, making them just as dumb as a game from the early 90's, if that. Some of the aliens 
 you fight toward the end are so dumb, you literally can run right past them in some of the difficulties. 
 I'm not sure why critics have been saying this game revolutionized the AI, because it really didn't. 
 It's about as well done as Call of Duty 4, being it's a little too easy to outsmart your enemies. 
 Really, really easy. Speaking of the suit, though, that is probably the best feature of the game. 
 It actually gives you a strategy on how you're going to go at something.
  
  The mulitplayer is fun, although it's the same as Far Cry. The maps are well designed and the combat 
 gets really intense at times. Overall, it's just the same thing we've been doing, but with better 
 graphics. The one really big letdown is the lack of object physics in the multiplayer. I'd have 
 lover to hurl bananas at my foes for that No One Lives Forever humor. Crysis is pretty cool for 
 a show and effects of what we can do, but with it's generic story and horrible AI, I can't see 
 this game revolutionized the gaming industry. Pretty graphics are not revolutionary unless they 
 do something for you. BioShock revolutionized story telling; Half-Life 2 revolutionized physics... 
 what did Crysis really do aside from show us that our computers need some new upgrades? I really 
 hope that the team works harder on Far Cry 2 and puts out a terrific game with beautiful graphics 
 and a top-notch multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark30001
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  This games single player is brilliant with the soilders, the aliens, and the nanosuit. The nanosuit 
 is what gives this game its special feel, without it, it wouldn't feel the same. The only problems 
 I have is not being able to enjoy this game with the full graphics and the mutiplayer's constant 
 annoyances, such as overuse of the Gauss rifle, people being able to move sideways at extremely 
 high speeds (almost like thier skating) and the cheaters which probably hide thier hacks while still 
 finding a way to use them, and the some what lag i get 'but i just need a better computer'. This 
 game has brought a film quality storyline on low settings, so i would imagine how truly epic it 
 would be if i had it on the very high setting with directX10 enabled. I would also like to comment 
 on how good the music is, really epic at the right times, like while being shot at by tons of soilders, 
 pumping me up for combat. The alien level was simple for me, maybe a little frustrating but realistic, 
 because if you were in a space ship the size of a island where would you go? One might want to 
 have the best computer possible before playing this game, so you could have the best possible experience 
 possible.
  
  Everyone who complains that the game was to easy maybe needs to have their eyes checked, so that 
 they can see they're on the easy setting. The engine this game runs on is exellent and is the most 
 advanced engine to date. This game requires a decently powerful compuer before you can enjoy this 
 game with no lag. You cant say other games ai are better than crysis's ai, because crysis's ai 
 has to think for its self as its in a open environment, while other games have closed environments 
 which makes the ai simplely programmed for action. You cant compare the two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game is very very very good.
  
  Now I'm reviewing this game after having not played it in almost a year.
  
  But from what I 
 remember it was the most amazing FPS Shooter I have ever seen. 
  The Graphics and Sound have to be the best and still are the best I've seen on the PC thus far. 
 
  
  The game is well paced and gives you alot of freedom to do all kinds of stuff and different direction 
 to go about finishing all the objectives.
  
  Super action packed.
  
  I can't remember any flaws with the game other then the game needs a tough machine to run it.
 
  
  I have an AMD 6000+ 2 Gig Ram and an ATI Radeon HD2900 XT Video Card and 512 Ram. And the game 
 still becomes a bit choppy at some points with the graphics on Medium and I do have to mention 
 I am of the very picky type so its likely you won't even know what I'm talking about.
  
  Since Grand Theft Auto has recieved a rating of 10 aswell as Metal Gear Solid 4. That honestly 
 must mean Crysis should have recieved a rating of 10 in my book because it really is a game to 
 remember, that is if you have the PC that can handle the rage of this game.
  
  If I had to geuss why it didn't recieve a 10 would be because the story line and plot twists aren't 
 really top quality, but for this style of game its of no concern for the player and shouldn't be.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Well lets get this out of the way. Crysis has been delayed like crazy now. when it finaly came 
 out, the game lived up to the hype and more. the graphics is amazing and i think it still is in 
 the year 2008.
  
  Good: Graphics, enough said. You can hyjack a moving vehical. all vehicals are driveable. Most 
 guns seem powerful and feels just right. AI is smart except one time where they drove over a cliff 
 when i dodged out of the way. Huge far cry ish maps. Get transaction from a huge maps to a linerish 
 gameplay. Great story telling. Can still beat most PC's. Did i mention the graphics? Customizing 
 guns on the fly makes adapting to your enviroment easy. How cool does the suit look eh? New aliens 
 never seen before unlike other sci fi / alien games. Interesting Multiplayer
  
  Bad: at the start is a bit of a leaning curve because you dont really have much customization options, 
 which makes the first big encounter on the big hill that leads towards the beach hard not to be 
 decteded. Would be good if the Invisablity power lasted a bit longer. speaking of that, in the 
 cut scenes, why do they last so long? The game ends. Would be cool if you could hyjack tanks. Starting 
 seems a bit hard for new FPS players and ending is a bit too easy from easy - medium. Also would 
 be good if there was an option to turn the jap on and off rather than it jsut on the hardest difficlulty. 
 too little modes in multi player,
  
  If anyone says this game has bad graphics, they have problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JwresB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Like Far Cry, the first half of Crysis is essentially a "sandbox" game where you're put in the 
 middle of incredibly large levels and tasked with an objective. How you get the job done is pretty 
 much entirely up to you, which is part of the brilliance of the game's design. For instance, the 
 environments are big enough to give you a wide range of latitude. Do you have to get to a certain 
 point on the map? You can take a meandering route that avoids patrols and go stealthy, or try the 
 up-front approach and try to blast your way through, with the danger of enemy reinforcements showing 
 up.
  
  The firefights are stunning, as well as challenging, whether you're tackling North Korean soldiers 
 or alien war machines.
  
  The gunplay and ballistics modeling make this shooter feel as if you're handling real weapons. 
 Trying to hit a target at long engagement ranges is challenging thanks to weapon recoil and other 
 factors. The North Koreans are encased in body armor, so they take some time to gun down, unless 
 you aim for the head, which usually puts them on the ground. At your disposal is a variety of firearms, 
 like shotguns and assault rifles. One of the neat aspects of the game is that you can fix up your 
 weapons whenever you want, adding scopes, silencers, and grenade launchers, provided you've found 
 them. The AI is great. Enemy soldiers use cover and concealment very well. They also know how to 
 lay down suppressing fire.
  
  Quite simply, Crysis represents the first-person shooter at its finest, most evolved form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimbo0705
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out with one of the best story lines ever. On top of that it has the greatest 
 graphics. The sound if you are walking you can here the grass under you and also if there a bush 
 you can here the leafs shaking. Then their the graphics the game make it look like you are there 
 it make stuff look so really from the face off people to the backgrounds this make this an awesome 
 game. Then there the story line the puts this game over the top from the start to the end this 
 game is so addicting. But the problem is that it has a lot system requirements . If this game was 
 for the xbox 360 or ps3 then this game be the best game in the world no other game could beet it. 
 But that is impossible to put that kinda graphics xbox 360 or ps3 because it can hold that kinda 
 graphics . THIS GAME IS AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertranete
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  It was hard not to be completely impressed when the first images and videos of Crysis appeared 
 about 18 months ago. Scenes of lush jungles and towering alien war machines looked light-years 
 beyond what seemed possible. Of course, the two questions that revolved around Crysis since its 
 announcement were whether it would deliver on those visuals and whether it would deliver a game 
 worthy of those fancy graphics. It turns out that the answer to both those questions is a resounding 
 yes, as Germany's Crytek has proven that its 2004 hit Far Cry was no fluke. In fact, it was just 
 the beginning from this studio. With its sophomore effort, Crytek has managed to deliver an incredibly 
 advanced and exciting first-person shooter that practically rewrites the rules for the entire genre. 
 
  
  
  
  
  Welcome to the prettiest jungle that you have ever seen in a game. Notice that it's starting to 
 snow?
  Crysis is an alien invasion game set in the year 2020. An archeological team on a remote Pacific 
 island is captured by an invasion force of North Koreans, and your US Special Forces team is dispatched 
 to investigate and rescue the scientists. Clad in high-tech nanosuits capable of boosting your 
 strength, speed, and armor, as well as cloaking you temporarily to the enemy, you're parachuted 
 into a tropical paradise that's crawling with intelligent enemies and something else that's tearing 
 both the North Koreans and US forces to shreds. 
  
  Like Far Cry, the first half of Crysis is essentially a "sandbox" game where you're put in the 
 middle of incredibly large levels and tasked with an objective. How you get the job done is pretty 
 much entirely up to you, which is part of the brilliance of the game's design. For instance, the 
 environments are big enough to give you a wide range of latitude. Do you have to get to a certain 
 point on the map? You can take a meandering route that avoids patrols and go stealthy, or try the 
 up-front approach and try to blast your way through, with the danger of enemy reinforcements showing 
 up. Need to infiltrate a North Korean-held village? You can try the front gate, or maybe explore 
 and find a quieter way in. 
  
  Couple these huge environments with the powers of the nanosuit, and you have a ton more options. 
 You can play like the eponymous character from the movie Predator and use your cloaking abilities 
 to stalk North Korean patrols, picking them off one by one and watching the survivors react in 
 confusion. That could be via a silenced rifle, or simply coming up from behind a guard and grabbing 
 him by the throat and hurling him off a cliff, or through the roof of a building, or against a 
 tree, or whatever catches your fancy. Enhanced speed and strength give you an amazing amount of 
 mobility, so you can vault atop buildings and come down behind someone, or run up against a North 
 Korean vehicle next to a cliff and push it over the side. In a heartbeat you can switch between 
 different roles, from stealthy assassin to seemingly unstoppable death dealer. It's a game that 
 makes you feel like a superhero, though not an invincible one, because you simply can't run roughshod 
 over the enemy. Crysis rewards smart, fast thinking. 
  
  
  
  
  The firefights are stunning, as well as challenging, whether you're tackling North Korean soldiers 
 or alien war machines.
  It helps that the game features a high degree of advanced physics and destructibility in a highly 
 dynamic world. Getting caught in a firefight in the jungle is a cinematic treat, thanks to the 
 way the bullets will chop down trees, while branches sway from impacts. This isn't just a visual 
 effect, either, as falling timber can kill if it lands on someone. There's all sorts of emergent 
 behavior like that throughout the game, events that spring up completely unintended or unforeseen. 
 In one instance, the flaming wreckage of a chopper landed on a hut, crushing it and killing all 
 those inside. 
  
  Meanwhile, the gunplay and ballistics modeling make this shooter feel as if you're handling real 
 weapons. Trying to hit a target at long engagement ranges is challenging thanks to weapon recoil 
 and other factors. The North Koreans are encased in body armor, so they take some time to gun down, 
 unless you aim for the head, which usually puts them on the ground. At your disposal is a variety 
 of firearms, like shotguns and assault rifles. One of the neat aspects of the game is that you 
 can fix up your weapons on the fly, adding scopes, silencers, and grenade launchers, provided you've 
 found them. There are trade-offs for each add-on. Silencers let you take down guys quietly, though 
 they reduce bullet damage, meaning you've got to make every shot count. Or flashlights mounted 
 on your weapons might help you out in dark levels, but will give you away. 
  
  
  
  
  It's not just infantry combat, as you can hop into almost every vehicle in the game, as well as 
 take part in an incredible tank battle.
  Crysis gives you all of these toys and ratchets the action higher and higher the deeper you get 
 into it. The first level of the game introduces you to the sandbox combat and the nanosuit. From 
 then on, the battles become larger and more intense as the action escalates. You'll storm North 
 Korean-held villages and bases; encounter their counter to your nanosuit; take part in a chaotic 
 assault on a North Korean harbor; and from there the game accelerates. Next is a wild tank battle 
 in a tropical mountain valley, with helicopters and jet fighters roaring overhead. There's a sheer 
 rush as your tank plows through vegetation and knocks down trees as missiles and tank fire erupt 
 all around you. Meanwhile, the vehicle explosions are convincing, right down to the way ammunition 
 cooks off and sends spirals of smoke outward. It's visual poetry of destruction. You're not confined 
 to your tank the entire time, either. You can jump out at any time and use your suit powers and 
 rifle to take on enemy infantry. When they're dead, pick up their dropped rocket launchers and 
 engage vehicles in a cat-and-mouse-style game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisherBR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  I've managed to play Crysis, as it is, indeed, a great 1st person shooter. As i begin to play, 
 i only stopped when i finished the game. That means it is a must play game, as all game with score 
 8.5 or more. Reallistic, very good battles and a reasonable story. Customizable weapons and the 
 possibility of using vehicles are some of the "turn ons" . Nevertheless, i do not consider this 
 game the best 1st person shooter. Try bioshock, this one, an awesome game. Crysis offers some innovations, 
 such as fighting hellicopters, but nothing as special as Gamespot afirms. 
  Considering the last first person shooter i've played, the order is:
  1- Bioshock (still playing)
 
  2- Call of Duty
  3- Crysis
  4- Doom 3
  Others that i've given up before finishing the game:
  1- Painkiller
  2- Halo
  3- Call of 
 Duty 2 
  In conclusion, Crysis is a good game, but "overrated". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy845
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  How to describe a game this incredible? Stunning grpahics, sandbox play, and and a good multiplayer. 
 
  Crysis is a game based in 2020 with you being Nomad a nanosuit soldier invading a north korean 
 island. Lots of surprises lie in store for you. That was a brief description of the story to tell 
 readers who don't know anything about this game. In gameplay, you could play this game at least 
 5 times and not get bored. 4 high tech abilities ( strength, speed, cloak, armor) not to mention a 
 variety of vechiles and cutomizable weapons. 
  You could go through this game like you were never there. Cloaking past KPA squads, silenced pistols, 
 a sniper in the shadows. Check, can be done in Crysis. Like "guns abalzing" smashing through houses 
 (litterly thanks to the Cry Engine 2) with trucks? picking up gas barrels and chucking them like 
 crazy? choking KPA and thowing them off a cliff? shoguns pumped? check in Crysis. 
  Multiplayer isn't BF 2 but is a nice change of pace being a high tech soldier againzt 32 other 
 people online. I hope you enjoyed this Blog, and it just barely scrathes the surface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely a next gen FPS. It's about time!
  
  The combat is as slow or as fast as you like it. You can use your suit's abilities to slowly stalk 
 your opponents one at a time or you can go in with guns-a-blazing. This change in pace allows the 
 user to experience a variety of combat that keeps you coming back for more.
  
  One of the most impressive features that puts this game ahead of the rest of the pack is its interactive 
 environment. Trees can be shot down, bunker will collapse and explode. The destructible environment 
 takes gaming to a whole new level. Forget trying to see your enemy through a group of trees, just 
 jump behind a mounted machine gun and shoot down the trees so your enemy has nowhere to hide.
 
  
  The gameplay is what makes this a game worth buying. The story is interesting and the sounds and 
 graphics are great as well. However, the gameplay provides opportunities for strategies never seen 
 before in an FPS. 
  
  In short, if you're looking to buy a new FPS because you've got that uncontrollable to shoot something, 
 BUY THIS ONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theflashxwmc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Most games are rated technically on ratios of player time to enemies to kill to money spent buying 
 the game. What a lot of people forget about is the experience. Crysis is a game that provides an 
 experience that doesn't involve just shooting stuff all the time. Being able to play around in 
 a realistic environment and do just about anything means a lot to me as a player. For my review, 
 I will run through the: high points of the game, low points of the game, and miscellaneous notes 
 that don't classify as anything, really.
  
  What the game did right:
  
  Feeling of unlimited freedom -- non-linearity 
  
  Suit and abilities add to strategy and give 
 player feeling of empowerment -- also -- generally fun to play around with environment
  
  Water drops on eyes, fog light cascading over trees at night (fog occlusion -- graphically expensive) 
 = unparalleled realism
  
  Ability to use objects as weapons against enemies = actual damage strategy (unlike HL2 where it 
 was mainly a gimmick and objects didn't really hurt enemies much -- unless they were the obviously 
 placed ones such as saw blades, etc.)
  
  Animals breathe life to environment and divert player's attention away from constant manhunt -- 
 remind player that nature is generally peaceful and makes for a nice contrast between war and peace
 
  
  Suit's abilities are intuitive and feel 2nd nature to use
  
  Object physics have a "shock wave" effect -- disperse everything around them fiercely (with camera 
 shake, motion blur, and dust) -- makes feel powerful -- like it would actually hurt
  
  Every action has a corresponding noise identifier -- footsteps depend on ground plane -- muscle 
 tighten noise for strength ability, sounds echo while indoors, etc. -- all are positive feedback 
 in making player immediately understand surroundings (viscerally attentive at all times -- "keep 
 player on their toes")
  
  Water waves actually displace static objects (realistic buoyancy -- dead bodies stay suspended 
 underwater while flares sink and barrels float)
  
  Different body animations when moving -- developers took extra effort, even when cannot see the 
 player at all times, things such as the way an arm flails really adds immersion and also makes 
 the shadows respond realistically
  
  Being able to see a character's feet when looking down really add sense of grounding (most games 
 have a ghostly void -- this may also be because of the 60 degree angle of view, which was a good 
 design choice)
  
  Ability to switch seats in a vehicle is a nice touch, although not very useful (driver and gunner 
 are 2 essential positions) ; the camera switches from first person to third person seamlessly
  
  Music changes depending on location (triggers switch from heroic music back to suspenseful) . 
 Subtle enough to add flavor but not draw from realism
  
  World is moving despite objectives -- enemies are constantly patrolling and interacting with each 
 other. If the player manages to disrupt this balance, the guards will come searching for the player 
 -- makes hiding for long periods virtually impossible and keeps the suspense at a maximum; player 
 is always on the edge of their seat; this also made the game more difficult for novice players 
 and made me save quite often
  
  Light switches can be turned off and on -- most games don't even put a light switch texture on 
 a wall; it may sound small, but being able to turn out the lights is a great strategy in avoiding 
 combat or weighing an encounter in the player's favor
  
  Realistic boundaries! Crytek always does this right, with the Far Cry having the patrolling helicopter 
 that would shoot a player down if went too far off course. Games are all starting to copy this 
 strategy (e. g. mass effect) . In Crysis, I found myself testing the boundaries by swimming as far 
 out in the water as I could before being severely bitten by a shark! This was really unexpected 
 and almost made me jump out my seat. Definitely a nice feature and very realistic as well. During 
 another test, I was shot down by a patrolling ship's torpedo's. Crysis makes barriers fun, while 
 still being far enough away for a player to have a sense of unlimited freedom that doesn't break 
 the immersion
  
  Although levels seem random, no 2 trees are too close together to get through -- make for quicker 
 running and dodging enemies. Small attention to detail that most people won't realize, but subconsciously 
 it will feel "right"
  
  Enemy's attire and aggressiveness varies depending on location -- wearing camouflage in deep forest 
 areas that actually make them harder to fight against
  
  Environments give players more to do than just fight all the time (each NPC is uniquely animated 
 and fun to just walk around and look at them; NPC's look over at you when get close)
  
  If a computer's framerate is unable to keep the pace with cut scenes (which mine frequently would 
 drop to 5fps) the animation waits for the next speaker's animation to load before playing. This 
 is better than choppy cut scenes; still unfortunate, though
  
  Dust particles in light fog beams :)
  
  Being able to plug in a 360 controller is always a 
 good option to have (I am replaying through the game because of this fact)
  
  What the game could use some work on:
  
  NPC'S don't do a good job about moving out of the 
 player's path. Once I was physically trapped and ended up dieing from collision when trying to 
 struggle out of it
  
  Can't go back through an open door -- covered by fog -- during the last boss fight; loses immersion 
 that was presented during the rest of the game
  
  Can't run when gun is zoomed. I don't know why certain games make this choice -- as it restricts 
 the player's strategy
  
  Lots of random bugs show that the game was rushed: guns sandwiched in a wall and constantly colliding 
 and jittering (dangerous to be around) , certain walls are overlapped over each other creating Z-fighting 
 ("texture crawl")
  
  Objects sometimes randomly disappear (e. g. pictures on walls)
  
  Overall, the game seemed a bit too short, ended to abruptly and didn't give the player a sense 
 of closure in the narrative
  
  Miscellaneous: 
  
  Some lights fade ON when entering a room (optimization)
  
  Was able to jump out of a plane 
 during a cinema (was cool to know that the camera was being dynamically generated) was able to 
 walk around until load screen kicked in. All bugs should be this fun ;)
  
  Was thrown by a boss through the floor into a previous room = multi-leveled levels (no portals?)
 
  
  Compared to Far Cry, Crysis seemed a bit lacking in providing as fun of an experience. The game 
 was focused on realism -- and mostly got that right -- but there was maybe a little too much realism 
 and not enough fantasy for the game to be truly magical. That aside, the game provided a very refined 
 experience that put the player in the shoes of the character. The enemy AI makes the game so dynamic 
 that each player will have his or her own strategy for victory. The true test of a game's greatness 
 is its replayability. I found myself owning multiple games at the same time and this is the one 
 that I continually went back to finish before the others. Crysis is like a good book that you just 
 can't put down when you've started it. Another great achievement is that the missions feel different 
 and never seem to get repetitive. Crysis is as inspiring as it is addictive; a game that has set 
 the bar for the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CY4N1D3_625
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  As said above, this game doesn't have much of a story line, but backs everything up in terms of 
 graphics eye candy and mind-blowing physics. Assuming you have the graphics muscle to run this 
 game (I have a 9800 GX2 and I only get 43-50 FPS.... on DX9 w/ no AA and everything on high) , fun 
 is never ending as you free roam through a semi-linear story bringing Korean militants to a spectacular 
 death at the hands of a multifunction nanosuit, while investigating and alien invasion. The physics 
 in this game blew me away, as I tossed a frag into a makeshift house made of old cinder blocks 
 and sheet metal and then watching the front end blow to bits like a Forth of July fireworks celebration. 
 But all in all, this game is not for the faint of computer...... SLI or Crossfire is recommended 
 in my books if you want to run this game smoothly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  First, let me start out by saying that this game is a great way to test your shiny new Geforce 
 8800. That aside, the core game of Crysis blows. In singleplayer, your a US special forces soldier 
 in a pimped out combat suit called the nanosuit, an advanced piece of technology capable of making 
 you invisible, giving you super speed, and enabling super strength. However, gameplay wise, the 
 only thing you'll really need to do is go invisible when the enemy spots you and keep popping out 
 to take headshots every so often. In fact, that's basically the meat of the entire first half of 
 the game... shoot some korean soldier in the head with a silencer, go invisible, watch his friends 
 suffer from an AI panic attack, and repeat. The AI in this game is baaad. Granted, enemies will 
 sometimes take cover and try to flank you, but they get stuck in doorways and don't react to their 
 friends dropping all around them way too often for a shooter that claims to be the epitome of all 
 FPS gaming. Crytek tried to compensate for this by pulling a Half Life 1 - that is, giving all 
 the enemies massive amounts of health so that they can carry out squad-based tactics before they 
 all die in a bloody heap. This is apparent when an enemy takes twenty bullets in the back from 
 a silenced assault rifle before he dies. That is, unless you get a headshot.
  
  In all honesty, you NEED headshots in this game. In multiplayer, your enemies can take a billion 
 body shots but die from a single headshot from ANYTHING, so basically MP on any mode just turns 
 into a big circle jerk with players nosediving around to increase their accuracy and mess up their 
 hitboxes JUST like in BF2. Talking about Power Struggle of multiplayer mode, this game tries to 
 be BF2... and fails miserably in the process. Since there's only a handful of bunkers in each map, 
 places where you are forced to spawn, you'll be running across the map 9 minutes out of ten taking 
 in the less than spectacular visuals of the uninspired and unimpressive multiplayer levels. And 
 did I mention the horrible handling of all the vehicles in Crysis, especially in multiplayer? All 
 the ground vehicles feel floaty, all the air vehicles are overpowered, and vehicles will self destruct 
 after being idle for a few minutes, regardless of whether or not your about to climb into one. 
 It's really a mess.
  
  But wait - Crysis is pretty! Who gives a crap. It isn't fun. The singleplayer campaign is unoriginal, 
 short, buggy, and boring, and the multiplayer is about as bad as GTA4's. If I had to pick the most 
 overrated game of 2007, Crysis would definitely be it. I can't believe I was tricked into thinking 
 this game was going to be up to par with great shooters like Half Life 2 and FEAR. Thank you for 
 making me waste $40, Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralArrow
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The story may not be fully original (although most of it is) but the game play is innovative, intense 
 and brilliant to behold with everything in its world. Trees are knocked down around you as enemy 
 fire from Gun emplacements rip though the forest and demolosh it building collapse with your grenades 
 and enemy guns ect. At its easy setting its a fun and challenging shooter. 
  Letting you get the upper hand though stealth like the predator or play Rambo and blow everything 
 skyhigh. Its hard and Delta settings make you want to use stealth as much as you can because the 
 A. I is nasty. 
  They look realistic when searching and make you so you don't want to be found.
  It is the best 
 first person shooter I have played to date.
  If you got a good system and can run it... get it even if you've never played fps befor it might 
 convince you to. It is worth every penny.
  Resist throwing your mouse at the monitor when it ends because we now know about crysis warhead.
 
  Very few problems arouse during gamplay.
  With my system it was frame rate issues (purly my computers performance cababilties.) One instance 
 with an enemy being immune to damage.
  Download the patch it fixes pretty much all of the issuess. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sauron-
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  I have never really liked FPS games. But then Crysis was released and i could'nt wait to get my 
 new PC. Now i play FPS because of crysis.
  I have been playing crysis for some days, and it is just perfect! Perfect graphics, physics, sound, 
 gameplay, history...
  The phisics and graphics are the best i have ever seen... it is hard to describle. E. g: If you 
 are driving a car and drive into a wooden house, the wall is going to fall. You will see the wood 
 falling into the ground and breaking. Maybe the roof will fall too and everything in it will take 
 damage.
  If you like graphics and have a powerful processor, memory and graphics card, you MUST get this 
 game, because it is one of the best games i have ever played.
  Trust me, this game is pure action. If you like action, graphics and FPS, then crysis will be your 
 preferred game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  When i saw the first pictures of Crysis, it was mind-blowing. The comparison shots between real-life 
 photos and game pics were uncanny. Along with the boasted 'technologies' behind the game, including 
 improved performance under DX10, physics at a huge scale, weather/climate change and the most sophisticated 
 AI ever in a sandbox environment - it wasn't difficult to capture any gamer's attention. Enough 
 about yesterday's news and let's concentrate on 'now' - the game is out, i have a high-end PC - 
 did it live up to my expectations? A short answer would be Yes, but there was a lot of deliberation 
 behind that.
  
  Crysis takes place in the future, 2020, in a time of tension between USA and North Korea. You, 
 'Nomad', is among several elite soldiers equipped with nano-suit technology. This American team 
 is sent to a remote tropical island for the retrieval of American archaeologists excavating there. 
 It turns out that North Koreans have occupied much of the island and are intent on harnessing the 
 island's uncovered technologies for military strength. Within moments of deployment from a jump 
 jet, it becomes clear that there is a greater enemy than North Korea out there.
  
  One major thing about Crysis when it comes to gameplay is that it is heavily linked to the performance 
 of your machine. Taking the graphical fidelity and immersive environments out by lowering the settings 
 is like trying to type up an epic essay with the letters 'o, w, s' missing from the keyboard. The 
 game becomes that much more an experience as the sandbox environments draw you, the gamer, into 
 its world when it feels so believable - in a Hollywood way. Graphically, this game has a hunger 
 for raw power as it brings my Q6600 + 8800GTX to its knees - why it does so is easily explained 
 away by the gorgeous pictures it produces. And this is only in DX9 mode with tweaked settings - 
 DX10, a feature of the Vista operating system on higher settings would look another league better, 
 if only if it ran a playable framerate. Grass, leaves, dust is blown about by the wind. Each individual 
 leaf casts a soft shadow created by an actual sun and the people are modelled to an extreme that 
 could haunt you the moment you see their faces close up. This is not to say that this game is only 
 fun to play because it looks and feels 'so good', but it is pretty much half the story.
  
  The game is sandbox, meaning that anything goes in how you want to play the game. Your experience 
 through the game is never exactly the same after playthrough after playthrough - it is something 
 people describe as emergent gameplay. The nano-suit that is made available immediately gives you 
 the choice of strengthening your armour, boosting your physical strength, boosting your speed or 
 even cloaking yourself. And those are your choices - boosting your strength allows you to jump 
 to higher places, punch/throw objects/enemies harder/further. Speed past guards or run away from 
 them if you want to avoid unnecessary effort (or saving bullets) . Sneak past defences whilst being 
 invisible etc. The destructible environment itself can be used as weapons such as punching down 
 walls, throwing large objects or using it as cover - in a way, the game becomes as much fun as 
 you'd like to make it. Do want to conserve ammo and just use a large trash bin as a weapon? You 
 can. Want to kill the enemies by just grabbing and throwing them? You can. You can use the vehicles 
 to run people over or use its mounted gun. The vehicles do feel a little buggy at times though 
 because there are times when there are unexplained unresponsiveness. Vehicles and large machines 
 are particular highlights of the game and that also complements the weapons that are made available. 
 There are many vehicles in the game and are very fun to drive, particularly when the game lends 
 itself to opportunity. You can customise your weapon, such as silencers, scope, type of ammo, flashlight/grenade 
 launcher etc. It offers so much variety that actually impacts the gameplay. Using silencers is 
 particularly useful for disguising your exact location but sacrifices the damage inflicted - and 
 is something i almost always used because it suited my styIe of play.
  
  The audio fidelity in this game parallels the visual department. Just as the game is a visual treat, 
 the immersive audio in particular beats out as good as your sound system has to offer. Cranking 
 up the volume, people in the house would think you were watching an epic war movie as explosions, 
 gunfire are realistically emulated in a action-movie fashion. The complementary soundtrack is just 
 perfect; never sounding 'too recognisable' to alienate the mood, but rather complements the action/mood 
 in your surroundings in an almost-subconscious way. By the end of the game, you'd be hard-pressed 
 to single out a single soundtrack of the game, but you'd know it was there exaggerating the peaceness 
 of your surroundings or cranking up the tension in the appropriate situations. An audio-fright 
 experience i had was when my 360 pad rumbled/rattled my pc case - unknowingly, i was thinking my 
 PC was going to 'die out'. I had wanted to experience the rumble action from the joypad but the 
 awkwardness of the button configurations (and aiming) forced me stay with keyboard/mouse.
  
  There are certain criticisms i have to make as someone who's played a huge variety of games. 
 While Crysis goes above and beyond as a FPS by creating an amazingly sophosticated sandbox environment, 
 it underutilises some of the advantages of sandboxing. Crytek played the emergent-gameplay card 
 but considering what Grand Theft Auto San Andreas (a sandbox PS2 game) accomplished in both depth 
 and variety, Crysis seems lacking, at least in sandbox-terms. It feels as if Crysis was inhibited 
 by its shooter genre (and striving for the best visuals) and need to tell an engaging, but ultimately 
 linear and predictable plot. While these criticisms mar an excellent game, they are borne out of 
 my expectations from the technologies behind the game. For a first person shooter, this sandbox 
 element is thus far unparalleled.
  
  One big 'however' factor that comes into play is the community aspect. With the sandbox editor 
 being flexible and easily accessible, it offers incredible user-generated content and is something 
 not to be sniffed at. Along with mods and all-sorts of 'jazz' you can easily find something entertaining 
 once the campaign is over. Even if the game does not feature ragdolls or explicit gore, i think 
 there is something out there to change it even if Crytek condones it. And then there is the online 
 multiplayer - while it can be entertaining, the lack of players in a huge map ultimately means 
 encounters aren't as often as you'd like. 'Power Struggle' as it is called, is about trying to 
 destroy the enemie's base of which is best done by acquiring nukes. It has its own plus points 
 being that it's unique, you get to use your suit powers and it looks very nice. But the multiplayer 
 just simply pales in comparison to what else is on offer, like Counter Strike, Battlefield, or 
 Call Of Duty 4. Simply put, the multiplayer is not something you'd buy Crysis for, but for its 
 touted 'ultimate single player experience'.
  
  In the end, this is definitely a game to get once you have a very decent machine (up to date gaming 
 rig) . I wouldn't recommend it to people who don't have very capable machines as it is an experience 
 that can be spoiled even if it is playable on older machines (due to good scalability of the game) 
 and thus, Crysis is a game to be enjoyed later but shouldn't be a sole reason for a PC upgrade 
 or a complete new build. There is a slight bitter taste for the aftermath because it uses a clas-sic 
 cliche for the sequel to Crysis. That bitterness though is overwhelmed by the sweet sensation that 
 is the taste of adrenaline-fuelled action that just FEELS epic. And maybe if you don't have a capable 
 machine, just wait, wait till the second game of the trilogy to come out. Maybe then, playing it 
 though from 1 to 2 in a more capable rig will be that much better an experience than if you played 
 the games separately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrynarits
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Crysis... the game with the great graphic but everything els needs some work
  Okey, there are worster games what look like **** but this game got its minuses and pluses, lets 
 start with the good for start :)
  
  This game looks GREAT, nothing bad to do say about it, Nano suits gives a unique game play what 
 u will enjoy and play missions where there are no aliens again and maybe again, many weapons and 
 u can edit them, its fun to play the predator in the jungle or just take your gun run and shoot 
 and hope they don't shoot you, fun for some hours and its on of those games what u want to play 
 again because its.... not story because it's graphic, sandbox game :D, story what even didn't suck
 
  and i think everything good is said lets go to the dark side
  
  i dont say enemys are stupid, they called for help and tryed to save themself etc but AL, if i 
 played demo with delta i thought: okey its just a demo real game will be harder, i started playing 
 it with Delta and finished it with it, it wasnt hard, it needed some fast thinking but it was to 
 easy, aliens, why every good game has to be ruined with aliens, i loved so lot killing everybody, 
 throwing people to death, into buildings and more and then, aliens, why didnt they come at the 
 last level but no, ruined all the fun for me, physics, okey it is the best at moment (before Far 
 Cry 2 ) but still they promised much more than they gave at some moments it was more then awful 
 and i thought it would be much better without it, i hope Crysis 2 will be better from that side, 
 pointless MP, i really hated when enemys started having Nano suits, somehow ruined the fun for 
 me but in the end twice as more bullets and they died, they weren't anything special if u had a 
 shotgun, they even were more stupid that normal soliders
  
  Mainly i enjoyed this game and it was fun, it really remembered Delta Force 1-3, game was same 
 only not so nice and withhout nano suit, run around attack from what side u want and alone. Delta 
 Force 1 was my first shooter and my favourite one in 2000-2001, i played it most of my free time, 
 it was lots of fun and this game gave me the same experience
  
  This game isn't bad but they promised a lot more what i didn't get and what was something what 
 i didnt like and i'm waiting for a new adventure with the nano suit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Graphics info
  As we all know, this game has the best graphics out there. I would recommend atleast a good enough 
 video card to play this game on High settings (Very High is not really an option unless you reduce 
 the resolution or you have 4 way SLI) . My rig is two 8800 gts 512mb video cards SLI, 4 gigs ram, 
 Q6600 quad core 2.4 overclocked to 3.0 Mhz, Vista Ultimate, and X-FI sound card, and 1680x1050 
 resolution with direct X10. With these settings I was able to play the game on high (no AA) up 
 until near the end of the game when you get to the snow part, then I had to reduce down to medium 
 settings to get a steady 30 fps. This will give you an idea if you want to hold off for a better 
 rig before playing this game because honestly you need to play the game with the eye candy to really 
 make it an amazing exerience. 
  
  Now for the review
  Beside the graphics and awesome surround sound, the game is actually very fun too! The nanosuit 
 gives you so many different options such as super speed, invisibility (for stealth) , increased 
 strength (jump higher, throw further, steady aim with sniper) , increased armor. This gives you 
 the option to play how you want to play. You can go in with guns blazing or you can use stealth 
 and take out your enemies one by one. The story is good, but I won't mention much of that here. 
 The only thing I wish was different is towards the end of the game. I thought the aliens could 
 have been better and more variety. Also, the game becomes more linear towards the end. This was 
 a little disappointing. As for the multiplayer, It is kind of confusing and the graphics don't 
 seem as good as single player. 
  
  Overall, this game is a must have but I would wait until you have a better rig to get the full 
 benefits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IvanTarutin
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a perfect game for gamers with a little bit of everything that can be imagined in first-person 
 shooter. In this game the whole island is yours, you can drive a car or a boat or make your way 
 through the jungle by cutting down trees and taking down your enemies. Great graphics, no, not 
 great, just perfect graphics with picturesque sceneries and lots of weapons and other great things. 
 The controls aren't hard, even an idiot can play it, but still, this game is not a stupid shooter 
 like COD, it has a storyline, an interesting storyline with some unexpected surprises. Crytek made 
 a great game design that took them 3 years, and this three years of working have been awarded. 
 There is lots of what about to tell, but i'll say shorter, this game is a truly masterpiece that 
 you'll want to play again and again. If you buy it, you won't regret, i promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sot7thD
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  All of this is just my opinion.
  
  Normally when you hype up a game sooo much for graphics it lets you down on the gameplay and here 
 Crysis didn't disappoint with it's disappointments. Crysis feels like Crytek wanted to make a game 
 engine and decided to make Crysis a tech demo for it to show off at E3 to interest future buyers. 
 Then they thought actually we have a well hyped game here and decided to make a game out of it. 
 The only problem with this is the game still feels like a tech demo and while a bloody good tech 
 demo at that, it does lack sooo much from making it fun. Not even the multiplayer is any fun and 
 by the sound of it you'd think it would be great but for some reason it's just not, I can't point 
 my finger on it but maybe it's all the hackers punk buster doensn't get rid of.... it manages to 
 everyone else though for no reason other than using it but never the hackers lol. However fortunately 
 Crysis has a sandbox editor which if you're into that kinda thing of creating, then you'll have 
 a greta time here for many hours maybe even years if you're in to mod making..... just a shame 
 Crytek thought they'd put in 2 sandbox editors, one however has a bad story and less features lol.
 
  
  Now the game starts off great leaving an amazing impression purely on graphics and thinking how 
 kool does that nano-suit look but also the voice acting and music is all great. You jump down onto 
 the island from a plane and get split up from your team and really from that first moment it's 
 the last time you will see them all together. I found this pretty stupid killing off most of them 
 at the start before you even got to know them because really their deaths had no impact and you 
 don't even care. However from the such a poor story Crysis has even when some die at the end you 
 don't care lol. I atleast expected the cliche love interest from a woman but I got none of that 
 which was also a shame because being a mad and the prospect of getting **** when we're stuck in 
 the elevator together she was the only character I cared about.
  
  Now like Far Cry you come in killing Humans and then something comes along and ruins the game and 
 leaves you thinking if they just stuck with the humans this game woulda been sooo much better. 
 Thankfully they didn't use mutants with rockets coming outta their arse but kool looking Aliens 
 which really did ass to the game I felt. The game suddenly becomes much more linear after they 
 arrive too and finally has some structure and objectives other than run to point a to point b killing 
 Koreans and pressing a button just to have to press a button 400m down the road somewhere else. 
 Theres zero G gameplay and flying a spacecraft and then sitting on the back of a vehicle gunning 
 down Aliens and protecting your mate keeping him in the warmth because his suit stopped working. 
 It really makes the game more fun and gives it more story and you think if they just done this 
 from the start then it would have been sooo much better! Many people say the start and sandbox 
 feel is what's great about Crysis but I think we already have a sandbox editor, why do I need my 
 game to be like that with less features and a crap story? They say how open world the game is and 
 yet it's still linear but instead of having a 2m wide corridor you have a 40m wide one. I don't 
 see the point having more freedom and then less to do in it but shoot down trees........... Just 
 please Crysis lacks story and characters and gameplay in the single player so for Crysis 2 improve 
 on that! I find it also a shame how they have a game with a good physics engine and yet in the 
 actual game the physics act all weird and not right. Like barrels can blow up a vehicle with one 
 throw or knock down a entire building lol. Also what I find weird is no physics puzzles which I 
 feel really adds to the gameplay of HL2... the least they coulda done was like the planes flaps 
 or w/e they're called broke off so you have to put a certain amount of wate rin it to keep it balanced 
 or something lol.
  
  The gunplay itsself is actually very good but the guns in the game are abit boring but still the 
 feel of the guns more than makes up for it. The suit is also a kool tool although I wish I have 
 the Koreans becuase theirs seems like it can take WAY more damage than mine... even their bullet 
 proof jackets lol. The problem comes with the dumb AI and why making levels that big isn't always 
 the best thing to do because theya re trying to navigate the world they are abit slow to react 
 and get caught up in things and genreally are very stupid, though i've seen much more AI. The way 
 vehicles control is complete crap and I hope they fix that and the fact at how easy they blow up....
 
  
  The graphics of Crysis are the most impressive thing about the game, really are just jaw dropping 
 but obviously you need the best rig money can buy to max it out and even then you might struggle. 
 I like the added touches of wildlife but really all they made me think was I wish I could put up 
 human dead bodies or atleast tranquilized ones like MGS2. The sound is all very good aswel from 
 the voice acting and the sound effects and the music is fantastic too. I never noticed any problems 
 here and along with the graphics is one of the best things about the game.
  
  I'm not going to comment on the multiplayer or sandbox too much because I didn't play much of each 
 of them. However the multiplayer is just plain bad and not fun, it's hard to describe but theres 
 just better out there. The sandbox editor is probably my fave thing about the game because you 
 can create soooo much it is like Garrys mod in a way but without the online and all the creating 
 contraptions.... just hope they patch all the bugs that really get annoying with it.
  
  So yeah Crysis mechanics are nailed but the game just ends up coming across as boring to me because 
 it lacks story and characters to really make you want to play on. Also I noticed there was a real 
 attension to detail in some areas but a lack of detail in others like how you can't pick up human 
 bodies or like at the end on the aircraft carrier noone talks to you like in other games, they 
 just stand there lifeless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight right here, right now. Crysis needs every single updated, upgraded 
 and uncompromisingly expensive piece of software and hardware known to man. It needs a Dual Core 
 processor at 2.2ghz at least and a Graphics card that only God himself could build. There's not 
 a PC out there that can run Crysis at its full Super Sayian potential. Hell not even my new, Vista 
 64 system can run it at Ultra detail. In fact, I would probably have to get at least another 1000 
 pounds to get my PC up to full optimum spec. At the moment I can run the tech demo at High and 
 the tech demo still looks impressive. But if you haven't got the power, forget trying to get this 
 tech demo to run. It's an evil S O B that needs everything you got at 110% ALL the time. 
  
  So let's get to it. If you've played Crytek's other tech demo, Far Cry, the plot is not too 
 different to that game. Except this time you're with a squad and your character is a nanosuit with 
 proper support and feral -sorry- genetic powers/enhancements (delete non applicable) . That's it. 
 Course aliens come to the tropical paradise that Crytek always insist on setting all their tech 
 demos. The story is hardly ground breaking or interesting to be honest. But the gameplay is.
  
  Crytek's learned several few lessons from Far Cry. Crysis is a far more balanced gaming experience. 
 The weapons are better, the movement is far better. The only thing Crytek can't get right still 
 is the atrocious vehicle sections. They are horrible. Really, truly horrible. I've never come across 
 such a bad vehicle section in all my life. Even Mass Effect's Mako sections are better than Crysis'. 
 Thankfully the vehicle moments are few and far between. So that's good. What's also good is the 
 improved A. I from Far Cry. It's not outstandingly impressive, but it's good a for a tech demo.
 
  
  I could go on and on about how good Crysis looks. I won't because the screenshots and trailers 
 speak for themselves. It's not until you actually play it that you begin to appreciate the level 
 of work that has gone into this tech demo. It truly is a stunning beast and it warrants at least 
 a Super Sayian transformation of your PC. I think it may need a Super Sayian level 2 transformation 
 to get the Very High. And for Ultra detail at the highest 1200 resolution? Probably a transfusion 
 with a Mac and a level 4 Super Sayian transformation to get to that level. Hey, it would make the 
 computer a "PersonalMacintosh". Groan. The sound is okay.
  
  Crysis has a lengthy single player campaign, and one that deems re-playing. I haven't played multi-player 
 so I'm not going to pretend I have. And I never used the level editor. Though if it's anything 
 like Far Cry's, it's going to be good.
  
  Crysis is a tech demo of the highest degree. I know I have refered to Crysis as a tech demo all 
 the time, but to be honest that's how it feels sometimes. Don't get me wrong, it's a great tech 
 demo with some great moments and moments of awe. But, like Far Cry, I believe this tech demo will 
 age. Not as quickly as Far Cry has aged, but still. If you strip away all the fancy nuances and 
 what not, this is a standard FPS with no comparison. What I mean by that is, all subsequent FPs 
 games after Half Life or Deus Ex have often been compared to them. True, not all games have been 
 but they're usually the names that crop up most. Crysis on the other hand plays it EA. So it plays 
 it safe. It has some emergent gameplay elements but it's nothing you haven't seen before. It would 
 be wise to think about upgrading your PC/Mac hybrid before you think of purchasing this!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  So it's only been possible for me to get my hands on this game recently as I'm only just catching 
 up with upgrades (still don't have enough money update fully) and i have to say i would of been 
 perfectly fine not playing Crysis all the way through.
  
  When this game was in production it was massively hyped for its breakthrough graphics and many 
 thought it would be the best FPS to date. The graphics part was true, even though my PC can't run 
 it on maximum settings i was just fine exploring the environment when it was set on high. It has 
 outstanding graphics, all the trees and water looks very close to real and i spent at least an 
 hour taking in the atmosphere that Crytek had created with their engine. Unfortunately this was 
 about the extend that the game wowed me to, with the story line and multiplayer falling short of 
 anything as outstanding as the graphics.
  
  The game throws you into a extraction situation where you are the US (how cliche) extract a bunch 
 of researchers from the Koreans on this island. You are armed with a 'nano suit' which allows you 
 to cloak yourself, increase your strength, speed and defense for short amounts of time. At first 
 this seems like a really innovative idea but about 2 hours into the game you realize that all your 
 ever going to use is the cloak and strength which makes half the suit functions seem pretty useless. 
 As the story progresses you find out that a ancient alien race has been awoken on the island and 
 that they are bent on destroying anything that moves. The sudden plot twist didn't seem to really 
 connect with the start and the plot was watered down to the same old humans VS aliens with nothing 
 new to add to the theme. One feature that annoyed me greatly was the fact it always picked a spot 
 where i was about to be blown up or shot to auto save, so that every time I loaded up the saved 
 game I was blown up or shot. With the storyline gone down the drain i thought maybe the multiplayer 
 may save some face for this game and might actually keep me enjoying this game but i was sadly 
 disappointed. I'm not sure if it's just me but there was no way i could get into it, it was just 
 set out horribly with most point of the maps used as snipe points for campers to sit at and leisurely 
 pick people off. Not even the different modes in multiplayer had any effect on the game play and 
 one or two modes left me a little confused.
  
  The few elements i liked about this game was
  - The graphics: Amazing job, it really couldn't 
 of been bettered in anyway really.
  - The AI: The AI was pretty good in this game, i was pleasantly surprised to see good graphics 
 and AI in the same game (since we usually have to choose between the two in today's games.
  - The soundtrack was reasonable, it did it's job of setting a mood and keeping it that way.
  
 
  Overall i was very disappointed with the way this turned out, amazing graphics is really not enough 
 to save a game and when it comes down to it i prefer game play over graphics. The bad points far 
 outweigh the few good ones and the final score is really only based upon graphics and AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13ozzy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  As mentioned above the game's System Requirements are just brutal...
  Operating System Windows XP or Windows Vista
  M (CPU 2.8 GHz or faster for XP, 3.2 GHz or faster 
 for Vista Intel Core 2 Duo @ 2.2GHz, or AMD Athlon 64 X2 4400+
  Memory 1 GB RAM for XP, 1.5 GB RAM for Vista) (R) 2 GB RAM
  Hard Drive Space 12 GB of free space
 
  Graphics Hardware 256 MB video memory, NVIDIA GeForce 6800 GT/ATI Radeon 9800 Pro (Radeon X800 
 Pro for Vista) or greater NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GTS 640MB or ATI 2900XT 512MB
  Sound Hardware DirectX 9.0c compliant card
  
  But it pays off, because the game is absolutely 
 stunning, even photo realistic at times. Gameplay is very intense, story makes you play all night 
 long. Even though is has INSANE system requirements its probbly the best looking game ever made 
 and on of the best shooters of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illidan321
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is what we were waiting for a long time. It has extended storyline, extremely addictive 
 gameplay and unbelievable graphics.
  
  2020, at a tropical island, while an archaeological team was examining some ancient ruins, it was 
 attacked by Koreans. You have, as a part of the rescue team, to find and save the team. After long 
 battles with Koreans you realise there is something in the island which is killing both Koreans 
 and your team. At later part of the game you realise that the archaeologists have discovered alien 
 machines which are trying to rule the planet.
  
  The gameplay is marvelous. You start with a nanosuit which can be modified so it can give you: 
 
  Maximum Strength: You will be able to jump higher, throw object and enemies at longer distances 
 and with more power and melee your enemies with extreme melee power.
  Maximum Speed: While in this mode you will be able to run on extreme speed and also melee faster.
 
  Maximum Armor: This mode includes more armor and faster health and energy regeneration.
  Stealth: This mode makes your enemies unable to see you. While in this mode you continually lose 
 energy while not regenerating it.
  
  The enemies' AI is of high intelligence. You will notice that while you are stealthed and they 
 have noticed you they start firing everywhere to find you. If you hide behind a rock for example 
 they will throw you grenades to get you out of there.
  
  One of the game's serious drawbacks is its high requirements. There is no PC which can play this 
 game on Ultra High graphics, while the lesser requirements are: CPU Pentium 4 or AMD at 2.8GHz 
 or more, 265 MB Graphics (ouch) Card, 1GB RAM, and 12GB at Hard Disk !!!
  
  To sum up, this is a game which we leave astounded FPS fans and will make others to become. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionary the graphics are stunning and the game play is perfect. Its intense 
 at times like defending the base with the mobile AA batteries. The games is perfect up until it 
 really gets messed up with the maze of the alien world and what not, the aircraft carrier is accurately 
 recreated in this game, the F35s look real and the guns are beautifully rendered. The vehicles 
 look great and blow up even better the fire looks real and acts like it at time. I love the way 
 some guns handle. Its a shame you can't steal vehicles from enemies. I love the way you can choose 
 your plan of attack if ya want to go in silently you can if ya want to blow the place to ashes 
 you can. All though ya cant set anything on fire you can take buildings down and cut trees down. 
 The gravity simulation is a bit to slow for things falling but still is as revolutionary in interactment 
 with your enviorment as half life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munchgun
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Crysis plays really good & our pc had no problems playing it. The only problem I had with the game 
 was it being extremely short it took my two days to finish it (in total less than 20 hours) . I guess 
 it could also be called overrated not that I'm saying it's a bad game. I liked the game play and 
 the ability to let you customize your weapons. I mostly used the maximum strength augmentation to 
 get rid of most of my enemies, once in a while I used the maximum armor. You don't get a chance to 
 kill aliens until you are almost close to the end of the game. I do recommend this game if you have 
 a e-GeForce 8600 GT or better ( depending on what graphics cards your pc is compatible with) . Just 
 don't expect the game to be really long or to kill aliens right at the beginning of the game. (and 
 yes a e-GeForce 8600 GT could play this game on medium settings) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilJohnnyboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  Okay where to start this game is a beautiful work of art a masterpiece the story line is very beliveable 
 and fantastic great voice acting and some very nice graphics no... the BEST graphics 
  
  every mission there is always an alternitive way to do it you could go by boat, drive a car, go 
 loud, go silent, kill everyone, kill only who get in your way, ect the weaponry is well modeled 
 and the customisation for weapons is also great for what ever situation you're in there isn't many 
 bugs 
  (well not for me) but it is a very great game I reccommend to any shooter 
  fans and if your not a shooter fan give this game a go it will keep you entertained for hours
 
  
  The Bad Part
  the worst part of this game is multiplayer at first it was great fun and exicting a buy menu full 
 of weapons and equipment purchaseable vehicles
  and there were no hackers then there was 1 hack on a server then 2 then three and now you get about 
 10 at first the hacks were fast movement then it went to one hit kill then flying then invisble 
 and invincible at the same time invisible freeze rays teleporting do not go online without hacks 
 even the latest patch has been hacked but it's cryteks fault anyway for such an easily hacked game 
 the files are right there just waiting to be hacked all you need is a program that can edit xml 
 files
  
  Overall
  A fantastic game a great singleplayer experience but terrible multiplayer because of all the hackers
 
  
  You'll find me in the game as
  MR_WHIPPY
  one of the hackers on crysis but don't worry I don't play crysis any more
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoliathUK
Rating: 4
Date: May 30, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  There's no denying Crysis is gorgeous to look at - in my personal opinion it's the best looking 
 program out there, with unparalleled realism in its environments and models. Everything is convincing, 
 from the NPCs to the weather effects, to the military hardware, to the jungle and nuclear-winter 
 environments. The spaceship interior mission in particular has a completely unparalleled level 
 of eye-poppingness, with the game's impressive post-processing effects working in harmony with 
 the designers' unique take on ancient, alien architecture.
  
  That's about ALL i have to say about Crysis that's good. The game experience itself lacks focus 
 and definition - a strong start (racing through the darkened jungle looking for a teammate in peril) 
 quickly devolves into a messy, freeform experience where the player is given goals to accomplish 
 and not the route to take to them - so you can either steal a car and drive towards that next point 
 of interest, or creep through the jungle with your suit's enhanced stealth ability and pick off 
 patrolling enemies along the way. None of this gameplay is overly satisfying, however, mainly because 
 the weapons all feel inneffective (you can happily empty the game's AK47 into an enemy and watch 
 them get up again) . Also, while the game sports powerful physics simulation and attempts to make 
 the most of this with your suit Strength augmentation, the player is never given any real reason 
 to use it - there rarely seems any point in hurling an object at the enemy, since you can't guarantee 
 they will die but you CAN guarantee they will shoot at you if you don't, and you'll end up having 
 the gunfight you could have had to start with but having sacrificed the element of surprise.
  
  The AI exhibits some truly bizarre behaviours, and seem particularly bad at detecting the player. 
 Granted, the player can turn invisible and attach a silencer to most of the weapons in the game, 
 but even so a pair of enemies taking sustained fire from short range failed to detect me time and 
 time again, which just seems pathetic. The designers were clearly hoping most players would opt 
 for an overtly stealthy tactic, and hence not be disappointed by the AI's lack of combat ability 
 - the enemies, as with everything else in the game, feel like furniture or, worse, soft toys to 
 be played with.
  
  The plot is weak. There's no denying it. The characters all lack development, which is a shame 
 because a couple of them such as the Psycho and Prophet characters are nicely designed visually 
 and well voiced by the actors, but ultimately feel unfinished because of the lack of exposition. 
 Equally, the "hostages" in the game appear to openly collaborate with the North Korean enemies 
 and then throw their towel in with the player and their allies, but the "good" characters are completely 
 fine with this - there's no question of loyalties, only a comic-book sense of good and bad. Finally, 
 the ending leaves a LOT to be desired - probably the weakest attempt at a cliffhanger i've ever 
 seen, and one that does not give the player any drive to pursue the supposed sequel.
  
  Finally, I was extremely disappointed with the bugs in the game. The final setpiece on the aircraft 
 carrier flight deck has real clipping issues, repeatedly causing players to fall through solid 
 objects and drown in the sea below - hardly satisfying gaming. Also, the battle itself involves 
 a high level of seemingly random deaths - the worst of which were regularly occuring AFTER the 
 objective had been acquired, and the game had inadvisably autosaved, so the player becomes stuck 
 in a loop dying in the same way over and over until an older save is reverted to. The lack of an 
 quick-save feature appears to be omission rather than design, since the player can open the menu 
 and save at any time - it's just more time-consuming than hitting F6.
  
  Overall, I wouldn't reccomend Crysis for anything other than eye-candy and graphics benchmarking; 
 the game in itself is a tedious affair with little to reccomend it, and a weak plot that will leave 
 you cold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: writer
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a game to satisfy your hunger for jungle warfare, then look no further than 
 Crysis. Crysis brought me to the days of those old Vietnam time movies. The thick jungles, the 
 tough terrain, and the breathtaking scenery. With all of these aspects into place, what makes this 
 game so enjoyable is the fact that it's so easy to pick up and play. The controls don't give any 
 kind of complication as they are very to pick up on. Everything from the landscape to the enemies 
 in general, all have something to offer in this game. The game does have it's flaws however. The 
 fact that you need a very good comp to run it, may turn a lot of people who don't want to flesh 
 out the money to enjoy it. But don't worry, i don't have that great of a comp and the game still 
 runs and looks amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlturner
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  well i have have just finished playing crysis i have to say it was pretty damn hard. the one thing 
 that stood out from everything else was the graphics stunning is the only way to describe them. 
 i am fortunate to have a 1gb graphic card so i could whack up all the setting to their highest, 
 and what a vision of beauty that beholden me when i started to play.
  i hope everybody gets the same amount of joy as i have had playing it.
  For everybody to truely 
 understand how hungry this game was, my machine i have has 4gb ram quad core all singing all dancing 
 cpu and a 1gb graphics. the sounds both ambient and main stream were a joy to listen to especially 
 on surround sound, my wife kept asking me to turn it down lol.
  just one small criticism the korean voices were more comedy amke over than the real thing but apart 
 from the best game i have played in 20 yrs at least. i thought c&c was great but crysis is spectacular 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkJedi1979
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Its like watching a movie. You can not stop until you see the end credits. I think, its so good 
 that makes it short. A well made game in almost all aspects. Technically is perfect: visuals, sounds, 
 effects, design. The storyline isnt new, but keeps you wanting to know what happens next.
  You never get tired. The environments changes, there`re driving and flying sequences, weapons customizations, 
 you can use stealth tactics or brute force (heavy weapons, mounted machine guns, grenades...) . 
 All of it makes a very good game play.
  The requirements are a little steep in deed, but its worth at the end. There were parts in the 
 game that looks like photo realistic, specially in the jungle.
  Almost perfect shooter.
  But, really, could be a little longer.
  I wondering if there will be a sequence. Definitely ill 
 will play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supergodzilla1
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Spoiler warning.
  
  Crysis is an incredibly beautiful game that has you traversing a large tropical island while fighting 
 off North Koreans and, if you haven't figured this out already, Aliens. I really can't say enough 
 as to what makes it such a great game. It's beautiful, sometimes epic, feels like a very 3D experience 
 (whatever that is) but isn't much that you haven't already seen before in a first person shooter. 
 With that aside let's start kicking it in the shins.
  
  You play as a faceless super-suit wielding immortal badass American commando who goes in with a 
 squad to kill tons of dudes. These dudes are unfortunately North Koreans who actually have it figured 
 out in thier heads that they can fight the United States. As you traverse this wonderful island 
 and bully the communist locals with your super powers you feel like you're playing Time Shift or 
 something. Sure it doesn't have the time slowing powers but you're generally invincable unless 
 you try to fight the North Koreans head on. That's right fighting the enemy head on is a quick 
 way to get slaughtered which differentiates itself from Time Shift and other modern FPS right off. 
 Now I'm not to complain about this strictly high difficulty curve as I have the mighty pick axe 
 of the Halo Legendary difficulty experience and the magical Predator Cloaking device.
  
  When you turn on your cloaking device, and there rarely is a time you aren't, the AI goes stupid 
 and goes to the last place they saw you despite the purple shimmer racing by them and/or standing 
 next to them lining up the shot to blow thier heads off. However this feeling of cloaked invincability 
 is forgotton as you end up stalked by 'all seeing' helicopters that chase you across the entire 
 level until you manage to find a missile launcher or something in the nearby houses.
  
  Strength Mode is fun I'll admit, I get to beat people around, but the experience is quickly undermined 
 by how easily you can die in that particular mode without the Maximum Armor using your energy reserves 
 to protect your fleshy insides. So all you use Maximum Strength for is jumping up buildings or 
 cliffs. (It finds better uses in Multiplayer)
  
  Maximum Speed suffers the same problems as Maximum Strength in that you don't have your energy 
 reserves helping out your easily drained HP and you feel like a lightweight balsa wood glider that's 
 waiting to get gunned down by the aforementioned helicopter, sniper, or a single North Korean who's 
 all alone that just so happened to be there. (This finds no use in Multiplayer)
  
  The levels are vast, you can tackle the enemy positions any way you like, and even play Predator 
 with thier pathetic mortal minds as you pick them off one by one as they walk around but the problem 
 is they go about walking without even noticing thier buddies laying on the ground with bullets 
 in thier heads. What's worse would be how the AI sometimes doesn't even see you're shooting them 
 from across a field and just stand there taking shots. When the actual Aliens show up you're actually 
 against stuff that atleast try to be a challenge to your over all in game well being even though 
 they tend to fly around aimlessly as you gun them apart.
  
  Over all Crysis is very much worth bragging about and yet doesn't live up to the criticism I've 
 heard about it regarding it's system specs. This computer is hardly capable of walking around in 
 Halo 2, let alone play it, and it plays Crysis just fine. Either you're playing on Windows 2000, 
 a business OS, or your computer has the components of a Windows 98 computer. In that case I can 
 redirect you to Dell and command you to buy an XPS model of computer.
  
  It's hardly comparable to Bioshock in story depth. Not comparable to F. E. A. R.'s almighty squad 
 based AI. And most likely won't pick up on it's multiplayer in future games like how the Halo franchise 
 has given since there's only two modes of online multiplayer gameplay and no campaign co-op.
  
  Despite all this criticism don't get me wrong. Still go get this awesome game as it will probably 
 raise your standards for first person shooters quite a bit. Just watch out for the helicopters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzVoid
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Reading all these "perfect" reviews, I just could not miss this game. But. Yes, graphics is amazing, 
 especially exteriors (but interiors - they are looking too damn old for this game) . I am a bit 
 disappointed.
  
  Game brings you a good field for tactics. You should mix all suit abilities to pass through any 
 mission. But, the saddest thing, that the same moments in game last too long. Killing Korean soldiers 
 is funny, but not after a few hours. Running through jungle is cool and it is an ice-candy. But 
 not for so long. This is the reason why not 10. Game should bring us more changes of landscape. 
 Mostly, it's not far different from FarCry in gameplay.
  
  If you like FPS you have to play this game. But there is no reason to play it for a long time. 
 Just a great game, sorry, but it is not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: traviswitmer
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Crysis; where to begin. There aren't enough obscenities in the english language to describe my 
 loathing for this game the first time I played it. The computer I was using was a current generation 
 Mac Pro, running XP Pro in Bootcamp. The computer cost me well over six thousand dollars and I 
 fully expected to be able to enjoy Crysis. Well, that wasn't the case. The game looked like a low 
 resolution jpeg image with the zoom set to 200%. Aside from that, I am left handed and as greater 
 men than I have said before Crysis is a PC exclusive, meaning that the developers bound as many 
 functions to the keyboard as possible and did so for right handers only. I usually don't have a 
 problem creating a keyboard macro for PC games but I found it difficult to create a macro that 
 I was comfortable with. Needless to say I hated the game, with a passion.
  Later on down the line, about six months or so, I decided to build a gaming PC. Without going into 
 all the details I will just tell you that my computer is big, power hungry, athletic, and very 
 expensive, very expensive. The funny part is that even though I was scoring over 17K on 3DMark06 
 it really never crossed my mind to give the game a second chance because my first experience was 
 so bad. Well I did give it a second chance and I'm glad I did.
  Assuming you have a PC with enough b@lls to run this system hog you can look forward to the following: 
 breathtaking visuals (no really, this game is prettier than a super model, in a bikini, on your 
 own private beach, giving you a foot massage, and that just happens to defecate gold bullion and 
 urinate liquid platinum) , awesome gunplay, amazing story, great voice acting, suspense, intrigue, 
 and a final boss fight that will have you staring in utter disbelief of how freakin' pretty this 
 game is. Everything about the game is solid. No detail has be left overlooked and the whole thing 
 wreaks of quality. The developers really took their time to get this one right. If you don't like 
 FPS's, then there really isn't anything about Crysis that will make you change your mind, it's 
 point, click, shoot and don't die. No nonsense, no side quests, no ridiculous restraints on what 
 you can do and where you can do it, Crysis is the poster child for letting you play how you want 
 to play, the game never once got in the way of me playing it. Crysis never tries to be two things 
 at once or please everybody, these things often ruin good games.
  Perhaps the most appealing aspect of Crysis, for me, is a more philosophical one. While software 
 developers are usually behind the times in terms of hardware and how they make their programs run 
 on said hardware, Crysis walks up to the CEO of every CPU and GPU company and b*tch slaps them 
 in the face with a pair of dirty jock straps. This game truly pushes the envelope of hardware technology 
 like nothing else I have ever seen before. How many games, in the history of microprocessors, or 
 software in general, have come out that would destroy any combination of hardware you threw at 
 it? None that I can think of. Now of course there is some big beast of a supercomputer that would 
 crush Crysis if it weren't too elitists to actually play games, but the majority of technology 
 available to the consumer at the moment doesn't stand a chance against this game. I think that 
 this fact will wake up the hardware companies and let them know that they have been challenged. 
 
  At the end of the day none of this really matters. All that matters is that you have fun with this 
 game and I had a lot of fun with this game. I don't but games unless they come highly rated by 
 players themselves and even then I am suspicious but this game delivers, pure and simple. I liked 
 it so much that I spent over eighteen hours at my desk playing it all the way through, I just didn't 
 want to stop. If FPS are your cup of tea then Crysis will be your Venti, one hundred and forty-two 
 degree, Chinese sage brush with a shot of soy, tea. Buy it, but beware of the impending frustration 
 if you don't have a beefy system, and I do mean beefy. Here's my rig for reference:
  
  Q6600 @ 3.3Ghz
  2 x 2Gb Corsair Dominator RAM @ 1066Mhz
  2 x 150Gb 10,000rpm Raptors in a RAID 
 0
  EVGA 780i SLI motherboard
  2 x 512Mb EVGA 8800GTS (G92) in SLI @ 750/1050/1873
  Thermaltake Toughpower 850w PSU
  Samsung 226BW 23'' monitor @ 1600x1050
  Silverston TJ10BW 
 Case
  5 fans
  and some more stuff that isn't really relevant to the playing of Crysis
  
  With this rig I am able to play Crysis with all of the setting at high, very high isn't even 
 an option, with full screen VSync at 1600x1050 resolution and get between 25 and 50 frames per 
 second constantly. With 4XAA the fps drops to about 15 through 35. Now I know that my rig isn't 
 the absolute best, but it hasn't even come close to holding Crysis at 60 fps for any amount of 
 time. So when I say you need a powerful rig, I mean it. It is playable at lower resolutions and 
 everything turned down but trust me, you don't get the experience the developers wanted you to 
 have. When you attempt to play this game on lower settings on an average or underpowered rig you 
 aren't really playing Crysis, you're playing Crysis's little brother called "Unmanageable Situation." 
 To really "play" Crysis you simply have a to have a big expensive rig. I know this sounds elitist 
 but it's just the truth.
  At the end of the day, this game rocks. I will replay and replay this game until they put out the 
 next one. Do yourself a favor and buy it!
  
  Travis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Crysis was no doubt THE most anticipated game of 2007, along with Halo 3. Crytek boasted revolutionary 
 graphics, an intelligent storyline and amazing gameplay. I must say that it delivers on ALL of 
 these. Crysis' story plays out like a summer movie blockbuster, with you playing the role of Lt. 
 Jake Dunn (codenamed Nomad) in the year 2020. You're part of an elite special forces group sent 
 in to rescue a group of scientists on a small island in the South China Sea. It may seem like a 
 simple search and rescue but the story slowly reveals that an alien menace lies dormant on the 
 island. Now the story is pretty standard sci-fi but its very well written. It doesn't go for the 
 epic feel of Halo, but instead plays out like a mystery and you're instantly hooked to try and 
 find out what's going on. There's really nothing to say about the visuals; they are, in one word, 
 AMAZING. There is NO game out there that rivals these graphics. Of course, this comes with a price, 
 as most of you are going to have to upgrade just to play this game (I did) and its well worth it. 
 The sound is also excellent; the music plays like a Hollywood action score, and the voice acting 
 never gets cheesy and feels very natural. On the gameplay side, Crysis equips with the all-important 
 "nanosuit" and this suit has a variety of functions. Armor mode allows you to go Rambo on your 
 enemies but the game also encourages a stealth approach with your cloaking ability. Or, you get 
 activate strength mode and punch everyone in the face. Need a breather? Activate speed mode for 
 a speedy getaway. There's always multiple ways to complete objectives and that's part of why Crysis 
 is so damn fun. The game does get a little linear towards the ending but I think this is due to 
 the story constraints. There aren't a variety of enemies or weapons but the AI in the game is pretty 
 advanced. Enemies will use the jungle to flank and hide from you, but you can also do this to them. 
 Weapons also can have attachments applied to them, such as scopes, grenade launchers, silencers, 
 laser pointers, and flashlights. If there is just one thing that's wrong with the game, is that 
 not everyone will be able to play it due to the hardware requirements and this game is simply a 
 masterpiece. It's over in a little over 10 hours and the ending sets up the inevitable sequel but 
 Crysis will be remembered as THE game that revolutionized graphics and showing what the PERFECT 
 first-person shooter is capable of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  Crysis is visually amazing. To get the best from this game you will need to have a high end computer 
 but belive me, its worth it. 
  
  Playing this game at HIGH settings is unbelivable, The first thing you will notice about this game 
 is the visual affects and animation, there the best I have ever seen on a game and im sure they 
 will be unmatched for many games to come.
  
  The sound in Crysis is amazing aswell. Really sets the mood in parts aswell when you are fighing 
 the Alien Machines.
  
  I completed Crysis last night and I have to say it is one of the BEST games I have EVER played 
 and belive me I have played hundreds of games PC and Console alike.
  
  In the end I give Crysis 10/10 for its intence story, edge of your seat action and simply mind 
 blowing animation and visuals.
  
  Please check my profile for information on my RIG if you are wondering what you will/might need 
 to play this game at HIGH settings. I do not have Vista therefore no DX10 and therefore no VERY 
 HIGH settings in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micklawrence
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  Have been playing this game for months it is awesome! Well worth the money I spent upgrading the 
 computer! The more I have played it over time the more I pick up about the plain fun factor that 
 is crysis. I love the way you get sound feed back from a hit on an enemy. You can almost hear the 
 bullets slapping home! Nice. The graphics are breathtaking, but over time I have come to love the 
 gameplay more. I have extended the value of the game by downloading map packs. I highly recommend 
 the Trilogy Map pack by daweed. Really good work. This game trully deserves it's gamespot score 
 of 9.5 I spent a lot of money a computer that could run the game at max and believe every cent 
 spent was worth the money. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toni_lapy
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  It's time for Crysis.2 or 3 years ago I was playing UT2004 and that was awesome game, but when Crysis 
 came out I went to store to buy it because I heard that is very good fps (first person shooter) game. First 
 of all when I saw in-game graphic I was very very amazed, it was like I was looking to human in 
 face to face, so graphic is sooo great. Gameplay is fantastic .Story is quite long and great, when 
 I saw aliens on beginning I was wondering when will I see them on next chapter, but you must beat 
 much game to fight against aliens. It's a great sense when you're walking in perfectly and graphicly 
 made jungle and killing all the korean armies. Multiplayer is good. When comparing CoD and Cryisi 
 there aren't too many differences, but Crysis has better graphic and better gameplay and of course 
 story. Simply Crysis is best fps game ever made.
  Graphic:10/10
  Gameplay:9.5/10
  Music:9.5/10
  Overall:9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunToShine
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  The Best Thing: A handful of both cinematic and action-packed moments that will melt your gamer 
 mind if your system can handle them.
  
  The Worst Thing: "If your system can handle them."
  
  (Reviewer's note: Since the technical 
 side of this game has been so scrutinized, I feel the need to talk about my own experience with 
 performance. I have a Core 2 Duo E4400 (overclocked to 2.5 GHz) , GeForce 8800 GTS 320 MB, and 3 
 GB RAM. With this system, I could run the game on a mix of high and medium settings (High textures, 
 high objects, high shadows) at 12x8 and have a playable FPS that usually stayed between 20-30. 
 Some of the busiest scenes dropped my FPS into single-digits however.)
  
  9.4 (rounded up to a 9.5 for GS)
  
  "Oh my, look how you've grown!" As I played through Crysis' 
 epic offerings, I couldn't help but feel like a proud grandparent watching their grandkids crawl 
 out of the car to greet them on a Thanksgiving morning. Perhaps more so than any other game I've 
 played before, Crysis reminded me just how fast our industry continues to progress. The leap in 
 overall quality, from presentation, to gameplay, and even in narrative, between Far Cry and Crysis 
 is staggering. Yes, Crysis is one beautiful game, but more importantly, this game is ridiculously 
 fun to play. The physics, special effects, animation, nano-suit, and beautifully rendered vistas 
 combine to create one hell of a playground.
  
  The nano-suit powers are awesomely satisfying, and we all know what they are by now, so I won't 
 get too into them. I'll just say that they in fact make you feel like a modern-day superhero while 
 keeping the game balanced, challenging, and strategic. It must have been an intimidating balancing 
 act for Crytek to take on, but they nailed it. The powers really transcend the sandbox action of 
 Far Cry to a new level of possibilities, and the game is that much more fun because of it. It's 
 a perfect example of how the industry isn't just progressing in technical terms, but also in general 
 game design.
  
  If you've played Far Cry, you may be skeptical of playing through any other FPS with a terribly 
 thin and flat narrative. Crysis mostly dodges this bullet though, and at most, a loose sleeve is 
 punctured. The aliens are actually intimidating and intriguing this time around, and there are 
 some expertly staged cut-scenes to be seen. That punctured sleeve I mentioned would be the game's 
 ending, which is designed to leave us wanting more but falls a little flat and just left me slightly 
 disappointed. While some say that Crytek somehow managed to fall into the same hole as Far Cry 
 when introducing the alien threat, I disagree. They effectively slow down and navigate the turn 
 carefully instead of driving off the cliff at full speed like the mid-game disaster that was Far 
 Cry. IGN argued that the last couple of hours of the game completely fall apart, but I also disagree 
 with that. Yes, the action grows thin as the good-but-not-great narrative takes center stage, but 
 the game in no way falls apart. I will concede though that the boss battle does seem weak and slightly 
 rushed.
  
  There are a handful of moments in Crysis that easily make it worth the price of admission if your 
 system can handle them. Your jaw will drop, your standards will be raised, and if you really are 
 a gamer at heart, you will become giddy with excitement and joy. In between these isolated moments 
 of joy are some fantastic action-sequences and sandbox fun. After the credits roll, you'll be satisfyingly 
 stuffed and optimistic about the PC's future. As we should be, right?  Right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liraris
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  I s there anyone who played Crysis who thinks this game shouldn'be game of the year? Crytek along 
 with far cry has made a huge hit. Crysis has everything that a shooter should have. Great Gameplay, 
 Great sound and great visuals. I mean I heard the hype before I bought the game.
  They were not wrong.
  Believe me it's tru-lly worth playing. And for those of you who like shooters 
 and haven't played this game yet , you are sure-lly missing out. The game is very enjoyable providing 
 you have the latest requirements. but even if you don't you will still enjoy it. I hope Far Cry 
 2 is simillar to this game.
  For me this game is a perfect 10. Worth buying. Are you still sitting there? Go on and buy this 
 game. You won't regret it
  Graphics. 10. if you have a good card you will sure-lly get the best out of this game.
  Gme-play. 
 Top of the line.
  Sound. Great. 
  Difficulty. just right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Let me make it clear what system I was running this game on:
  
  Intel Pentium D 3.0Ghz (Dual Core, first of its kind)
  Sound Blaster X-Fi
  2 GB RAM
  nVidia 
 GeForce 8800GT 512MB
  Microsoft Windows XP
  
  I ran multiplayer at 1680 Widescreen with all settings at Medium with no framerate drop, and I 
 ran singleplayer at 1280 Standard with all settings at High (minus Shadows, Shaders and Motion 
 Blur at Medium) with VERY slight framerate drops on some of the more intense scenes, but almost 
 never during combat, only usually during some of the crazy cutscenes. So you can imagine my review 
 is based on the game looking almost at its best (well at the best it CAN look on XP) . Now on with 
 the review.
  
  Let's get the easiest part out of the way first. The game looks absolutely amazing. There is no 
 question about it and no denying this detail. The environments starts off on a beach and heads 
 into a jungle, into a cave, into an alien structure, through a river, through plains and marshes 
 and finally into a battleship. Considering the setting of the game, (a jungle island) they managed 
 to put it quite a bit of variety. The visuals are unrivalled for sure though. The character models 
 look fantastic and they have great facial movements, though sometimes the ragdoll physics can act 
 a little akward, it almost always feels real. The trees and bushes look almost real, and the interactivity 
 with the brush is amazing (with a lot of the larger bushes they actually get pushed aside when 
 you walk through them) . The ground is immensely detailed and the sky looks great as well. The water 
 looks absolutely stunning on the surface (though it doesn't look perfect underwater, it definately 
 looks better than other games) . The vehicles are also well detailed and move great. The weapons 
 look great as well and the special effects in the game are absolutely fantastic (I can't help but 
 sit there and just stare at the smoke after an explosion sometimes) . The lighting effects are also 
 near perfection. To be quite honest, this game has to be the best looking game I have played to 
 date, no competition. The best part is that the game is also fairly scaleable (I was able to run 
 the game on medium-low settings on my computer before I upgraded, which had 1.5GB RAM and a 6800 
 256MB card) , so if you a little above the requirements you can still enjoy the game. At its max 
 settings though, you will be left drooling. I'd suggest you try playing this game on a system that 
 can at least run the game at Medium settings, because the visuals are a very important part of 
 drawing you in. Oh I should also add that you can actually see your legs, feet and arms in this 
 game (and sometimes body depending on angles) . I know this seems like a minor detail, but too many 
 games leave this out and it really takes away from the immersion, so that is a BIG plus in this 
 game.
  
  The sound, while mostly fantastic, suffers from some flaws. Let's get the bad stuff out of the 
 way first. Now I'm running one of Sound Blasters best sound cards with a pretty decent 5.1 Surround 
 Sound system, and I actually have the speakers set up in a proper set-up. The problems I seemed 
 to experience were that the music was good, but sometimes it just would not be loud enough no matter 
 how much you tweaked the sound levels, and so it would oftentimes just sound like a minor background 
 piece. This may have been intentional to add a little more effect to the sound effects, but for 
 some of the more cinematic scenes, this is more of a problem. Also, I mentioned sound balancing. 
 It is HORRIBLE. The dialogue is VERY quiet while the sound is VERY loud. It can be very hard to 
 hear some of the people unless it is Nomad himself talking, in which case it is VERY loud. Even 
 with subtitles on it can be hard to understand because the game is oftentimes too intense to allow 
 for reading time. I tried setting the volume sliders so that sound effects was very low and dialogue 
 was max, and the problem did not really get solved. Most of the times where you REALLY need to 
 hear the dialogue, you can hear it fine, but a lot of times when you are in battle and they could 
 add great effect, it just sounds like faded out screaming since the sound effects are just so darned... loud. 
 That being said, the sound effects are absolutely magnificent. You will enjoy every gunshot (except 
 perhaps the AA gun and the Minigun) , every explosion, every footstep and every alien screech. The 
 game just sounds amazing. The voice acting is very good for the parts you can understand, but a 
 lot of the times you can't unfortunately. The music is also very well composed and sounds very 
 cinematic and in place, but it can be a little quiet sometimes and have an underwhelming effect. 
 Overall though the sound is fitting for such a visually impressive game.
  
  Enough with the technical details, is the darned game actually fun? YES! I like to classify the 
 game as a guided non-linear first person shooter. Now you might say that doesn't make any sense. 
 How it works is that there are oftentimes multiple paths and multiple ways of traversing these 
 paths, but the end result is always the same. So you have to complete a very specific objective, 
 but you can choose a few different ways of doing it. Sometimes there are secondary objectives, 
 but they are almost always on the way to the primary, so they aren't really much of a choice. So 
 I think you can better understand what I mean by 'guided non-linear' gameplay. This is great because 
 it let's you play by your own style, while still keeping you focused on the story. There are some 
 extremely linear places and some extremely open places, but overall it is fairly well balanced. 
 I found myself dying in some spots and using those opportunities to explore different possibilities, 
 oftentimes to relative success.
  
  With that type of gameplay, the weapon selection felt a little limited. I mean you have all the 
 standards: an assault rifle, a sub-machine gun, a shotgun, a pistol, a sniper rifle, a minigun 
 and grenades. There are two fairly unique weapons though (well 3, but the third is only exclusive 
 to the final battle) , one really cool and useful, the other not. The useless one is the alien weapon 
 you will get about halfway through the game. It seems cool at first, but is very underpowered for 
 the new enemies you have to fight and you will find yourself tossing it for a shotgun soon after 
 you play with it (especially with the introduction of incendiary rounds for your AR at that point) . 
 The other is the Gauss Rifle, which is like an overpowered Railgun/Sniper Rifle. It works wonders 
 against all enemies, has a low ammo count (to make things fair) , and has a fair reload time. Controlling 
 the vehicles is also fun, though sometimes you can take damage from the most random thing (hello 
 I just ran over a rock as big as my foot in this tank, why did I almost flip over and lose half 
 the tank's armor?) .
  
  To add to the weapons though, and make them a little more interesting, is the ability to have on-the-spot 
 customization. As you go through the campaign you will collect all sorts of parts for your guns 
 that you can customize with, such as a flashlight, laser pointer, sniper scope or incendiary rounds. 
 This is neat because since you can only hold a pistol, two standard guns and one big gun, you can 
 still confront all sorts of situations thanks to the customization.
  
  That isn't the selling point of the gameplay though. The Nano Suit is the selling point. It is 
 basically an all-purpose protection suit. On the fly you can change its function to one of four 
 abilities. Armor mode basically uses the suit's energy (there is no armor in the game, only your 
 tight-fitting suit) to deflect bullets before your health starts taking the hits. Good for intense 
 head-on firefights. Speed mode allows your normal walking speed to be as fast as your standard 
 sprint (running without Speed mode) with no energy use. If you sprint you run EXTREMELY fast, but 
 it eats up the energy quickly. Good for quickly reaching an enemy, or quickly getting away. Strength 
 mode uses energy to deliver high powered melee attacks and allows you to jump 2-3 times higher 
 than normal. The extra strength means if you punch a tree, it will break. If youpunch an oncoming 
 vehicle, it WILL stop. So it is useful for using your environment against the enemy or conserving 
 ammo (or just being cool) . Cloak mode is one of my favorites. It makes you invisible, and slowly 
 eats up energy as you stand still, and the rate of energy usage goes up depending on how fast you 
 are moving (crawling conserves the best) . The moment you attack, all of your energy is used up 
 and you automatically switch to Armor mode. Great for sneaking up on enemies and picking them off 
 one by one. The great thing is that you can set each mode to a keystroke or have one key bring 
 up a radial menu that is very easy to use and thus allows you to mix up different modes mid-combat 
 (contrary to what people say, I found the radial menu to work perfectly fine in intense situations 
 once you memorize where each power is) .
  
  One of my favorite things about the game though, is the difficulty. The difficulty levels do not 
 make the enemy AI better, their armor better or your health lower or give you less ammo lying around 
 or create more enemies. Everything already starts off fairly realistically (and the AI is pretty 
 good by the way) , with a standard damage set and enemy count and ammo count in the levels. The 
 difficulty levels merely hold your hand less. On easiest you have enemies highlighted so they are 
 easier to see, grenades are marked when thrown, Koreans talk in English, etc. As you go up in difficulty, 
 these guides are taken away to make it as realistic as possible. This means that unlike most FPS 
 games, if you play on Easy, you will still have a challenge and you will still gain skill. I really 
 liked the way they set up the difficulty.
  
  Lastly, is the story. Overall it felt a little weak and empty (I suspect that is what the sequels 
 are for) , especially after the ending, but it gets the job done perfectly. I will not spoil anything, 
 but there are a couple of minor twists, but the main thing that keeps you going is the mere intensity 
 of the situation. Overall the story is simple though: Americans go to neutralize Koreans, everybody 
 gets attacked by Aliens, you have to try and save the world. That simple. The cutscenes and action 
 do a great job of making everything interesting though. There are some great, tense scenes (like 
 the first time you meet the REAL aliens) that heighten the immersion.
  
  The multiplayer, unfortunately, is not too great. It is basically Battlefield with a Nano Suit. 
 Granted, the Nano Suit adds a level of depth and variety in the multiplayer, but overall you won't 
 really see anything new here. It is fun, but nothing fresh.
  
  The game will likely take you around 15 hours to complete, which is a decent length. Because of 
 the gameplay style, you will find playing through and trying things differently to be quite fun 
 actually, and the game is just so darned fun on top of that. Unfortunately, the multiplayer is 
 fairly lacking and takes away from the replay value a little. The thing that saved it for me is 
 the sheer fun of singleplayer, and the extra features I got with the Special Edition. It comes 
 with the complete soundtrack, a 10 minute making of video, all sorts of artwork, trailers and an 
 exclusive multiplayer vehicle (all of which are downloadable from the discs to the computer, which 
 is really neat) , for $10 more, not to mention a little artbook that comes in the case. My rating 
 is based on this edition, and I thought these were great features (especially the inclusion of 
 a complete soundtrack, more games need to do this) .
  
  In the end, you will find this to be an action-packed, visually stunning experience that will never 
 cease to blow you away, straight from the crash landing on the shore up until the insane final 
 boss battle. This game offers a fantastic singleplayer experience with a fairly lacking multiplayer 
 experience. If you enjoy FPS games, and have a rig to play this, there is no reason for you to 
 pass up on this. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Value: 8/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hami619
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  CRYSIS IS THE BEST SHOOTER ACTION IN THE HISTORY OF VIDEO GAMES
  THE  IS PERFEKT. GOOD JOB CEVAR YERLI AND CRYTEK.
  Crysis 
 is a next-generation PC first-person shooter from Crytek, the award-winning developers of Far Cry. 
 A stunning technical achievement, Crysis combines incredible visuals, cunning gameplay and an epic 
 story that challenges gamers to adapt to survive.
  
  Global tensions have reached boiling point as the U. S. and North Korea square off in the South 
 China Sea. At stake: a mysterious artifact uncovered by a team of U. S. archeologists. 
  The North Korean government quickly seizes the area, prompting the U. S. to dispatch an elite team 
 of Special Forces operatives on a rescue mission. During the siege the true nature of the artifact 
 quickly emerges, pointing to the existence of an alien presence on Earth, and ultimately the trigger 
 for a massive-scale alien invasion.
  
  The battle to save Earth begins as the aliens' flash freeze the tropics into a ghostly-white frozen 
 landscape. 
  
  As gamers take up arms against the aliens, they will be outfitted with customizable weapons and 
 a high tech Nanosuit, allowing them to adapt their tactics and abilities to a hostile, ever-changing 
 environment and a mysterious enemy. 
  
  Powered by CryENGINE 2, Crysis delivers the ultimate DX10 gaming experience for the PC, including 
 unparalleled graphics, special effects and artificial intelligence. The game is also scaleable 
 to deliver a breath-taking FPS experience for older DX9 PCs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Crysis is the best creation of EA Games company !
  I select Crysis as the best of FPS games that i saw. Really Crysis has a natural graphics. When 
 you go to graphic options and increase shader mode of game , then when you go to game and play, 
 you feel that you are fighting in jungle with enemys !
  Second nitice in Crysis is great Pickup action. Yet , you can't find a FPS game that noticed to 
 Pickup action like Crysis. Its very beautiful , You can to pickup anything in you'r around ! Of 
 course i saw a infirmity in physics table objects , You push a table but it never move ! its bad 
 for crysis and I hope that repair it in next vesion. Enemy's AI are very smart designed , If you 
 play game as Very Hard you can understand me ... Enemy shoot you when you are far than them. I 
 like enemy's Lip-Sync animations in Crysis. I haven't seen any FPS game that designed lip-sync 
 with this notice , Of course Call of Duty 4 is before Crysis. Crysis story is So nice , because 
 its fresh and no repeated. Its future time , in more of games storys you play in NOW time or PAST 
 time. Guns are designed well and Reload action is so nice in this game as its a FPC game. You have 
 some POWERS that are very interesting. One of you'r power is INVISIBLE ! yea , When enemy shoot 
 you , you can to invisible. When you invisible in front of you'r enemy , He muse and says some 
 times : I saw some things ! Its very interesting. Totally I think that Crysis is the best of FPS 
 games. (Of course I never forget Call of Duty)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bachilders
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  First things first, the graphics. This is what everyone cares about, so I'll give it to you first. 
 I can play this on all high at 1680x1050 and it looks absolutely incredible. The physics are also 
 great, and it really adds to the game unlike other games. The story is pretty interesting, and 
 there is always enough to keep you interested, not confused or bored. This is one of the first 
 games I've played where you feel that you are really accomplishing something with your objectives. 
 
  The nanosuit and weapon attachments add a lot of replayability and depth. Overall, the singleplayer 
 is one of the best games I have ever played.
  The multiplayer, however, is not. While it is fun, it's not something I can see myself really getting 
 into. 
  The sandbox editor is a lot of fun if you know how to use it, and there are many maps and mods 
 to extend the fun. Crysis is also very non-linear, which adds to replayability. 
  Crysis may not be an incredibly intense action flick like cod4, but it has a lot more freedom, 
 which translates to replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirkel28
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Yes the first half of Crysis is really good, graphics, physics, and the freedom you have to attack 
 each situation the way you want too. Then comes the 2nd half of Crysis, which is almost a completely 
 different game. Graphics are still cool, but now you are fighting aliens, and the game becomes 
 very linear, rushed, and the fun that was, is now diminished, and it feels like been there done 
 that.
  There are some bugs here and there in the game, but nothing too major that I ran into.
  
  If 
 they would have continued the game in more of the way where you had lots of choices of how to attack 
 each situation it would have been better, being forced into a linear path on how to do and attack 
 things is boring and is what the 2nd half of the game is like. Aliens were kind of annoying as 
 well flying from all over the place in the air attacking, you had almost no where to take cover 
 from them, just shoot and be shot.
  
  9.5 is a bit too high, its a good game though, but not that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  Crysis: SP Review
  
  In this review I shall not go through details because many before me have told what had to be told.
 
  First thing that I liked about this game was User Interface. It's great using all that modes, 
 gears and gadgets. UI's learning curve would take a bit long at first but once you learnt it, you'd 
 be the master on the field.
  Crysis's got different key configuration but it's a piece of cake for a PC gamer to get used to 
 and handle it.
  The game was mostly based on real life facts. You know, like recoil, firepower, aiming, the way 
 you interact with environment around you, AI & etc. In my opinion, the main difference is that 
 your health and suit power recharge automatically when you keep being calm. But it does not mean 
 that you don't die. It's just a way to help you survive those hard battles during the gameplay.
 
  AI is so smart. They don't follow the same pattern to approach you all the time and they change 
 their plans and paths. So it's not very easy comparing to other similar FPSs. One helpful technique 
 for this case is using Cloak Attribute in Suit mode. It's a good point to use it to sneak around 
 enemies instead of start fighting and shooting them. It's not always a wise idea to get engaged 
 because that way you might have to waste a lot of energy and ammo to escape those hard-@$$ KPAs.
 
  I couldn't get what Crysis's supposed to give to its gamer due to my weak PC but yet it was enjoyable 
 playing and going through this revolutionary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robsmits
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  To release a successful first person shooter these days you need something that really makes the 
 game stand out from the crowd. Bioshock had a brilliant story & setting, COD 4 had fantastic cinematic 
 action & great multiplayer & they are classics I am still playing them to death these days. So 
 what does Crysis bring to the table other than graphics? Thankfully lots. This game is not just 
 a dumb blonde. It has many great facets that make it one of the greatest ever. 
  
  The graphics are insanely good. The enviroments are easily the most gorgeous ever seen & the character 
 models are also of the highest quality. The visual quality will obviously depend on the players 
 hardware. I first played this on my old PC with a 7600gt & a single core machine & the card simply 
 melted & had to be binned. The minimum you'll need for high settings & resolutions is an 8800gt 
 for DX9. Anything less & it's medium all the way. If you fail to meet an 8800gt then my advise 
 would be to get shaders on high & lower other settings accordingly if you can. (keep physics on 
 medium always though) . Shader settings improve visual quality the most I found. 
  
  As well as amazing graphics the game plays pretty sweetly also. When you finally land on the island 
 & begin your journey it's wow factor all the way. One of my favourite scenes is when the sun rises 
 for the 1st time & you stomp up a hill & see the sunlight filter through the trees. You then get 
 to use the excellent nano suit to complete your tasks. One minor criticism of the suit on higher 
 difficulty settings is that the cloak function is so useful you end up being over reliant on it. 
 If you go in charging chances are it will be game over very soon.
  
  Weapons are well balanced & sound as you'd expect & explosions from grenades are as booming as 
 you'll ever hear in a game. Plus some of the automatic weapons can mow down the trees which can 
 kill an unaware enemy just as quickly as gun fire. Also each weapon you equip will have add-ons 
 available like silencers, laser sights & flashlights to name a few. This helps to add further tactical 
 options to the situation at hand.
  
  The first two thirds or so of the game will involve you dealing with the Korean army. The final 
 third has you trying to survive against the aliens & fleeing the island. At times the first two 
 thirds of the game did sometimes feel very much like playing Far Cry with a nano suit & the enviroments 
 are'nt as open ended as we were led to believe. When you get to the alien habitat the gameplay 
 changes. It may be down to opinion whether these sections were as good as the jungle sections but 
 the different pacing will take a while to get used to. I've played through Crysis twice now but 
 I find I lose a bit of interest in the game once i reach the alien lair. Once your out the lair 
 however it's a mad dash to escape the island through areas of the jungle that have become bathed 
 in ice.
  
  Though Crysis is a truely great fps i found quite a few minor annoyances. Enemy AI is just rubbish, 
 but then again AI is always rubbish in single player games so thats no surprise. I also found the 
 aliens to be less than impressive. They're not horrific or memorable enemies in my opinion. Not 
 up there with Doom 3 or Gears of War quality bad guys. Also the single player is a bit on the short 
 side though a solid multiplayer helps make up for it.
  
  So in conclusion i would say Crysis is the game it was hyped up to be... just. Was maybe expecting 
 a bit more from the single player but the fact that i'm on my 3rd play through is an indication 
 that this is one of the genres best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syst3mW4rr10r
Rating: 6
Date: May 16, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  Very few games get me excited these days. Crysis was a bright spot on a fairly bleak horizon at 
 my New Year celebrations. However, after tearing off the packaging and installing it, I then spent 
 an afternoon trying to get the game to work. My PC has an Intel Core 2 Duo processor and Dual SLI 
 NVidia 8 Series graphics cards. However, this game crashed constantly and suffered massive framerate 
 slowdown through the first cutscene even on medium graphics settings. Once my fury at such a letdown 
 had cooled down a bit, the following afternoon I took a deep breath, set it to its lowest possible 
 settings, and dived in again. I honestly have no idea why, but I think my PC's graphics drivers 
 may have been malfunctioning as textures didn't work and purple splotches appeared everywhere. 
 Again, I gave up. The following week I felt compelled to try again. For unknown reasons, my graphics 
 drivers started working and the game started performing at least passably well on medium settings.
 
  
  Now we're talking, I thought. Now I shall see the promised outstanding gameplay with awesome shooting, 
 tactical choices and an almost sandbox FPS world. Imagine my rage once again when the gameplay 
 was resoundingly average. Your nanosuit, with its cool super-strength, invisibility, super-speed 
 and all its other fun tricks, instead of providing you with lots of tactical options, just means 
 that the Korean goons are pitifully weak compared to you. They have absolutely no hope of killing 
 you except in large numbers, and without challenge there is no fun. Perhaps the most disconcerting 
 thing about the gameplay is that it feels in almost every way with a realistic military shooter, 
 but with you having superpowers, and your foes, despite being thick and incompetent, are strangely 
 resistant to bullets. The game just feels wrong for this reason; your enemies are pathetic in every 
 way except they need 3 or 4 bullets to bring them down. The awesome shooting that was promised 
 is distinctly average, with the guns feeling weak and samey. One little annoyance that I picked 
 up on as well was the fact that you actually have to search the ground after gun fights to pick 
 up each individual dropped rifle if you want to have ammo for your guns, and when you're in the 
 jungle with shrubbery covering the ground, that is virtually impossible. As for the "sandbox", 
 that is absolute nonsense. You are placed on a roughly linear path and you basically have to move 
 along this path fighting these pitched battles in order. Admittedly your linear path is quite broad, 
 and you can approach these battles from numerous directions, but every time I did I always ended 
 up cloaking and sneaking up on sentries because that seems to be the only worthwhile way of doing 
 things. The vehicles sections are pretty boring, driving along set roads and gunning down the enemies 
 on the way. It also sucks that vehicles can't regenerate damage even though you can, and at a remarkably 
 high rate too. Basically, Crysis' gameplay is purely average, with huge disappointments compared 
 to what we had been promised.
  
  I shall go against my better judgement and normal practice here and make a special note on the 
 graphical capabilities of the Crytek engine. All gameplay videos and so on show the graphics are 
 close enough to photorealistic. This is truly a remarkable feat, and any reviewer would be amiss 
 not to mention it. However, unless you have hardware at the absolute top of the line, with quad 
 core processors and GeForce 9 Series graphics cards your computer will not handle it and you will 
 not see it in its pure beautiful form. Therefore, since only game reviewers have such machines, 
 I shall judge on what the average gamer has in his PC, which means you will be playing on medium 
 graphics settings, which are above average, but not spectacular.
  
  Admittedly, I have not played through the whole game, having got bored after a few hours, but what 
 I did see of the plot was distinctly average. Some unknown US research station on an unnamed tropical 
 island sends out a distress call, and the North Korean military invades it, and you and your other 
 Special Forces nanosuit-wearing buddies go in to save them. You all have stupid call signs for 
 some reason, like "Nomad" and "Aztec", which just makes it sound like a bad sci-fi movie. The bit 
 that really got me was that there are aliens afoot on this island too, flying around murdering 
 Koreans and SpecOps personnel alike. However, there is no mystery to this at all; you actually 
 see the things in clear view barely half an hour in. The story is as subtle as a sledgehammer, 
 with standard plot devices and a general average feeling about it. Apparently later on you get 
 to go into a zero gravity alien spaceship and the jungle turns to ice for some reason, but to be 
 honest I doubt I'll ever struggle through to that point.
  
  I won't be including anything about multiplayer because I never played it; the single player was 
 so disappointing that I see no reason to venture online to allow grenade whores and human snipers 
 in to ruin it even more.
  
  All in all, Crysis is a massive disappointment. The superb visuals don't work on just about every 
 PC, the gameplay is at best average and at worst boring, the plot is a bog-standard and unsubtle 
 sci-fi jaunt, and it is totally undeserving of the resounding critical acclaim it achieved. As 
 a technical exercise, yes, it is impressive that games can have this level of graphical detail, 
 but pretty graphics are no substitute for fun gameplay. If I want eye-candy on my PC, I can go 
 onto porn sites; I play games for fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green940
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a really good game developed by Crytek, the story is set in August 2020, with you being 
 an American Squad member with a super amazing armour (the nano-suit) which lets you have abilities 
 such as super speed, super strength, super armour and an invisibility cloak. Your objective is 
 to investigate a Korean occupied island where a couple of days earlier CIA or some other American 
 troops have gone missing whilst finding out the mystery.
  
  The single player campaign revolves around you going around the island and fighting the Koreans 
 and (towards the end) aliens. The story is ok but the sandbox gameplay is where Crysis really shines. 
 With having your enhanced abilities you really have the control of doing whatever you want to do 
 your missions. You can choose from hiding in a cliff to snipe someone or sneaking up with your 
 invisibility cloak and strangling the enemy and throwing the person at another bad guy. You have 
 futuristic guns too and you can really customize your gun with the scope you want and the physics 
 of the game is great because you can really interact with EVERYTHING in the game such as lifting, 
 chopping down trees and using their barks as cover!
  
  Graphics for the game are SUPERB. With the amount of details and brilliant textures you will want 
 to keep on playing the game and be dazzled by the different sceneries.
  
  Nevertheless even though the single player sounds amazing it only leaves you with approx. 9-12 
 hours of gameplay in medium difficulty. After that you can repeat the game in harder modes or go 
 on to the multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer is not as good compared to the rest of the game. You have 2 modes, Instant Action 
 (singleplayer deathmatch) and Power Struggle (2 teams trying to destroy each others headquarters) 
 each mode contains 6 different maps which are good. Instant action is great and will be fun to 
 play (infact that is what you will mostly play) you pick guns scattered around the map and are 
 given points for killing bad guys.
  Power Struggle is really good considering what co-op features it includes nonetheless the fact 
 that your points you achieve from capturing bases, killing enemies and etc... DO NOT SAVE. Each 
 time the map restarts or you go onto a new server you have to start from start. In a way this adds 
 fairness to new comers but can get frustrating for you as each time you have to play again for 
 a long time on the new map just to get that chopper which should have been available to you considering 
 the amount of time you have spent playing.
  
  Another problem is the system requirements. Believe me to play on full high graphics you need a 
 very powerful computer, you can manage with low resolutions however the experience won't be as 
 great.
  
  All in all Crysis is a very good game but because of its let downs, the game can really change 
 your view. At times you will say WOW and at times you will say SOMETHING IS MISSING.
  
  Needless to say that you say that you should definitely give the Crysis a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteWorld
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  A lot of Crysis' aspects are very disproportionate to the other aspects. What I mean by that is 
 that the graphics are gorgeous and the controls and gunplay are absolutely wonderful. These three 
 things are the best in any game yet.
  
  The gun variety is not as good though... you enter the game with a SCAR rifle that feels great 
 to shoot but you play through the rest of the game (with a few moments where you get your SCAR 
 back) with your only assault rifle being some sort of AK-47 variant that I had gotten sick of long 
 before the game was over. You can get a submachine gun, shotgun, sniper rifle, rocket launcher, 
 C4 charges and a pistol or two but the only useful weapons out of these are the shotgun and rocket 
 launcher and those are extremely situational. It would have been nice to have more variety; to 
 have a few extra assault rifles and maybe make the submachine guns more useful and not have the 
 sniper rifle let everyone within fifty miles know where you are. It's powerful but it defeats the 
 purpose of the sniper rifle because it's so loud that it lets everyone know where you are. Or should 
 anyway, if the A. I. weren't so unbelievably stupid. So it never felt right to use it... maybe you 
 won't have the same opinion. The A. I. is generally so stupid in modern games that I try not to 
 take advantage of it. 
  
  Which brings us to the game's biggest flaw: its breathtakingly stupid A. I. Now I'm being serious 
 when I say that this is the worst A. I. I've ever encountered in any shooter. It ruined the game 
 for me. You will so often encounter its despicable stupidity that you will find it next to impossible 
 to immerse yourself into this game. You may be in a heated fire fight, hyped up because of the 
 gorgeous explosions and gunplay... but then you see the A. I. standing next to perfectly good cover, 
 or running to the machine gun previously being operated by the Korean you just killed and which 
 you're now standing in front of with a shotgun, or waiting before opening fire for no reason whatsoever 
 or waiting before doing anything at all, whether it's run (slowly, always slowly, always this stupid 
 little jog they do) in a random direction and stopping three meters later in just as exposed a 
 position to open fire again or hitting the ground to make them harder to hit... oh no wait... they 
 NEVER DO THAT. Yeah, way to design a soldier's A. I. If you've even seen one war movie you know 
 that hitting the ground is the first thing a soldier being shot at does in an open environment. 
 
  
  And this is barely scratching the surface of the overwhelming stupidity of your enemies in this 
 game. Is this the mentally retarded branch of the KPA? 
  
  It's great fun to destroy things in the game due to the physics and cool explosions. However, a 
 lot of times they use the same stupid vehicle destruction animation you've seen a trillion times. 
 An explosion happens and the car turns black and oddly, this black wreckage isn't moved at all 
 by the explosion that just happened. You blast the car with a rocket and as you recover from the 
 orgasm of watching the glorious explosion (unless it made you lag) you find that the car didn't 
 move even slightly. But this may be nitpicking, the destruction in the game is wonderful and the 
 explosions the best I've ever seen.
  
  The destructibility: they put it in trees but only in the smallest buildings and none of the fences. 
 I would have liked to have been able to drive down some fences. Why can't I? They don't look that 
 sturdy. At least let me dent them a bit. I encountered a lot of problems with the sound. When you're 
 facing a certain direction away from the source of a sound, you can't hear it. So if you're looking 
 at the source, you can hear it, but if you turn to the side, you can no longer hear it. This was 
 especially noticeable when you were being chased by helicopters or near cars. Also, the voice acting 
 is synced to the facial animations very poorly.
  
  Other problems I encountered with the sound were not technical, they were the atrocious acting 
 and the English-speaking Koreans. Why? I mean, just why? Why the ****ing **** would you, in a game 
 that makes believability so important in its graphics, have Koreans speak English to each other? 
 What dumb **** made this decision? They even recorded Korean dialogue for them because at the hardest 
 difficulty they start speaking Korean... it's like they were trying to ruin the immersion and believability.
 
  
  As for the acting, it is so bad that I got silly chills anytime anyone spoke. The horrible dialogue 
 the actors are given certainly doesn't help. The lead sounds like a college football player with 
 brain damage. His lines are all delivered with this American melodrama too. Each and every single 
 one of the characters in this game is a stereotype. The black, "rough and tough" squad leader, 
 the British "nutter", the stubborn Texan general (he's an admiral here, kudos to the writers for 
 that innovation...) , the smart naive girl, the disposable white-sounding black guy... they're all 
 there. I can't dispute that the game's gloriously handsome and I think that the system requirements 
 are in line with the game's graphics so I think the complainers are just frustrated that they can't 
 play it at maximum so they ****. People tend to misfire their ****ing when they're frustrated. 
 There are some issues with the graphics too, however, but mostly these small glitches here and 
 there. Nothing worth ****ing about.
  
  Even though this has been an extremely negative-sounding review I really don't hate the game quite 
 as much as you probably think by now. It has dozens of enjoyable moments; the tank level, taking 
 out enemies one by one with a silenced assault rifle with a sniper scope, tossing grenades into 
 MG nests and much more. You'll have a good time with the game, definitely, but if you're looking 
 for an immersive experience you should look elsewhere (Call of Duty 4 or Half-Life 2) because the 
 glitches, moronic A. I. and the fact that your computer probably won't be able to have very high 
 anti-aliasing on it make this world not very believable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juice_03
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Crysis was quite enjoyable for me initially. It was the reason I upgraded my PC. When you first 
 jump off the plane and land on the island, I was a little unsure of the "ultra" graphics this game 
 has. But as soon as the sun rises on that first map, I then realized, WOW, this is beutiful. I 
 was thouroughly impressed about half way through the game. After that, things just got a little 
 repetitive for me. The weapon choices were slim, the enemies you face are pretty much all the same. 
 All in all, the single player was enjoyable, just a little redundant. Now, for any game i purchase, 
 I tend to complete the single player before heading into multiplayer. This is where I was really 
 dissapointed. Very limited options for multi play. Two modes only, no team deathmatch, nothing 
 really! I will say I was maybe expecting a little too much because I was deep into CoD4 multi play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_Wolf_86
Rating: 7
Date: May 15, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  What amazing graphics! But what a dumb story line.
  
  Gameplay rating: ----Graphics 10.0
  ----Handling 8.0
  ----Interaction 10.0
  ----Excitement 6.0
  ----Storyline 5.0
  
  Graphics 
 were perfect (although almost nobody can handle the high setting) .
  
  Handling was good, but was really crappy and fake during the zero-G chapters.
  
  Interaction 
 was very good. Almost everything was destructable, even the turtles. The physics were very good.
 
  
  Excitement was, um.... wait..... was it actually exciting? You get the same nanosuit features in 
 the beginning and don't earn any more skills or suit upgrades (ex. stronger armor) which could 
 definitely help the game go along much more smoothly.
  
  Storyline.... I don't know if you're ready for this.
  Tell you what, here's a little recap of 
 the first level.....
  
  You're going along through the happy little jungle fighting what seems to be a military battle. 
 Ok, and then some aliens pop in there. . . . ??? I don't get it. Which writer needs to be fired? 
 Please tell me. But still, let's say that this right angle can be dealt with. Just consider it 
 a dramatic turn of events right? Ok, let's keep moving then.
  
  So now you're fighting a mixture of alien crafts and Korean military that are portrayed as retarded 
 ignorants that could give a damn about themselves and the rest of the world as they "reach into 
 Pandora's box".
  
  And then there's no Korean forces, and just alien booger-looking guys with poor rendering and are 
 way too difficult even on the easy setting.
  
  Oh yeah, and one of the biggest problems is this:
  
  THEY SPENT ALL THIS TIME MAKING A BADASS 
 PREVIEW and BADASS
  LOOKING MAIN CHARACTER AND YOU NEVER, NEVER, NEVER GET TO SEE YOUR AWESOME NANOSUIT!!!!!!! WHAT 
 THE HELL?!!!
  
  What a gyp? One of the best thing about having a cool looking character is being able to get goosebumps 
 as you perform a really cool tactical move against an enemy. I mean, look at GEARS OF WAR. Their 
 suits are awesome. The Crysis Nanosuits are amazing. But, we'll just have to "remember" what they 
 look like since you can't see them and I'll just have to remember what it looks like cuz I'm never 
 playing this game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redwolf22
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a great Game.
  Amazing graphics, solid gameplay, good story and spectacular explosions all thrown into one, making 
 it a highly enjoyable game. 
  
  The story weaves the sci-fi element slowly into the game, making you unsure whats following you, 
 and picking you off one by one. The game really gets exciting when a series of earthquakes slowly 
 reaveal that the towering mountain above you, isn't actually a mountain, and the Sci-fi part of 
 the game hits you in the face and throws you into the unexpected.
  
  But overall, this game is let down by its monstorous system requirements, turning even the upper 
 spec comps to jelly. This is why I won't give it a 9.5. But if you don't mind slow frame rates 
 (and low res) or want to put your new Gaming comp to the test, this game is a must have. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1hater
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  At first i saw this, i thought it was just another stupid fps with terrible graphics, dumb game 
 play, just like halo. (i actually liked halo 1 but after 2 & 3, it sucked.) but NO i was wrong. 
 very wrong. this an excellent game i strongly recommend you buy it. (that is if you have the PC 
 to buy it.)
  Lets start with the game play. its amazing (especially with the visuals) when the weapons are fully 
 customizable, the nano suit is so cool to play with. did i mention the graphics?
  the nano suit is one of the things that make crysis's online play awesome. 
  A great thing about 
 this game is the weapon customs. when you need to be silent, put on a suppressor, scope, laser, 
 or a bunch more. 
  Lets not forget the me lee. its great, especially when you grab someone and their face looks so 
 realistic. 
  i would get into more but i feel i should keep this short.
  kind of like the campaign in crysis.... yes it takes at least 6 hours to beat it would have gotten 
 a 10 on gamespot if they had a longer campaign.
  
  so overall my rating is 10.
  Why?
  graphics: 10 (i wonder why?)
  Gameplay: 10
  Sound: 10
  Tilt: 10
  Value: 9
  AI 10/10
 
  story 9/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 12, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  I just finished the game. Gotta say, way dissapointed. I was expecting it not to be great but wow 
 this is acutallly even worse than what i had in mind.
  First of all. Ok great graphics and effects, i love the fact that i can see every single particle 
 on a banana tree but seriously.... am REALLY paying attention to that or am i looking at that annoying 
 helicopter hovering above me and shooting at me even when im cloaked? Not fun at all, just tedious 
 work. If a games takes a lot of repetitive work to finish it, it doesnt exactly mean that its fun 
 and challenging, it actually means that its just plain boring.
  I have to say though that the cutscenes made with the game's own engine are spectacular, dont want 
 to spoil anything so ill just leave it at that. They really keep the game up in terms of the little 
 story it has though. Also, thanks to the acting and the music.
  But, is it me or there really arent a whole lot of weapons in this? Ok, a type of gun for the good 
 guys, one for the bad guys, a shotgun, a pistol and a sniper rifle for both and thats it? I guess 
 they figured that out towards the end that they needed more so they add the tac cannon, wow most 
 pointless gun ever made since its used for about 2 mins total. Most of the guns just seem copied 
 from other games and somewhat underpowered.
  I think they spent so much time designing the island and all the textures and stuff that they left 
 other important stuff out. Its great that the made such a cool environment but i really want to 
 see some more friendlies helping you out, more story interaction, not just ok go there kill everyone 
 and get the stuff, then on to the next checkpoint. I think someone who hasnt played other fps games 
 will enjoy this, but in most cases, when you actually experienced COD4, Half-life 2 and others, 
 you look at this and just feel like theres so much missing. Wheres the emotion? Games need to play 
 out like movies where the player himself feels part of something bigger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frosted210
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  The game was solid and visuals stunning but lack of full multiplayer options was a disappointment. 
 Holds up well in the single player mode with different ways to achieve goals, a sweet suit and 
 good weaponry but to see this game in all its glory you must have a super computer with 400 dollar 
 GPU to get the full effect. All in all a great game with innovative ideas, future proofed visuals 
 and a nice story behind it. The multiplayer was fun for awhile but lack of options is the deal 
 breaker, although using the suit against each other was mighty fun.
  Hopefully the next game by Crytek will solve these minor problems, you know Fry Cry 2. In another 
 note the aliens from Crysis were much to be desired not as "smart" as the Korean enemies. A. I. 
 for the Koreans was superb and very reactive to your actions. Not always acting the same in different 
 situations and felt a bit "realistic' like playing against human players whereas the aliens felt 
 a little like rush drones doing predicable moves and actions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  You must be asking yourself about the title . Well, Crysis is the FIRST FPS shooter that shows 
 your feet when you look down to the ground. You're not floating anymore ... Now you're walking 
 !
  
  I have no words to describe Crysis . Really . I already liked it on Youtube video's, now on real 
 life the game is not any different. I'm not reviewing the game for its steep hardware requirements. 
 I'm reviewing it for the potential it has.
  
  The game just feels good . All the shooting, all the gameplay in general ... Most of the environment 
 is fully dynamic, law of physics come up here and there, day and night show up as you play through 
 your missions ...
  
  The story is exciting . You already meet the aliens at your first 2 minutes of playing, that already 
 get you into wondering what's going to happen next. The whole story is a mystery. You'll find new 
 things along the way and get amazed with what crosses your way. It's so unpredictable.
  
  The sandbox mode is quite fun, gets away from that "Call of Duty" style of shooting. You can go 
 anywhere you want, anytime. Of course, most players will go through ways that lead you to the objective 
 faster. But it's not that easy on the Hard and Delta levels. The enemies are more agressive, and 
 you won't be able to kick everyone's *** just standing there and spamming your bullets. The harder 
 levels make you create a strategy to reach your objective: through the village, through the fort 
 or trough the woods ? It's up to the player to decide. Modding your weapons on-the-go is also another 
 great feature in the game.
  
  Fighting against North Koreans is fun, but the high point in the game is when you get into the 
 alien spaceship. Of course, in there the sandbox mode doesn't exist, but you start exploring incredibly 
 new enviroments, and finding new creatures along your way... Fighting aliens is just so fun.
  
  The multiplayer still needs to be worked on. It's really fun but it's a lot different from 
 singleplayer . People see you cloaked ... all of them use their abilities when they wish, so you 
 need to get ready for all kinds of players. There are only 2 game modes, and one of them (Power 
 Struggle) has real long rounds, so the people that don't play 8 hours straight won't be able to 
 play one completely. But no matter ... updates are coming up. And so are new game modes.
  
  What really matters in a game is gameplay. Crysis has it. Plus the graphics. Just because it looks 
 great doesn't mean it doesn't play great. Buy it. You'll not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trusake3
Rating: 3
Date: May 11, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Plain and simple this game would've been great 10 YEARS AGO.
  1) Crappy story - so there's an island that has findings of alien tech and its let loose, and you 
 have to destroy the island... wow, how original. Is like playing Doom.
  2) Crappy gameplay - so you have a suit which you can set to run faster, give more strenght, jump 
 higher, become cloaked, and more armor... right, like in the middle of a firefight I'm going to 
 be looking at my keyboard, having to search for the keys to access those features. Why not have 
 strenght, armor, and speed all in default? And just have cloak seperately?
  3) Crappy suit - All those features in the suit, specially the only thing this game has going for 
 it IS THE CLOAK, and it all lasts but 2-5 SECONDS!! WTF? Useless suit.
  4) Crappy specs - I can run CoD4 all on high, I can run Gears of War all on high, I can run Bioshock 
 all on high, but I cannot run Crysis past medium. Even when it is on medium, it fills up with characters, 
 it slows down to a halt!! Waaaaay too much specs config.
  
  The only thing this game has going for it, is the soundtrack, nice music. Other than that, there's 
 is NOTHING revolutionary about this game, it is WAAAAYYY overhyped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreicucuiet
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Well, here it is
  
  
  Graphics
  Well this game has awesome graphics. Everything is very rich in detail and fire and other effects 
 are awesome. It has the most cool graphics on the pc. The weapons (spoiler, a bit obvious) aliens 
 and korean soldiers all look terrific.10/10
  
  Sound
  This game has nice, but not incredibly cool, sound. The shotgun and machine gun sounds nice. Altough 
 the first time (i heared) the shotgun it scared me. It sound like and big explosion enclosed. The 
 alien weapons sound realy interesting and alienish. Vocie actors do their work quite well. Especially 
 when they get mad or alerted.9/10
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is very dinamic. It's like in real life (almost) . Firing a weapon will realy cause havoc 
 and chaos and it's realy cool to look how the AI jumps out of they way then screams and fires. When 
 explosions enter the game everything changes. It starts to "kill" a bit the framerate but you won't 
 encounter so many booms.9/10
  
  Overall
  The biggest problem in Crysis is that you need A POWERFUL and i mean it, computer. Well not that 
 big but at least a decent one. Great game. Must buy for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenghisKahn26
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  I played this game a while back. Wow.
  The second I realized this is the best game ever created was when I was killed by a tree falling. 
 A tree falling. When does that happen? I went on COD4 and launched RPG after RPG into trees. They 
 didn't sway. Same thing on Halo.
  On COD4 I looked at my enemies through a scope and then shot at their feet. They grabbed their 
 guns and shot in my direction. No facial expressions. Some body language but not much. Timeshift 
 I slowed time down and ran toward the bad guys. I'm sure to them I seemed fast. Halo I used invisibility. 
 Uncharted the bad guys knew how to flank me. My point is, this game has all of the best features 
 of these games and so much more. I believe I classified it as "revolutionary". It is.
  Bad News: ..
  This folks, is a first time for me. Don't have anything to complain about. Storyline 
 is weird but good. Game play is smooth. Controls are good. Enemies are smart.
  Well, there are two problems I guess. 
  It's on a computer. I hate computers. And you have to 
 have a expensive one to play this right. 
  Multiplayer. You know why they don't have another team death match category? Not enough players! 
 I love it. Everyone else loves it. But not enough people have it!
  And it would be nice if you could customize your character more. 
  Thinking of, I conclude with 
 possibly the coolest feature of the game. (besides the trees. Still can't get over that.) You can 
 customized your weapons on the go!! Army of Two players; you know how after every major checkpoint 
 you have the option to change weapons and get say, that Stinger you always wanted or that gold 
 plated Ak-47 with the grenade launcher on the bottom? Well imaging if you were fighting a boss 
 and that crappy shotgun just wasn't doing it for you. Out comes the grenade attachment you found 
 on the ground a minute ago and you attach it! It sounds like I am getting over excited isn't it. 
 Mainly because you haven't played this game.
  Buy it. Buy it. Buy it now. Do it. Do it NOW! Seriously. If you are at school, looking at this 
 on your laptop, get out of your chair, walk out the door, get in that piece of junk you call a 
 car and drive to Wal-Mart. Who cares if you get suspended? This is Crysis!
  
  Sweetness.
  
  -Love to your mothers! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Crysis was a hyped game to say the least. It was hard to imagine that it could live up to it's 
 promises. It was kind of like a stranger trying to pick you up from school when you were a kid. 
 You were shown candy and treasure and were told that it was just the beginning. And you were sooo 
 tempted. But deep down you knew you shouldn't go with him. It was just too good to be true... besides, 
 the guy had a pencil thin mustache... which screams "pervert".
  
  Fortunately, Crysis didn't have a pencil thin mustache. So I bought into it. I got into the car 
 with Crysis... and he promised to show me a wonderful world! But only under one condition. I had 
 to get a computer from 4000 years in the future to play the damn thing. 
  
  I was a little apprehensive at first.... but I decided to grab a delorean, speed to 88 miles per 
 hour, and go to the future, where I fought robot monkeys, saw the end of mankind, kicked a puppy, 
 and was pissed off because we STILL didn't have flying cars (if you don't know what I'm talking 
 about with the Delorean, then you are no longer allowed to read any of my reviews) .
  
  I stole a computer... a skynet 4000.... and raced back to our time to play Crysis. And man was it 
 cool. I was playing the future of gaming. I was a special ops military guy, with a cool suit that 
 could turn invisible, or give me super-strength, or super-armor, or super-speed, or help me.... use 
 my gun... I guess.
  
  Anyway, I was tossed onto a huge island filled with angry koreans. I was to sneak in and find a 
 archaeologist. Sounded easy enough. I do that kind of thing all the time. But much to my surprise, 
 there was some kind of alien force being awakened on the island. 
  
  Alright, so I admit the storyline isn't amazing. But playing the game and seeing it unfold is. 
 Sneaking through the jungle is incredibly fun. Seeing the foliage move as I crawl through it is 
 great. When you shoot, you can see the bullets whiz through the vegetation. Everything has physics, 
 so you can use the environment to your advantage to kill crazed koreans or angry aliens. 
  
  The graphics and simulations seen in this game truly are the future of gaming. Some scenes 
 are so amazing that you just want to stand there and watch.... until the huge alien vehicle starts 
 shooting ice beams at you... then you want to run... and hide... and cry.... then run some more. 
 
  
  The game isn't perfect. There are some bugs here and there, and some animation feels a little half 
 done.... but overall it has a great feeling, a huge sandbox, great graphics, fun gameplay, and is 
 among the top of my list for those first person shooters that moms and senators hate.
  
  I highly recommend this game.... like I said, it is the game of the future. Too bad you have to 
 travel to the future to get a computer that will run it. It's also unfortunate that this game actually 
 causes the end of mankind in the future as well. I saw it with my own eyes. I guess it's one of 
 those paradox things. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Wu
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about crysis, the first that came to my mind was "i need to upgrade my computer" 
 which i did and i am very thankful i did for this game has set the new tone for future games. 
 
  
  of course the number 1 thing about crysis is its amazing graphics and the awesome physics in the 
 game. and i couldn't agree more with those statements. the graphics (if you have a strong enough 
 computer to handle it) are simply gorgeous at moments. there are many scenes where i've sat back 
 in my chair in awe of how beautiful a scene looked. the physics are also great and fun to play 
 with which will produce some very entertaining ways to kill the enemy. in one part i decided to 
 just throw things at my opponents and ended up killing a Korean soldier with a giant flower pot.
 
  
  the gameplay in the game is also very good. although you will soon learn to love the AK-101 with 
 all the attachments and the shotgun there are a good variety of guns to play around with even tho 
 i kept coming back to those weapons. but even the rocket launcher and alien guns are fun to shoot 
 with and cause huge explosions. and with your suit's many options there are always many ways to 
 kill an opponent. your opponents are also very smart which can make battles very interesting. as 
 an example i had one huge battle on the beach and i ended up behind a tin building which the enemy 
 then proceeded to blow up and expose my position. very fun and thrilling. the story wasn't that 
 bad at all and left me wanting to play the next crysis should they decide to make another one as 
 a sequel. although the story may not be as strong as bioshock, FEAR, or half-life, the story was 
 not the main point of the game. the point of the game (from my view point) was to set a new standard 
 in terms of graphics and physics which it did well
  
  the multiplayer is strong but not as strong as call of duty's i feel after playing both. in the 
 crysis multiplayer you had to learn to take advantage of the suit's many functions and sometimes 
 it took a while to learn everything you needed to know. but the suit's many functions certainly 
 made sneaking into enemy bases much easier.
  
  overall: generation changing game, fun and entertaining single player that offers many new ways 
 to kill opponents. multiplayer, although not as strong, was still strong. great graphics and physics 
 definitely make this a game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakeymeg72
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt this is one of the greatest games I have ever played. Besides the amazing visuals 
 and the compelling story I was simply impressed by the fact that I could sneak around, hide in 
 the tall grass and that the enemy spot me with some sort of radar built into their head (like seems 
 to happen in so many other games) . I certainly do not consider myself an expert player - far from 
 it - all too often I wind up cheating out of frustration. Not with this game though - somehow it 
 kept me so engaged and thrilled that I took the time to find the tactic that worked best for me. 
 To this point I have finished the game at every difficulty level without ever even looking up what 
 cheats exist. I do not believe that it is because the game is too easy but simply because it is 
 flexible enough to allow anyone to fund their own style and make it work.
  
  So, from me - a huge thumbs up - the most fun I have had playing a computer game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcgamer06
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play a member of a Elite US squad sent to rescue some Archaeologist from being 
 captured by some really mean Koreans. will dropping in airborne your impacted by some sort of menace.... 
 could it be, but of course your first encounter of the aliens. When you finally land in the ocean 
 you swim up to the shore where your greeted by a giant turtle and you guessed it, much like Far 
 Cry the tutorials being. Through out the story your seeing guys be torn to shreds by these aliens 
 and some come missing... even the Koreans are having a run for their money. but this doesn't mean 
 that your not gonna be battling much of them both either. This game will grow on you, weather its 
 from the mimics of its predecessor Far Cry, of just leaving the violet warfare and just cruising 
 in a jeep or boat of just walking thou the magnificent jungles to find a nice quiet place to be 
 at peace with your-self... Or you could just go straight for the killing. With all the need for 
 the killing something this really does have the feels that painkiller had where many Soldiers come 
 at u running guns blazing, but with the new intelligence they have they also know when to hide, and 
 wait for backup to arrive. But you being a group elite US soldiers u also have tricks up your sleeves 
 being that you have a NANO suit which not only keeps u dry and warm but also has benefits of helping 
 you out on your quest to complete your missions will still being able to walk. the powers your 
 have are Armour which obviously absorb bullets impacts the lessen the damage of bullets, cloak 
 which lets your be invisible to the enemy for a short amount of time, (which don't really like 
 cause it stays slowly depleting till u run or walk which makes its deplete way to fast, strength 
 which lets you jump higher punch objects with much greater force and can be used to make shots 
 more precise, and of course pick up and shoot a mini gun. And finally the power of speed... which 
 im not **** you lets you run super super quick combined with the strength power you can really 
 get from 1 side of the island to the other in no time. In fact, the powers are part of the problem 
 of tedium in the game. Once you've grasped an enemy by the throat thrown them, you've grasped them 
 all. Eventually, the novelty wears off. Yes, it's great fun to stand 3 millimeters from an unsuspecting 
 elite fighter in a dense jungle and sock him in the face from out of the cloak field, but you'll 
 find yourself doing that far more than once, and by the twentieth-some engagement, it loses all 
 of its charm. More specifically, I do think that cloaking is the biggest problem with the entire 
 experience, as I found that the game was set up in such a way that one was nearly required to cloak 
 and assassinate their way through the entirety of the game's conflicts. You can try to run and 
 gun but even with your enhanced Armour there's simply too many men; and if you try and speed by 
 them, you'll get clipped faster than an old man crossing the street in Grand Theft Auto.
  
  But still this game highly addictive and truly earns its medals for pushing the tech and innovation 
 envelopes of the formula of creating fun and amazing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddastoor
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  You are thrown into the action right away... not as effectively as Bioshock's beginning, and the 
 opening scene is quite confusing, and plays out much like a cheap Action Movie that airs on TV 
 which never made it to the Theatre or onto DVD.
  
  But once the actual game begins, the story picks up quite quickly and effectively, introducing 
 you into the world of Crysis. Thick jungle terrain, sandy beaches, amazing explosive effects, physics 
 that are true to human's laws of physics (most times, though i have seen a bug where a wooden box 
 when thrown at water, merely skims the surface and then gets launched into the air --- minor bugs 
 like such, which should be fixed soon enough) .
  
  The AI in this game is quite AMAZING. The koreans military AI are very smart, though it feels at 
 some times that they wallhack (damn asians) . They loving flanking your position, nading, and TAKING 
 COVER BEHIND EVERYTHING! and even have the ability to crouch/prone.
  
  (Everyone knows there's aliens in this game, so i'm not spoiling anything by talking about it...) 
 The Alien's AI is quite STUPID! i was amazed at how retarted they can be, and there wasnt much 
 variety in the alien characters, only about 4 classes which I counted: the land drone thingies, 
 that attach to the flying thingies, the BIG BOSS, and the little boss.
  
  Once the aliens invade, the world turns to ice, and the physics react differently in the world, 
 but the gameplay becomes severely linear once this happens, it's basically shoot the enemies and 
 kill them. I would have like to have seen more destructability in the world when it was frozen, 
 like there is when everything is normal. There are no explosions (except for your grenades) when 
 the world is frozen, but it's cool how they have all the human soldiers frozen in several poses, 
 some manning turrents, many in mid run, or peeking down their scope, and you can make them explode 
 into a billion pieces as well, which is an extra added bonus, but again, no cool effects on that 
 feature except for an exposion of ice.
  
  Now, everyone wants to think that this game is all eye candy, and it is for the most part, and 
 yes, your computer needs to be a beast to run it, and even if it is, it will STILL bow down to 
 the game, but there is a whole other level of gaming added to a game when the graphics look stunning. 
 The player actually spends time and appreciates all the time spent on the game, instead of running 
 through it just to say that they beat it. I took nearly two weeks to finish this game (not only 
 because of no time to play it LOL, but also because I wouldn't follow the mission path, and make 
 my own (which was costly in time) and would usually run to my objectives instead of taking a vehicle, 
 just so that I could appreciate the quality put into the development of the game.
  
  Another aspect of Crysis, is its LIVE wildlife. Yes, you read it right, WILDLIFE! While you're 
 blasting your rockets and sniper rifles at your enemies, little baby turtles, crabs, ducks, seagulls, 
 and frogs are living their lives, mating (yes, i saw it) , eating, and doing what they do. And yes, 
 you can pick them all up and then let them go after you're done having your way with them. Oh, 
 or you could turn on your super strength, and hurl them over the sun =)
  
  You have a lot of ways to complete your objectives, and your nano suit aids in this being a success. 
 You have the options of super strength (basically like wearing 50 armored vests) , super speed (running 
 faster than a speeding bullet for a short time) , super strength (punch trees down, and blow up 
 cars with two punches) , and SUPER CAMO (my favourite) which allows you to sneak around very sneakily, 
 but the faster you move, the faster your suit's energy gets used up, and it always seems to run 
 out while you're surrounded by 50 baddies = (
  
  All in all, I loved my experience with Crysis, and a glad that atleast one company has decided 
 to push the envelope and release a game that requires a beastily computer to experience its true 
 beauty.
  
  
  Overall Rating: 9.0/10 (why so low? the story sucked, and they didnt finish it off)
  
  Pros
 
  -Graphics that make you cry-sis (lol whata pun) .
  -Amazing environment/world and AI.
  -Story concepts good, but could be improved.
  -Multiplayer modes are fun (but not too fun) .
 
  -On PC so you know there will be fun MODS
  -Wildlife!
  
  Cons
  -You need like... 2 8800 ultras sli'd (thats ~$1500) to experience the game on ultra high, on highest 
 resolution, with 50+ fps.
  -Story was pretty lame and cliched.
  -2nd half of the game was quite repetative.
  -AI sometimes wallhacked me.
  -Multiplayer fun 
 for like 2-3 hrs, but gets old very quickly.
  -NO CO-OP (it would add so much depth if you could CO-OP play online) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Excerpt: A tremendous graphics engine, and a novel super-hero esque- concept and story inject interest 
 and enjoyment, but also frustration and tedium into the game, making Crysis a mixed bag.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  
  Touted by Crytek as something like the most true next-gen FPS experience bolstered by the most 
 demanding graphic set known to PC gamers, Crysis was a game surrounded in what I would call more 
 than its fair share of hype. In fact, it is in light of this thought, that Crysis both delivers 
 on its claim, and falls well short in the same breath. 
  
  Make no mistake, Crysis is a system hog. If you can get Crysis to play on your machine at maximum 
 settings, and if you revel in the knowledge that you're one of few to experience the game's true 
 visual brilliance, then I imagine it is likely that this game will exist simply on those merits 
 as one of the better games in your collection. However, for most PC owners; those who will have 
 to settle for a lower visual experience, will be forced to built their nests not in the dense and 
 beautiful jungles, or under the photo-realistic mid-night skies provided by the highest visual 
 settings, but instead, within the story and the gameplay; areas which although intriguing and partly 
 novel, are also harbours of tedium and frustration.
  
  As I have discussed briefly, getting the game to run the way you want it is the first frustration. 
 In fact, struggling with visual tweaks to the point where the game looks like Far Cry may be just 
 too much for some to handle. But if you can look past the technical difficulties and accept the 
 graphic level for whatever you can muster, it is likely you'll look to the gameplay when trying 
 to find what is truly "next-gen" about the whole experience. 
  
  Being able to run around an island and jungle landscape killing anyone the way you choose and proceeding 
 to each objective any way you like can be great fun, but it has been done. For some, it could be 
 done a thousand times more and they'd still love it, and I dig that entirely, but for others, that 
 mechanic falls short of revolutionary. However, when augmented with the abilities provided by your 
 Crysis suit, you soon find that your character is nothing short of a super-hero of sorts. Being 
 able to leap tall hills in a single bound, throw hapless cronies by the scruff of their necks all 
 the way to China, and run faster than Flash himself all sound like great abilities-and they are. 
 In fact, engaging these feats of strength, endurance, speed, and even stealth are fun, and they 
 are revolutionary to an extent, and when packed in with the engaging story the game in fact does 
 seem to live up to the hype-and for many it has.
  
  Yet, for all of this For the graphics, the freedom, the powers, and the story; there's a lingering 
 beast admist the soul of the game. A beast of repetition and tedium. 
  
  Once you've revved yourself fully into the pace that Crysis demands early on, and once you've been 
 star-struck by the powers, graphics and freedom, you'll realize that as you progress through the 
 game, and the excitement wears off, the game is little more than a novel show piece and a run of 
 the mill FPS. 
  
  In fact, the powers are part of the problem of tedium in the game. Once you've grasped an enemy 
 by the throat thrown them, you've grasped them all. Eventually, the novelty wears off. Yes, it's 
 great fun to stand 3 millimeters from an unsuspecting elite fighter in a dense jungle and sock 
 him in the face from out of the cloak field, but you'll find yourself doing that far more than 
 once, and by the twentieth-some engagement, it loses all of its charm. More specifically, I do 
 think that cloaking is the biggest problem with the entire experience, as I found that the game 
 was set up in such a way that one was nearly required to cloak and assassinate their way through 
 the entirety of the game's conflicts. You can try to run and gun but even with your enhanced armour 
 there's simply too many men; and if you try and speed by them, you'll get clipped faster than an 
 old man crossing the street in Grand Theft Auto. 
  
  The truth of the matter in Crysis is that what it offers up front is immense and vastly enjoyable. 
 But its longevity is its problem. If you can enjoy mangling group after group of Korean soldiers 
 from out of the shadows, then you will love this game, but if you find yourself bored of the whole 
 experience after you've spent a decent amount of hours with the game, I guarantee you are not alone.
 
  
  Crysis is like eating a great piece of pie alone. As you're eating it, it can be the greatest thing 
 ever, but after that pie when you look across the table to talk about some meaty issues with your 
 friends and family, they're not there. Forgive the terrible analogy, but what I mean to say is 
 that Crysis is fun; it's a decidedly good game, but after the initial burst, and the tedium and 
 frustration both with the graphics and gameplay sets, you'll likely find that Crysis was a commendable, 
 if non-revolutionary experience.
  
  Just as an aside, I must admit I've become a tad sceptical of Crytek and the plans for their company. 
 I mean, with their company called Crytek, their graphics engine called something close to that, 
 and their games called Farcry and Crysis, it leads me to wonder whether their intentions are truly 
 to make games for the love of games, or if they are only out to make games to tout the technical 
 wizardry of their company, and Cry-brand graphical engine developments
  
  Regardless, Crysis should likely at least by tried by every PC FPS fan around, but in the end, 
 it is both hard and easy to recommend depending on the audience respectively. To that end, it receives 
 an 8/10 on gamespot from me, but a 7.8 on IGN.
  
  Give it a spin if you like, but if you're already sceptical, you're not missing a whole lot. 
 
  
  8/10, Also 
  True score: Unrounded- 7.8/10
  
  -Desalbert, dated May 4th 2008
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorproof
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  The best game I have played since Half-Life 2. I never thought PC games would be made like this 
 again. Graphics are just stunning. And customizing your weapons just makes it more interesting. 
 This game offers almost everything. If you have played Far Cry then you may find a few jungle scenes 
 to be repetitive but with better graphics you are sure to enjoy it again. You can play this game 
 in many different ways by using different modes on your nano-suit, especially when approaching 
 enemy... you can either gun them down or use stealth. Only one downside is that you will need a 
 really powerful PC to play this game to the maximum settings. I will definitely have a second round 
 with this incredible game. I hope Crysis 2 comes out and more FPS games are made like this. Summarizing... 
 simply superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halojugernut2
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game. Its great. Every thing about it is great. But a few flaws. To fully enjoy this 
 game you need a good rig witch puts you back about 3,000 dollars, and the muiltiplayer is good 
 but not CoD4 or Halo 3, when you start you need to buy your weapons with pristege points other 
 wise you start with a pistol, plus there are only like 2 game variants and a couple of maps. Muiltiplayer 
 is badly organized (if you work for gamespy and reading this YOU SUCK) when i play there is little 
 voice chat and no skill organization, they should have let you have your gamertags like in halo 
 2 or gears did. The good thing is that you can act like preaditor and kill random people with a 
 choke slam. Other than that it is a pritty good game i would buy it after you get a good computer 
 that can run it a high or medium setings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Crytek stumbled a bit with Crysis. I have a PC that can run it a "high" detail so that wasnt an 
 issue. But I was very unimpressed with the gameplay and level design in some of the later levels 
 (I dont want to give anything away) . 
  
  But right from the start, the game is even more critically flawed with the nano-suit. Perhaps it 
 made sense on paper, but when actually playing the game it is wayyyyy too easy to use stealth mode 
 for 20 seconds, hide for a few seconds, heal, and then shoot again, REPEAT to end of game. Yes 
 I can choose not to use stealth mode at all (which is what I ended up doing) but the end result 
 is that the gameplay balance in the single player game never quite gels. 
  
  I also have a few issues with the graphical looks of the game. Crytek got rid of the old-school 
 bump-mapping on objects but what they replaced it with looks worse and more fake, not better. Light 
 sourcing is a mixed bag too. I actually prefer some of Far Cry's graphical effects over Crysis', 
 even though the vegetation obviously looks better in Crysis.
  
  It doesnt help that the single player game is too short and feel padded. Especially when one considers 
 how long Far Cry was.
  
  I have a huge amount of respect for Crytek, but Far Cry is the better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scifiknut
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Crysis is and was a good game and provided hours of fun on a rollercoaster ride of a backstory, 
 but unfortunately it was also seriously bugged. Although a polished game, as one progresses through 
 the game, quite a few anomalies will pop up from time to time. Entertaining at times, bugs might 
 also spoil the gaming experience. I won't get into detail, but the last level "Reckoning" is ironically 
 "bug-infested". I enjoyed the game up until that point, because no matter what, I could not finish 
 the game had it not been for the bugs. Trigger events that do not trigger, clipping problems and 
 disappearing objects (sigh) are not what you expect from a game this heavily hyped. I have no problem 
 recommending it to other players, but pray that CryTek releases a patch that will erase the bugs 
 once and for all. The game is great, but it could have been awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonyank
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who says otherwise doesn't like 1st person shooters, has a crappy system to play on, or 
 needs emergency surgery to remove his head from you know where.
  
  Not only are the visuals and sound incredible, but the strory is top-rate. The variety of weapons 
 available keep things interesting, as well as the limited number you can carry at any give time.
 
  
  The use of tanks and other vehicles also keeps things fun, while the fairly sophisticated AI of 
 enemies tends to level the playing field.
  
  I'm probably only about 1/2 of the way through, but I've had a blast every step of the way. This 
 seems like a game that I will be able to play again right away and, perhaps, another time after 
 taking a break for a few weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  The opening of the game will almost put you in the shoes of Spider-man. You are dressed in a special 
 combat suit that has some super-human functions. Soon you will be dropped off in a hostile Korean 
 island of lush ever green jungle. You are here to rescue your spy, among investigating other matters. 
 As you play deeper into the game fighting the Koreans, you will find out aliens killing humans -- 
 well, like the Predator (if you have not seen the movie, please go and see -- its fantastic) . Now 
 you fight both the Koreans and the alien.
  This is the same formula used in Halo 2. While the basic idea is the same, its really the game's 
 presentation and story telling that makes the game successful. Like Halo, Crysis did the job really 
 well.
  Without any argument, Crytek is the best there is when it comes to visually presenting its game. 
 It has done the same before, and it did it again. They worked so hard with the details, that don't 
 be surprised when you see how the leaves of a tree interact when a gun shot is passing through 
 it.
  Then the player's suit is of another interest. You have several extra functions with this suit -- 
 these include being invisible for a minute, or being extra strong or speedy -- so on. The suit menu 
 itself will give you a feeling that you are not playing another round of Halo in a detailed graphic 
 setting. 
  And yes, the creepy factor is well implemented. Its broad day light in the jungle. But the distant 
 and sudden sounds of the alien will always make you feel that they are coming to get you. 
  All in all, its one of the greatest games of this season... well, next to Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eragon55
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great, but that's it. I know my opinion is in the minority, but I think this game 
 sucks. My problem with the game is that you're supposed to be an advanced soldier with an advanced 
 bio-suit, but the enemy soldiers seem to be tougher with their t-shirts than the advanced Crysis 
 suit. They also seem to see you from miles away even though you have cloaking abilities. I didn't 
 get the feeling that I was some kind of super soldier. When I would go into targeting or sniper 
 mode the targeting scope bouned around like a kangaroo. Maybe my PC was acting up, but I doubt 
 it. I have an Alienware Area 51 with an 8800 GTX SLI configuration and an Intel Quad Core overclocked 
 with 4 Gigabytes of memory. I have played all the Doom games, Half Life and Halo games with ease. 
 However, found myself struggling to defeat a bunch of reagular soldiers in camo gear. I thought 
 maybe I was slipping, but I breezed through Halo 3 on the hardest level with ease. Perhaps I have 
 been spoiled with Halo, who knows. Maybe I am slipping. I had a lot more fun playing BioShock. 
 The AI seems to be off and they are not balenced. I lost interest in the game and got rid of it. 
 I'm sorry, I just can't give this game a good rating. I hope this helps someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aumelen818
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I waited some months to get this game, mainly because I tend to shy away from open release game 
 prices. Once I noticed the price dropped to a more manageable level I went ahead and got it. And 
 I'm glad I did. I'm going to outline my review into separate categories.
  
  Story: it's pretty immersive. The story kept me very interested into what was going on and why 
 I was doing things.
  
  Sound: nothing like the sound of bombs and bullets. And you will get plenty of that around here. 
 I really enjoyed the voice acting and the ambient sounds they had, like when walking in a jungle 
 for example. And hearing North Koreans, "psst! You here that?"
  
  Graphics: graphics are top notch. Some claim the hardware costs to play this game are too steep. 
 In my opinion, this game was not meant to be played at its highest setting at release. And this 
 is not the first time a game was released with settings that went beyond today's hardware. This 
 game was meant to evolve over time. I was very well impressed playing in medium graphic setting. 
 And my computer did pretty well in high. However, I did have issues playing this game on Vista. 
 It may be due to the fact that I have an Audigy sound card that is known to have issues in Vista. 
 I currently cannot place my finger on it. But this game run very well in Windows XP.
  
  Replay: this is why I love PC games over consoles usually... addons. Although many of the independent 
 maps released for Crysis are mediocre, some are downright fun. It adds a lot of replay value to 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylenol
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Truly one of the best PC games I have ever had the pleasure of playing. This game won my heart 
 within the first 10min of play.
  
  Awesome eye candy, solid game play, destructible environment, cool weapons and great sound effects 
 make this game a forever classic. This game will now be the benchmark on how I judge all future 
 first person shooter games!
  
  Why do I love this game, let me share a gaming crysis moment with you. I was deep in an enemy camp 
 trying to be stealthy and kill the enemy. I was crawling on my belly under an army truck, just 
 as I got my silenced weapon ready to cap a passing guard a frog jumped into my field of view and 
 scared the crap out of me. Needless to say I had to put a round into the frog and stop his hopping 
 mayhem. I don't care what anyone says, that's some cool programming!
  
  Sometimes words just can't do a game justice, you just have to experience them yourself, and this 
 is one of those games.
  
  Yes this game takes a bit of computing hardware to appreciate it fully but it is so worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minigeo
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Crysis in my eyes is just a artwork game. The gameplay can get a little tedious because you spend 
 10 minutes getting to 1 encounter ends in 5 seconds then an entire mob come and have major telescopic 
 vision and perfect accuracy and the best gun which you start off with runs out of ammo after a 
 while.
  I may be shouted at ALOT by people but this is my view, im not saying it is bad but average not 
 special and if you have the PC that can play it on half decent spec without it bursting into flames 
 well you may enjoy the visuals and effect the crytek engine gives.
  So my summary is: Average, could be better, have a understandeable story, give enemies some half 
 decent AI and some half decent weapons ( you get all the stuff your suit has to offer and awesome 
 guns and they get shocking guns)
  well i personally think that FPS`s should be full of action with ocassional breaks for story purposes 
 but this is loooong breaks with not much happening and and you never get to look at these visuals 
 very well because you move to fast to really enjoy it so make a special game which may be slow 
 paced to show the visuals but I would recommend Call of Duty 4 over this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QM3K
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I am not a huge shooter fan, so the fact that I do like the game is something in itself. It's pretty 
 fast-paced and there are multiple ways to achieve objectives. The nano suit is clever, and some 
 of the weapons (gauss rifle!) are a lot of fun to unleash on your enemies. The biggest issues that 
 I had with it were the performance problems that I kept running into. I know that this game is 
 a beast, graphically. And, true, it does look downright spectacular. Unfortunately, this just serves 
 to be a disappointment when you realize that when you see what this game COULD do, you have to 
 scale back to what it CAN do on your machine. And not just low to mid range machines, either. My 
 setup is pretty beefy, including an overclocked quad core and an overclocked SLI setup. I was able 
 to play in some situations on very high settings, but had to scale it back once the shooting started. 
 Played pretty well on high, until you meet the aliens. Now I'm getting a very creaky framerate... nearly 
 unplayable. As other reviews have mentioned, once you strip away the flash of the graphics, there 
 isn't much here that hasn't been done before, and seeing as how I am going to have to reduce my 
 graphics settings yet again in order to continue, the flash is being stripped further and further 
 away. I kept finding myself pausing YET AGAIN to tweak the graphics for certain situations. There 
 are also several bugs in the game... scripting errors that fail to trigger the next event in certain 
 missions, causing you to run around aimlessly until you start the mission, or in my case, the whole 
 game over to rectify the situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joyyy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  OK
  
  Graphics: the graphics are good if you have them at very high, but you have to get a powerful video 
 card, and CPU. and it really looks slow anyway.
  the bad thing is, that it is currently really unstable on most computers.
  
  Sound: The sound 
 is really good in headphones. the thing i loved about it is the granade it sounds real.
  
  Gameplay: yeah, um what is good is that you can grab people, when you pickup a weapon you see your 
 hand. and the physics are good too. but the kills dont really feel real.
  
  Difficulty: the game is really HARD. enough said.
  
  Story: the story is really good, but will 
 they realease a sequel? i hope so.
  
  AI: it sucks. the ai is just simple: YOU SHOOT, THEY SHOOT.
  and sometimes im behind my enemy and 
 he's taking cover in front of me and shooting at front of me, im behind you!! why does he shoot 
 ghosts, i didint know crytek added ghosts to the ai of the enemy's. maybe he was high?
  
  Well the game is good, but not super good, its normal. i hated that it requires a super high-end computer. Turok 
 and Gears of War look better and they dont really require a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Crysis for the last 6-9 hours nonstop. Feels like I just started playing. As 
 soon as you sit down and are engaged in the storyline you don't want to get up. It has twists and 
 turns, the objectives are fresh, and it just makes you feel so immersed.
  
  I'm playing on the hardest difficulty too which is Delta. Having the nanosuit definately balances 
 things out when compared to Far Cry. The game is now actually beatable on Delta and compares to 
 that of Legendary on the Halo franchise. Of course since i'm using a mouse and keyboard i'm much 
 more able to kick butt unlike in console. (Not as good with gamepad)
  
  As for the A. I. it is sublime. Enemies will take cover and help each other out. Of course eventually 
 you figure out how to beat them but you can't just rush in there or you will die. Having the nanosuit 
 just really gives you power which is overwhelming. You pick how you want to attack your objectives. 
 Do you wanna snipe the enemies in the boat and do a beach assault? Or will go fight your way through 
 the forests cutting threw everything with hot lead?
  
  The weapons are customizable with silences, lasers, reflex sights, assault scopes, sniper scopes, 
 and more. As soon as a grenade goes off near you, or an explosion, your screen shakes and dirt 
 gets in your face. It's so realistic it's insane. Vehicles are very realistic and take damage. 
 Pop off the tire off a car and you'll have trouble driving it on it's rim. Shoot the extra gas tank 
 in the back and watch the fireworks fly. 
  
  It's like Half life 2 is no longer a match. A new king has come to take it's place, and that game 
 my friends is Crysis. The music is also phenomenal. The cast of characters hold you to the story 
 and the voice acting is sublime. It all really comes together in a great package.
  
  You feel like the character Nomad. You are an elite special forces operative with the latest nano-suit 
 technology. This is the Deus Ex of 2008. Really words cannot describe how good this game is. Lets 
 just say I wouldn't doubt it's going to be Game of the Year. I don't know why you're reading this. 
 You need to play this game now. Hopefully it will come to consoles next year. It's so deserving 
 of success it's incredible. Surpasses Gears of War, Halo 3, and any other game that's coming out 
 in 2008. Perhaps only the mighty Mass Effect can stand near it due to it's massiveness.
  
  10 out of 10. Great graphics, A. I., storyline, campaign, multiplayer, UI, the perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vega666
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Okay, let's start up by being painfully honest. It's a decent game, but nothing to throw yourself 
 at the wall over.
  
  The graphics are close to perfect. The atmosphere is goosebumpingly awesome. The story is engaging. 
 These are the plus points, and now over to the not so good things.
  
  The game logic is broken. The aliens absorb energy from the nuke, but not from the bullets I shoot 
 at them? Quite a mystery. "Argh! Bullets! My only weakness!" The enemies who wear nothing but standard 
 army outfits (MAYBE even flak) can take as much, if not MORE damage than a guy wearing a nano-armor 
 specialized to be impact resistant.. Also somewhat strange.
  
  The "super-powers" from the nano-suit are half-decent at most. The stealth function is really the 
 only one you need, apart from strength to get up a few places and through very few doors.
  
  There are really very very few weapons in the game, and most seem a tad underpowered. You'd 
 think a couple of bullets from an assault rifle would make most normal humans suck dirt, but not 
 in this game. Aiming at the torso, you can expect to empty at least one mag before the target drops, 
 which is quite frankly stupid. And with a strength enhanced nano-suit, you'd think I'd be able 
 to hold a 6 pound rifle pretty steady, but oh no. Aiming with a scope in this game makes the rifle 
 bob and weave like George Forman on shrooms. I've seen monkeys hold sticks more steady than this.
 
  
  Anyway, these were most of the annoyances I found in the game (though I'm sure I've forgotten some) , 
 and most games are a lot more annoying than this. All in all, I must say it was a great tech demo, 
 but I'm looking forward to when they make a game out of it. Hopefully they'll even balance the 
 weapons and abilities in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigy333
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Amazing game in all perspectives. Gameplay, graphics, sound, story... everything is absolutely 
 OUtStaNdiNG!!! I just didn't expect that kind of game so early. I mean i thought that it would 
 need another 10 years or so for games like this to get in the stores. First of, i don't have a 
 good machine. With 1GB Ram, 2,6 processor and an 6200 GeForce graphics card i started the game 
 in the lowest graphics and by surprise it played. Amazing graphics, better than most games played 
 in high graphics at good machines. After i finished the game i wanted to play it again. So i bought 
 2 GB RAM, an intel core Duo and an Nvidia 8600 GeForce card. I was stuck in the chair until i finished 
 the game. Even the first time i didn't think it could get any better but after i played it for 
 the 2nd time i made this game a total TOP game in my list. Whoever calls himself gamer MUST play 
 this game if he hasn't already. Games like this are made so rarely that some can get dissapointed. 
 But don't worry Crytek is here to save us :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante_94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  First of all, the requirements of this game is huge. You need a decent graphics card and a good 
 computer and I wasted few hundreds to do that. The graphics of the Crysis is just unbelievable, 
 everything just looks so real. The audio quality of the game is also excellent. It makes you feel 
 like you are in the game. 
  
  The gameplay is innovative and great. You can change modes of your nanosuit in just a second. Your 
 nanosuit has several modes such as strength, cloak, armor and speed to adapt to the ever-changing 
 environment. Crysis is also a non-linear game which makes you choose your own path and how you 
 want to tackle your missions. Weapons can also be customized in real time. 
  
  Storyline is quite realistic until you reach a point of the game where everything goes haywire. 
 The major flaw of this game is the AI. Yes, the AI does some of the things that we normally do 
 like tying their shoelaces, digging your nose and peeing when not in combat. Sometimes they are 
 just so dumb. In summary, this is a must-buy game for every FPS fan. Superb graphics and gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death-in-Dark
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Let me tell you first that the only thing made me interested playing this game was it's huge requirement... even 
 only for playing this.. i built a new giant pc, so when i started playing the game i was shocked 
 to see the each and every detailed objects.. effects of the game. from the water wave... to the movement 
 of the trees in breeze... the birds flying (which you can kill by shooting) ... the fishes and creatures 
 in the forest... i mean everything around you is so lively that you suddenly feel that ..'oh my 
 god... this can't be a game.'
  you can do almost everything in the game... drive a jip... speed boat... car... tankor even VTOL (ammm... something 
 like helicopter) . you can swim as long as you want and as far as you want. you can search the huts 
 or cottages for stuffs. you can go anywhere... and believe me... it is all alive. the best thing 
 to do in the game is just stand up on a high place.. and enjoy the magical environment set in crysis.
 
  
  sound is superb... though i didn't like the background music that much.. it could have been much 
 better... but it doesn't matter as long it doesn't make you involve in the game. story line is ok... not 
 much impressive... you will find similar games.. but the overall gameplay and look has made crysis 
 undoubtedly far superior than the other fps...
  
  shooting and melee combat are fun... there are many useful guns... but major of them are useless.. if 
 youhave a pistol and a shotgun.. you are ready to hit the flag... this weapons can be customized 
 as your needs.. sometimes you can add a leaser for a better aim.. or you can change it to a flashlight... even 
 you can add a grenade launcher. and don't worry much about the ammo... cz there are thousands of 
 th enemy... you just smack them and get their ammo.
  
  as crysis is set up in the future... you have a special suit... called as the nano suit... with this 
 suit you can make yourself stronger... more speedy.. even you can become invisible... when you are 
 attacked by a group of enemy just switch to cloak and hide... this suit helps you survive in the 
 game.. as it also protect you from damage... it is like your second like bar as well.
  
  so overall crysis is one of the best of it's kind... graphics are out of the world... i have never 
 seen such detailed level of graphics... sound design pretty good... gameplay superb... and it is a 
 plain fun... sometimes it gets a bit boring.. but hai.. you can consider that for it's great offering....
 
  
  the only thing which might come in the way of fun is it's high configuration.... but if you have 
 a powerful pc.. you are ready to rock.
  
  after far cry... crytek has offered another superb game... hats off to them. they are really taking 
 gaming to next gen. really looking forward for crysis 2.. but then i have to build another pc.. man... this 
 game makers doesn't stop!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raihan_07
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is the name of that game which has changed the flavor of FPS - First person shooter. It 
 is considered as the best FPS game for ever. There are definitely something special in this game. 
 Graphic is one of them though it needs a very high-end pc for this. This game is resource killer. 
 It takes tons of system and video memory. If you have enough requirements then you'll enjoy the 
 graphic. Sound is superb. Good speaker and sound card make it lively. Game play is innovative and 
 user friendly. Some new feature like sprint, strength, invisibility has made the game unique. Medium 
 range of weapon with customizable feature has made the game attractive and easier. The storyline 
 is makes the game a little unrealistic but also added extra excitement. I hope Crysis 2 will come 
 soon. It doesnt matter that you are a FPS lover or not. Go for it. Play it. Enjoy it. Bye 
 everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Logix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Taking everything into account this game is definitely not a waste of time. Like with most games, 
 there is always something that could be adjusted. In this case it comes down to the suit's mechanics. 
 The duration of each suit ability is VERY limited. I feel, the game would have benefited with either 
 longer lasting abilities or having some of the abilities permanent like speed and strength. It 
 felt like I was driving around the latest sports car, but the car only reaches 20 mph. Very frustrating. 
 Visually, Crysis is a knockout. The settings are well done and are just amazing to play through. 
 I could imagine the "crunch" the dead tree leaves made as the character crawled forward ready to 
 knife the poor sucker in front of him. But, who really is paying attention to the shadow the leaf 
 casts on my character's rifle in the middle of a firefight? If you felt short changed by this game, 
 try Project: Snowblind. You get an amped-up suit and plenty of guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royzentner
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Crytek have done it once again. 4 years ago, when Far Cry came out, I waited almost a year to play 
 it on a new PC. The same goes for Crysis. I waited till March (almost half a year after the game 
 was released) to play it on my new PC, and boy it's been worth the wait!
  The game looks amazing like nothing I've ever seen before, It almost looks real! Voice acting never 
 sounded so authentic, I almost prefer playing this game instead of watching a half baked Hollywood 
 action film. The story isn't that original but the way the game tells it is what makes it so great. 
 The gameplay is incredible as it lets you control almost every vehicle standing in the open and 
 use a big arsenal of firepower - all that while managing one of four super-powers provided by the 
 tactical nanosuit, which is a nice addition to a Sci-Fi FPS.
  I read other user reviews saying that this game is buggy and unstable, and I have to say this really 
 depends on your hardware. I have not experienced any crashes what-so-ever and the only bug I've 
 encountered was this annoying blinding light inside caves (which I haven't found anyone else complaining 
 about) . This bug is minor and I'm sure there's a fix to it but nevertheless it didn't prevent me 
 from finishing the game on hard difficulty (which is very recommended since it's more realistic) .
 
  The only thing I could wish for from Crysis is more levels. It's so addictive it ended too soon 
 for my taste although the flow of the story was just right.
  This game is worth every penny spent on it and on a brand new PC!!!
  can't wait for the next 
 Crytek release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceblade911
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  So, Crysis... The game everyone's been talking about... Sure, it looks fantastic, but that's really 
 about it. There are LOADS of bugs, and i actually had to replace my graphics card to get it running. 
 The amount of crashes and lost time i've had with this game is nothing short of appalling, not 
 to mention it's poorly coded and does not scale well with hardware... 
  
  In terms of the gameplay, i didn't find anything special. Sure, it was cool to see it run so beautifully, 
 and the way that the objectives and environments changed was nice, but the game brings nothing 
 new or indeed revolutionary tyo the table, and the nanosuit does not get as much attention as it 
 should have. Some have argued that this game allows you the freedom to do what you want and that 
 you create the experience for it, but i think if the developers had wanted to do that, they should 
 have made it more freeform, in the footsteps of Oblivion and Bioshock. 
  
  Oh, and the ending is terrible.
  
  I think it's more of a tech demo than anything else, and 
 without the graphics, there is nothing separating this from the mass of other games floating about 
 today... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starsailor_IT
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  The game is great, the weapons are reproduced with a lot of detail, and they can be customized 
 in real time. The game is more fun to play than the average FPS thanks to the nano-suit powers 
 and the chance of driving different vehicles (even helicopters and aircrafts..) . The multiplayer 
 mode is really enjoyable thanks to the  Power Struggle mode. 
 there are some minor bugs and glitches though and sometimes you start thinking the mode lacks of 
 a good team deathmatch mode. The graphics are maybe the strongest characteristic of Crysis, being 
 maybe the best ever seen in a FPS so far. Unfortunately this is also the game biggest flaw, because 
 in order to run this game you'll need a VERY powerful pc. Especially if you have Windows Vista 
 installed. Just to give you an idea, a Geforce 8800 GT could still make the game lag if you keep 
 the detail on high without AA and shadows. the game would have been worth a 9.0 if its hardware 
 requirements were less steep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Veach
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  i was so happy about the graphics, and was very dissapointed because the gameplay... well SUCKED. 
 it was the same thing over and over. Sneak, shoot, sneak shoot... i thought it to be very boring. 
 the story was alright but nothing fancy. the suit was cool but nothing fancy. overall i didnt like 
 it. if i was really bored and didnt know what other much better games out there there were... then 
 i would play it but i do know over 20x better games there are. and the learning curve was like 
 15 minutes all you had to do was find the cloak button and the shoot button and you were set. thats 
 all i had to do. you know mabey it was all about graphics because i would give it a 8 out of 10 
 on graphics. i thought they were really good. if you think you might want to buy the game i suggest 
 you get the demo first. it really helps. i bought it, beat it then sold it in like 4 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syredeathrooper
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Just a second or two before clicking on the 'new game' button i reviewed back the tortureous (in 
 a good way) pictures and exceedingly attention gaining boasts about crytek's new FPS. While pictures 
 really did give a clue about the hard work and time crytek had put in making the game graphically 
 unconquerable by other FPSs, i didnt expect it to under perform as much as it actually did when 
 i first saw the game run on my comparitively humble CPU, even though it could run big guns such 
 as Bioshock, Gears Of War etcetra without the least of trouble. Ok, sure, i'd reduce the texture 
 resolutions, lower the post processing display and turn off anti-aliasing and make the CRY world 
 edgy from all degrees, as long as it meant a gaming experience that many reviewers and crytek itself 
 promised.
  I got what i wanted for about 1/3rds of the entire game. Not to mention that the game was comparitively 
 short, it 'tried' to express variety, yet ended up looking like a pile of unassorted missions giving 
 out line spectrum and feeling disconnected from each other. Why do i say that? Explanation is as 
 follows.
  The prologue of the game starts off interestingly, to say the least, and without knowing how, or 
 when, you displace yourself automatically to such a position in which either your too busy to go 
 for dinner because Korean militants just cant get their fingers off the trigger or your running 
 to find a safe place to recuperate the lost energy of you 'unique' nano-suit. Either way, you'd 
 pretty much be stuck with the game until you get the impression that 'aliens' have got something 
 to with all the mishaps that frequently occur in the game (don't they occur in all?) . Yeah sure, 
 the aliens are there but they haven't showed up have they, right? Wrong.
  Just when you get used to the never-changing battle background music and the mono-dimensional atmosphere 
 of the game, you jump into an unassorted, unconnected line spectrum giving mission. Even though 
 the game makers try to cheer you up with a little zero-gravity rollercoaster ride (you'll know 
 if you care to play the game till the part being mentioned) , the game becomes distractful once 
 you enter the alien 'spaceship'. After that the only enemies you encounter till the end (including 
 the end) are a bunch of inorganic flying-here-and-there robots which fly around aimlessly attempting 
 (often misattempting) to rain death upon earth.
  Well thats how the rest of the game from there on then goes, and before you know it, and before 
 you want it (even though you hate those robots and would prefer shooting those potty-mouthed Koreans 
 instead) the game will end, leaving you confused and unanswered. On the whole it felt to be a very 
 confused and non-symmetrical, disarranged game with only a few good things to offer such as the 
 graphics (if you have a killer computer) and brilliant sound and character animations. So in short 
 this is a very very overrated game.
  My advice? Play Call Of Duty 4 again on hard mode instead, and if you really feel like killing 
 time uselessly, just by crysis and get it over with without wondering or caring too much about 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuyt19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Oh! So you say this game has one of the best graphics to date? Big deal. So now super graphics 
 equals super gameplay? Nah. The only thing this game did was make you spend a lot of dough to upgrade 
 your machine. And without the full detail, this game has nothing much in it. The only part of the 
 game that looked new was the super-suit that they used. Apart from that, everything else is "been 
 there done that". Besides, the organization can afford nano-suits but the guys had to make do with 
 ordinary weapons? And fighting aliens? How original. The game is made in such a way that once you 
 see the graphics, you will instantly forget that it's just a revamped old game. Pretty clever, 
 huh? This is a good example of what an overrated game is like. Sorry, but this game is "all-hype" 
 in my opinion. If you can be pacified with extreme hardware-choking graphics alone, then check 
 it out, otherwise stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skywalker090
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I give this game 10 out of 10. Till date my top game was hl2, but after playing crysis, im totally 
 bowled over by its gameplay. Amazing visuals (of course considering the fact whether your pc can 
 run it on very high or not!!) , very adaptive AI, totally manipulative environment, and an amazing 
 gameplay. Its amazing how each and every part of the environment around u can be changed, or destroyed. 
 Well honestly i was a bit skeptic at first listening to the details of this game, was expecting 
 something in the line of farcry. But as i started to play it, i couldn stop! The way the story 
 slowly unfolds is also great, kinda keeping you in the dark most of the time. Its not possible 
 to justify this game through words. U have to actually play it to experience it. A must play for 
 any fps fans. Hopefully more games will come out thats as gripping as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoseWeed619
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I've seen a bunch of mentions in previous reviews of the Crysis demo and the game in general, and 
 I've seen it written that the AI in Crysis has issues, but that has not been my experience so far. 
 I started off playing in Normal mode, but that proved to be a bit too easy. If a fight is too tough, 
 run away and hide. So I cranked it up to Delta mode, and that made it a lot more realistic. The 
 Koreans quickly came to the aid of a fallen comrade using cover and splitting up to surround me. 
 It was the toughest battle I remember from a single-player game against the computer. 
  
  Another time I was on the beach watching one of those super deadly patrol boats offshore. I thought 
 they had the same bad AI that all other games have, so I shot out the gunner from a distance and 
 then forgot all about them to take on the other enemies near me on land. After I took those guys 
 out, I turn around to start heading towards my objective again, only to find that patrol boat beached 
 in front of me with the driver ducking behind a rock, poking out to take shots at my head! It scared 
 the daylights out of me as it was completely unexpected from a game. 
  
  I have to admit, I have seen the drivers of those boats be pretty stupid, driving around after 
 I shot out the gunner. I had only seen this happen when playing in Normal difficulty though. You 
 would think that the driver wouldn't just sit there in the drivers seat, but switch to the gunner 
 position and resume shooting at me. I'll have to test this out in Delta mode next time I play. 
 
  
  So far, I have to say, this game rocks! I'm honestly not looking forward to fighting aliens though 
 later in the game. I'm always partial to human enemies. Hopefully it doesn't ruin the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValorLane
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 21, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is a great looking game provided you have the hardware to run everything on high. For me 
 the visual experience was a good one and fps averaged 45 - 60 with about 80% of the options on 
 very high and the other 20% on high. However even tho this game has great physics the developers 
 will not allow rag doll physics on the actors due to a law in Germany where they are based. It 
 was enabled by modifications early on but the company has patched the game to disable them permanently 
 so for such a good looking game that takes away from immersion totally for me. If you dont care 
 about imerssion tho and enjoy a decent shooter game every now once in a while then grab it but 
 if you do care then dont bother wiht it.
  
  On a simular note something I find rather odd is the fact that these companies make these games 
 and remove graphic material just so they can be sold on more shelves as this is the case in Germany 
 where if the game did contain this content then only specialty stores would be able to carry it 
 since those laws are there to keep violent games out of the hands of childeren. Removing the graphic 
 content does not make it any less violent and IMHO I feel it is underhanded to do so just to boost 
 sales as all the kids will be begging Mom and Dad to get it for them. Personally I feel any game 
 that involves realistic human suffering in any way either it be gory or not should only be sold 
 in specialty stores. Just my 2c on that subject.
  
  So if you have a nice rig and enjoy the everyday shooter then go out and get it if not then dont 
 bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustymilk24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  even if you do not like first person shooters, you will like this game. it is just fun to look 
 at. the gameplay is awsome and deserves an emmy. it is so much fun to play. it does take a very 
 strong computer though. i would suggest getting a 8800gt to play this game so it looks and runs 
 good. the multiplayer is fun but sometimes it can get very laggy and frustrating. this game has 
 so much good to it and so little bad. it is not as much funif you have it on low and laggy, it 
 really takes away from the real gaming expirence. i give this game a 9.5 out of 10 because of how 
 much fun it is to look oput and play. if you have a bad system and want to play this game on high 
 and get your computer pimped out or just get a new one it is going to be expensive. i am going 
 to start putting more reviews up. i know i have not put one up in like a month but now i am going 
 to put like 2 up every week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, lets get the graphics out of the way. I played the whole game on very high with a good 
 resolution and it was the most visually stunning experience I have ever had. From the lush forest 
 to dark spaceship, to the icy plateau, the game looked brilliant. This coupled with the sound and 
 physics makes you feel really immersed into the game and in earlier levels made me feel (I know 
 it sounds silly) 'cool'.
  
  The actual gameplay is incredible. Without the nanosuit It plays like a REALLY good FPS, but when 
 you add the nanosuit and its functions, it becomes something you have never experienced before. 
 Constantly firing rounds into Koreans that look the same can get quite repetetive, but there are 
 some variations in gameplay like vehicle battles and in the second half of the game, there are 
 no more Koreans and you have a whole new, exciting enemy to deal with.
  
  As for the story, it makes the game very intense. In the first half of the game there isn't much 
 of a story and it's mainly 'go there, blow up that', but this is a good thing, because at first 
 you just want to enjoy the gameplay. In the first half of the game you choose how you want to approach 
 situations. You can be all stealthy and flank the enemy, or you can go in all guns blazing, although 
 the later isn't the best idea. In the second half of the game it goes from letting you do what 
 you like as in how you approach situations to a totally linear experience. Personally I think this 
 is brilliant because it really immerses you into the story (that lacked in the first half) and 
 makes you focus on your objective more, which makes the game feel very 'epic'.
  
  Something that I have to adress is the level 'Core'. Now i've heard alot of people saying that 
 this level is really boring and frustrating because its like a maze, but I actually found it quite 
 fun and not really frustrating at all, I found it quite easy to find my way around and it is also 
 visually stunning which made it worthwhile in my eyes.
  
  Overall it is a fun, innotive and visually stunning game which you should definately check out 
 if you are a fan of FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splinterminter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  Crysis, as I have stated above, has struck me more as an Episodic content pack instead of a true 
 game, but still retains the look (no kidding) and feel of a real full length game. The story is 
 sub-par, but the way that you are put through the experiences and the "acting style" make it a 
 little more interesting. The gameplay is nothing new, but somehow feels fresh and interesting. 
 For the graphics, I played the whole game through on High Settings with a resolution of 1440*900, 
 or the closest to that. I hit a solid average of 30FPS, and the games lowest was a mere 12FPS. 
 What was the most surprising was how it didn't ever feel like a slideshow, even if the rate dropped 
 significantly and/or the gameplay was jumpy. The technology, such as the motion blur and FOV pull 
 you in. This is the first game where I feel like I actually participated and was somewhat pulled 
 in, instead of being the guy behind the mouse and keyboard. I really wish that it didn't end so 
 abruptly as well as so cliche. It didn't change how I felt about it because of the sheer fun of 
 the game itself. It was a refresher course in FPS games even with nothing new was happening. 
 
  I really would recommend this game to anyone, but to have a system that can at least go on medium 
 settings, if not high. I used XP with 2GB of ram, an eVGA 8800GT, an C2D E6600 and an X-Fi sound 
 card (with a Logitech Z-5500 system hooked to the system) . I saw no problems, and the game ran flawlessly. 
 You will not regret buying this game, ever.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Welis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Intro
  Crysis is a first person shooter made by Crytek, the creator behind Far Cry which was released 
 in 2004 and were at the point one of the greatest free roam FPS. Let's just get to the point, shall 
 we?
  
  Story: The story is set on the year 2020 when USA have developed a special Millitary Combat Suit: 
 The Nano Suit. A squad of 5 equipped Nano Suit elites were dispatched to a Remote Island on discovery 
 of an ''Alien'' crash. Yet the island is covered by local North Koreans millitary forces so the 
 investigating won't be that easy. So likely the story isn't that immersive but later on it gets 
 a little interesting because of the characters you meet early on the game and then a little suprise 
 later here and there. Nothing big, a decent story.
  
  Gameplay: In Crysis the gameplay is nothing new, it is a simple run and gun game but thanks to 
 the suit there are some unique elements which can be used during combat and off. The Special Nano 
 Suit have 4 abilities, each on their own speciality. You have: Armor Mode (Standard Mode) , Strength 
 Mode, Speed Mode and Cloak mode. The Armor mode will absorb some bullet damage even a single shell 
 from a tank. The Strength mode will give you the oppurtunity to jump higher, hit things harder 
 with melee (Even fist) and make your accuary a bit little better, not a big deal. Cloak is, yeah 
 you're stealth. And Speed makes you run fast, and the cool thing with this ability is when you 
 run into an opponenet you bash him to the ground which is really cool.
  
  Sound: The score is amazing, made by the Composer Iron Zur, the batte tracks are more like ''Dun 
 dun'' music and the ambience are slow ''Jungle-alike''. Get a Dolby 5.1 Surround sound and experience 
 the Jungle.
  
  Graphic: The ''Main'' thing in the game. Nothing now today can hold the standard of what Crysis 
 has to offer. The Graphic is outstanding, one of the best out there. By the look of screenshot 
 it looks great, better on a video and even better when you play on your own Computer. (It has to 
 be a good Computer) The Motion blur and the in-depth field god it can't look anymore prettier. 
 The water effect is brilliant and it drives you crazy because it looks so real that you just want 
 to exit the game and find the nearest pool or lake so you can take a quick bath and pretend it 
 is Crysis. 
  
  Conclusion: Crysis is an outstanding Gam, simply not the best out there but if you are looking 
 for a game that offer you: 
  *Great Graphic (And by that i mean Cinematic real CGI, almost: P)
  *Great Sound&Music (Only if 
 you have 5.1 Dolby Surround)
  *Great Gameplay
  *Decent Story
  
  Then i can say this is a game for you. Oh did i even mention there is Sandbox? A map-Maker program 
 not only you can make maps but you can make scenarios, cinematic cutscenes and many more. So what 
 are you waiting for? Get a new Computer, throw all the damn expensives hardware on your ''New'' 
 computer and enjoy the Motion Blur. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metric27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me preface this review by saying that I was completely BLOWN AWAY by this game. My rig, 
 while respectable, only allowed me to play on medium/high graphics settings (no ultra) , but it 
 still looked great. Trees, people, water effects, and explosions are all on a whole new level. 
 The AI is intelligent and sometimes very difficult to handle as well as being well coordinated. 
 This can make for some challenging situations when there are a lot of enemies shooting at you from 
 different angles, not to mention the fact that they will sneak up on you through the cover of the 
 dense forest. When played on its highest difficulty level it can sometimes feel like you are in 
 a real-world situation. There are incredible tank battles, psychedelic alien settings and good 
 old fashion North Korean regulars (wow that's original guys, I'm surprised you didn't pick Iranians) 
 to kill. 
  
  Almost a perfect game...
  
  Why almost? 
  Because it was too short. I know, I know I'm being pretty picky (well, not too picky I guess, I 
 still gave it a 9.5) but the FIRST time through this game on the regular difficulty level it took 
 me less than 10 hours to complete. Maybe even more important than that (you can really make the 
 game last as long as 20 or 30 hours if you crank up the difficulty and take your time sneaking 
 through all the levels) was the fact that the storyline ended just when it was getting good. Hopefully 
 they are setting things up for a sequel and it can be a perfect series.
  
  Final verdict: BUY IT NOW... If you think your computer can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Static-7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for Crysis for about two years and then finally it arrived. I wasted no time, 
 came home installed and immediately started playing.
  On medium graphic settings the game blew my mind away. The water memorized me for an hour then 
 I turned to stare at the trees, the flowing movement of everything. The graphics will not disappoint 
 anyone. The gameplay is pretty smooth if you get used to the hud and the suit functions.
  The ability to change tactics on the fly is the most amazing feat I've seen in a game. It took 
 me about three weeks to finish it (I had to go to school) .
  When I finished the game my reaction was kind of like "WHAT, THAT'S IT, JUST LIKE THAT". I was 
 upset because the game ended abruptly and I didn't get to take in the moment of the end.
  I left for a month and then decided to play it again when I got my new system. ( I played it on 
 very high) and everything changed because I changed the way that I played the game and experimented 
 with the situations that you get and the game impressed me even more.
  Some say the AI disappointed them but the aliens aren't easy to kill, they react pretty well to 
 you, especially if you come charging at them with guns blazing. 
  It ends a bit too quickly but the game will not disappoint.
  FOR ME GAME OF THE YEAR NO DOUBT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Di0nysus80
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  The beginning scenes show you right off the bat, this is no ordinary FPS. Crytek kicked the graphics 
 up a big notch. I was running an AMD Athlon X2, 2 gigs Patriot xms, Nvidia 8800 GTS and still could 
 only run it on medium setting. That being said, the medium setting still looked better than any 
 other game I've played on my computer since. The screen adjustment when you are looking around 
 is incredibly smooth even with the intense landscape and scenery it has to keep up with. Every 
 gamer should experience that first view of the island from atop the hill in the beginning of the 
 game, it was breath taking! Game-play was also very unique, using the middle mouse button in a 
 way that made it seem as though my player and my suit were one. It was surpassingly fluid to change 
 from one suit option to the next, as well as switch weapons. The only thing holding this game back 
 from a perfect 10 was the AI. You could kill someone and then after two minutes of the enemy not 
 seeing you it was as if nothing happened. It just seemed to easy to trick the computer. What this 
 game lacks in AI it most definitely makes up for in visuals, game-play and storyline. Expect to 
 see a part two coming out since they clearly left this game open for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhart24
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  I finally pulled the money together for a new PC since my 4 1/2 year old Alienware was no longer 
 cutting it. The bad part about Crysis was that it took far longer to assemble my custom, newegg 
 PC than it did to beat the game.
  
  The gameplay is solid, the graphics gorgeous, the sound really involved, the storyline fantastic... 
 but I purchased it on a Tuesday and had it beat on Thursday, while playing other games in between... 
 and in the middle of a work week.
  
  The cliffhanger ending really makes you salivating for more but when I purchase a game, I want 
 to pull some time out of it. I've spent 700+ hours on WoW, almost 600 on BF2, a little over 500 
 on BF2142, 160+ on CoD4, a little over a hundred on Titan's Quest. Those are the games that are 
 worth the 50 dollars. Not Crysis.
  
  This game would be a straight 10 for being all around just an incredible experience. But it was 
 way too short. Very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanduvall
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Crysis... wow...
  
  I will begin with a side note - I built a computer recently to get back into pc gaming. I went 
 and bought very high end parts such as a GeForce 8800 GT and hoped that games like Bioshock and 
 FEAR could bring me back to pc gaming and justify the fact that I had spent nearly $1000 on a computer. 
 And while both games were great entertainment, I still had the lingering thought that I could have 
 had a nearly equal experience on the Xbox 360 that I already owned. I mean the difficulty of patching, 
 updating, and installing games onto a pc is always slightly frustrating - whereas on the Xbox 360 
 it is just a simple matter of inserting the game disk and you are instantly playing. Also a lack 
 of (oddly satisfying) achievements instantly made me feel like I was playing on an inferior system 
 in the past. And I still believe that a much better experience with Bioshock can be had on the 
 Xbox 360, but, Crysis has most definitely justified my recent spending spree and Reinvigorated 
 my passion for PC gaming.
  
  Crysis has the most interesting new feature of any game I have played in recent memory. It introduces 
 the Nano-suit, a powered armor suit (think halo's mjolnir armor) that can enhance the performance/abilities 
 of the player in a few key categories. The suit supports Maximum Speed, maximum strength, maximum 
 armor, and a cloaking system. You can switch between each one at the press of a button but you 
 can only use one at a time and each one depletes power from the suits main energy reserves. So, 
 while sneaking around completely invisible is very fun it does not last for forever and you must 
 find a place to hide and recharge before you run out of power. the same goes for things like maximum 
 armor and speed, you are invincible for a couple of hits or fast for a short burst, but afterwards 
 you are very vulnerable until you suit has time to recharge. This system makes you feel like an 
 unstoppable force, but if you don't think smart and fast a few KPA soldiers can take you down in 
 a matter of seconds, so while you may be the ultimate force you are not unstoppable.
  
  The story revolves around an alien invasion, but I won't say much more to avoid ruining it for 
 people who haven't played it yet, but you play as a US Special Forces squad member who is parachuted 
 onto a remote island in the middle of the ocean to rescue a few scientific hostages. The North 
 Korean Army invades the island to try to take over the unearthing of a mysterious power source 
 buried under the island, but the Koreans seem to have run into some trouble and it is your job 
 to figure out what is happening on the island as well as rescue the prisoners. You guys can play 
 the game and figure out the rest.
  
  Crysis also has some of the most beautiful graphics I have ever seen. The jungle looks absolutely 
 fantastic with swaying tree limbs, realistic shadows, and awesome lighting in general. But the 
 jungle is not the only thing that looks great; the alien ships and the aircraft carrier you board 
 look absolutely fantastic and really blew my mind. For example, when I escaped from the alien ship 
 for the first time a cut scene kicked in and the graphics were so amazing that I didn't believe 
 that it was running real-time and I actually thought that it was a high quality prerendered video 
 until all of the sudden the framerate stuttered momentarily and brought me back to the realization 
 that "yes, this was running on my machine!". 
  
  My system specs are as follows:
  Core 2 Duo E4500 - 2.2 GHz, 2mb L2 cache, 800 MHz fsb;
  2 GB PNY DDR2 677 MHz;
  BFG GeForce 
 8800GT OC 512Mb;
  160 GB 7200 rpm HDD;
  Integrated sound
  BFG 650 watt SLI certified Power supply
  Intel 945GCCR main board ( HAHA I know, it was $25 so 
 shut up!)
  
  I was able to run the game on my desktop with all settings turned to medium, with the exception 
 of textures, shaders and motion blur being turned to Very High at 1024x768 with 4xAA. I found that 
 the framerate could be much higher at 1024x768 with 4xAA than 1280x1024 with no AA and looked about 
 the same on my pretty lame 17" Samsung monitor. Also, on my hp laptop I was able to run the game 
 on low settings around 20 fps at 800x600 (dv9207us  GeForce go 7600 256mb, core duo 1.73 GHz, 
 2 GB ddr2 667) but with overclocking I was able to achieve about an average of around 31 fps. So, 
 crysis seems to like my overclocked settings more than any other game and probably showed the highest 
 performance increases of any game on my laptop 
  
  Also the multiplayer is very fun and also quite strange to get used to. All of the nanosuit powers 
 are available to each player and it is interesting to see how each person tries to use a different 
 method to win. Also each level is carefully constructed and very pretty. My favorite level being 
 the fully rendered aircraft carrier, complete with a full flight deck and very expansive interior 
 network of chambers.
  
  So, to sum this all up, crysis is innovative, very fun, has great graphics and is a game that cannot 
 be missed. And I really can't wait for the sequel. So this is a message to crytek - PLEASE MAKE 
 THE SEQUEL!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny2202
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Who new you could take an ordinary shooter in a lush jungle like Far Cry and freeze it, also adding 
 a super suit! Crytek seemed to have dreamt all of this and made it into a game. Then when you think 
 it couldn't have got any wierder they add and alien fleet to it. The first half of the game you 
 go round easily but happily blowing up Koreans then the second half you desperately fight aliens 
 who look like the things from the matrix. Now this can be very irritating, boring, challenging 
 or very very enjoyable. This is probably the most imaginable thing ever since the toaster. Thats 
 a poor comparison actually, it's much muuch better. Since when could the toaster show aliens the 
 way to hell. All the enemies also do what any normal person does, pace, sit, investigate noises, 
 and even empty their bladder, I once shot someone between the eyes while he was sitting on the 
 loo. The best thing about this game though is that you feel like a super hero, but without the 
 cheesy lines and bright costumes, you can even turn invisible! I certainly shan't stop playing 
 this for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mooshay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I don't know exactly what I was expecting when I purchased Crysis but the graphics were definitely 
 one of the major draws. I was sure I was going to test the new system I built with the best game 
 out graphically at the time and this was it. 
  
  I almost have to rate Crysis on three different experiences. The first experience I would rate 
 damn near a 10! I absolutely loved the fact that I was fighting back the north koreans and discovering 
 what was going on around me. However once it got to a point where I wasn't fight human targets 
 and was in an alien world the game sort of lost it for me and It just didn't have the same visceral 
 impact it had when I was sniping north koreans every step of the way so I would rate it a 6 once 
 entering the mountain.
  
  Its saving grace has to come in the form of its multiplayer which without a doubt is the best I've 
 seen in years and would recommend the game purely on that aspect alone. Amazing maps, amazing teamwork, 
 amazing detail and amazing weapons. What more could you ask for 10! 
  
  10/6/10 with an overall of 8.5 from me. Great game but not quite the single player experience I 
 was hoping for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Crysis has been hyped up ever since the first screenshots were released by Crytek, at the E3 2006 
 (i believe) . It looked amazing, almost photorealistic on some shots, which is a great feat in itself. 
 However, that was then, and we're in the now, as you would say.
  
  The single player game starts off with an ominous scene of some door opening, while someone is 
 talking about Koreans and evacuating the island... The context is unclear, unless you have been 
 following the game since last year. A strange door opens, and the scene jumps to the sky, where 
 you're in a plane above the clouds, being introduced to your teammates - Prophet, the stoic leader, 
 Jester and Aztec, whom are basically cannonfodder, and Psycho, a strange combination of a Brit 
 and an Australian. The short briefing lets you know you're flying to this island to find and rescue 
 some scientists, the premise for the entire game.
  
  This short intro serves to show off the games facial and body animation, which are flatout amazing. 
 Not even Half-Life 2 can match this, but to be fair - That game is 3 years old now. Still, it pulls 
 you right into the game, and makes you excited about what's up next....
  
  From there on it's a rollercoaster, going from one amazing scene to the next, getting more explosive 
 right up untill the end (literally) . It starts out from some really well done Predator-like scenes 
 at the very beginning, huge, gunfire lit night battles in a harbor, tank battles in a ridiculously 
 large and beautiful valley to an outright insane fight on an aircraft carrier. And that's just 
 the highlights. The game has been incredibly well-crafted as far as indivual singleplayer scenes 
 are concerned, and defines the term 'cinematic gaming'. I can't really go into more detail without 
 spoiling the plot - And however cheesy it may be, spoilers are bad, mmkay?
  
  The graphics are actually integral to the entire gameplay experience. As a game, it doesn't really 
 do anything new for the shooter genre, despite the well-done nanosuit and weapon costumization. 
 The nanosuit lets you choose from 4 mods: Armor, where the suit energy acts like extra hitpoints, 
 Strength, where you can almost pick up tanks and jump incredibly high, Speed, where you can run 
 at ridiculous speeds, and Cloak, which is basically Predator-mode. Of all 4, you will spend most 
 of the time in either Armor or Cloak mode, since both Speed and Strength are, in functional use, 
 limited to only a couple of scenes. They should have seen some better use, but still round out 
 your possibilities nicely. I think the tweakguides. com editor said it: Every time i play another 
 shooter, i really miss the nanosuit.
  
  The Cloak mode is almost overpowered. It makes the highest difficulty setting, Delta, almost a 
 breeze, as you can walk right up to the NPC's noses and still come out alive. However, that doesn't 
 make it less satisfying, as it makes for some very funny and exciting moments, especially in the 
 middle of the game.
  
  The weapon costumization is also quite easy - Simply pick up the mods, and put them on your weapon. 
 If you want, you can also put a sniper scope on your shotgun. Not that it helps, but it's possible... 
 The customization can be done on the fly, even in the middle of a heated firefight. The real use 
 of it is only limited to using a silencer or not, though. One does more damage, the other makes 
 you more difficult to find. Everything else you can do is simply a matter of personal preference 
 in how you want to use your weapon, and is probably a weak element in the game.
  
  It's the same thing with the vehicles. There are some in the game, ranging from pickups to tanks, 
 but except for two levels you won't actually need them, or even want to use them at all. They are 
 for the most part completely optional, and the parts where you can use them are actually more difficult 
 if you do, especially because you have the option to simply sneak in cloaked. The NPC's are a lot 
 more adept at using the vehicles though, especially those driving the hummers and boats with mounted 
 guns. They somehow manage to see you through a mile of foilage, while cloaked, and pinpoint you 
 with a heavy mounted machine gun with the accuracy of an L115A1 sniper rifle. The same with the 
 helicopters, which can find you under the same situation i described earlier, which can make some 
 parts incredibly frustrating - Especially if you don't have any means to take them down.
  
  
  The levels in general are of a high quality, barring the issues i already mentioned. There's 
 always "another way in", and except for two levels there is never a timer you have to watch, and 
 those 2 sequences are relatively short. The level that really stands out is a huge night-fight 
 in a harbor area, one incredibly large and long level that will keep you on your toes the entire 
 time. You'll have jets crashing down almost literally right next to your ears, and the vista of 
 jets screaming through the air, bombing anti-air installations, and ground battles right next to 
 you or far of, all showing those distinctive gun tracers, is just awesome to behold. It may sound 
 childish, but i think it's one of the greatest moments in a game, ever. I may be an idiot though.
 
  
  As i said, the entire game is riddled with these kind of great moments. You really have to see 
 some of them to believe them. They do have some strange glitches though, or rather, oversights. 
 In the multiplayer, you have the Korean and US teams, both using nanosuits. In the singleplayer 
 game, at least in the beginning, the Koreans are being mentioned as not having that technology. 
 When it's revealed that they do, it's only mentioned once, their nanosuit guys are only seen in 
 action once, and it's never mentioned again. It felt like a cheap method to at least have the Korean 
 nanosuits in the singleplayer game, and was somewhat dissapointing. There are instances where they 
 show up later in the game, but they might aswell have been heavily armored normal Koreans, as they 
 don't actually use their nanosuits there.
  
  In another sequence, you have a bossfight with someone in a nanosuit, who is not wearing the headpiece 
 and is not actually using any of the nanosuit functions. The level goal is to kill him, but it 
 has been artificially made too long, since the guy can take 20 sniper shots to an unprotected head.... 
 I guess they wanted to make a heated bossfight there, but it just feels wrong and totally out of 
 place. A simple, anti-climactic scene where you kill him after a short nanosuit fight has been 
 replaced with an old-school 'wear down his 1 million hitpoints' fight, and is, as far as i am concerned, 
 the low point in the game...
  
  ... Except for the ending. Which is simply wrong, artificial and badly placed. You get the feeling 
 that they have been pressured to a deadline, and simply ditched the rest of the story to meet it. 
 It ends so strangely and abruptly, you don't even know that it ended untill you're thrown into 
 the credits. Despite this, the singleplayer is incredible, and has a certain replay value to it 
 aswell. It also still amounts to about 10-12 hours, more if you take your time. It can't compare 
 to the length of some RPG's, but for a modern shooter it's just about right. And there's the consolation 
 that it does, indeed, continue in some form or another - Expansions of true sequels, they'll be 
 worth it.
  
  A quick note about the sound, before i forget: It's perfect. No need to say anything else, except 
 for the strange absence of animal sounds in some places.... Or animals, for that matter. For some 
 reason they decided that the island you play on only has turtles and crabs at the beaches, and 
 nothing else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I got admit the last time I played a Crytek game I was sorely disappointed with just how dismally 
 it all unfolded. Yeah... Far Cry.
  It was good for a third of the way until started going downhill with the story and the "New Rules" 
 (Humans w guns V Mutant Freakos physics) .
  But I was quite impressed with the storyline and gameplay Crysis had to offer.
  
  Awesome arsenal!
 
  Sweet gadgets with the Nanosuit's capabilities, especially for sneaking up on hostiles!
  Majorly cool game engine!
  
  The story opened with a pretty standard rescue mission, then pretty 
 soon threw the "Red Tape" classification plot in which made things interesting. The story panned 
 out into something very similar to the original Predator movie then quickly turned played out toward 
 the end like ID4 whilst mantaining it's own originality... Here's the annoying part!
  
  Just after you down the warship and see it take out the carrier (after escaping with your life) , 
 you're left with an ending that have you hanging for more! Just like a Dawn of War compstomp against 
 EASY AI Players... Most Unsatisfying!
  
  minus 4 points for a majorly crappy ending! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antyonio
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games that has been released by EA Games up to date. 
  
  This game features a vast and expansive play area in each mission with beautiful DirectX 10 capable 
 graphics and sound that one would find unreal.
  
  In Crysis, you are a soldier, not just any soldier but one that has a super enhanced battle suit, 
 capable of Stealth mode (Invisibility) , A Strength buff / mode that enhances your physical strength 
 thus your melee is WAY more powerful as well as with the Strength buff on, you can jump at least 
 3-4 times higher than normal. You get other modes / buffs as well, such as the Shield mode - Now 
 what this does is, if you get shot / hit whilst this is activated, you lose energy instead of health 
 until you run out of energy - there are other modes, but I'm not going to go into detail about 
 them.
  
  If you are the aggressive 'run into battle without thinking' type of person (like me) , than the 
 strength buff, whilst using melee is for you. However if you prefer to take your enemies out stealthily 
 than use the stealth mode, it drains your energy very quickly but is extremely useful. Another 
 reccomendation would be to combine the two types, such as sneaking up to an enemy via stealth, 
 quickly switch to strength and then just hit them / throw them.
  
  I (And millions of other people) would say this is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jangojay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  First let me get this out of the way, I thought crysis was going to be all graphics and no gameplay.. 
 man was I further away from the truth. The amount of way to complete this game is astounding and 
 the map editor is crazy, I spent alot of time playing around with that. The online is lacking but 
 the single player more than makes up for it. This game made me have faith in the FPS genre, as FPS 
 are getting more and more dull. The nano suit alone opens a lot of new possibilities for games who 
 are very curious and like exploring a lot. Then comes in destructible environments, as well as the 
 enemy A. I, which can side track you for hours upon hours. The A. I is great, the story is decent, characters 
 are decent, setting is great, graphics are superb, gameplay is superb but the multiplayer leaves 
 alot to be desired.
  
  The requirements are steep but the game is all worth it, if you got a PC to put it on high and 
 want one of the greatest FPS ever made go buy this game! I can guarantee you won't be disappointed. 
 Just playing with an open mind and assume everything is possible :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekKwok1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This game was exceptionally well done. The graphics are amazing and the physics are just remarkable. 
 The suit that you wear has powers that allow you to use strength, speed, armor, and cloaking. It 
 is a really cool system how you can transition from power to power. I personally like to pick up 
 enemies, choke them, and throw them into the air like a toy. But that's just me. The gunplay in 
 this game is just splendid. I actually felt like I was holding a gun. In addition, the AI is really 
 good as they will flank you or work together as a team to flush you out of cover. 
  
  The only downside to this game was the sheer amount of resources and hardware you need. This game 
 is awesome, but you really need a good PC to handle it and actually make it look amazing. Don't 
 take me wrong, the graphics are amazing. In fact, they are so good that all low settings look like 
 Counter-Strike Source and all medium settings look like Call of Duty 4. However, I have seen PC's 
 handle this game at all high settings and I have to say, the high settings make the game look better 
 than pretty much any game that is currently out for PC. However, you need some good graphics card 
 like an NVidia GeForce 8800 GTX to actually be able to handle it. And those graphics cards cost 
 a fortune.
  
  Overall, this game was a really entertaining treat for me to play after my homework. I was so addicting 
 that I really didn't want to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut172
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I think everybody tell it, this game is at the top for graphic today, no chance this game could 
 appear on the xbox360 or ps3, to much graphic details and physics for these machines. Even the 
 today's high end hardware can't play this game at the max detail. But with some tweek you can apreciate 
 a lot of this game and enjoy the work behind. The gameplay is very realistic, shoothing and action 
 is breathless, explosions are intenses, the jungle is so realistic that you feel like in a real 
 one.
  
  The single player campaign is fun up to the alien's part, but it give a little fantastic side to 
 the story which should continue in a super expension pack soon, thanks to EA game marketing departement.
 
  
  If you have a good hardware set up, buy this game, even if the setting aren't max out, its the 
 best graphic and gameplay on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ME_BOT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  ... it's good game but if... you have an average pc setup then it's
  going to suck sh$t. wait itll the good graphics cards come down in
  price or for that matter 
 better ones come out. I play it with a 8800 GT
  and it looks average at best and when there is a lot of fighting going
  on it lags so bad that 
 you really can't tell who is firing. It's a
  shame that such a potentially good game is un-playable for most of us.
  
  I get about 25 fps 
 average. and that just doesn't do it for me after coming
  off of games like HLl2 and CD2. Sure you can tweak it down a few notches
  but that's when the 
 experience becomes quite average because this
  package is all about the eye candy/effects. i think i will put this
  game away for a day when 
 it can but truly enjoyed at it's best for me
  because i feel like i might be wrecking the whole enjoyment and it is
  frustrating to have so 
 much lag going on and then trading off high and low settings for acceptable frame rates ... no thanks.
 
  
  i will say this much .. the AI is really good, maybe the best I've ever
  seen anywhere. they really do change it up a lot and every battle can be
  unique. I've even seen 
 some KPA run and hide ... but that was cool too
  .. more like the real world where everyone isn't a Rambo. most games will
  allow you to hide but 
 these guys will flush you out. good job on that
  part and lessons to be learn for other developers here imo.
  
  I played it with the DX9 tweak 
 in XP and it makes everything look better
  without much if any frame loss but it is still the same lag. The shader
  option is the real killer 
 here ... if you put it on high everything looks
  perfect if your standing still .. hehehe ... but turn it down and the
  world seems to fall apart 
 somewhat and begins to take on the old look
  if you will.
  
  just my 2 cents here ... don't get me wrong, it's a great game but a
  little unfortunate in it's 
 requirements in the real world for gamers
  alike. i certainly feel it will help push the game developers to the
  limits in years to come 
 and this is a good thing for us to look forward
  to, however a bit unrealistic in it's approach to practical gamers at this time.
  
  nels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzZPillowZzz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  I was blown away by this game! Best buy!
  Graphics are insane and gameplay is incredible.
  Best PC game along with bioshock.
  A perfect blend of action, storyline and music. Few games 
 are so well thought out and so beautifully put together.
  
  I found the first half of the game more entertaining than the last part where you end up fighting 
 the alien robots. I know it seems morally askew, but somehow shooting humans feels more thrilling 
 than shooting down machines. Nevertheless, the worst part of this game was when I reached the end 
 of the game: ( So, I restarted it!!! 
  
  While playing one is constantly confronted with moments of graphic brilliance and in a way has 
 spoilt the fun of other 'lesser' games. A new standard has been set by crysis and now it is up 
 to other developers to match it. Well done crytek, you have an eternal fan in me, big up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmime777
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Let me say first about this game that this is all everyone was raving about for a year before its 
 release, probably from undiscovered leaks in closed beta as much as from pre-release screens and 
 the demo: the ridiculous graphics. The coverage the graphics got were COMPLETELY justified. CryEngine 
 2 manages to achieve not just a destructible and interactive environment with great texture, there's 
 a great atmosphere with the right stuff turned up high. With that, this review will be centered 
 around the game's graphics.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, it's extremely interesting. It does have a lot of replay value, as the 
 official GS review states. This is because you can do whatever you want! The environment just seems 
 to beg you to come and romp around in it, owning face on North Koreans, hacking and mutilating 
 its trees, toppling the buildings, exploding enemy hum-vees (EXTREMELY rewarding, by the way) , 
 and doing pretty much anything else you can think of doing in a military - occupied forest. However, 
 this can only happen on medium - high settings.
  
  That said, if you have anything less advanced than, say, an 8800gts 320mb, and at least a medium 
 - tier Pentium D Dual Core, DO NOT BOTHER GETTING THIS GAME! It is stripped of its beauty completely 
 if you put it on low graphics and/or non-native low resolution. I can't explain it, but there's 
 something about the game that is just so unappealing if you're just staring at stuff that is obviously 
 a bunch of pixels on the screen. This is because Crysis simply isn't optimized for low-end systems, 
 and your system makes the difference between a boring grind and a joyous rampage.
  
  I've been on both ends of this. I played this game first with an x1600 pro 512mb, achieving about 
 25 fps on EVERYTHING low, 1024X768 on my 19" monitor. It was just bland. There was the occasional 
 rush of killing a few guys in a row or blowing up a building, but it was never long-lasting. I 
 got to the end merely for curiosity's sake, and by the middle I found myself just wanting the game 
 to be over. But all that is different now!
  
  Yes, it's different with my 9600gt. Let me add that I have a Pentium D dual - core, which isn't 
 horrible overclocked to ~3.8ghz. Get a Core 2, though if you're in the market for a CPU. That said, 
 it's your graphics card that will make most of the difference for how much you enjoy this game. 
 I now get 25-30 fps on all high but motion blur and shadows. It's awesome! The gameplay is 2 to 
 3 times as enjoyable, just because I can actually see the butt I was kicking all along. It is totally 
 believable.
  
  And what can you really say about a game that penalizes you for a low-mid end system? Disappointing? 
 For the cash- strapped (myself among them) , yes. Sabotaging their own player base? Probably. Gleefully 
 exclusive experience when you DO get the toys to run it? Definitely.
  
  And guys, this makes up for the money you spend on your system. So to eliminate already increasing 
 redundancy, go buy this game based on my criteria! You won't be sorry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creepoid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  This is a really amazing game ! the whole of the environment comes alive. There are different modes 
 on your suit... & every time you change the mode, the suit color also changes !!! they have given 
 a lot of detailing for the environment... no wonder it laughs at any good given Graphics card !
 
  
  there are a few other bugs...
  1. the AI isn't that impressive... though they duck & cover when under attack, but when you turn 
 on the laser & are invisible RIGHT IN FRONT OF THEM, they cant seem to see the laser light !
  
  2. the tanks AI is pretty bad... if you come in their way, the just ram into your tank & proceed...
 
  
  3. when you grab an enemy, the enemies face kinda looks out of place...
  
  4. when invisible in a dark room with a sniper scope, you can see the front lens of the scope !!!
 
  
  if it weren't for these, i would have given it a 10 !
  
  finally, the end of 1st installment is a cliffhanger... i truly hated that !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustang_rider
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  To start crysis isnt a game meant to be played on medium or low, this game was desing to be played 
 in very high settings to experience the magnificence of the graphics powered by the CryEngine 2 
 a ridiculously modified engine of its predecessor Far Cry. But of course this game will not run 
 on any machine, many graphic cards today on the market including the new brand 9800 GX2, GTX of 
 nvidia can even get a decent frame rate at highest resolutions. this games take advantage of multi 
 core CPUs, and believe me if you are aging on a Single core CPU you will be experience struggles 
 at the game, because this game takes a lot of CPU to the Physics and A. I.
  
  Crysis as its predecessor is a very linear sandbox gameplay style, but unlike Far Cry, Crysis maps 
 are a bit larger, bringing the player more freedom to plan your tactics and manuvers, this game 
 brings a quite good new ideas to the FPS genres and thats the nano suit, and with the ability to 
 increase your speed (to rush into your opponent or to escape) and strengh (to reach high places 
 or just grabing and bashing your opponets) , the nano suit doesnt only increse those elements but 
 also you can cloak and turn invisible to the enemy and by default it has the armor wich increase 
 your resistance to bullets. all of that can be done with the nano suit, but dont rely to much on 
 it because the souit have a limited energy bar wich drains depending on what engagement you are 
 using, and when its depleted it will slowly regen it self. Physics also plays a great role in Crysis, 
 ytou can break any thing that is breakeble in the game and even use it against your enemies, you 
 can even grab an enemy and throw it.
  
  the plot and story line in crysis its pretty interesting, something crashes into a korean island 
 and some us research them went to investigate the anomaly but as soon they found some thing korean 
 forces where just sorounding the island, your task its to safe the resear team, and find what crashed 
 into the island.
  
  visualy the game its amazing, you can just get distracted by the details and textures of this games, 
 the HDR, Bloom, Water, Shadder, Sun Glares, Refections, and much more things. are just amazing, 
 but as i said at the begining this game will not run on every rig, Crysis will smoke anything you 
 throw at him.
  
  As in conclusion, Crysis its a must have game IF you have a decent rig that can run it, not many 
 games right now can offer you so much graphics stun, the games has its single player camping that 
 can may have you entretained for a while, it also has its multi player to keep its replayability. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pahvilaatikko
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  First time I loaded this game I was pretty impressed about the nice graphics and all the nice gimmicks. 
 Yeah, you got your nano suite and fancy rifle and.. and.. wait... I don't see a nano suite on koreans 
 and still they eat a full clip of lead / couple of shots in the head before dropping dead. Been 
 there, done that, got the t-shirt, died and reincarnated and done it all again. Yes, this is the 
 same ol', same ol' with different coating. I haven't bothered even finishing the sp.
  
  And when the multiplayer is what it is: strafe-prone-jump-spray a couple of clips, there's nothing 
 really there for me. There could be a lot of potential but as the way it is I'm just getting deja 
 vu. Here too nano suite brings a little fresh air but otherwise this could be any other shooter 
 with different skins and decorations.
  
  Remember, this is personal opinion. Quite many seem to like this kind of.... stuff. If you like 
 shooters, this is a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I heard a lot about the game, and I did see a lot of pottages and I did expect a lot from 
 what I saw and heard, but having the game installed on your PC [which is full capable under Vista 
 OS] is a so much different 
  
  The rich and deep graphical effects and the fully detailed nature of the island gives you the impression 
 that you are really there
  The lights & shadows are so well designed that they gives you the feeling of the time passing by 
 and you start to feel the day and night sequence
  
  Backing it up with powerful sound effects, the games becomes an experience that you must have to 
 enjoy
  
  I haven't got far enough with the game, but what I saw made me so impressed that I decided to write 
 this review anyway believing that there will be a lot of likes and little of dislikes for the story 
 that starts so great must end up so great
  
  I'll keep you posted though
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodyisgod
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Crysis has had its share of critisisms and praises since its release. Personally I believe this 
 game lived up to and, in most situations, surpassed my expectations. The environments themselves 
 are nothing short of miraculous. I've caught myself several times staring off into the distance 
 while being pursued by angry koreans. The water effects are incredible. What reallys sets crysis 
 apart, is that the scenery is not only pretty to look at, but also functional. The trees, buildings, 
 and vehicles are all destructible. I also really enjoyed the ability to modify weapons on the fly 
 and i think it was done very effectively. I also liked the sheer variety of missions which included 
 everything from the classic run and gun to an epic tank battle. Most missions also have more than 
 one way to complete then which adds variety and replayability. 
  
  However, even though it would seem crysis has all the makings of an incredible experience it is 
 not without its short comings. First off I'll mention the AI. Although not terrible it just seemed 
 at times the koreans were not very bright and would not use cover very effectively. I Also did 
 not really like some parts of the nanosuit, namely the cloak and maximum speed abilities. Both 
 seemed to just make the game too easy. I did enjoy bashing through walls with maximum strength 
 though and this ability could be used to create some interesting strategy. I actually played through 
 the game without using any abilities but maximum strength and it seemed to really push you to use 
 better tactics, as opposed to cloak... shoot... repeat. I also feel the alien level was a bit of 
 a wash as well. It just didn't really seem to mesh well with all the other levels. And with that 
 I didn't really care for the flying level either. Seemed like they just added that one on a whim. 
 I believe it could have been better if you were able to just concentrate on being the gunner of 
 the ship since the flight controls seemed a bit off anyway. And the last little thing I didn't 
 care for was of course.... the ending.
  
  Even with the few downfalls i was able to pick out, I would still recommend this game to anybody 
 and everybody. I think crysis definitely set the bar for how a shooter should look and feel, and 
 it gets me thinking about what else crytek has in store for us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyzhaze
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  Crysis is by far the most visually stunning game to date. Combine this with an excellent physics 
 engine that creates a "real" world that is actually destructuble and maniplutable at your discression 
 any play type you might be.
  
  Crysis is so advanced to the point that it suites any play style, be you a Doom 3 or Tom Clancy 
 fan, all approaches offer mission completion and satisfaction. This is all thanks to the advanced 
 Nano suit that offers Predator stealth, Strength, Armour, Speed and Weapon optimization (add-ons) . 
 A simple middle click and slide of the mouse and you have optimized your suit to suit your play 
 style or the situation which has presented itself thanks to your own actions.
  
  The story line, without spoiling it, is superb but EXTREMELY short unfortunately. The multiplayer 
 aspect lacks with no Team Deathmatch, a sad state considering the possibilities this game has to 
 offer. The Sand box mode is great once the game is clocked, offering open landscape for you to 
 do your bidding.
  
  Crysis proves that NO console can EVER beat down the PC. A great game that lacks Team Deathmatch 
 and suffers a short storyline, had these been fixed, Crysis would score a 9.9 in my opinion. Not 
 a 10, because lets face it, nothing is perfect, but close to perfection is there. And Crysis touches 
 the brim of this.
  
  WELL DONE CRYTEK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Best game I have ever bought. Best Multiplayer experience. Best graphics. Best Game. The only thing 
 is that my computer just meets the minimum requirments and I cant put it on high graphics but it 
 still looks good on low graphics. 10 out of 10. Masterpiece. Best shooting game I have ever played. 
 you people who are giving 5.0 stars out of 10 dont no what youre missing. In conclusion I recomend 
 that you get this game. Best game I have ever bought. Best Multiplayer experience. Best graphics. 
 Best Game. The only thing is that my computer just meets the minimum requirments and I cant put 
 it on high graphics but it still looks good on low graphics. 10 out of 10. Masterpiece. Best shooting 
 game I have ever played. you people who are giving 5.0 stars out of 10 dont no what youre missing. 
 In conclusion I recomend that you get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Apparently, we're still playing a beta version of Crysis... even though its been out for many months 
 now, sorry but I like games that don't have serious bugs even after multiple patches and hotfixes.
 
  
  If anyones ever played/heard of Farcry then you'll understand how similar Crysis actually is compared 
 to it, its basically the same game just souped way up, to the point you need a seriously packing 
 gaming machine to play it with settings greater then medium, theres so much eye candy packed in 
 which obviously makes the game 'look' great but underlying it theres still some extremely annoying 
 and even game breaking bugs which force a restart, mention 'trepass' and/or 'hostage' to any Crysis 
 fanboi and they'll quickly shut up, my mind boggles why this famous bug which is pretty early in 
 the game, which is also well known has never been fixed! The reason, because they don't care about 
 the single player, never did - most of the patches address multiplayer issues and balancing like 
 with most FPS these days, I think devs should just pull the plug on single player shooters and 
 just concentrate on multiplayer instead of giving player hyped and buggy games.
  
  Game breaking/force restarting bugs are intolerable] these days and no matter how good the game 
 or how much hyped it is should not have stupid bugs like this, thats the only reason i'm letting 
 it off with only a 5.5 instead of a higher rating, really gets me steamed with so called professional 
 reviewers let bugs slide like this in the name of giving it a 'fair' review. Reviews should not 
 be biased which obviously these days with alot unfortuntely are.
  
  Farcry 2.1 like I originally stated, tropical beaches, dense forests, waterfalls, stupid AI - watching 
 an enemy soldier run through and inferno and not suffering any damage :rolleyes: and medicre gunplay 
 really make for a similar average shooter, no way near deserving the praise gamespot gave it. Sure 
 its got vehicles you can control, so? Its got plenty of weapons, suit modes to give you bigger 
 jumping, strength and even a cloaking device! So? It just doesn't do anything for me, its lacking 
 something that Farcry had, the sense of urgency and thrills, sure abit later in the game a few 
 levels are pretty fun but it takes alot of patience and navigating the game carefully to avoid 
 all the bugs so you don't get forced to restart gets old unfortuntely.
  
  The game would also do alot better if the cover, actually gave you 'cover' lost count how many 
 times you would be crawling silently through dense bush, and you'd have a soldier spot you a mile 
 away and start shooting, where in real life if your in 'cover' and silent, no chance in hell you 
 would be spotted. The gunplay itself really is not that special either, at least nothing that really 
 hasn't been done before a million times over. The only real things going for it are the suit modes, 
 vehicles and the lush graphics providing you have the killer spec. Overall, removing the bug problem, 
 its not a bad game, but clearly not deserving the praise gamespot gave it, 8 tops provided all 
 the bugs are fixed until then, my rating of 5.5 is sticking.
  
  As the story progresses, some of the missions get pretty good but still suffering from the odd 
 annoying bug, and the quick save button becomes overused unfortuntely which again, loses points 
 for an action packed shooter, as it removes alot of the adreneline from the game, especially in 
 later missions, I think Crysis would do better with an auto-save feature only, but that would only 
 truely work if alot of the bugs was fixed. I also think, the alien parts of the game are not nearly 
 as good as the first parts, overall, I still think I maybe was a little harsh with the rating, 
 but again, I don't tolerate bugs unfortuntely, however what I will say is that any FPS fan who 
 hasn't tried Crysis yet, should proberly look into it but don't believe any of the hype until you 
 can judge it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_The_Sniper
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  A brilliant and realistic game, dropping in Korea you are part of an elite covert unit 
  using high tech nano suits.
  Time & time again graphics stun, and an immersing environment.
 
  Realistic back pack limit, enabling you to carry few weapons.
  Amazing Crytek enemy AI makes good competition.
  Your competition is not only with Korean soldiers, 
 but with brutal aliens, not to mention the natural dangers like sharks.
  Creatures also inhabit, like crabs, chickens and wild grouse.
  In all facts, the weapons are 
 made with realistic accuracy, with additional parts 
  like reflex optics, silencers, torch and laser sights.
  The nano powers were most stunning of 
 all, offering speed, stealth/invisibility, Overall power (jump, strength) and artificial armor.
 
  A high intensive, stunning, powerful, brutal game.
  MOST IMPORTANT OF ALL, GAMING EXPERIENCE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Santhin
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I have a decently high end rig, nothing that can run this game to its full level, but I've at least 
 watched one of my friends immerse himself in this on his top end gaming PC (again, not everything 
 maxed out... this game is quite the hog) , but even then, this game just doesn't have that certain 
 appealing magic to it.
  
  There's a lot of interest in the game for its open means of completing objectives, but the storyline 
 seems to fall on the underwhelming side, feeling rather poorly written. While sometimes I can let 
 this slide, this is a game that is trying to sell itself on its atmosphere, and that makes the 
 story all the more noticeable, because the gameplay, though innovative, just doesn't always feel 
 entertaining.
  
  It's sometimes hard to qualify that generic 'fun' factor in a game, but Crysis just isn't the sort 
 of game that compels you to play through it a second time. Considering that, its really not worth 
 it to upgrade your system just to play this game, the average person will find themselves with 
 much better FPS options like Team Fortress 2 or Call of Duty 4 to sate their pallette. By the time 
 PC technology catches up to Crysis's specs, better games will be out that take advantage of it, 
 and Crysis, while remembered as a landmark, will be mostly forgotten by the gaming community at 
 large. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Crysis is an innovative first person shooter (FPS) which has huge differences from its previous 
 FPS. In Crysis you play as an army soldier called Nomad. The US Army is in war with North Korea 
 in year 2020 and you are a member of a high trained soldiers who should infiltrate the enemy bases 
 and crash the Koreans. It sounds like the old fashioned FPS where you are an army soldier you go 
 and collect weapons and kill the enemy and reach your objectives. Crysis makes it different for 
 you.
  
  US has high tech war suit called Nano Suit, which makes the play more enjoyable for you. This Nano 
 Suit has four types of operations: Maximum Armor, Maximum Speed, Maximum Strength and Cloak. With 
 Maximum Armor you have a shield around you which prevents the bullet from hitting you for a while. 
 Maximum Strength gives you a good meelee attack and also you can jump high. The Clock mode makes 
 you invisible for a short time. These for strategic powers give you a wide choices of actions when 
 fighting your enemies. Another difference is the attachments you can attach to your firearms. You 
 can select between types of scopes, launchers, flashlights and etc. The flexibility of different 
 types of attachments gives you a wide range of attacking choices to deal with enemies. 
  
  Every objects in the game can be used. You can pickup almost everything you find in the game and 
 throw it to your enemy. You can also use cars, military vehicles like jeeps and tanks and also 
 choppers and boats to accomplish your mission more easily. 
  
  The game is partitioned in to two major parts. In part one you only deal with Koreans until you 
 kill their chief. The second part is something totally different. In this part you no longer deal 
 with humans. You deal with robots and huge monsters. These monsters come from the island which 
 prior to be discovered, US thinks Koreans experiencing nuclear bombs in there but later the truth 
 is revealed. There is a large robotic activity which causes the same reactions as of a nuclear 
 bomb in the area.
  
  There are some glitches in XP-32bit which may causes some difficulty. The graphics become unstable 
 and you should exit and load the game again to correct the problem. Aside from this glitch, the 
 well written scenario along with the awesome graphics and monster sounds make an amazing environment 
 for FPS lovers to play and enjoy the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobaka770
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  In many ways, my opinion coincides with the Gamespots so I will just emphasise on the few things 
 that I believe are important to know.
  
  First -of-all, Crysis is a 'non-linear' (or sandbox) FPS from the creators of Far Cry - the one 
 that almost stole a hell lot of money from Id and Valve who released their Doom3 and consequently 
 Half-Life 2 a few months later.
  If you are a Far Cry veteran, you can skip the following paragraph, but to all others a quick note:
 
  
  Far Cry events happen on a tropical island. It featured a huge open areas where you were free to 
 roam around, so that the shooting doesn't get too linear, although it's extremely hard to wander 
 away from the path 'prescribed' by the game designers. Apart from the open areas, the Cry Engine 
 also featured an incredibly detailed and living world (by 2004 standarts) , an uneven gameplay, 
 which was quite hardcore overall.
  
  Well, keeping all that in mind, we can easily move on to the actual game because Crysis and Far 
 Cry share a whole lot in common, starting off with a tropical island settin and open world gameplay 
 and the graphics, which became the main selling point of the whole game.
  
  Despite those similarities Crysis features a lot fo new features, that distinguish him from it's 
 predecessor so let's take a closer look:
  
  - The first par of the game happens in a completely open terrain that you're free to roam around 
 in any way you wish. The new areas became gigatic, with tonns of stuff to discover, however most 
 often the game doesn't really let you go messing around the map, the checkpoints are changing fast 
 and force you to stick to the main path, and although each enemy base, or simply each checkpoint 
 have many access points, you'll find yourself simply following the same path every time you replay 
 the mission (and that will happen quite often as well) . 
  It is mainly in combat that the open world really starts to shine, because of all the possibilities 
 you have: the game features a nano-suit which has 4 different regimes - the basic armor, stealth, 
 force and invisibility. You can switch between the modes instantaneously however once again, the 
 only ones that you'll use a lot will be armor (whithout which you're becoming an easy kill for 
 the AI) and invisibility, which is more of the IWIN button in most of the cases. It doesn't mean 
 that the force and speed enhancements are useless, they're just some very situational tools that 
 have some potential, but they lose in effectivenes to a simple armor mode.
  Combined with the nano-suit, the combat gets really varied and sometimes chaotic as almost every 
 tree or a building can be blown into small pieces, the area after a small raid becomes completely 
 wrecked. Everything is bound by the laws of physics, you can pick any object and throw it at the 
 enemy, then break it, and throw the bits that left until there's nothing but some powder left of 
 the original structure. Of course all this is valid only if you got a system powerful enough to 
 activate these feature, but we shall return to that towards the end.
  Returning to the combat system, a good change is the difficulty curve which is more 'casual' compared 
 to the endless Far Cry reloading. You life goes away fast, but it regenerates fast as well as soon 
 as you find somewhere to hide. The same remarks apply to the armor bar ( well notexactly: it's the 
 energy bar, which powers all your abilities, but in default armor mode, the bar represents a bonus 
 to the life that you actually have) . The enemies are smart, but they no longer sence you through 
 the walls and the addition of invisibilty gives you a chance to excape in almost every case.
  At the same time the vehicle sections are as horrible as ever: the only vehicle that I actually 
 like to drive is the boat, and that's mainly because it's hard to crash into an obstacle while 
 you're in the middle of the sea. It is mainly while driving a car when you realise how dense the 
 vegetation on the island really is: coupled with the extremely sensitive controls it will make 
 you lose a hell lot of neurons before actually leaving the vehicle and go by foot. Just to give 
 you a vague idea: when you enter a car, you got a choice of 5 (!) places to occupy, but you can 
 drive and shoot only from the driver's seat which renders this feature absolutely useless; the 
 car damage meter is still there from the original Far Cry, and it even shows you the part of the 
 car that are currently damaged however as you don't have any way of repairing the vehicle and the 
 car loses life faster than you can clicka button to leave it, this feature is once again more of 
 a useless addition, serving to amplify the realism of the game (which is to be honest not exactly 
 necessary, considering all the alien stuff you get to investigate - OOPS SPOILER!) .
  
  Okay now - to the main dish, i. e. the major selling point of the game, the thing that makes you 
 run in your store and take it of the shelf while salivating on the way back home - graphics. From 
 this point, there are two major things to understand.
  
  I run this game perfectly well on the brand new PC with:
  Intel Core Duo 3.16 Ghz, 4Gb RAM, Windows 
 Vista, GeForce 8800 GTX (one card) and it runs smoothly on my 1280-1024 monitor max settings without 
 AA enabled. Now if you have that kind of sytem or better, then you probably already own the game. 
 
  For all the rest, there is a certain need to lower the graphics/physics engine. Now here's a thing: 
 on medium settings the game actually doesn't differ that much from any FPS released throughout 
 the year (i mean 2007 here) . It has some nice features, but then you get the frenetic UT3 with 
 the same level of graphics, the quasi-philosophical Bioshock or even the Orange Box that can easily 
 take an honorable place in you collection instead of this game.
  Basically what I'm trying to say is that the major selling point of the game is also it's major 
 inconvenience: a game about aliens needs an alien-made computer in order to give you (and especially 
 your eyes) a pleasant experience. The world actually comes to life, the amount of detail put in 
 every leaf is astounding, so if you own a system that can run it at least on the high level of 
 settings, then it's a must-have. 
  To all the rest however, I suggest to rent it first. I had it running on my laptop computer, on 
 medium settings and honestly, it loses every single bit of it's charm as soon as the colors become 
 pale, grass leaves place to a simple green texture on the ground, the buildings get absolutely 
 static: it removes a whole lot of subtlety from the gameplay, because just behind the sompteus 
 graphics stands the variety of the gameplay, which is unfortunately also directly related to the 
 game engine, and your current system (on a side note: in the vast majority of the games, the gameplays 
 stays absolutely the smae no matter how low you system spec is) .
  
  Therefore, the global note for this game would be 9.5: but it's more of a variable rather than 
 a constant grade. You can easily remove 1 point for every graphic option you have to turn off in 
 order to play the game (well it never goes below 7 though, as it still remains a solid shooter) . 
 So basically, this game is an elite product, destined for those who appreciate achievements in 
 computer technology, the rich kids, and those who will buy the system capable of handling it somewhere 
 in the year 2009 for quarter of the actual price and get a copy of the game from a friend who already 
 made through it 4 times in a row. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOoI
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a shooter, nothing more. It lets you choose your suit to suit the job and customize 
 your weapons, but both of these feature have been around for so long its nothing new and amazing. 
 The interface for these is very slick, so props to Crytek. The next thing about this is the jungle, 
 it DOES have an amazing amount of stuff to destroy, but mowing down trees gets boring after a while. 
 The killing of trees is the only real innovative part, and beats Crackdown in terms of blowing 
 stuff up. The graphics are cutting edge, but i can play it on my 3year old computer pretty well. 
 I know of many people who went out and bought/built whole new comps just for this game. I'm sure 
 that its well worth it to them. However spending over 1 grand just to play this game for at most 
 60 hours, is really a waste of money IMHO. The graphics with the lower qualities make the whole 
 experience less real, and don't integrate the player into the jungle much. The only thing that 
 makes this game stand out is the ability to run around with no purpose in life. I personally prefer 
 GTA for that. There isn't that much of a terribly compelling story to this. Its sort of like, "OMG 
 aliens invaded... stop the Aliens... and the Commies". Some fun can be gotten out of how many ways 
 one can kill a guy, but in truth on the harder difficulties this selection is narrowed quickly 
 to the most efficient way. So in all honesty this is just a shooter, nothing new or too awesome 
 about it. But it is a good shooter, just not Outstanding or OMG i would sell my soul for this kind 
 of good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fracot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, lets get the graphics out of the way. I played the whole game on very high with a good 
 resolution and it was the most visually stunning experience I have ever had. From the lush forest 
 to dark spaceship, to the icy plateau, the game looked brilliant. This coupled with the sound and 
 physics makes you feel really immersed into the game and in earlier levels made me feel (I know 
 it sounds silly) 'cool'.
  
  The actual gameplay is incredible. Without the nanosuit It plays like a REALLY good FPS, but when 
 you add the nanosuit and its functions, it becomes something you have never experienced before. 
 Constantly firing rounds into Koreans that look the same can get quite repetetive, but there are 
 some variations in gameplay like vehicle battles and in the second half of the game, there are 
 no more Koreans and you have a whole new, exciting enemy to deal with.
  
  As for the story, it makes the game very intense. In the first half of the game there isn't much 
 of a story and it's mainly 'go there, blow up that', but this is a good thing, because at first 
 you just want to enjoy the gameplay. In the first half of the game you choose how you want to approach 
 situations. You can be all stealthy and flank the enemy, or you can go in all guns blazing, although 
 the later isn't the best idea. In the second half of the game it goes from letting you do what 
 you like as in how you approach situations to a totally linear experience. Personally I think this 
 is brilliant because it really immerses you into the story (that lacked in the first half) and 
 makes you focus on your objective more, which makes the game feel very 'epic'.
  
  Something that I have to adress is the level 'Core'. Now i've heard alot of people saying that 
 this level is really boring and frustrating because its like a maze, but I actually found it quite 
 fun and not really frustrating at all, I found it quite easy to find my way around and it is also 
 visually stunning which made it worthwhile in my eyes.
  
  Overall it is a fun, innotive and visually stunning game which you should definately check out 
 if you are a fan of FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooltechie
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  The game starts brilliantly, and at first you will undoubtedly be blown away - the gameplay, physics 
 and graphics are stunning; however the game never challenged me greatly (even on delta difficulty 
 it provided few challenges) , the environments, and tactics, became boring after a while, and the 
 game's potential was never put to use. The space ship level, although fun at first (nothing like 
 blasting aliens in zero-gravity) , it gets rather long, and the aliens move a bit to fast, causing 
 you to waste most of your ammo. The frozen areas of the game, the sky battle and that small level 
 just after escaping the icy area are undeniably fun, however short lived, making you want more, 
 but failing to get it. The last two bosses in the game are fun, however after just getting the 
 tact launcher you really want to do more, this combined with an awful cliff hanger ending make 
 the game, although fun in parts, very frustrating, easy, and really makes you want to see more 
 - a good game that had much more potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Total_mischief
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  Crysis is, by far, one of the best game PC gamers have ever seen. With revolutionary gameplay, 
 outstanding graphics and an amazing story, even if full of stereotypes, the many interesting cutscenes 
 makes the game almost feel like a movie.
  
  First, the gameplay; The nanosuit is what makes Crysis' gameplay so special. It makes you feel 
 like a superhero but far from invincible and opens many options on how to face a situation. You 
 can sneak in and out of view, killing all your enemies one by one using the Cloak mode, you can 
 jump on top of a building, blow up the roof with Maximum Strength and toss a grenade, or simply 
 use your maximum speed to run past them, using the leaves as a cover.
  
  Now, the graphics, they are simply amazing, but to run them on Very High, yes, you need a very 
 powerful rig that can go up in the $2000, but with my current system, AMD Athlon X2 3600+, nvidia 
 7900GT and 2gig of ram, the game runs smoothly with most of the settings on high and the rest on 
 medium. 
  
  I won't give any spoilers, but if you want a game with a solid, interesting story-line, Crysis 
 is exactly this. The only thing is that if you play on easy difficulties, the AI isn't exceptionally 
 good and the game will be easy to beat. Playing on harder difficulties will make it much harder 
 and the AI will react much more realistically to your actions.
  
  
  
  The Multiplayer is very fun to play, though PunkBuster is rarely doing anything and you are likely 
 to encounter many hackers that will spoil the fun. But if you manage to find a game with no one 
 using hacks or exploits, it's pretty much like a Battlefield game, but much more fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zarquan999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is the most technologically advanced game to date... EVER! It also has some amazing if sometimes 
 unfair gameplay, like the non-linear gameplay (not the story) modable weapons and a nanosuit. These 
 great additions result in a extremely fun experience. Lots of people say crysis is just a tech 
 demo, which in a way it is. But the graphics arnt just graphics, they actually add immersion and 
 depth to the game. So it is mainly based on the graphics but that's no reason to ignore the awesome 
 gameplay highlights ive noted above.
  If you put that all together its worth at least an 8.5, but with addition of some fun battlefield 
 like multyplayer I think that brings it up to a 9.5! I'm NOT saying crysis is a perfect game the 
 multiplayer definitly has its faults and so does the singleplayer, like glitchy AI and physics. 
 So if you get crysis it should mainly be for the singleplayer and the awesome editor that comes 
 with it, overall in my opinion this stuff makes it a great game, and I'd reccomend it to anyone 
 who likes good graphics, shooters, or cool things like the nanosuit.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxmicahxx
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Pros: This game has the best graphics to date.
  
  Game play is amazing and nearly flawless.
  
  Suit system with: strength, cloak, speed, armor, 
 is amazing, tons of fun and replay ability because of it.
  
  Story is sweet, has that sort of, oh s**t moment at the end!
  
  Cons: Even the most high end 
 computers have trouble pumping out the maximum settings/resolution with it.
  
  A. I. is a bit unbalanced, sometimes seems TOO good, and is sometimes just plain easy to pick people 
 off even when they are right next to you.
  
  I played through this on medium with 800x600 resolution, and I still had loads of fun, graphics 
 were still amazing!
  
  
  Going to replay on all high 1280x1024 when I get an 8800gts and overclock my processor to 3.4ghz 
 with a antec 900 case to help cool things down.
  
  My system played through on medium 800x600 here are the specs, very mid range system.
  
  e6750 
 @ 2.66 ghz [stock duo core] .
  2gb ddr2 800mhz OCZ RAM.
  7900GT KO, overclocked.
  580i Mobo.
  160GB HD.
  19" Dell 1907fp monitor.
  
  
  ***********"Edit"***********
  
 
  I replayed most of the game now with an 8800gt oc'd to 720/2000mhz, runs faster then a 8800gtx, 
 its the MSI OC version with a dual slot design w/ heatsink/cooler if anyone cares. and with better 
 cooling from a NZXT tempest case, comes with 4 120mm fans and 2 140mm fans. 
  
  So I played through maxed out settings *hacked very high on xp" :P
  
  On 1280x1024 and its 
 amazing.
  
  Graphics are better then I could have ever expected.
  
  Get this game if you have a good system.
  
  Well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsb247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I finally completed the game a few days ago, so I figured that makes me qualified to write some 
 sort of review. 
  
  The first thing everyone notices about Crysis are the gorgeous graphics. I was shocked to see that 
 the game could run at moderate graphical settings on my 3.5 year old PC with an Nvidia 7800GS, 
 1Gb Dual Channel RAM, Windows XP, and a Pentium 4 3.00Ghz processor. At first, I experienced some 
 slowdowns and crashes, but after the patch (es) were released, the game ran as smooth as silk. I 
 can get decent performance out of the game even on an relatively old PC, and that is something 
 I really like about this game. 
  
  I was also impressed with the single player. While the environments are fairly expansive, missions 
 still follow fairly linear progressions. While this is not neccessarily a bad thing, it doesn't 
 really take advantage of the full potential of Cry Engine 2. Another thing I liked about the single 
 player campaign was the way the story was told. The cutscenes were spectacular, and the developers 
 did a fairly good job making you care about what you were doing, where you were going, and the 
 characters involved. However, if I had to change anything about the single player part of the game, 
 it would be the ending. While I found the game to be pleasantly long (longer than I expected anyway) , 
 I was quite disappointed in how the game ended. C'mon! That's no way to end a game like this!
 
  
  The general game-mechanic of the nanosuit was a lot of fun as well. The ability to vault over high 
 walls, cloak, throw people into trees, and sprint like a madman really added to this game. It's 
 always a nice feeling to hurl your enemies through the air... I don't care what game you're playing. 
 It's a lot of fun!
  
  As far as multiplayer goes, I have yet to try it. The power struggle mode looks like fun, and I 
 am anxious to give it a try.
  
  The bottome line is this:
  
  If you're an FPS fan, you should give this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is known for its graphics, and it definitely delivers. The game looks amazing even without 
 AA. For me, medium was a comfortable setting to play at to maintain a framerate I like ( 60) . I 
 tried very high with vista and it was jaw dropping. The downside of such amazing graphics (as well 
 as the physics) is that you need a good computer to even play this game. I wish I could comfortably 
 play this game at very high, but ~20fps was not enough for me. Theres probably some hope in optimizing 
 the game engine but not with this title. 
  Storywise, the game is good, but not as memorable as the graphics. At least the game is like a 
 sandbox~ish game, so you can wonder around the island and use different tactics with each level. 
 Unfortunately, eventually the game will bore you and you'll be left with the crappy multiplayer. 
 It may be that I am just junk in comparison to other gamers in Crysis, but I did not enjoy the 
 few hours I attempted in playing multiplayer.
  AI in single player isnt perfect, but with such great numbers, its often very challenging. I wish 
 there was a "very very easy" mode so I could wreck havoc on super stupid computers. Sounds were 
 amazing in the game, explosions boomed and the voiceovers were good, but at times simply decent.
 
  In conclusion, this is a game that will be remembered and its sophisticated enough to be "next 
 gen" for the next generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paris0000
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Well this is just another game where you can just somewhat blast through it. Even on hardest setting. 
 I expected a little more stealth in it. The "Cloak" feature is almost pointless because it don't 
 last long enough in areas of the game where you need it most. Shooting enemies are not all that 
 realistic. (Head shots are a joke) It's a good game, but I seen it all before. The gameplay can 
 get a little sloppy trying to switch back and forth between your weapon gadgets during heavy gun 
 fights. I really hate bad enemy voices in games especially when they are so damned repetitive. 
 Makes the game seem cheesy. The graphics are nice but only in cut scenes. Character in game faces 
 looks like a cross between F. E. A. R and COD 2. Character in game faces looks way better in COD 4, 
 and that game is not DirectX 10. Speaking of DirectX 10... Where? Just another system resource 
 liability for graphics in which you really cannot see any difference. I expected to shoot or blow 
 things up and have larger objects to fall on enemies to help kill them. A Tree? Are you kidding 
 me? Characters in the game are very forgettable. Nobody really stands out. Who is the face of this 
 game called Crysis? The story of the game is average and offered no surprises and is nothing to 
 remember.
  
  My final thought about this mess is there is no RIG out there that can run this game for FULL enjoyment 
 (Although little) unless you spend thousands to play a $50 game. Just think of all the gamers that 
 are running out to get beefed up video cards and upgrades in the hopes to run this game only to 
 find out their rig still can't quite cut it for a game thats not worth it. ~ I feel ripped off! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirko4444
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  18 months ago, Crysis was shown for the first time. And everybody was drooling over the stunning 
 graphical effects that were shown. When I bought this game on release day, I was just hoping that 
 the game and the graphics would be as good as what was promised.
  
  They are.
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  Simply put, these are the best graphics that gaming has to offer. The level 
 of detail put into these jawdroppingly beautiful worlds is just mindblowing. The trees, weapons, 
 vehicles, and characters are near perfect in every way. Some of the buildings have a few wall textures 
 that are a little lacking in resolution, but it's a minor flaw that you may notice once or twice 
 throughout gameplay, but then quickly go back to drooling over the lush forests and sandy beaches 
 this game has to offer.
  
  The game is capable of both DX10 and DX9. There are some minor visual differences between the two, 
 but for the most part they look the same. However, performancewise, DX10 is way WAY better than 
 DX9 as always, and you won't be able to get the high settings with DX9.
  
  This game's graphics push the limits of what consumer technology can do. I run the game on High 
 with an 8800GTX, and I can only get about 20 FPS average. I doubt there's a machine built (That 
 costs less than 8 grand...) that can run this with everything maxed out. If you're waiting for 
 that game that's calling to you to get an 8800 card, this is it.
  
  
  Music - 8/10
  Crysis has a pretty diverse soundtrack behind it, with music for every mood the game portrays. 
 The music has a cinematic style to it, and it usually comes in at just the right time. It's good 
 music, but it's nothing to call home about.
  
  If I had to make one complaint about the soundtrack, it'd be that many times thoughout the game, 
 an enemy will be somewhere near me, and without either of us seeing each other, the "Enemy is looking 
 for you" music starts playing. This of course tells me there's an enemy nearby. It's not a huge 
 deal, but I don't like to cheat.
  
  
  Sound - 9/10
  There's not too much to say here. The bullets sound realistic, the voice overs are good, and there's 
 nothing particularly annoying in the sounds. The footsteps are a tad loud when you're crouching, 
 though.
  
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  This is where the game really shines. This game offers a style of gameplay that I love and that's 
 hard to find in games. A crappy game will drop you in a level, you'll have one path to go down, 
 and 5 minutes later, the level's over. A good game will have levels that blend together, with 3 
 or 4 paths to choose from. Crysis is above that.
  
  This game will put you in some of the largest levels I've ever seen. Although there's distinct 
 objectives to accomplish, how you get there is completely up to you. There are no paths. You've 
 got an island, a gun, and a butt load of koreans spread about it. There's very few restrictions 
 on where you go, who you fight, and how you go about it. If you want, you can even just hijack 
 a boat, go out to sea, and bypass as many fights as you can.
  
  It doesn't stop there, however. When you play through the game, you basically have a choice of 
 how you do it. You could run in with your guns blazing, and hope you can kill them before they 
 call for reinforcements. You could put a silencer on your gun, sneak in, and pick them off one 
 by one. Or you could use your cloak and sneak through without firing a single bullet.
  
  The cloak is one of 4 "powers" that you have. You are equipped with a special nanofiber suit that 
 pretty much keeps you alive. The suit has a power meter. It regenerates at a pretty decent speed 
 as long as you aren't using any. Your powers are armor, speed, strength, and cloak. Armor basically 
 turns your power meter into an armor meter like most games have. Strength increases your damage, 
 makes you jump higher, and lets you do cool things like snap a korean's neck. Speed... Makes you 
 go fast. And the cloak makes you invisible for a short time. These powers are what form a great 
 deal of the gameplay.
  
  You can also change your weapons outfitting on the fly. By that I mean your scope, silencer, attachments, 
 etc. Just press one button any time, and you can change anything that isn't bolted to your gun. 
 You'll be picking up new attachments as you go throughout the game. Some of the modifications are 
 simply for your playstyle or the situation (i. e. type of scope, or things like grenade launchers) 
 where some of them will seriously impact the game. For example, you can put a laser sight on any 
 gun to replace your crosshair with a red dot on things. However, enemies will get a nice red line 
 pointing directly to you. Your choice.
  
  This doesn't mean you are free to use any attachment on everything, though. I know what you're 
 thinking. No. You can't silence a shotgun. You can put a sniper scope on it, though!
  
  And you can use that sniper scoped shotgun to chop down trees! Everything in this game is destructable. 
 Shoot a line through a tree and it will fall down. Through a grenade into a hobble and the roof 
 will fall! Fire an RPG at a sniper roost and laugh at the poor SoBs. And watch out. Falling trees 
 kill. And you can play through almost the entire game using only trees you shoot down as your weapon. 
 Doesn't work too well, though. I've tried.
  
  I could go on and on forever about the different aspects of the gameplay, but I'll be nice and 
 finish with one other feature that really stands out. In most games, when you switch to a higher 
 difficulty, your enemies will start taking more bullets to kill, get stronger weapons, and in a 
 lot of games, they gain psychic vision and always know where you are. Not in Crysis! In fact, the 
 super hard (called "Delta" in game) mode is actually the normal mode. By this I mean that as you 
 go easier in difficulty, you gain more crutches. As you go harder, you lose crutches. Crutches 
 like... A crosshair! (Laser sight looks a lot less useless when you don't have a crosshair.) My 
 personal favorite is; In easy, medium, and hard, the enemies speak english. You'll hear them say 
 "I think I hear something" or "GRENADE!". In Delta mode, the Koreans speak... Korean. This is something 
 that I personally think more games need to do.
  
  
  Storyline - 6/10
  It's enough to not be stupid or agonizing. There's not going to be some epic story that will be 
 told for generations. This game doesn't try to do that. It doesn't need it. As a result, you don't 
 have much of a story.
  
  
  Multiplayer - 8/10
  This game has 2 multiplayer modes. Deathmatch (obviously) and "Power Struggle." Power Struggle 
 is basically Battlefield 2 meets not sucking. Each team has a base. You need to destroy the other 
 teams base. To do that you need to capture the alien prototype factory. But wait, the prototype 
 factory needs to get power, so you need to capture the power plants. But you keep spawning all 
 the way back at your main base, so you need to capture the bunkers.
  
  The game also has a little bit of counter-strike style weapon purchasing. You start out spawning 
 with a minimum of 100 prestige. If you die, and you have less than 100 prestige, you will spawn 
 with exactly 100 prestige. This is enough to get a second pistol, a SMG, or a shotgun. As you get 
 kills and capture points, you'll go up in rank (This is on a game by game basis. If the game ends, 
 or you leave the server, you're back to private.) Each rank increases your minimum prestige by 
 100. You can also get prestige through... doing stuff. Most obvious of which is killing people 
 and capturing points.
  
  All this is a little mind blowing at first, and your first 2 or 3 games will likely involve a total 
 of 2 kills and 36 deaths, but it makes for an interesting and refreshing gameplay style.
  
  There's no team deathmatch mode, but honesly, who cares. Power Struggle is more fun.
  
  
 
  Replayability - 10/10
  Everything in this game is dynamic. No two play-throughs will be the same. This leaves us with 
 a game that's still amazingly fun the 20th time through (And not in a "Sheik's a guy... Big shocker" 
 kind of way, either.) .
  
  
  Innovativeness (ITS A REAL WORD) - 10/10
  This game does a lot of things that have been done before. But it also does a lot of things that 
 haven't, or haven't been done *right*. The gameplay style as a whole is something that's never 
 been seen before, and I hope to see again. And finally, FINALLY, there's a good zero-gravity level 
 out there. I've always wanted to be able to move my mouse up and not hit that "You can't look up 
 anymore without breaking your back" barrier. It's a good feeling.
  
  
  Conclusion - 9/10
  Need I say more? If you haven't bought this game yet then you are a horrible 
 horrible person who should go out right now and buy it. There's some minor flaws, but this is an 
 amazing game that pushes technology's limits, changes the way we think about shooters, and causes 
 drool stains on shirts everywhere. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sevrinus
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  They had some big shoes to try and fill. They set their own mark pretty high with their first release, 
 Far Cry. I think they have fit those shoes and even made some improvements to them.
  They continued their excellence in graphics with Crysis. True it will be a few years before you 
 could enjoy the max graphics, and still eat that is. But even the medium graphics makes the experience 
 memorable. Wether that is through the DX9 or DX10 sides of the game. And that is what games have 
 needed, someone to make use of DX10 in a way that made it better or even different then DX9. This 
 is akin to when Myst made the CD-Rom something you wanted to have so that you too could enjoy the 
 lush graphics. Now DX10 is something worth having, not just a novelty.
  When you make something great to start with your follow up has to be slightly different or everyone 
 will complain that it's the exact same thing you did before. Or if you change too much then they 
 all complain that you got it 'right' the first time and messed with it too much.
  Crytek made enough changes to set it a part from Far Cry, but left in enough to bring back those 
 memories. They added a new system for fighting that ended up being one of those, why doesn't everyone 
 add something like this. That addition was a nano suit, which allows the player to change their 
 play style on the fly. Want to handle a heavy weapon or snipe better? Strength will be a friend. 
 Surrounded or under fire? Well flip on armor. Maybe you like to blend in and sneak around . . . 
 well cloak will do that trick. Or you bit off more then you can chew, walked into a trap, or just 
 want to get by quick? A little super speed goes along way.
  Mix that with weapon modification that complement each suit type; cloak - use a silencer, strength 
 - had a long scope and have a steady had, armor - take it all off and run and gun. The combinations 
 help you to feel like you are making the choice on how to handle each situation, instead of the 
 situation forcing you to chose how to play.
  The levels are well designed. The first areas have a more open feeling, where as the second half 
 is a bit more connect the dots. But they inject enough action, size and sense of purpose that you 
 don't notice you are following a preset path. (A stint on an alien ship gave a great through back 
 to Descent, where you had full 360 degree motion flight, where up is defined by you and not the 
 floor) . They threw in some nice flying and floating levels to mix things up some. Tied to together 
 with a large boss battle, and the opened ended we did it but there is more to come ending, to leave 
 the hunger for more in your mouth. 
  
  Over all you walk away feeling like you played the way you wanted to, enjoyed the beautiful journey 
 getting to the end, and are ready for part 2 . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  At first glance of Crysis a few years ago i was in shock at how good the game looked, and the revolution 
 that DX10 would bring to the table with such an astounding looking game. But also i wondered if 
 the game would actually have good gameplay or even look as good as it did when i first saw it. 
 Well i can safly say that the answer to both of those questions is yes!
  
  First and formost crysis is an amazing looking game but it will kick your computers ass at max 
 settings. That doesnt mean that the game isnt well optimized because it is extremly well optimized, 
 its just that this game is future proofed. Even at low to medium settings the game looks better 
 than anything else out there today but you loose alot of the eye candy that at the higher settings.
 
  
  As for game play it controls like most other shooters but this game is'nt on rails, which baicly 
 means that you can go anywhere and do anything you want the entire game is a sandbox. Also you 
 dont pick up your weapons just by walking over them you have to manually look at them, hit the 
 F key and it goes into a picking up motion which is nice, and same goes for ammo for the guns.
 
  
  Another amazing thing about the game is the AI, which there is basicly two types of, theres the 
 korean military AI, and then theres the alian AI. The korean AI is the best AI ive seen in a game, 
 they will flank you if your caught, hunt you down if you hide, and if you gat into a vehicle and 
 try to run away they will chase after you, but they also do stuff any normal soilder would do, 
 they take naps on the job, play around with their guns, even go to the bathroom! Now the alian 
 AI is basicly they dont think they just go for you, which makes sense because they are alians after 
 all.
  
  Now the physics in the game are really somthing that will blow you away, From being able to shoot 
 trees down, to punching the walls down of shacks that the enemy is hiding in, and later on in the 
 game you will even get to a level where you enter the alian space ship and everything is in 0-Gravity. 
 so basicly that entire level has you looking up, down, left, right, and behind for enemies and 
 it is easy to get confused or lost on this level but that what makes it so fun!
  
  The sound in this game is really somthing to brag about, the guns really sound authentic and explotions 
 are insane to hear, the games voiceovers are also dne very well. If you want the full sound experiance 
 I recomend having surround sound speakers because it really makes the game come to life.
  
  There are multiple types of guns you can use also, theres the /basic assault rifle called the scar, 
 then you have shotgun, a fancy type of AK, pistols which you gan duel wield, Sniper rifle, Rocket 
 launcher, Tac launcher (which fires a mini nuke) Mini gun, turrets, and also some from the alians 
 like one that shoots out Icicles at enemys like bulltets and has unlimited ammo. Another thing 
 about the guns is they really feel like guns like your actually doesing damage to the people. And 
 the neatest thing abotu the guns is that you can mod them on the fly real-time, so you can put 
 a sniper scope on a shot-gun or you can put a laser pointer and silencer on your pistols, whatever 
 you like.
  
  Which brings me to the coolest thing i think about the game which would be the Nano Suit! This 
 thing puts master chiefs sparten armor to shame. It basicly has four modes. Theres armor mode which 
 which makes you take less damage and regenerates your health faster, Speed mode which increase 
 your speed and your punch speed. Strength mode which makes your punches super powerful, makes you 
 jump a good bit higher, and reduces recoil o weapons and steadies your aim, and finally cloak mode, 
 which pretty much turns you invisible. Being able to swap through these weapons on the fly + the 
 physics of the game really make it a good gameplay expreiance.
  
  Now you wont be on foot this whole game, you can board many vehicles such as a Vetol (A flying plane 
 with guns pretty much) Helocopters, tanks, Jeeps, Trucks, Big rigs, boats and hover crafts. And 
 you also go to deifferent places than the jungle island "paradise" such as a frozen version of 
 the jungle, the alia space ship, and even an aircraft carrier.
  
  So ontop of the amazing single player theres also and awsome multiplayer aspect of the game as 
 well, theres your regular deathmatch mode, but the game seems to be missing a team deathmatch mode 
 which is odd. And then theres a power stuggle mode which is pretty much a mix of battlefield capture 
 and hold the controll points but then once you have enough resources from the controll points you 
 can buy a tac launcher and hurl a nuke at the enemies main spawn point (base) , first one to blow 
 the other teams base up first wins the match.
  
  So all in all crysis is a must buy game if you have the computer for it. And its definently one 
 of the best shooters ever made and game of the year for 2007 for me for sure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Along with the good graphics, voice acting, music, this games excells in all areas that a game 
 needs. Singleplayer was very fun especially where I fought off the aliens. The storyline and the 
 way how it evolved was perfect from slowly changing from save the 'scientists' to 'save the biggest 
 aircraft carrier in the world'. The levels were designed proffesionaly. Mulitiplay is like battlfeild 
 2142 titan mode but even more fun. Though the suit does not add anything speciall to multiplay. 
 Maximum strength is basiclly like a knife except your victim flys through the air :) I wish you 
 could fight more aliens online instead of your NK supersuit counterparts. The vehicles, aircraft, 
 and running over your victims brings back the battlefield 2 feeling. Spawning from a submerine 
 and having options on how to get shore is cool. The singleplay champain leaves an expansion just 
 begging to made in the end video. I guess well finally be aliens and eat the supersuit guys while 
 trying out new weapons. Overall, I like the game. I does though act as a space hog and this new 
 computer can only run it in normal graphics. Perhaps there are a few alternatives to this but this 
 may just be your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_completor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Let's all get one thing straight. Crysis IS the most technologically advanced game currently available 
 for the pc in the first person shooter genre. 
  
  
  the good points of this game are:
  
  -many many many possibilities in completing objectives
  -nano suit powers are immensely fun 
 and open many ways of taking down opponents
  -the a. i. is much better than you would expect but sadly not as ground breaking as the other features 
 in the game
  -the game itself is 8 - 10 hours long depending on how you play it, even though one might take 
 much longer if you remain undetected throughout the 1st few battles
  - nearly photo realistic graphics, seriously it's THAT good
  -one of the most realistic physics 
 I've ever seen
  -nice but a little predictable twist to story
  -very re playable
  -customizable weapons
  -kick ass multi player
  -no proper tutorial to explain suits functions 
 properly
  -compatible with few mediocre pc's (mine is a P4 3.8Ghz, 1 gb ram, Ati x1300 512mb but still runs 
 smooth on medium)
  
  the bad points are:
  -will suck your pc dry if you do put the settings on high
  -Koreans look and sound really dumb
 
  -very few weapons (but most are customizable)
  -story ends abruptly, making a sequel too obvious 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1nverted
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  The announcement of Crysis was the first time in my long history as a PC gamer where I decided 
 to begin upgrading my PC so that by the time it arrived I could enjoy it in all its glory.
  
  Playing Crysis's early iterations (Beta and Demo) left me with a worried feeling. The feeling 
 that no matter how good I upgraded my machine, I would still not be able to run the game as it 
 should be run, eye bleedingly beautiful. I made the decision to postpone my purchase of the final 
 game until I was sure that I had the right machine for the job. Now here I am, 4 months after the 
 world wide release, extremely pleased with myself for being patient. Crysis was well worth the 
 wait...
  
  If you're reading this review you probably already have a rough idea of the story so I won't waste 
 time babbling on about it. 
  
  First and foremost lets talk about the gameplay. Thankfully Crytec stuck with the open-ended design 
 of the game, as that's what really sets it apart from other modern titles. You could call it a 
 true modern sandbox FPS purely based on the fact that you're left with no more than a mission and 
 a set of "Tools". While most missions involve getting from point "A" to point "B", how you achieve 
 that is completely up to you.
  
  Run and gun, stealth or a mix of both, the only limits are set by you're skills as an FPS gamer. 
 The flexibilty thrust upon you from the Nanosuit allows for limitless approaches to the same objective, 
 you're never going to play the same sequence twice. The only real downside is that if you're playing 
 on the hardest difficulty, then most often than not you will find yourself favoring stealth more 
 than running and gunning, purely because the AI can be brutal in packs.
  
  The pacing is another highlight of the game. By the time I had finished the game it had felt like 
 I had played 3. Each shift in the storyline has you fighting different enemies, in different locales 
 with different weapons. Combine this with the stellar score and voice acting and you are left with 
 one of the most cinematic games since Call of Duty. While there isn't any shocking twists (ala 
 Bioshock) , the variation in the environments keeps the gameplay fresh.
  
  Anyway, lets move onto the real show stopper, graphics. As I said at the beggining, it's everything 
 you thought it would be, beautiful yet extremely taxing. There's rarely a moment when Crysis does 
 not look drop dead gorgeous, the fantastic Crytek 2 engine literally makes everything it renders 
 look amazing. Near photorealistic characters and vistas, hugely destructible yet extremely interactive 
 environments all combine to create an atmosphere that rivals S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Loading up Assault 
 for the first time, stepping out of the Vtol and walking into that huge battle is easily one of 
 the most jaw dropping moments in gaming history. Soon followed by the assault on the Aircraft carrier 
 at the end. 
  
  Cryteks attention to detail is oozing from every visual and audible aspect of the game. While the 
 game still looks fine in Low-Medium settings, it does not put a dent into the experience of playing 
 this game at near maximum quality, infact the difference is so large that it's like playing 2 different 
 games. 
  
  Crysis was well worth the wait, it's easily one of the best FPS games ever conceived. To play this 
 game the way it's mean to be played is the best excuse for spending the money on a true gaming 
 machine, you'll never experience this on a console.
  
  Buy this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  Four years ago, back in 2004, Ubisoft & Crytek brought us FarCry, a virtually stunning FPS, maybe 
 the best FPS experience 'till Half Life 2. The game started quite normal, with some mercenaries to 
 shoot in a superbly designed jungle & environments. By half of it the genetically mutated humans 
 & monkeys started to appear, dragging us into the not so good part of FarCry, the SF part (& quite 
 thrilling also) . Well, Crytek was bought by EA & in early 2006 they announced Crysis, catalogued 
 as a SF FPS. Some thought that it was the sequel to FarCry, but it's far from being. When Ubisoft 
 announced FarCry 2 as being a mercenaries FPS in the savanna, things were clear. Crysis has exactly 
 the same concept as FarCry did.
  A US Special Forces team is sent into North Coreea to investigate a strange artefact & rescue two 
 scientist, Helena Rosenthal & her father, held captive by the coreeans. There are some strange sightseeings 
 at first, but after that Crysis becomes a military (& ocassionally squad based) shooter against 
 coreans. The beauty of the graphics makes itself seen immediatly: from the sky you can admire volumetric 
 clouds & the incredibly real landscape. The water really looks like real water, the beach is inimaginably 
 real also. The jungle is BEAUTIFUL: leafes on the ground, different kinds of vegetation & fauna too: you'll 
 see parrots flying around, many other birds, turtles, frogs like to get out after a rain. In villages 
 you'll also see chicken, pigs & more domestic animals. The wind makes trees move, leafes fall. All 
 is incredibly close to real life. I'll say more but now let's speak more of the story.
  As I said you'll be kicking corean a$$ trough half of the game,& it's hell lotta fun. You & your 
 squadmates have special designed suits calles nanosuits. Your nanosuit has an easily accesible menu 
 from where you can select one of the different abilities available. One is maximum strenght, which 
 makes you more powerfull ,jump very high & also stedies your aim. The real buddy for this one is 
 cloak. You get invisible as long as you have energy in your suit. So you can sneak on a corean guy 
 without being seen, grab his neck, disable cloak & enable maximum strenght & throw him to hell! This 
 also works in vehicles,& the coreans will be quite disoriented when they see an empty jeep coming 
 towards them! A very useful power is the maximum armor: you can get more shots without getting real 
 damage & it also recharges your suit power fast. Go with the cloak undetected, get to cover & activate 
 maximum armor to recharge the energy, than activate again the cloak & continue. Simple. One other 
 would be maximum speed, so that you run very very fast. You can also customize your weapons piece 
 to piece. From a stock machine gun you can make it a machine gun with silencer, sniper scope, some 
 tactical attachament, laser dot sight & grenade launcher. How about that? Cool, huh? Now let's take 
 different situations & different ways to solve them:
  
  1) A guy is standing 10 metres from your position, you have three bullets & a grenade. How will you 
 handle? You can always aim at his head & shoot, but that's lame. How about shooting the palm tree 
 he is sitting under, so that it would fall directly on his head & kill him? A grenade would also 
 do it, throwing him & some trees in thin air. One other method is to activate cloak, sneak near him, grab 
 his neck & trow him in his little guard post, destroying it with him! But you could also grab a brench/rock/chicken 
 (lol) from the ground & throw it in his head, than do whatever you want. Or you can also hit him 
 with the jeep.
  
  2) You get the objective to download some data from a laptop in a corean base from a village. The 
 village is near some high cliffs, a main road goes trough it & it also has ocean access. There are, of 
 course, about 20 soldiers patrolling inside the village,& about 5 more outside, in jeeps or sniper 
 towers. How will you complete your goal? You can make it a lot easier by climbing those high cliffs, aided 
 by maximum strenght, take a good position up there & start sniping guys. If you're a good spotter, you 
 will know what to do with a gas station... it makes a fine blow. Another solution would be taking 
 a jeep or MCV, speed up to the village, blast the main gate & get in, guns-blazing. It's a bit risky 
 but it sure is lots of fun! If you want a direct, but on-foot approach, combined with a bit of tactics, you 
 can do it lovely! But the snipers are annoying you & you can't get a clean shot at them... no problem. You 
 don't need to kill the snipers: take out your rocket launcher & blast down the whole damn towers!!! When 
 you make it inside the village & take cover in a solid building with one exit that you've got covered, you'll 
 feel secure. Well, you shouldn't. A grenade can bring the whole building down & compromise your advantage. If 
 you take cover behind some trees, the trees will be shot, fall down & you'll be exposed. Nothing is 
 solid cover in Crysis. You'll always have to run, while using your suits abilities, from cover to 
 cover, applying military tactics. What if a boat comes & starts shooting at you. It's quite hard to 
 shoot the pilot, so you'll have to get creative. Get a gas can, shoot it so that it leaks, activate 
 maximum strenght & throw it in the boat, so that it blasts to hell! Speaking of boats, you can also 
 take a boat to get inside the village, or you can go stealthy.
  
  3) You can accopmlish your objectives in any order suits you better. You can go wherever you want, do 
 whatever you want to do, in any style you want to do it. Crysis is all about your imagination. The 
 only obstacle would be very natural: mountains you can't even expect to climb or the shark in the 
 water. Nothing is artificial. It's not the one pathed FPS that Call of Duty 4/Bioshock/STALKER/Orange 
 Box is, it's all about being creative!
  
  As I said I can't describe the graphics of Crysis in words, you'll need to see it for yourself. Sure, it 
 demands a high end PC to be played on very high with DX10 support on Vista, but it's worth the money. I 
 played it on a Quad Core 6600 at 2.4 GHz, 2 GB RAM & GeForce 8800 GTX 512 MB & it ran great, only 
 that after about 3 hours the computer needs a restart. It's much but that's one of the PC's qualities 
 & that's why it's always one step in front of the consoles: upgrade! Of course, it can run on a single 
 cored processor at 1.8 GHz ,512 MB RAM & Ge Force 7 series at 256 MB,& if you're down with an overclock, you 
 can run it even on high, with a lower but fluent framerate.
  
  The sound is really great & contributes much to the incendiary atmosphere. Crysis isn't a frightening 
 shooter, not even in the alien part of the game, but it really makes you feel there ,with the finger 
 on the trigger & activate the cloak every time you hear a coreen talking. The music suits the game 
 perfectly,& the voice acting is good. Also, the AI is very very good & reacts accordingly, despite 
 some reviewers say. It has its problems, bloody hell, it's a sandbox game, but still it remains one 
 of the most advanced AI systems out there, if not the most advanced one.
  
  The multiplayer is somewhat like the one in FarCry only even more enjoyable. The new mode called 
 Power Struggle is very interesting. You'll have to capture & defend some alien crash sites as one 
 of the two teams. Sure, it's nice, but it doesn't exeed the complex multiplayer mode in Call of Duty 
 4 Modern Warfare.
  
  The story isn't as good as in other 2007 productions such as Bioshock, The Witcher or Command & 
 Conquer 3-Tiberium Wars, but at least it's interesting. It's not fragmented by cutscenes, so the so-called 
 cutscenes are playable, something like in Half Life 2 or Bioshock.
  
  Well a game like this cannot exist without a few weak points. I've saved them for last, so here they 
 are:
  
  -the second half of the game, when the aliens come in, isn't so nicely done. The aliens aren't what 
 they are supposed to be really,& they don't react too inteligently
  -ugly graphics inside the mountain/alien artifact level
  -poor voice acting in english for the 
 coreeans
  -choppers are annoying & sometimes they kill you too fast
  -very high PC specs needed in order to enjoy it at full capacity
  
  Despite those few weak 
 parts, Crysis is one of the best first person shooters available, so you've got absolutely no excuse 
 to miss it. An upgrade would ensure that you'll enjoy it at full potential. Now go & play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Let me first say that the game is beautiful, which you should already know. There is no doubt in 
 my mind that it will be quite some time before a better looking game comes out. And who knows, 
 that game might be Crysis 2, lol. But the core of the game is more strategic than you might think. 
 Any situation can be assessed in many different ways, and you can make your own judgments as to 
 how effective a given strategy will be. That's what makes this game so fun! Its strategic game 
 play. It's not all about the graphics and the sparkle and the effects and whatnot. As a matter 
 of fact, I can barely run this game on medium with a rather powerful computer. This brings us to 
 my only complaint, which is that the game is a big time system hog. 
  How I got the game is through a deal with Newegg. com. I ordered a brand new 8800 GTS which shipped 
 with Crysis. So I was expecting the game to run fine since it was friggin advertised on the card's 
 box. This made me rather sad since the card was all I needed to play the game since I had already 
 upgraded my other hardware. 
  But like I said, it's not about the graphics. The game play is the most fun. But jeez... when I 
 do get the chance to turn the settings to very high, even with 10 fps the game just looks beautiful. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sledge_4314
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  I personally have a average computer and im not going to waste time winging about not being able 
 to play it on full because its not Cryteks fault that i cant afford a good enough PC for it.
  
  I have played it on Max on my friends 'ultimate gaming PC' so i know all whats it like on Max.
 
  
  Crysis is a game where you could approach your objectives anyway you desire. Annihiliating a KPA 
 could be as easy as 1 minute or as frustrating as 10 minutes which all depends on how well you 
 adapt to the enviroment ,engage your targets and utilize your suit. The nano suit is both appreciated 
 and disapproved by many people. I thought it was magnificent, as we all know that if it wasnt because 
 of the nano suit its complately like FarCry except with Koreans instead of Mercs and Aliens instead 
 of Mutated humans.
  
  The nano suit was just outrageous, I have always wanted to feel like predator stalking the Koreans 
 and Crysis allowed me to experience it. Customising weapons on the battlefield was new and also 
 the maxium strength was very fun to use. 
  
  The graphics dont need to be explained as its just too good to believe. Its identical to reality.
 
  
  The physics are like no other game, There just so realistic. You could do anything the trailers 
 had shown off. Including shooting explosive barrels in mid air, popping a tire while the cars on 
 full speed, destroying a car with one single bullet and so on.
  
  The weapon model is just spectacular especially the SCAR. speaking of the SCAR it is my favourite 
 gun in any game especially when its customized with Laser pointer, assault scope and Grenade launcher.
 
  
  The singleplayer campaign has very diverse situations such as helping a teammate survive in intense 
 cold weather, tank fights, air assaults, fighting inside the alien ship and the last mission had 
 a great feel of titanic.
  
  Multiplayer was just plain fun when every one pits against each other in their nano suits.
  
 
  I think that Cevet Yerli and his team have done an absolutely superb job making Crysis what it 
 is.
  
  Crysis is a game where every PC gamer should have next to their PCs, Most PCs could run it except 
 just not on Max however even on Low it doesnt lose to the other games by too much.
  
  Now im am dying for the inevetable Crysis 2
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hjrrockies
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Crysis, while not the ultimate in gameplay innovation, offers quite a few genuinely fun experiences, 
 and gives the player the feeling that they truly are a deadly human weapon.
  
  Graphically, there are few games that can be compared with crysis's stunning graphics. Every object 
 is rendered in the highest detail possible, and the HUGE draw distance maintains the realistic 
 feel. If you are searching for the ULTIMATE game to take advantage of your supercharged rig, this 
 is the game to get. Even if you don't own the most powerful computer on the market, the lower detail 
 settings still offer a beautiful experience.
  
  The special and sound effects are great - explosions look and sound awesome.
  
  The story is 
 not exactly amazing, but you still can follow the action fairly easily. There are some dumb moments 
 for a few characters, *cough* Prophet *cough*, but overall, the characters seem real enough.
  
  The later levels of the game can be frustrating, because you loose the super-assassin feel, 
 but it does mix up the action a little bit.
  
  Overall, Crysis is definitely one of the best shooters ever, it has the best graphics ever, and 
 is a must-buy for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystoksor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  2007 was undoubtedly one of the greatest years in the gaming industry to date, and with such awesome 
 FPS entries like call of duty 4 or halo 3, it's hard not to have a bias when judging this game. 
 Those two entries spoiled me quite a bit, and crysis appears humble in comparison. Not in terms 
 of visuals, naturally, but it has neither the thrill of halo or the awesomeness of call of duty. 
 The "Nomad" is part superhuman thanks to his nanosuit, and a skilled special operations soldier. 
 Yet he does not have the specialness factor of Master Chief, nor the suave and cunning of Captain 
 Price's SAS troupe. He does, however, have a brilliant quality which is nowhere to be found in 
 the masterpieces of bungie or infinity ward: versatility. One thing crytek does brilliantly (and 
 the biggest redeeming quality of the game in my opinion) is the brilliant incorporation of stealth, 
 speed, and power all working towards terrorizing your opponents.
  
  Crysis is the perfect example of the war between specular distance and terrain detail. No question 
 about it: this game can and will bring your CPU to its knees. I play mine with a mix of medium 
 and high quality settings, and I suggest you pick wisely, because most likely you'll deal with 
 physics worse than those of F. E. A. R. or terrain detail popping up all the time from barely 10 yards 
 away. Even though the graphical nirvana of this game is unachievable for more than a few minutes, 
 it's still one of (if not the) best looking games to date (other contenders being ace combat 6, 
 FM2, and GT prologue) .
  
  Gameplay-wise, as I delved into before, you won't see the spectacular vehicle battles of halo 3, 
 or the awesome firefights of call of duty 4. You will, however, come upon dozens, if not scores, 
 of enemies at many given points. Without the manpower or firepower to match them head-on, you need 
 to deploy the resources the nanosuit provides. As the player, it's in your hands more than ever 
 to make crysis actually enjoyable. It can de-escalate into boring guerrilla combat until every 
 korean soldier is dead. It can also mean approaching the outskirts of a camp, using your binoculars 
 to look for enemy force concentrations, attaching a silencer to a weapon, sniping off one or two 
 wanderers, sneaking up to the most isolated group, bashing in their skulls, then unleashing terror 
 upon the rest with a combination of gunfire, vehicles, and human shielding. The latter rarely happens, 
 for while there certainly is potential, the overall difficulty of the execution usually makes it 
 a stale smash-and-grab.
  
  That said, there still is a good deal of depth to be found in your less foolhardy endeavors. The 
 "place C4 here" of call of duty, or "press LT to plant grenade" isn't to be found here. While far 
 from an open-world, you have the option to engage as many or few hostiles as you wish (in most 
 cases) . While there is a lot of potential to be had, it's mostly buried under poor fighting and 
 lack of serious executional depth. Should there ever be a crysis 2 however, I wouldn't hesitate 
 to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pos3
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  It looks like Crytek has done it again. Previously, Crytek came out with a game called Farcry. 
 This Tropical FPS was not only a technological success but a resoundingly good game. Now, about 
 5 years later and plenty of games that outdid Farcry in the graphical aspect. Crysis comes into 
 play.
  
  Crysis is a pseudo-realistic FPS that takes place a few decades into the future. North Korean and 
 America hit it off together in a big war on some random island in the middle of nowhere. Korea 
 is in control of the island and is mining at a mysterious excavation site and it's America's job 
 to find out what it is they're digging. Lucky for America, our government funded the army by providing 
 them with Multi Million dollar Nano Suits. These suits have the ability to grant to whomever wears 
 the attire with super-human powers such as super strength, speed, invisibility, crap like that. 
 Obviously, you play as a guy with one. Oh yea, and there are Aliens too.
  
  Now onto the Game itself 
  
  Graphics:
  Crytek has created a technological wonder. This environment 
 is so graphically rich that it is probably the first game I've seen that felt good on my eyes. 
 From the foliage depth of the jungle to the photo-realistic detail in character models, this game 
 is graphically amazing. 
  
  Gameplay: Pretty damn good. The massive levels allow for all terrain combat that feels fun and 
 challenging at the same time. In fact, This is more than just a game, it's a warfare simulator 
 :P. The AI is retarded sometimes and I really don't like the aliens.
  
  Sounds: The game makes them, they're good.
  
  Overall: If you have a comp that can handle this 
 game (which you probably don't : /) then you might as well go buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChazDracula
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  After receiving an outstanding 13 awards and 10 further nominations at E3, Crysis has wowed first 
 person shooter fans around the world with spectacular graphics and a quick, powerful and entertaining 
 story line.
  Despite the heightened computing requirements against other first person shooters of its time, 
 such as Call of Duty 4, Timeshift and Bioshock, and several game bugs in need of patching, Crysis 
 has left a large gaping hole in the gaming community around the world.
  Game developers Crytek has basked in the huge success of its latest Shooter and is already underway 
 in the development of Crysis 2. The game has big shoes to fill, but it appears Crytek is meaning 
 to meet this challenge with a game equal or greater to its powerful, technologically demanding 
 predecessor.
  All in all, a powerful game that met and surpassed all the pressures and expectations of gamers 
 around the world. 10/10
  C. W. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justintime2kill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Crysis was a game that I was waiting for with baited breath. The game play was very well done. 
 Smooth interaction with weapons and customization make game play enjoyable. The graphics are absolutely 
 outstanding, however I found myself reducing my settings down to minimal at times and still had 
 a fragmented frame rate., especially on the carrier. I do however would have liked a more open 
 ended environment. At times you can actually feel yourself being directed in a specific direction. 
 I just wanted more freedom on how I approached certain objectives without encountering impassable 
 terrain and obstacles. This is just my personal opinion and its not even that big a deal. Game 
 play is not compromised by these issues. 
  I do however have a major issues with multiplayer connection problems and the lack of support to 
 resolve these issues. First time I started multiplayer I had no problems. After installing the 
 first patch I've never been able to log on again. They blamed it on my acess provider, when I have 
 no problems with any of my other multiplayer games, so I feel like I was just written off. 
  All in all a great game but not without some issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanbutters
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in Crysis are simply the most amazing display of future 3D rendering available at 
 a computer game store today. That strength is also Crysis's greatest weakness; its ok to code for 
 the future, but that doesn't usually mean YEARS in the future.
  
  When even the brand new GeForce 9800X2 only runs high quality at 40ish FPS, you know you have overshot 
 your target audience. Granted even middling graphics look great, but at heart Crysis is a tech 
 demo, and by missing out on the high end graphics, a player is in fact missing out on the "point" 
 of Crysis.
  
  Technology Score: 7
  Achievement (10)
  Usability (4)
  
  This brings us to the actual gameplay. I have read many reviews that talk about how awesome the 
 gameplay is. They talk about the fact that you can shoot down trees. They talk about how lifelike 
 the North Koreans look. They talk about a lot of things. They are not, however, talking about gameplay. 
 Yes, the graphics in this game are incredible. Nothing on the market today can compete with them.
 
  
  But the actual gameplay is NOT revolutionary. It is very linear, very non challenging, and very 
 old fashioned. The nano suit convention is very... conventional... There is nothing unusual or 
 conceptually inventive there. The scenarios are stock and the gameplay options are average.
  
  Gameplay Scote: 6
  Innovation: ( 6)
  Fun: (6)
  
  Crysis is not a BAD game. It's just 
 not a good game. It is a perfectly average game. If it were not for the graphics buzz, Crysis as 
 a game would have already been long forgotten.
  
  Total Score: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prismet
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  What a let huge down. A run and gun em game that hides behind the same ideas of Far Cry. Another 
 game like Deux Ex were decisions are meanningless and stealth becomes irrelevent after the first 
 2 minutes of engaging a sector. The energy suit doesn't really change anyting, its lifespan is 
 shorter than a 1980's everlast battery. The AI is dumb: I had 6 Korean soldiers slowly walking 
 through the same door looking for me. Even with 15 guards simultaneously chasing me in their own 
 base they do not manage to fight me off or locate me. While their friend got his head shot off, 
 the guard is alarmed but does not start to look for me. When I kill silently and out of sight, 
 guards become alarmed. Quite linear for the first 5 quests... which is when I quit the game and 
 traded it in. This game getting such a high rating is a joke and proof that people attach way too 
 much importance to graphs rather than gameplay and quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Intense!! Pulls you in instantly! This is more intelligent and realistic FPS then any other shooters 
 available! When is the expansion pack coming out??? This deffinatly has set the 'BAR' for FPS's 
 to come.
  Of course, the two questions that revolved around Crysis since its announcement were whether it 
 would deliver on those visuals and whether it would deliver a game worthy of those fancy graphics. 
 It turns out that the answer to both those questions is a resounding yes! Crytek has managed to 
 deliver an incredibly advanced and exciting first-person shooter that practically rewrites the 
 rules for the entire genre. Clad in high-tech nanosuits capable of boosting your strength, speed, 
 and armor, as well as cloaking you temporarily to the enemy, you're parachuted into a tropical 
 paradise that's crawling with intelligent enemies and something else that's tearing both the North 
 Koreans and US forces to shreds.
  The first half of Crysis is essentially a "sandbox" game where you're put in the middle of incredibly 
 large levels and tasked with an objective. How you get the job done is pretty much entirely up 
 to you, which is part of the brilliance of the game's design. For instance, the environments are 
 big enough to give you a wide range of latitude. You can take a meandering route that avoids patrols 
 and go stealthy, or try the up-front approach and try to blast your way through, with the danger 
 of enemy reinforcements showing up. Couple these huge environments with the powers of the nanosuit, 
 and you have a ton more options. You can play like the character from the movie Predator and use 
 your cloaking abilities to stalk North Korean patrols, picking them off one by one and watching 
 the survivors react in confusion. That could be via a silenced rifle, or simply coming up from 
 behind a guard and grabbing him by the throat and hurling him off a cliff, or through the roof 
 of a building, or against a tree, or whatever catches your fancy. Enhanced speed and strength give 
 you an amazing amount of mobility, so you can vault atop buildings and come down behind someone, 
 or run up against a North Korean vehicle next to a cliff and push it over the side. In a heartbeat 
 you can switch between different roles, from stealthy assassin to seemingly unstoppable death dealer. 
 It's a game that makes you feel like a superhero, though not an invincible one, because you simply 
 can't run roughshod over the enemy. Crysis rewards smart, fast thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phase_1337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games i have ever played... ever. The suit (although cliche) gives 
 you so much freedom in approaching anything and just adds so much more of a 'fun' element to the 
 game. I mean, what isn't fun about smashing through a wall to find startled Koreans inside. The 
 vehicle sections i wasn't that impressed with, although there is only one level where you truly 
 have to stay in the vehicle (VTOL, and it could have been worse) The gun play is fairly realistic 
 although the game could have done a lot better if there was more teamwork involved. 
  
  Single player campaign isn't that long, but then, what is these days. Does, however, provide great 
 replay-ability due to the freedom in approaching objectives and the sheer novelty of it.
  
  Power struggle in multi player i quite fun, but the absence of team death match was rather disappointing.
 
  
  Overall though, one of the best fps ever, 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjornishigi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  I just finished the single player demo. This is after just finishing FARCRY too. Man have they 
 done wonders with this graphics engine. I could not possibly have imagined a better implementation 
 of concept than what the crytechians have accomplished here. The nano-suit is flawless in functionality. 
 The scroll button activated context menu for the nano-suit is tight and responsive allowing you 
 to fluidly switch (with a little practice) between cloak, super-strength, super-speed, and weapon 
 tweaks. I mean these mechanics are a dream. Finally somebody nailed a great idea on the head in 
 terms of concept and execution and delivered the goods. Nothing is missing from this virtual experience, 
 unlike 99% of the other games you've played and thought if only they could have... this or that. 
 This potato is cooked. At least for the main ingredients. Maybe the spices could be adjusted slightly 
 but that is not my concern here. 
  Now for the icing on the cake.. er, potato: the graphics and the sound. You will want to play this 
 on medium at least to enjoy the significant perks of the shaders, lighting and ambient effects. 
 The totally destructable environments and the perfectly articulated physics of your characters 
 punches and aiming, with motion blur, highly realistic explosions and asundry effects enhanced 
 by un-annoying and atmospheric music makes this game stand way out from less polished titles. The 
 power of this technology really does re-define what gamers will expect from future titles. So now 
 is the time to either turn away from virtual warfare and zombiehood forever and become a monk, 
 OR... put yer nose to the grindstone and spend all yer hard-earned beans on a bigrig. Choose wisely. 
 Maybe theres a happy middle ground. And maybe fairies are real. Thanks for letting me share. I 
 did deduct half a point for Jesus of the Nuclear Whale, which is totally unrelated to this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chellmit55
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is a great game and is better than you though it would be even if you already thought it 
 was perfect. This game has a great story line, it so cool how it all of a sudden changes to fighting 
 aliens instead of Koreans. The nanosuit is a GREAT idea too add the real war feeling to the game. 
 It makes it like those fun combat games when one person can take out a million guys. Of course, 
 that made the game a little easy. Which is why even when you just start playing (unless you never 
 played a FPS before) you should start on 75% to 100% difficulty. Or maybe 50%, but not 25%. The 
 story really gives you the feeling your at war, the customizable weapons are a great addition. 
 You can put scopes and laser targets on any weapon, but you have to find the attachment first. 
 The health and nanosuit power is great too. Your health regenerates after not being hit, but the 
 nanosuit energy going down from using too much makes the game equal difficulty. The nanosuit functions 
 make the game great, by being able to be really strong, fast, or invisible! If your computer can 
 handle Crysis max graphics you are very lucky! The game is AMAZING at very high settings! It's 
 like when your playing you leave the real world! If your computer has to play on lowest settings 
 to medium (like me) , you should still get it because the gameplay and the story overcomes the graphics. 
 I really think they should of spent the same amount of time on the high graphics, on the low graphics. 
 On lowest setting it is really poor, even worse than games from 2005 on lowest setting. On high 
 it is unbelievable though! Crysis is a great game and is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire75
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 
  
  WOW. ok, obviously the graphics are out of this world. they are truly next gen and there is literally 
 no game that can even compare. There are god rays, motion blur, dynamic lighting and stunning landscapes 
 and beaches that look ultra realistic. Having said that though, you need one hell of a rig to be 
 able to enjoy the complex eye candy. I run Crysis on a custom built pc with a e6600 core 2 duo, 
 2 gigs of ddr2 800 ram, and a 8800 gtx. Lets just put it this way - Maxing out the games graphical 
 settings gives me unplayable framerates. THIS GAME IS A SYSTEM HOG!!!! anyways, i am able to play 
 crysis with shadows on high instead of very high, and at 1440x900 resolution with 2x aa at playable 
 framerates and boy does it look sexy. 10/10
  
  Sound: 
  
  Crysis has pretty good sound overall. It isnt the best ive heard, but it still is pretty immersive. 
 You will hear angry Koreans, birds, waves, and bullets.
  8/10
  
  gameplay:
  
  assuming you get playable framerates, crysis really does play pretty well. it is hard to hit enemies 
 at long range, and sometimes the AI is a bit lame. The thing is, crysis is an open world game, 
 so you have to expect the AI to be a little flawed here and there. after all, they have to be able 
 to think for themselves in the open environments and react to how you play. They are not terrible 
 though, they will sometimes flank you and surprise you. They will shoot flares and call in backup. 
 the controls are pretty solid. it is easy to switch from strength, speed, armour, and cloak modes. 
 The vehicles all drive slightly awkward, sort of like they did in Far Cry. Other than that the 
 gameplay is solid.
  9/10
  
  Value:
  
  The campaign is not the longest i have ever played. It is fairly quick, but i have replayed it 
 many times because there are many things that can be explored. i once replayed a mission about 
 100 times because i was having so much fun picking up heavy objects with strength mode and hurling 
 them at my poor enemies. This is so fun! anyways, there is some good replay value with the single 
 player.
  
  now for the sad part. i never got the multiplayer to work for me! it sucks, but from what i have 
 heard and seen, its a fairly decent multiplayer. it is nothing like call of duty multiplayer, but 
 it looks solid.
  9/10
  
  Overall this game is simply an amazing technical achievement. at times it is almost scary how real 
 certain things look. This alone made it an amazing experience to play. highly recommend it to those 
 with a fast as hell PC. overall: 9.2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markbowen_99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  I loved Crytek's Far Cry, and while this game shows that the company is not quite a one-trick pony, 
 the initial setting of the game, and several sections look and feel exactly like that earlier game. 
 Vehicles and boats drive exactly the same as in Far Cry. Still, that's not necessarily a bad thing, 
 since the graphics are much improved in Crysis, and the AI can be quite challenging.
  
  The only real weakness in the game is in its transition from fighting the occupying soldiers to 
 fighting the aliens. The firefights with soldiers can be intense, and are very engrossing, whereas 
 doing battle with the aliens becomes repetitive, annoying, and frustrating. This makes the last 
 third or so of the game, in which you are just fighting aliens, slower than the first part. 
  
  To my mind, this is a weakness in games of this type going back to the original Half Life. 
 It's always been much more fun to take on groups of soldiers who will work together to flush you 
 out, than to take on aliens that just hurl themselves at you and need to be shot a hundred times, 
 or shot in the right place with the right weapon, to go down. Maybe that's just me.
  
  Still, this game offers an impressively lengthy and varied single player campaign, and is definitely 
 a must for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Well... I tell you first: I don't like FPS games. It's all about shooting, you don't have to use 
 your brain, you don't have to concentrate... You just have to shoot. Ok, there are some FPS games, 
 like Half Life, Half Life 2, Far Cry, Halo, and some more... Those games aren't like this... In 
 those games, you HAVE to use your brain. So this is the two category of FPS games. And which category 
 is cryisis's category? Well, the second one. Crysis, is a really good FPS, a really good game. 
 The graphics of the game is perfect, it's really nice, but we already knew this, when the first 
 pictures and videos arrived. Far Cry was also great, but the reason, why far cry is popular, is 
 the graphics of the game. Everything else was simple in the game. But even if Crysis is one of 
 the nicest games of the world, the graphics are not the only important good thing in the game. 
 The game is full with new, and great ideas, like your suit, what can make you stronger, faster, 
 it can give you optic camouflage, and more. And this is a whole new, and whole revolutional idea. 
 But, even if this idea is in the game, it"s still have the similarity with far cry, that the most 
 important is still graphics. After 2 or 4, or maximum 8 hours of gameplay, it comes a little boring. 
 But for real fans of FPS games, it will be still exciting, it will be still great, so the game 
 is perfect for them. But the one's like me, who don't really like FPS games, it will become boring, 
 and you will uninstall the game, after a week. But if you are a fan of FPS games, then this is 
 the game what you need.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 The nicest game of all time. Yet. But this always changes, in the world of the 
 games. Look around, what games will be here in the next years? Gear of War 2? Metal Gear Solid 
 4? GOD OF WAR III? This king will be soon replaced.
  
  Sounds: 9/10 Really good sounds. Esspecially the voice acting. But the musics are also great.
 
  
  Controls: 8/10 Great Controls. You won't have problams with it, only if you are a total loser in 
 the FPS games.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 Great gameplay, but not for every man of the games world. There are some people, 
 who will love this, and for them, it gets 10 point for the gameplay. But there are people who will 
 be bored after a few hours of gameplay, and for them it gets 6 points. 6+10=16/2=8
  
  The Good: Fantastic visual design and perfect graphics, really good sounds, one of the best FPS 
 games
  
  The Bad: This game won't live more than 2 year. After that, no one will play tihs.
  
  FINAL 
 SCORE: 9.0 SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D00MsDave
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Ah Crysis.
  
  This graphically awe-inspiring game has most PC gamers up in arms over whether or not their beloved 
 computer will run it. Ive seen both the high end and the lower end performances and I can say, 
 you'll be getting a summer action movie feel either way.... Except one will have more motion blur.
 
  
  I guess we'll start where it counts. The story.
  You play as a special unit soldier named "Nomad". Nomad is the result you receive when Samus Aran, 
 Master Chief, and Predator get together for one big blow out of an orgy and decide that they want 
 to conceive a seemingly ripped-off hero of a character that IS COOL but leaves a lot to be desired. 
 The story dives you on to an island full of Korean soldiers who have stumbled upon a discovery, 
 this discovery happens to be a lot of vicious aliens who want nothing more than to shred all of 
 your buddies or any nearby humans for that matter to pieces. The game starts out relatively nice, 
 you fight other humans on what seems like a strategic, well-maintained FPS only to at one point 
 turn off the gravity and force you to play Doom 2... on drugs. It ceases the whole strategic stand-point 
 for a run-and-gun free-for-all of mayhem that eventually leads to an ending that i imagine a lot 
 of people saw coming. Good thing the game had a lot of "Oh that was awesome" moments thrown in 
 between to keep me going.
  
  The difficulty of this game is best represented by a woman with PMS. One second it can be a pleasant 
 scroll through FPS heaven, than the next it can be a raging machine of hate that wants nothing 
 more than your testicles on a platter. The inconsistency was pretty disorienting, but you feel 
 as if you must keep going to catch a glimpse of the next sexiest thing to grace your monitor.
 
  
  The multi-player for this game tries its hardest to be like Battlefield but in the end is just 
 an unbalanced mess that is hard to keep up with... even on just your everyday death match. I also 
 thought we were done with starting people out with just their fists and a pistol... Wheres the humanity?
 
  
  
  Crysis does do its job of pushing the graphical envelope and revels some cool game play mechanics 
 but when it comes down to the bases of what makes a game fun and extremely replayable if falls 
 somewhat short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advanracer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Having finally made the Transition from Hi-End Consoles to Gaming PCs. I have to admit putting 
 all hardware issues aside, Crysis gives one a better appreciation on whats out there when it comes 
 to "Graphics" and "Gamplay". Others may seem critical at times when it comes to performance of 
 their current gear. But, considering the many options out there for tweaks and upgrades to the 
 now well-known Crytek engine, Those "others" could eazily be satiated and have their desires fulfilled 
 and it can ALL be done in a matter of a free "DOWNLOAD" 
  
  Furthermore.. there's no need to critique this game due to the fact that Crysis' performance solely 
 lies on what the "gamer" has under the hood of their PC so to speak and the only thing that's left 
 to be said about this game (assuming that YOU the consumer.. possess ALL the necessary things that 
 could ramp up this game to full glory .) is... i kill you for fun Yankee Shankee.. lol. enjoy!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameschurch3
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  It excites you from the very beginning, but leaves you wanting more in the end, the game is difficult 
 enough to make the game a long play, however in the end the story is actually quite short, after 
 the first play which takes a long time you could finish it in maybe half that time. Firefights 
 end up being more annoying than entertaining, shooting soldiers 3-4 times before they die with 
 a vamped up AK should be more than enough if you hit them in the chest, but it isn't, killing soldiers 
 ends up being more of a chore than fun. The first half of the game is entertaining, fighting your 
 way through a jungle towards a mountains peak, your weapons get upgraded as you go and are adjusted 
 to your playing style. At the half-way mark you lose everything, your weapons that were very powerful 
 suddenly get taken away and you are thrown into a world of chaos with aliens that are just as difficult 
 to take down as the Koreans! I feel if the aliens were a threat to mankind they would need to be 
 tougher than a country which has military technology equivalent to a third world nation. 
  
  Several plot elements in the end are very cliche and if you play it you'll know what I am talking 
 about. However the fights because of the tough enemy are very epic and make you run for you life 
 and makes you use tactics as opposed to run and gun technique that works in many other shooters. 
 I was running on the lowest computer specs this game can handle and feel this game was pretty polished 
 and very impressive for me which makes me question the epic battles on better pcs. Overall this 
 game was much of a throwback from Far Cry, the plot lines being very similar in structure. 
  
  Overall I give it about an 80% in single player, which is all I play the game for, if I had 
 a better computer I would comment on the multiplayer side. Apologies for not being a complete review. 
 However definitely worth the play, will keep you entertained and satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Nezwych
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Imagine this: You are walking through a picture perfect jungle, with the sound of birds calling 
 overhead, as you scare other birds out of a hiding while you push through the dense brush making 
 more noise than you would of ordinarily imagined. Then you remember that you are holding a deadly 
 assault rifle, with silencer attached, and your mind strays back to the fact you are wearing a 
 high tech American special forces nano-suit capable of injecting nano-bots into your blood stream (speeding 
 up your movement) , activating the muscular exo-skeleton of the suit (producing twice the strength 
 of an average man) , allowing you to have a reduction in recoil (which is surprisingly useful) , as 
 well as being able to one hit kill enemies, not to mention being able to hurl a variety of objects (including 
 Koreans... lol) . There's also the armour mode, allowing you to have an extra life bar as it were 
 for those sticky situation. Oh and i forgot to mention the cloaking device, allowing you to sneak 
 up on enemies ninja style. And to think the U. S just vaporise the suit if the bearer dies?!
  
  You start of fighting clever Koreans using a widening variety of weapons and vehicles to meet 
 your objectives. What is unique about the game is its sandbox approach to the gameplay, meaning 
 you can storm in guns blazing, try and pick a few off before going in, or just try sneaking in 
 under cloak. After, you emerge from a zero-gravity space ship to find yourself in a frozen wasteland 
 finding rather boring big aliens to fight, although it is a refreshing change. The multi-player 
 action however is good, with an original game mode making up for the ignorant lack of team deathmatch.
 
  
  As i've been going on for a bit now ill just cover the bad points: 1: The single player campaign 
 ends : (. 2: Although it IS sandbox style, it kind of makes you go in one direction still. 3: Lack 
 of variety in aliens and Koreans can become repetitive but luckily as previously said the AI is 
 solid. 
  
  Moving on, I had played through COD4 before buying this game, and loved every minute of it. However 
 Crysis, with its sandbox approach to fps's, its amazing physics engine, spectacular visuals, and 
 an excellent enemy AI, gets a better rating from me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adversary16
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  Well, overrated in terms of gameplay! On the graphical side, I have to admit that 
  Crysis is very close to perfection.
  
  Gameplay: (Good)
  Is Crysis another run & gun FPS? 
 No, mainly because unlike most shooters, Crysis rewards a stealthy approach. Then, we have the 
 nanosuit and provided you're creative enough, is a solid tool to keep you entertained...
  Editor is also available!
  Gameplay: (Bad)
  Ok so for me, it doesn't have much replay value 
 because believe it or not, I always end up playing it exactly the same way. As for the difficulty, 
 Delta is a bit easy but on the other hand, it prevents you from messing around; it kinda distracts 
 from the fun. Lastly, the levels near the end have not been designed as the other levels in the 
 game which IMO, were better.
  
  Graphics: (Overall)
  You all know Crysis' graphics are awesome so I'll skip that part. Instead, I'll talk about the 
 textures. They are really great but in some parts of the game, you'll notice some really bad textures. 
 Then, you've got the hype! It was a mistake to show off the graphics in a preview and not put them 
 in the game. I know the requirements would have been unbelievable but still... Talking about performance, 
 it's quite acceptable too considering how good the graphics are!
  
  Conclusion:
  Crysis is as good as it's overrated. Weird, uh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2009 11:38 pm PT
Review:  The framerate doom
  
  Crysis can be very pretty but I could not be one of the lucky ones. Its destructable environment 
 brought my computer to a crawl, forcing me to reduce all texture quality to low to have decent 
 framerates. My computer does not have a 8800 GTX but I am not someone who groans about Crysis with 
 a 7300 GT either. I have a X1950 XT but this game is just... how do you say? I believe this isn't 
 good. Realistic physics is desirable, at least before it polls a heavy toll on performance like 
 this. Call of Duty 4, though lacking those detailed destructable environment, has great compatibility 
 with PCs. Everyone can enjoy the game with high quailty visuals.
  
  Lackluster aliens
  
  I would rather Crysis focuses on the conflict between North Korean soldiers and the US forces. 
 The introduction of the alien fraction is very bizarre which does not match the main theme of realistic 
 combat. I can certainly bring down human foes the whole game! The aliens robots are never accounted 
 for their origin, how they plan and what they are up to. You only know they ain't friendly. All 
 of a sudden, you no longer fight intelligent Korean soldiers but some squids who will just rush 
 to kill you. In other words, you fight clever men and then stupid aliens.
  
  Clumsy bosses
  
  The Korean general has the nino-suit so you may want to shoot him frequently. 
 Otherwise, he may heal up. However, this guy never pursues you but stands at a fixed location. 
 He is EASY to bring down.
  
  The spider monster, namely Exosuit, really pisses me off when it killed many marines but it was 
 not a fantastic enemy either. All you need to do is to stand next to a box containing missile launchers 
 and fire as many missiles as you can and dodge his freezing beam. If he grabs you, keep firing 
 on him so you won't fall from even greater height. The last boss is a mothership thing (we don't 
 even know if it is an organism or it is piloted) . Just stay behind cover and it cannot hit you. 
 It isn't worthy but the game guidelines are too simple so I happened to watch how others beat him 
 on the web.
  
  The ending: It ends?
  
  I didn't notice that I had been playing the final chapter untl I seeked help on the web because 
 no tips were given how to defeat the spider and many years of gaming tells me walking in with gun 
 blasting doesn't work against bosses (surprisingly it is the case in Crysis) . You retreated to 
 a fighter carrier that reminds me of Quake 4. But Quake 4 has us go back into a long portion of 
 the game unlike Crysis. A sequel is inevitable for such an ending which is no better than that 
 of Rainbow Six Vegas. I have a feeling as if it is an unfinished game when it officially ends.
 
  
  The good
  
  Even so, I am pleased with the guns. The Koreans are smart enemies that can delight when killed. 
 Shooting down helicopters is amazing so I will surely replay it. If I make an upgrade, the experience 
 may be improved a lot. But it would be nicer that a Xbox 360 version is released so I can keep 
 this PC longer.
  
  P. S. The suit voice
  
  I strongly recommend using the female voice for your suit. 90 % of the game includes men so it 
 is good to hear women's tone with your suit. Also, the male voice is deep and mechanic, bringing 
 me a dim feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  First, the audio and visual sector of Crysis cannot be faulted. The team have worked really hard 
 to make destructible environments, and lifelike enemies that aren't stupid.
  
  Comparing this with Call of Duty 4, I'll say that it's better in almost every way, including interface, 
 graphics, and character customisation. Sound for both games are in the same league. It would a 
 tad unfair using Call of Duty 4 as it is more of a thrill ride, than the adventure that Crysis 
 is.
  
  Crysis will deliver, amaze, and wow you with everything it has to offer in the first 90% of the 
 game. Until you first step into the alien ship, expect the finest the FPS genre has to offer.
 
  
  Once you get into the ship, you'll be pleasantly surprised by the creativity on the developers 
 behalf. The good part ends here.
  
  After the first 10 minutes in that ship, you'll find yourself getting lost, stuck, and attacked 
 all too often. The level after this is slightly better, as it progresses into more intense firefights 
 with the said aliens.
  
  The worst part of the game, is definitely the mission where you get to fly the VTOL (transport 
 ship) . The developers, bless them, have made the controls smooth and simple enough. Why this is 
 the weakest link is because you always crash, burn, and die for no reason other than you're flying 
 a ship.
  
  Have you flied a ship using keyboard & mouse control? Only in BF2? Same here. And the result wasn't 
 good. The same logic applies. This flying level becomes a chore more than anything else, and really 
 sucks the fun out of an otherwise perfect game.
  
  The second worst part of the game, is the amount of bugs. These aren't very obvious, and I didn't 
 notice any in the vanilla version until the last level. People who are supposed to die just stand 
 still. The huge alien has texture problems, forcing it to sink into the ground. And the worst bit? 
 I just finished the last damned fight, and I can't get my ending? Why? Because the damn floor has 
 a hole.
  
  This bug sends my character falling into the world, and eventually dying. There goes my ending 
 for Crysis. As I type this I'm downloading the patch for the game. However, my verdict still stands. 
 The weak link in Crysis pulls down the score, and the number of bugs at the final part of the game 
 just look like laziness on the developer's part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacki04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  I had to upgrade my computer to play this game at first. I first thought, an 8400 will do. I did. 
 Ran on low but was lag free. Singleplayer was Just epic as I can pick up lots of items, Use special 
 abilities from the suit like Punch, Jump, invisibility and speed. In the game I can also pick up 
 enemies and throw them which was pretty good as rarely any other games can do this. I thoguht Multiplayer 
 was also good but the bad point of that is, you cannot pick up enemies and there is no items you 
 can pick up. Overall this is an amazing title after the release of the previous title made by Crytek, 
 Called Far Cry. there was similar abilities but this added on more. I was clearly amazed of what 
 contained inside the game as I can use a range of weapons, abilities and Vehicles. Thoguhout the 
 game but fairly easy but it was intense and realistic. I liked the fact that they based this on 
 Islands and tropical places like what they done to far cry. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_-warrior-_-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Crysis is visually owsum, packed with intelligent, thrilling gameplay, But still the game not given 
 what it promissed.. The developers done a very good job.. but the story ,.. hmm it needa to be bit 
 diffrent from farcry... 
  
  Well the graphic design make every one happy.. delevering best to both the Hardcore gamers with 
 high system configs and the normal once with medium system priorities... Still You'll need a fairly 
 high-end system to make the game look its best. In that regard, Crysis really does embody everything 
 that's both exciting and daunting about PC gaming. A dual-core CPU and the latest generation of 
 video card can run the game at maximum detail settings capably, though you have to lower the resolution 
 a bit to do so. It's doubtful that a system has been built yet that can run the game at ultra-high 
 resolutions with all the graphical sliders maxed out. Dial down the detail settings to high, which 
 is the next-lower setting, and Crysis still blows contemporary games out of the water. Results 
 are a bit mixed at medium and low settings, though. At the lowest detail settings, objects pop 
 in and out with a fair degree of consistency. It's annoying at best and frustrating at worst, as 
 it can impact gameplay. Crysis does support both DirectX 9 and DirectX 10, though the latter requires 
 you run the game using Windows Vista. The visuals in DX9 are impressive, but they really come to 
 life in DX10, provided you have the hardware. 
  
  The first half of Crysis is essentially a "sandbox" game where you're put in the middle of incredibly 
 large levels and tasked with an objective. How you get the job done is pretty much entirely up 
 to you, which is part of the brilliance of the game's design. For instance, the environments are 
 big enough to give you a wide range of latitude. Do you have to get to a certain point on the map? 
 You can take a meandering route that avoids patrols and go stealthy, or try the up-front approach 
 and try to blast your way through, with the danger of enemy reinforcements showing up. Need to 
 infiltrate a North Korean-held village? You can try the front gate, or maybe explore and find a 
 quieter way in. Same As The FARCRY... then whats NEW?...
  
  As events in the game continue to ramp up, you'll find yourself inside the alien ship, the zero-gravity 
 environment delivers a visually strange and yet wondrous setting. As you navigate through the environment 
 and engage the aliens you have to figure out your way through the level. Escape the alien ship 
 and you're tossed into a frozen environment against the alien foe. After the alien vessel, the 
 game becomes less free form and more linear, but it also amps up the action along the way, reflecting 
 the way that the stakes are being raised. Now you're trying to fight your way out of the alien 
 sphere, which means dodging war machines that look like something from The Matrix. There are a 
 few more surprises in store from that point before you get to the ultimate showdown.
  
  Crytek has also included a full-featured multiplayer mode called power struggle that combines the 
 best of the Battlefield games and Counter-Strike. The goal in power struggle is that each 16-man 
 team (for 32 players total) must destroy the opposing team's base, but to do so they have to construct 
 alien weaponry at a central prototype facility. To power the prototype facility, though, both teams 
 need to seize and hold power stations throughout the map. In addition, there are bunkers and factories 
 that can be captured; capturing a bunker allows your team to spawn in forward positions, while 
 capturing a factory allows you to purchase vehicles that can help your side. Whenever you help 
 your team by killing the enemy or seizing an objective, you gain points that can be used to purchase 
 more advanced weapons, vehicles, and gear. It's an excellent multiplayer mode, and it comes with 
 five large maps to support it. Keep in mind that everyone has their suit powers as well, so in 
 addition to all the running and gunning and vehicle driving, there's plenty of leaping and speed 
 running and cloaking going on. Then there's instant action, which is essentially deathmatch with 
 nanosuit powers. This is a chaotic mode set in some stunning levels, including what feels like 
 a fully modeled Nimitz-class aircraft carrier. You can run around the flight deck, a good chunk 
 of the hanger deck, and many of the corridors. Weapons are strewn about everywhere in instant action, 
 so it's just a crazy melee of shotguns, snipers, rocket launchers, or nanosuit-enhanced fists. 
 However, a team deathmatch mode is missing, which seems odd. Team deathmatch would have been a 
 welcome addition, since it would have instilled some kind of teamwork into an otherwise free-for-all 
 frenzy. Finally, Crysis multiplayer features built-in voice support, which means that all you need 
 is a microphone to talk to your fellow players and teammates in power struggle. 
  
  As combining all together it is remarkable but As a Core gamer I expected sumthin much more with 
 new concept of playing as i said game was unable to deliver what it promised... Still the graphic 
 enviourment and game play is appreciable, as Crysis represents the first-person shooter at its 
 finest, most evolved form. 
  
  
  Recommended System Requirements :::-
  System: Dual-core CPU (Athlon X2/Pentium D) or equivalent 
  RAM: 2048 MB 
  Hard Drive Space: 
 6000 MB 
  Other: Graphics: Nvidia 7800GTX / ATI X1800XT (SM 3.0) or DX10 equivalent 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviljubs6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that i absolutely loathed farcry. The graphics were beautiful but the AI was lame, 
 and the story sucked to boot. Crysis is a much different story, as crytek seems to have learned 
 their lesson, and tweaked most of the things that were bad about far cry. 
  
  Most of the player reviews point out a few things that i think i should address. 
  
  I'm not 
 the biggest stickler for graphics, but this game is purely amazing, if you haven't played the game 
 or at least seen it in motion on high or very high, you shouldn't be reviewing it. That said, most 
 computers won't run this game on very high or even high. If you can't, then upgrade. Or wait another 
 year or two to upgrade, and then get the game. Stop complaining about your computer sucking, that's 
 your fault, not the game's.
  
  Secondly, don't complain about bugs if you're playing a pc game. It's expected. The pc is such 
 an open market that it's hard for game developers to conquer every single possible setup that you 
 might have, so stop whining, a patch will be out soon. When half life 2 came out, i was part of 
 the mere .08% of people who had a glitch that would make my game pause about every 3 seconds, it 
 made the game unplayable. So i waited a month or so, new patch came out, and i enjoyed the game 
 to it's fullest, without a single other bug.
  
  AI in this game is okay, and will sometimes surprise you. I have seen better, but it's pretty damn 
 solid.
  
  Physics mostly went beyond my expectations, throwing guys through buildings and crashing a humvee 
 through a grove of trees are some of the highlighted moments for me. There are a few quirks that 
 may throw you out of the "wow this game is almost perfect" surrealism you might be stuck in. But 
 these are very minor, and only there when you really really try to find them.
  
  As for open endedness, i don't know what you people want. This game gives you more than one path 
 or solution to a problem just about every time there is a battle, if not 3 or 4. A few others have 
 complained that there are certain objectives at all, were you expecting just to walk around the 
 jungle aimlessly for 20 hours? That sounds like a pretty lame ass game to me. You can pretty much 
 make your own way to assault the enemy in any situation. The game itself gives you the illusion 
 of being on a huge island, and definitely pulls it off if you're not outright trying to escape 
 the island. I don't see how people expect them to build a maaaasssive scale open world game like 
 this, especially in a setting like a jungle during the day. It's extremely technical and difficult 
 task to endure. The modelers and designers should be hailed as some of the greatest game artists 
 out there. It's sheerly gorgeous. If anybody has played grand theft auto, which is obviously what 
 you're trying to compare it to, you know that their graphics are no where near at this scale. Most 
 of you negative reviewers need to look at other games, not just your blind hatred.
  
  Another thing people like to complain about is the nano-suit, and their apparent inability to use 
 it correctly. It's useful in just about any circumstance you may find yourself in, if you don't 
 use it to it's full potential, that's once again your fault, and not the game's. Don't complain 
 that the game didn't FORCE you to use it, isn't that what they call "open ended" anyway? not being 
 forced to do things? They also complain about the weapon customization, which is sort of lacking, 
 but what do you want, no other game has on-the-fly weapon customization. In most games you either 
 pick your weapon load out before the game loads, or just after. Never while playing it, allowing 
 you to adjust for different situations you might have, be it stealth, better aim, extra light, 
 or etc. etc. It's actually useful.
  
  Story may be the only thing the game is lacking in, but that's all your opinion anyway. You may 
 love it, you may hate it, just play the game. It may not be the most "original" story or be winning 
 any awards, but it works as much as i'd expect a Crytek game to. It's not like far cry was exactly 
 Shakespearian or anything. This game isn't supposed to be either. However, the voicework is pretty 
 impressive and the animations to accompany them are nearly perfect. There are some lines that people 
 may scoff at a bit, but it's hard not to expect a sci fi game to have a bit of cheese thrown in.
 
  
  A lot can be said about crysis, it has a few small lows, but it's otherwise a very very good game, 
 that i recommend anyone pick up if your computer has the balls to handle it. If not, it's definitely 
 a reason to upgrade. The glitches that most people complain about are small, and there are already 
 2 patches out for the game. Just take the people who rated it below a 8 or 9 review's with a grain 
 of salt, they most likely have a grudge against it for something stupid like glitches etc. It deserves 
 no less than an 8.5 and most will definitely think it's a 9 or higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play3r_One
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Just look at its graphics haha !
  
  Well since its first trailers a lot of us belived this game will be terrific, not only because 
 its graphics, and at the end ? It has not dissapointed us for sure !
  
  When the final product came out, it was packing more beautiful graphics than any other PC game 
 yet, packing one of the most reallistic and intelligent gameplays yet. And what is more beautiful 
 for a world of PC gaming, than a shooter to be the most impressive game yet ? Crysis takes about 
 10 hours to complete, and that is enough, a lot better than his acclaimed competiton (COD series) .
 
  
  It packs the best graphics yet, requiring only the best PCs to run it "smooth", and a fitting soundtrack. 
 Its battles are a lot more reallistic than other shooters, for exaple when firing a shotgun in 
 this game you can really feel it, it has its weight and its recoil, not like many other silly shooters 
 where you can fire rocket launchers and still do double jumps and run like hell, weapons have a 
 weight and recoil you know ?
  
  Its multiplayer is not very interesting, which is leaving this game to be based on a high quality 
 single player campaign (I can't complain) Now, there are some discussions about originality of 
 this game, about its story and classic run-on-the-mill campaign, and overall words like "this game 
 brings nothing new", well I have to disagree that it makes a problem in Crysis, it is not very 
 innovative, but it is a high quality game that doesn't need to bring anything new to the world 
 of shooters. It has a wast island to explore, and its exploration is simply amazing, specially 
 if we decide to use our powers, like maximum strenght, or mostly used invisibility. Things like 
 that make this game customizable for anyone, and it never gets boring with that many of tactical 
 combinations.
  
  Only minor problems with Crysis are some of the bugs that came with early versions of the game, 
 but most of them are patched up, and players certainly wont have any trouble later, except u need 
 a strong PC. For the end I have to say those things like ultra strong PC for crysis are also overhyped, 
 I have played and completed Crysis on fairly cheap laptop, new but cheap. I didn't have a slightest 
 problem playing this game and that certainly shows how well Crysis is optimized, and don't forget, 
 I did not use Low quality settings, but Medium, now thats something ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonygrech
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a technological marvel - providing you have decent enough hardware to play it in all 
 it's glory. Otherwise it's still great but you miss out on many impressive graphical effects. If 
 you need an a reason to shell out for new hardware then Crysis is a pretty good reason to do so.
 
  
  Gamespot are right to say it's one of the best shooters ever made - because it is. It's an exciting, 
 wonderful looking game which at times will leave you in awe. The AI is better than most and gameplay 
 is up there too.
  
  So far nothing but praise - but here is where it stops...
  
  I am getting really really fed up with up PC games that do not work properly.
  PC games that 
 have bugs and render them unplayable until the developers
  release a patch which can take months. The past few titles I have bought have all turned out to 
 have serious bugs and issues - and Crysis is one of them. This is now TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE.
  
  I appreciate PC games may push the envelope more than console games but how is it that through 
 one sitting of playing Crysis I unearth several serious bugs?? How?? I'd really like to know.
 
  
  I have reached the paradie lost level which is pretty deep into the game and guess what - I can't 
 progress because of serious bugs. One of them is that I have to keep my fellow soldier warm and 
 the fires that are supposed to keep him warm are mysteriously not there on re load though u can 
 hear the fire burning - and my fellow soldier dies and there is nothing i can do about it. The 
 other amazingly stupid bug is the aliens in the paraside lost level sometimes do not die - They're 
 supposed to explode when they die - Instead they are stay suspended in the air and u cannot kill 
 them - not matter what you use. This stops you from progressing to the next level.
  
  These kinds of bug are totall unacceptable in PC games. I appreciate patches sometimes need to 
 be released and there may occasionally be minor problems with games - but this is RIDICULOUS.
 
  
  It's times like these I really do think about buying a console and be done with my PC as a gaming 
 medium.
  
  Crysis would have scored an 9 or 10 in this review - instead it gets what it deserves for being 
 a buggy master piece.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iloveconnie
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the main draw to this game for me was the graphics, they just blow me away. However 
 only if you have at least an 8 series card (Not that expensive) . The actual gameplay part of this 
 game is well... easy, even on the hardest mode I found it a breeze due to the invisibility and 
 all in all is just a fairly generic shooter. That doesn't mean it isnt fun though, as there can 
 be some "Holy crap" moments like driving right into a building, having it collapse around the truck 
 as you shoot the gas tank and send the pieces flying in all directions. Took me under 10 hours 
 to beat, and as well, the multiplayer is solid but not as fun as Call of Duty 4.
  
  Crysis is an amazing game to look at, and I reccommend that you play through at least once with 
 a beastly computer, just to soak in the technological masterpiece that is this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dejavuman22
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  The game should have remained in production for at least another 6 months. Yes, the graphics are 
 beautiful, and I will admit that it is very satisfying to throw your enemies around. However, there 
 really isn't anything new here. The gameplay is almost exactly like that of "Far Cry", the illusion 
 of openness and just being tunneled to the next point is te same as "Far Cry". Even the very repetitive 
 combat dialogue seems to have carried over from "Far Cry." I am not saying all the listed above 
 so far is bad, because I really liked the pace and style of the original. The two biggest gripes 
 I have hinge on two points: length and quality. This is how I determine whether I have made a worthwhile 
 purchase, or I have gotten screwed. Quality in this game can be quite sporadic. One moment the 
 world is nice and beautiful, the next the game crashes and you just lost everything you just accomplished. 
 Also, I don't know if anyone else had this problem, but for some reason the game would not recognize 
 it's own disk. How poor of quality can you get?! Finally, the length of this game is WAAAAY too 
 short. I was actually enjoying the story attached to the game, and then they suddenly drop the 
 ball. 'spoiler' One minute your flying toward the island to try and save Prophet, the next the 
 credits are rolling by. I felt like I was robbed when this happened. That is why I gave this game 
 a low rating. It doesn't deserve any higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Over View - 
  Crysis is the game to test your machine, it's as simple as that! The actually gameplay has it's 
 highs and lows. The concept of the game is nothing really to new and takes from all past FPS action 
 games. There are a few alterations that make for an interesting gaming experience which some may 
 enjoy or others may find irritating. Your character's suit plays a big part in how you attack the 
 objectives of this game. Basically if you enjoy first person shooters then this is a must have. 
 
  
  The Story - 
  Your a special forces unit member sent to retrieve scientists from an island controlled by North 
 Korean forces. Your unit is special due to the nano suit you were which give you super human actions 
 such as speed, power or stealth. You begin by falling form the sky and being attacked on your decent 
 by something which of course you don't see. Then you must meet up with the rest of you unit and 
 being searching the island for the scientist. Of course there is a twist, members of your unit 
 are killed or disappear and you spend 90% of the game on your own. This a big island, with much 
 to explore, there are many out posts and small villages spread out far apart. So you spend allot 
 of time investigating the areas and finding radar stations in out posts. The calvary appears form 
 time to time as you make your way threw the island forces stationed there. During your travels 
 you discover that the scientist are working on a energy source unlike any they have ever seen and 
 the Koreons are trying to use that energy source to there advantage. Then comes the cave, where 
 you find an alien presents and you go about your way to find a way out. Back to base, were the 
 story raps up and leaves a hanging ending to have a possible crysis 2 using this story. 
  
  The Game play - 
  Typical FPS with some minor adjustments. 
  First is the nano suit, which 
 allows you to change your attack abilities. You can choose to have super strength, super armor, 
 or super speed. You will cycle threw each as you enter combat or move around to acomplish your 
 goals. The only minor detail is that you have a power bar that decrease as you use your skills 
 that refreshes when not in use, but not that fast. So you will need to use your suit wisely. There 
 is also a stealth option on the suit which makes you nearly invisible, but you can still be seen 
 up close by a ripple effect.
  Second is the gun modification ability. As you pick up weapons, which you can only hold so many 
 at a time, you have the ability to alter their attachments. Such as being able to put a laser pointer 
 or a silencer on most weapons This makes for an interesting mix of how you adjust your game play, 
 as if you are a long range player you equip a scope and pick enemies off from a far. Or you can 
 attach a silencer and run up to an enemy and pop them at close range. 
  The enemys mostly consist of human troops with one of three weapons, an ak47, Shotgun or pistol. 
 There are some that carry a rocket launcher or sniper rifle as well, but they are few and far between. 
 You also have to find ammo from enemy's dead corpses or in locations found threw out the maps. 
 There will come a part were switch from killing Koreans to killing aliens which don't' don't drop 
 anything, and you will be forced to scowler the landscape to find ammo. The intelegance of the 
 enemy's is good to, as they are very aware of where you are some times, and will come at you in 
 full force if you are not careful. The only real issue is that they don't die very easily. A shot 
 to the head will down a solder in one shoot, but it takes 15 rounds to the chest to actually put 
 someone down from a far. I feels as if they too are all wearing super suits of there own. 
  There are a few vehicles which are import because you need to travel around the island, and it's 
 a very long walk with out one. 
  The environment is vast, and destructible. You can cut down trees with your gun and watch them 
 fall on some poor victims or even yourself. Vegetation can be destroyed or displaced. And the world 
 is green after all.
  
  The Fun Factor -
  This game can be fun but frustrating. I found myself enjoying the scenery often, but irritated 
 when engaging in combat and having to put 15 bullets into some one before they fall. The head shot 
 is the key to the game, one shot every time works great, but if you miss the enemy will run and 
 you may find it hard to hit the head when they duck for cover. I also found it irritating with 
 the enemy awareness... you think you could hide form a chopper in the woods, but for some reasons 
 they seem to know exactly were you are. 
  Also you spend an entire chapter of this game in a cave trying to find your way out, which in my 
 opinion is the worst level i have every played! 
  
  The Mulitiplayer
  There are two basic game plays now, free for all and power struggle. Free for all is basically 
 the same as every other game, your on your own. Power Struggle is more of a mix between CS: Source 
 and tribes. You purchase your weapons from your starting point, and with each kill or control point 
 you capture you get more points to purchase weapons or vehicles. Each capture point has it's own 
 importance, that ultimately leads up to being able to by the mini nuke gun that kills many in it's 
 range. But as with the game it's along walk to the control points if you can't find a mode of transportation. 
 
  
  The Green 
  - It's Pretty!
  - Gun Customizable
  - Multiplayer system
  - "Super Strength"
  
  The Red
  - your not quiet enough
  - Suit Recharge Damit!
  - Hide
 
  - Level: Core - REAL SUCKS! what a waste of my life.
  
  
  Opinion
  It was an ok game, i have played Farcry, and basically is the same just prettier. The story was 
 good, but predictable, and the support cast was ok. There is swearing so once again i was forced 
 to play the hole game under headphones for my 2- 5 year olds won't hear. I played the hole game 
 on normal, and i don't' think i will go back and try it on hard, doesn't have a replay value for 
 me. Although i am still playing the mulitplayer which is fun, and hope to keep playing for a bit 
 more. 
  So yes if you like FPS pick this up, but don't' do it because everyone thinks it so great, do because 
 you like FPS shooters in general
  
  DW out
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowB86
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game, given its tremendous hype, and even if it came from the creators 
 of Far Cry (which I didn't like) . The Nano Suit looked cool, and brought some much-needed innovation, 
 something Far Cry lacked thoroughly. Anyway, I got Crysis shortly after it was released and started 
 playing.
  
  It wasn't long before I realized it was just another generic shooter, only with jaw-dropping graphics. 
 Know that I'm not against great graphics or anything like that, but I value gameplay over them. 
 It seems the vast majority of the game's undoubtedly astonishing budget went to the graphics department. 
 But, as the tagline says, what's left once you look past the stunning graphics?
  
  The answer is, unfortunately, not much. Some people praise the game for its originality, open-endedness 
 and story, besides of course the graphics. But the truth is there's little going for Crysis past 
 the latter. Let me address the alleged pros it gets praised for
  
  Originality: I can agree the Nano Suit and its abilities are somewhat original and marginally innovative, 
 but the concept wasn't exploited enough. Using the default parameters, there's simply not enough 
 energy to use the suit properly (example: 'cloak, run 10 seconds, wait and recharge for 10 seconds, 
 rinse and repeat' isn't 'fun' in my book) . The suit ends up being nothing more than a secondary 
 accessory, optional most of the time. Except, that is, when you have to jump onto a rocky ledge 
 that's juuust out of your regular jumping ability. Now that's using the suit creatively! Not. Then 
 there's the weapon customization. Original as well, but there are only a handful of attachments 
 available and their impact is questionable at best. Unsurprisingly, this feature also suffers from 
 optionality.
  
  Open-endedness: Not much to say about this. Yes, the game world is reasonably big, but your objectives 
 are fixed and the tools to accomplish them limited. Run in from the south and gun down the bad 
 guys OR run in from the east and gun down the bad guys isn't my idea of 'open-ended'.
  
  Story: Clichd, with a few twists. It's notoriously boring and generic for the first half of the 
 game. The addiction factor is null unless you manage to get to the second half. I didn't: I got 
 bored of it shortly before that. Yes, I didn't beat the game, but read enough to know that even 
 once the story picks up, it falls quite short of a masterpiece. But that's of no consequence: if 
 a story fails to grab you within the first hour of gameplay, it's simply fails at its purpose.
 
  
  Graphics: Magnificent, no doubt. Most of this review's score goes to this. But unless you're very 
 young, flashy graphics are assimilated and set aside (in importance) by your brain after a while. 
 Sure, they remain enjoyable throughout the game, but one normally expects something from the 'meat' 
 of the game once the 'whoa!' feeling fades. That something is mostly and regrettably missing.
 
  
  On the whole, Crysis fails in the same way its predecessor does, though to a lesser degree (Far 
 Cry had a far worse story and no innovation whatsoever) . It also suffers from poor optimization: 
 even if you have the best computer in the market, you won't be able to play it smoothly at the 
 highest settings. The developers followed the philosophy of making games for future hardware, a 
 line of thinking I abhor. To sum up, Crysis is a grossly overrated generic shooter with astounding 
 graphics and mediocre innovative details. FAR from 'the best game of all time'.
  
  6.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pablo_SL
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I actually disliked this game when it came out, but I had only played the demo by then and I thought 
 this game was totally depedant on it visuals. Finally I got the game and I played it all on Low 
 with the shader on medium (I'm limited to that till I upgrade) well the game actually looked stunning 
 for being the lowest settings, but I played across the hole game and I really enjoyed it, that 
 demostrated me that this game has a great playability and it is not at all dependent from its visuals. 
 The nanosuite abilities, the freedom, the well made ecosystem of the island and the great battle 
 scenes made me enjoy this game so much that I can asure it is as good as Far Cry (considering the 
 release dates) . 
  
  Crysis is a great shooter with both playability and visuals being outstanding. 
  All things considered. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Citteh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I randomly saw this game at a local game expo event and thought "hmm a game called Crysis with 
 a man holding a big gun and wearing a weirdo-suit? Sounds pretty cool!". I was afraid that it would 
 "just" be some crappy shooter, but when I finished the demo I couldnt wait to get my fingers on 
 the full game. When I finally got the full game, I just couldnt stop playing it. The game is SO 
 addictive!
  One of the main reasons why I was so hooked on it, was to see all these beatiful grpahical effects 
 the game had to offer. Though mostly the game lagged so much that the voices wouldnt ad lip with 
 the animation on screen, it didnt really bother me cause the graphics were so beautiful. My favorite 
 part was (! spoiler alert!) inside the alien lair (?) They made the anti-gravity envoirment really 
 like it was some underwater facility. (spoiler end)
  Oh, and all these explosive effects throughout the game... well they pretty much blew me away! 
 You can really see that helicopters gets blown to bits and theres smoke, fire and metal everywhere. 
 Throw a grenade inside a house made of tree and you'll see it be blown into a pile of splinters.
 
  
  Kudos to Crytek for makign a very good AI. I as afraid that they would end up bein TOO stupid, 
 but although in game it could be a bit annoying, it was still pretty cool that the Korean soldiers 
 would stalk you if you ran away or eventually try to search for you if you use cloak.
  
  Now here comes the story... I was worried that the story would be too thin, but I was in fact very 
 hooked on it. I would wish that there was more information on the characters though and how they 
 made the nanosuits as well, in fact, there is a lot of things that I have put questionmark on, 
 but I still think that the story of the game is quite solid and after I finished the game I almost 
 shouted "I want to know more! I want to play the next Crysis game!".
  I was quite disappointed by the ending, but considering Crysis beign the first part of a trilogy, 
 it aint that bad, it just makes you want more.
  
  Although it is a nice feature, I have to admit that I was hoping that the nanosuits had much more 
 abilities. I think I only used Maximum Armor and cloak throughout the game, only used Speed and 
 Maximum Strength when it was neccessary. But the nanosuit is in fact handy, and the game woulda 
 been boring without it, but hopefully we'll see more features to the suit in Crysis 2.
  
  Overall I would recommend Crysis, if you have a powerful PC, otherwise wait till the game comes 
 out for the PS3 and xbox 360. The game contains so many amazing elements that I havent really seen 
 in other games, making this game even more unique. Though the game isnt super perfect, it is indeed 
 one of the best FPS games I have tried. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerkdc5
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Intelligen AI, outstanding graphics.... ambient lighting effects are the best in history.... as well 
 as water, shadow, and explosives.... the game swallows you up and doesnt let go...... its a masterpiece... quiet 
 easily the greatest game ever made.... period!!!
  
  As it brings you throught the island drop where you believe that you are fighting koreans for some 
 secret...... as you fight more and get closer you find out that you are learning about a grave secret 
 that the koreans have hidden, a strong alien race.... that has been hidden in the mountains......
 
  
  Wage war, with many weapons, tanks, vehicles, explosives.... take down chopers, alien spacecraft....
 
  
  online is crafted to perfection..... emense batttles voice support, build your own weapons and vehicles....
 
  
  this game is a must have and its the best game out for the PC.....
  
  This game laughs at your graphics cards!!!!
  
  The only con to this game is its too short!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliasgames
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Where does reality end and fantasy begin? Most games fall far short of transporting us from our 
 mundane lives into their realms. Crysis sucks you in, Mind and Body.
  
  The graphics are superb and second to none.
  
  The game sounds transports you out of your chair 
 and into the screen.
  
  The user interface is easy to learn and facilitate the gameplay.
  
  While there are no 'wow' game play innovations like "bullet time" was in Max Payne there didn't 
 need to be. The Nanosuit works well to suspend reality and make you believe in it's physics.
  
  I found this game to be so immersive and intense that I've had to limit my game time. Any more 
 than a few hours a week and I feel an anxiety attack coming on. It was either cut down on the game 
 or stop drinking coffee.
  
  Note, I am running the game on lower settings because I have an older PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Man
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game is highly satisfying on many levels. Some of the great features of this game are a very 
 nice physics engine and the many opportunities and different ways to get your objective done. The 
 only problem I have wth this game so far, is tat it loses fps. as the game gets into later levels 
 ( I play on very high) and that most people without a nice rig wont be able to enjoy it on the 
 high or very high level since their rig is not brand new, which it pretty much has to be to play 
 on those levels. Some of my favorite things about the game are the realistic physics and the great 
 game-play, yet my only con about the game-play is that when you get the TAC gun, its takes forever 
 to lock-on to anything. So with all that said and done, I really think this is an all around great 
 game, that I would highly consider to pick up next time your out, but only if your rig is good 
 enough to handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_sangma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  First of all I must say that i Have only a 8800GT and i could not play the game at very high settings. 
 I mean i tried but the was getting approximately 10-15 fps. Now a normal gamer would not play any 
 game at that frames so i tuned it down to medium setting to play at 40+ fps. The experience though 
 devoid of some eye candy, was complete satisfying. 
  
  I played Far Cry couple of years back and till date it is my no. 1 first person shooter game. I 
 played the game at the highest difficulty and my friend "Pagol" and me spent countless hours to 
 complete the missions. We tried many different ways and tricks to get through each level as the 
 AI in the game was extremely good. I expected the same thing from Crysis and when I started the 
 game i set the difficulty to maximum (Delta) . I completed the game in 3 days (not continuous) so 
 approximately i spent about 10 hours to complete the game. Now this was a bit too easy. Yes of 
 course its true that everytime i faced the KPA where more than 2 were there and i was without cloak 
 i was shot down. So the AI is not that bad but the cloak actually made it easy i suppose and on 
 the other hand also made it fun to play because it made it less tense. Hands down credit to the 
 Helicopters though they sometimes really made it tough to make it through a stage alive. Another 
 complaint about the AI is that the KPA with the nanosuits dont seem to use the suits to the fullest. 
 They could always stay cloaked and use their cloak maximum strength to jump around and avoid being 
 attacked or attack me but they seem to be blindfolded at times. 
  
  The graphics, do I need to say anything about it? The foliage was nice and dense the trees break 
 and fall down if shot well. The cars explode. The physics were awesome as well. 
  
  The sound and the voice acting was good too. Fighting with the aliens were good fun. After you 
 get the alien MOAC it becomes pretty easy though. The aliens start to fall at your feet. The final 
 alien ship however was not at all challenging. I just spent one life there. 
  
  Other than the low difficulty level and and the high requirements i dont think there is anything 
 wrong with the game. Overall its a very good FPS experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodsAngel26
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  After getting it home and playing it on the "low" setting I went out and upgraded my video card, 
 just so I could play it all over again. I am now running the game on all settings "high". With 
 an NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GT 1GB, 3 GB of RAM, and an AMD 64X2, the game looks amazing. Hardware aside, 
 the game play itself is the most immersive I have ever experienced. I sometimes forget that I'm 
 "playing" the game. If you have the hardware or the cash to get it, Crysis is the only justification 
 you need to upgrade your system. The game is that good.
  After getting it home and playing it on the "low" setting I went out and upgraded my video card, 
 just so I could play it all over again. I am now running the game on all settings "high". With 
 an NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GT 1GB, 3 GB of RAM, and an AMD 64X2, the game looks amazing. Hardware aside, 
 the game play itself is the most immersive I have ever experienced. I sometimes forget that I'm 
 "playing" the game. If you have the hardware or the cash to get it, Crysis is the only justification 
 you need to upgrade your system. The game is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoD4Rox
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  The good: 
  Great gameplay
  Stunning and ingenious AI
  Realistic graphics
  Incomparable sound effects
  
  The bad:
  Requires a mammoth graphics card
  Takes a heavy 
 toll on the computer's processor
  
  When Crysis was shown to the world, murmurs broke loose as comparisons between Unreal and Crysis 
 exploded. Everyone was taken aback by the lustrous jungle and picturesque landscape. Sales skyrocketed 
 at the day of its release and shops were jam packed with people clearing Crysis off the shelves. 
 I was one of the lucky few to own a copy on the launch day and rushed back home and installed the 
 game ASAP. 
  
  The main menu popped up and my interest was roused by the "military menu". The game begins with 
 a brief beginning that stirs the gamer's suspense and the gamer will be immediately introduced 
 to some controls. Suddenly, something rushed out and tore up your character's chute, and our heart 
 began pounding. 
  
  The game's impressive start will hook any gamer up and force it to stare at it for the next few 
 hours. One of Crysis' main attraction will be the choice for the player to recon and go loud. I 
 spent 4 hours taking out an enemy camp and Crysis still seems new with twists and surprises at 
 every turn. Another great feature of Crysis is the ability to customize the weapon to suit the 
 player's style of playing, whether picking targets off at will or go in gun blazing.
  
  The main drawback is the toll on the computer. My computer, an Acer E560 with a 3.0GHz Quad-Core 
 Processor, 2GB ATi X1550 Graphics Card and 4GB DDR RAM went dead the second day and I had to reformat 
 my whole com. Be prepared to burn a huge hole in your wallet if you want a lag-free experience 
 in Crysis.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwrqwr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is my second review literally ever. But what really stood out to me was the friendly interface 
 of the sandbox engine that comes with crysis. At firsy I was confused then I just read the manual 
 at the website and so many new doors opened up. It felt like a real sandbox almost because you 
 can basically mold anything you want in a sandbox with water but in the sandbox engine, the water 
 was the tools they give you. I have made so far pretty well detailed maps in a matter of days. 
 Crysis is a user content friendly game. Which makes up for what I found pretty bad multiplayer 
 because I've been there and done that style before but the other times they were much better. For 
 instance battlefield 2142 or counterstrike source. The story puts you as a charecter named Nomad. 
 Soon you discover a island has remnences of alien technology and the aliens are revealing themselves 
 and attacking. Then you must save all the civilians held captive on the island. The story was great 
 and the sandbox engine= (myfavoritepart) .
  But the multiplayer was so old and not enjoyable as much this time around. I would have gave it 
 a 9 but the multiplayer was ok but so been there done that. Overall crysis is a must buy or a good 
 buy depending on your tastes. Its a title that has ups and downs in many areas but I recomend going 
 out a buying it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  From the beginning lets hit directly in the head  the game is great BUT. The game 
 play is great, the innovative idea of in-game details is also impressive, AI is fine, weapons interesting 
 Well you could go on and on about glorifying this game, but its creators just forgot about 
 one major thing  game (hardware) optimization, and thats just horrible. I just cant 
 stand good titles ruined because bunch of programmers didnt have skills, time or will to 
 balance game code so it would be smoothly playable on regular machines. For crisis 
 to play it on high resolution with all the details you would need to have the gaming rig from the 
 future, and that just isnt right. You can throw in quad core OC 2 3.5GHz, 2x8800GTX, 4GB 
 of RAM and it still wouldnt play smooth Well, for me that is a sign of BAD optimization 
 which just ruins al the fun & great stuff which this game has.
  
  It would be very nice to GREATLY fix that in some immersive patch, but I dont think it will 
 ever happen, because they didnt do it right form the beginning. For the end just to say, 
 what an ugly thing to do for such a great game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pseudodog07
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Of course graphics are the main draw of Crysis, and that's also the main problem. Would you rather 
 look at Far Cry on very high or Crysis on medium? I'd rather look at and play Far Cry on very high. 
 So, if you don't have a tip top of the line computer, you might be better off playing some older 
 games first.
  
  The gameplay is gripping at times and frustrating at others. The shooting aspect is done as well 
 or better than most shooters. But, with auto heal and no real reason to explore you may end up 
 just wanting to run past the enemies many of the times you encounter them.
  
  Pros:
  Graphics, if your system is a super system
  Good shooting mechanics
  Open endedness allowes 
 for multiple approaches to situations
  
  Cons:
  Main missions are weak
  Side missions are weak
  Aircraft and tank missions are terrible
  I liked the space ship insides 
 when it was in AVP2
  Suit power is too little, making it almost useless
  Story never really drew me in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devils_Destiny
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  WOW... what a game.. WHAT A GAME... i had heard a lot about this one... n believed it once i played 
 the game.. trust me to feel it u gotta live it... everything in this game is gr8.. graphics are the 
 bestest ever i have seen.. player  perfectly done. yet i 
 have rated it a 9 and not a 10 bcoz there is something in every game that keeps it back... in crysis 
 it is the short span of the suit powers... the time given to use the suit powers is too short... thats 
 what i think i dont know what others think but yeah that makes it fun as well.. but crytek must 
 have given just a lil extra time.. the levels are nicely done.. weapons are cool and the water reflection 
 and detail is awesome.. even sniper is gr8 in this one.. this weapon has been the masterpiece in 
 all crytek game... so yeah i would surely recommend this game to everyone out there... if you wanna 
 have some hardcore mix of stealth n action then this one is for you... newayz.. all in all a gr8 
 game and the first one to show us what the future games are gonna b like... as i said b4.. GET READY 
 FOR THE FUTURE !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZoneEge
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I just gave it this mark because now every other game i play is just going to be brainless shooters 
 and i will be trapped with this game forever. This game should've came out after 25 years or something 
 after we get more civilized. This is not a game. Its a masterpiece. Its an artwork and i shouldn't 
 have played it. Im addicted to it now. Its one of the best things Mankind has got. I WANT CRYSIS 
 2 NOW ?! Who disagrees ?. No one ?. I thought so. Buy this game the first time you see it. Its 
 so good :) . Be careful! If you have school your marks are going to be damaged !. Buy it if you 
 have a system that can handle it!. Cause you will be missing alot of stuff with low graphics ! 
 You must get this game at all costs !. You hear me ?. Great atmosphere great... everything. Great 
 graphics, controls, gameplay, maps... Good AI. Very cool and revolutionary new moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Years from now, Crysis will probably be remembered as a technical masterpiece with fantastic graphics. 
 This reputation is well-earned, as Crysis sports an amazing engine that made every other shooter 
 obsolete the day that it came out. The game compromises nothing when it comes to lighting, level 
 sizes, physics, shaders, and polygon counts. Chances are, if you are reading this review, you have 
 already heard about how great the nuts and bolts are. However, Crysis isn't just another pretty 
 face that hides mediocre gameplay with beautiful graphics (*cough**cough* GearsofWar *cough) . It 
 is not a game that fills up huge spaces with copy-and-paste, repetitive design (*cough**cough* 
 Halo *cough) The action is great too, so much that even without the eye-popping visuals and exploding 
 vehicles, Crysis would still be a great game. If you have any interest in PC first person shooters 
 and a good rig, then you owe it to yourself to check out this game. It is the finest first person 
 shooter in years, and a few minor issues are all that keep it from being the best ever made.
  
  Crysis is the second effort from Crytek, which has quickly established itself as one of the 
 most talented studios in the business. Crytek's first game, Far Cry, was years ahead of its time, 
 and in many ways was never surpassed until Crysis arrived. It is impossible to talk about this 
 game without talking about Far Cry. The two are very similar in a lot of good ways. If you loved 
 Far Cry, then you will love Crysis. It is more of a true successor to Far Cry than Far Cry 2 (currently 
 in development by Ubisoft) . Just like Far Cry, Crysis sports gigantic, open levels on a tropical 
 island paradise, full of trees, lush vegetation, hills, and beautiful beaches. Like Far Cry, Crysis 
 lets you survey enemy positions from afar and tag enemies with your binoculars. Like Far Cry, the 
 game allows you to jump in a vehicle at almost every time to speed your travel from one area to 
 another. And, just like Far Cry, Crysis gives you all sorts of freedom to accomplish your objectives 
 in all sorts of different ways. You can do almost anything in this game in a way that suits your 
 play style. You can approach enemy outposts slowly and pick off enemies with a silenced SMG one-by-one. 
 Or, you can run in with guns blazing, blowing up trucks and buildings as you go. Crysis is one 
 of those exceedingly rare gems that excels at run-and-gun shooting and stealth at the same.
  
  It is likely that a year or even two from now, Crysis will still be the most technologically 
 advanced game on the market. While other games like Bioshock and Gears of War trade level size, 
 breadth, or physics for graphics, Crysis excels at everything. The looks of the characters in the 
 game rival those of any Unreal 3 engine game. It has level sizes that exceed every other game in 
 the genre, except for perhaps S. T. A. L. K. E. R. The level of realism and density in the game's vegetation 
 is unheard of. The beauty of the water and the quality of the lighting are top-notch. Best of all, 
 it has a physics engine that probably won't be surpassed for years to come. Huge portions of the 
 environments are fully destructible. You can chop down trees with a mini-gun and you can collapse 
 buildings with a vehicle or a powered-up punch. Enemy helicopters can destroy your cover with rockets 
 and machine gun fire. If you want, you can recreate the scene from "Predator" where Jesse Ventura 
 gets killed and the commandos mow down an acre of jungle. It is a stunning technical achievement 
 years ahead of its time, rivaled only what Far Cry achieved four years ago. The best part about 
 it is that it runs very well on a system that reasonably exceeds the recommended specs. I have 
 a rig with a dual-core 2.4 GHz Pentium, 2 GB of RAM, and an 8800 GTX. I was able to play this game 
 with the settings 85% maxed out without a hitch, until the final level (which for some reason, 
 runs horribly) . Don't listen to anyone that says that Crysis is a poorly optimized game. The performance 
 that it delivers is excellent for the resources that it uses.
  
  Crysis provides you with the standard FPS loadout  shotgun, SMG, pistol, grenades, etc. It does 
 a great job with these weapons, thanks largely to its excellent audio. One of the critical functions 
 of any shooter is to give you a satisfying feeling when you fire a gun. It should feel like the 
 mouse is an extension of the gun in your hands. Explosions should feel like they are going off 
 right next to you. The guns and the explosions sound great in Crisis. Each weapon has its own resounding 
 crack or boom, and grenades practically pop your eardrums and they explode and shake the screen.
 
  
  Crysis has a standard weapons loadout, but it also adds in another excellent tool  the nanosuit. 
 The nanosuit can augment your speed or strength. Alternatively, it can absorb damage, or make you 
 invisible for a short time while you get into a position to quietly pick off enemies. The nanosuit 
 isn't revolutionary, as functions like it have appeared in other games. However, it is a wonderful 
 addition to this game, because it is integrated so well into the other aspects of the game that 
 give you the freedom to play the game in accordance with your style. All of the functions are useful, 
 although you will probably find yourself using the cloak function the most. It might be a bit overpowered, 
 since you can uncloak to shoot while you are still hidden, kill one enemy, and then regenerate 
 and cloak again.
  
  Adding to the fun is the game's dynamic AI. Crysis's AI can be glitchy, but 90% of the time, it's 
 a vastly underappreciated asset to the game. The AI isn't always perfect, but it's somewhat human. 
 Enemies do a great job of navigating the environments and finding cover behind whatever happens 
 to be around them at the time. At the same time, the enemies aren't omniscient wizards that automatically 
 know where you are hidden at all times. If you fire and then cloak, enemies will attack your last 
 known position. If an enemy notices you up close when you are cloaked, he will become suspicious 
 and fire wildly in your direction. They react smartly to grenades and they do a great job of slowly 
 closing in on your position if they hear gunfire. You can use to this advantage to do things like 
 stock up exploding barrels in a building, lure a few enemies in there, and then blow everything 
 up to kill them all. The 10% of the time that the AI doesn't work right can stick out, however. 
 Enemies mounted on machine guns will cluelessly look ahead and they won't react to their buddy 
 being blown away right next to him. Occasionally, the AI will shut off and enemies will freeze 
 while staring at a wall saying "where is he?" It is disappointing that these problems haven't been 
 fixed yet with a patch. These times are rare though, and most of the time, the AI in Crysis is 
 great.
  
  Great PC games are often the product of emergent gameplay, and their ability to give you all sorts 
 of fun ways to experiment with your abilities. When it comes to emergent gameplay, Crysis is one 
 of the best shooters of the decade. The open levels, the nanosuit, the physics, and the AI all 
 work in concert to make Crysis is an experimenter's playground. There are so many ways to complete 
 every little goal that it is impossible to describe them all. You can take out a sniper by crashing 
 a vehicle into his tower to collapse it. You can sneak up on enemies grab them, and choke them 
 to death. Or, you can use them as human shields. You can even kill other enemies by turning on 
 your strength augmentation and tossing your hapless human shield at them. You can kill enemies 
 by luring them next to exploding vehicles and blowing them up. Chances are, you will find your 
 own favorite ways of playing the game.
  
  Crysis has twelve levels, most of which are huge and impressive. As the game progresses though, 
 there are a few levels towards the end that are more linear and rather weak. One flaw that Crysis 
 has in common with Far Cry is that it excels when you are fighting humans in outdoor areas, but 
 it gets weaker when the new, nonhuman enemy is introduced. A linear zero-gravity level late in 
 the game is rather average, and the game's final level is a big disappointment. I won't spoil it 
 for you, but the game abandons almost everything that made it great and throws a tedious, old style 
 linear romp at you that would have been at home six years ago. The frame rate also crashes like 
 crazy on this last level, which is curious, since it is technically less impressive than the rest 
 of the game.
  
  A few other minor flaws hold back Crysis. The voice acting for the North Korean enemies is awful. 
 Unless you are playing on the hardest difficulty level, enemies will speak in terribly accented 
 English and yell out silly phrases like "die Yankeeee!" and "I kirr you Westuhn bastuhd!!!!" This 
 isn't a huge flaw, but it helps to spoil a lot of the authenticity that the game has. The story 
 also adds nothing to the game and it ends on somewhat of a cliffhanger, which is too bad, because 
 the game genuinely tries to provide a good one, but fails.
  
  If you have an above average gaming rig and any interest in first person shooters, then Crysis 
 is a superb game and a no-brainer to recommend. It is all that it is cracked up to be  a game 
 that backs up its cutting edge technology with fun, open-ended, and action-packed gameplay. Some 
 minor issues do rear their ugly heads from time to time, and they might hinder your enjoyment from 
 time-to-time, but not much. Once you have played Crysis, every other shooter that is available 
 for the PC seems outdated or inferior in some way. You might need to upgrade your computer to play 
 the game, but not by spending an unreasonable amount of money. Don't listen to the people who claim 
 that you need a $3,000 computer to play the game, and don't listen to the people who criticize 
 it for being more of a tech demo than a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  I bought this after having exhausted my demo version! I thought it would be awesome and I wasnt 
 disappointed! I have a pretty low spec PC Athlon X2 4200@2.2ghz, 2gb RAM, ASUS M2N4 Sli Mobo and 
 7600gt card! I initially thought that as I have a low spec PC I wouldnt enjoy the game so much 
 as I would be losing much of the spectacular graphics (played on low settings) . However I grew 
 to appreciate the top notch gameplay. The whole nano suit concept I instantly loved as manipulating 
 certain battle situations to my advantage became much easier and more enjoyable. Also customising 
 your weapon on the fly really makes a difference! I would have to say that Crysis has spoilt my 
 enjoyment of other games as I want to use my nano suit to sprint across a field or throw an enemy 
 to the other end of the screen! Also I want to take a silencer off or put one on, or change my 
 sight but unfortunately I cant! Overall a brilliant game based on gameplay alone as I have only 
 played the game on low settings! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diako_lorddm
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  
  
  It is one of the 10 best games in history !
  but unfourtunetly it 's story is not as good as it's game play or graphic!
  first you play the 
 game you it is night and you can't see the great grafic of the jungles and the sea but when it 
 becames morning you thing that crysis is a 2010 game and it comes to 2008 by a time machin !
  
  global tensions have reached boiling point as the U. S. and North Korea square off in the South 
 China Sea. At stake: a mysterious artifact uncovered by a team of U. S. archeologists. The North 
 Korean government quickly seizes the area, prompting the U. S. to dispatch an elite team of Special 
 Forces operatives on a rescue mission. During the siege the true nature of the artifact quickly 
 emerges, pointing to the existence of an alien presence on Earth, and ultimately the trigger for 
 a massive-scale alien invasion. 
  
  As gamers take up arms against the aliens, they will be outfitted with customizable weapons and 
 a high tech Nanosuit, allowing them to adapt their tactics and abilities to a hostile, ever-changing 
 environment and a mysterious enemy. Powered by CryENGINE 2, Crysis delivers the ultimate DX10 gaming 
 experience for the PC, including unparalleled graphics, special effects and artificial intelligence. 
 The game is also scaleable to deliver a breath-taking FPS experience for older DX9 PCs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Crysis was by far one of the best FPS games I have played in a long while, but call me jaded, I 
 am a bit sick to death of First Person Shooters. I think the real problem is I don't have an Uber 
 Machine that can run Crysis at its top end specs, so I am not creaming over the visuals like everyone 
 else. And for that I am grateful, I got to play the game on its Game Play merits.
  
  Crysis weapons are totally generic for the most part until you get closer to the end of the game, 
 then you start getting some cool stuff to play with. Grenades were virtually useless, not being 
 able to throw them were you want and not beyond 20-30 feet, I often found myself running away from 
 my own grenades after I had thrown them.
  
  Crysis does has some cool game play mechanics where you get to switch between your special Nano 
 suits different abilities. Armor: Absorb damage before it goes through to your health..
  Strength: Devastating melee damage and the ability to leap great distances.
  Camouflage: Near 
 Invisibility, but you might be seen while moving.
  Speed: Increased movement speed and short bursts of super speed.
  
  My biggest issue was that 
 they didn't go far enough with a system that was this cool. They hyped up the power of the suit, 
 but then didn't give you enough power, or enough energy to really use it. I often just relied on 
 shooting people and not using the abilities. The most useful ability was Armor which effectively 
 doubled your health. Invisibility is great for sneaking up on a lone enemy, escaping overwhelming 
 numbers of enemies, or just catching your breath. The only time I used Speed was when I was board 
 of running over land (which there was a lot of) . Strength would have been cool, but the leaping 
 was limited to one story buildings which felt just a little weak for how much power it used up. 
 Using strength for punching was only useful when you were forced to use it to punch through a locked 
 door you had to get through to progress the story.
  
  I found the AI frustratingly omni-sentient, god-like knowing that I had hi-jacked one of their 
 vehicles and started immediately shooting at me fire from across the island when they saw me driving 
 their way. This led me to believe that they must have a catastrophic friendly fire fatality rate. 
 Enemies spotting you through the thickest of bushes and trees from 100 yards away got increasing 
 annoying.
  
  So with all this mediocrity and flaws why should you play this game? At the end is where it all 
 comes together. It's a long hard road, but getting to the last half of the game is when stuff finally 
 starts getting interesting. You will hit this magical moment when you think you must be close to 
 the end of the game, and then you will reach another moment when you think, OK this is it, now 
 Im close! But you are still about  of the way through the game. That anticipation and constant 
 building one cool moment on top of another really pushed this game from a 6 to an 8 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musti_44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  In the wake of the Electronic Entertainment Expo, the only thing almost as abundant as the trinkets 
 and schwag being sold on online auction sites are the Best of E3 lists touted by various publications. 
 However, one set of awards stands out from the rest as it represents a large sample of the gaming 
 press. The Game Critics Awards, first held in 1998, is decided by a group of dozens of journalists 
 from different media outlets. This year, 37 judges participated in deciding the best games and 
 hardware from E3 2006. Leading gaming editors culled from publications such as Newsweek, CNN/Money, 
 The Los Angeles Times, Rolling Stone, and GameSpot chimed in on what they thought were the highlights 
 of the conference. Categories this year include Best of Show, Best Hardware, and several genre 
 awards. Epic Games' Gears of War for the Xbox 360 leads all games with five nominations, including 
 Best of Show, Best Original Game, Best Console Game, Best Action Game, and Best Online Multiplayer 
 Game. Following close behind with four nominations are Ubisoft's Assassin's Creed for the PlayStation 
 3, Electronic Arts' Spore for the PC (which won the GCA's Best of Show in 2005) , and Irrational 
 Games' BioShock for the Xbox 360 and PC, which won GameSpot's Game of the Show this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZF
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Crytek, the people who brought us Far Cry. They've mad e an even better game! Believe it or 
 not it's true. Crysis is amazing. It's an open-ended, non- linear, sandbox game. You can go anywhere 
 in this game. The barriers are natural such as Sharks, Cliffs and other stuff you couldn't think 
 of bypassing. You can customize your weapons such adding a sniper scope to a assault rifle. You 
 have 4 suit functions: Maximum Armor, Maximum Speed, Maximum Strength, and Cloak (invisibility) 
 The AI is so realistic. They'll run from grenades, they'll get out of burning vehicles etc. Speaking 
 of Vehicles, they serve a big part in this game. You can go in a jeep but not to drive it but to 
 use the turret so you don't waste your ammo. But you can also drive it anywhere. This game is just 
 plain amazing and I think anyone would love it as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  The evolution of the shooter genre has seen many landmark titles: Doom, Quake, Half Life, NOLF, 
 Call of Duty, Far Cry, Half Life 2, F. E. A. R., etc. From the days of senseless running and gunning 
 through countless of linear levels, to the amazing set pieces depicting historical battles, to 
 the brilliant advances in A. I., to the creation of wonderfully immersive worlds with state of the 
 art graphics, the shooter genre just keeps improving upon itself. With all the advances made in 
 the past few years, it's not easy for one game to proclaim to be the new standard bearer in a genre, 
 the game to which all future titles will be compared too. Crysis is such game. This isn't just 
 the next step in the shooter evolution, it's an entire link in its evolutionary chain. This is 
 a game that delivers spectacularly on all fronts; ultra-realistic graphics, emergent gameplay, 
 amazing A. I., spectacular set pieces, immersive gameworld, intelligently laid and rewarding battles, 
 revolutionary concepts (such as the nanosuit) , etc. All in all, this is the definitive shooter 
 experience and a must play for anyone with even a remote interest in action games or games in general.
 
  
  In Crysis, you play the role of Nomad, a member of an elite group of soldiers sent on a mission 
 to learn more about the discoveries of a group of scientists on a island in the pacific. However, 
 the island has been taken over by North Koreans, who certainly aren't in a friendly mood, so your 
 job will require some hostile interaction. No one was quite sure what had been discovered until 
 a huge mountain in the island reveals itself as an alien spaceship that had been stranded on earth 
 for millions of years. I won't go on with any more details about the story, but if you're under 
 the impression that the story in Crysis follows the typical alien invasion pattern, you'll be glad 
 to know that's not the case.
  
  Crysis benefits a lot from being the sequel to another astounding shooter, Far Cry (developed by 
 the same studio, Crytek) , a shooter that while remarkable, was extremely rough around the edges 
 and had plenty of room for improvement. Crytek basically took everything that was good about Far 
 Cry, got rid of it's annoying features, and threw in a slew of new concepts to come up with a masterpiece. 
 Much like Far Cry, Crysis is the definition of open-ended gameplay. The first 2 thirds of the game 
 take place in some incredibly huge levels that offer you many paths to achieve your goals. In fact, 
 these levels feel so alive, that they don't force you to embrace the typical linear gaming mentality, 
 but rather make you feel as if you were literally in the jungle and had to think your way out of 
 it in the same way you would in real life. Well, that is if you actually had a nanosuit in real 
 life.
  
  Speaking of the nanosuit, this is probably the greatest thing about Crysis. The nanosuit is basically 
 a futuristic body suit that enhances your normal abilities, turning you from an elite soldier into 
 a virtually unstoppable entity. The nanosuit can act as body armor, essentially giving you a second 
 health bar. It can greatly increase your speed (albeit, very briefly) . It can give you super strength, 
 which rather than turn you into the Hulk, gives you a lot more flexibility to deal with the environments. 
 And the best feature of the nanosuit, and the one you'll rely on the most, is the cloaking ability. 
 The ability to become virtually invisible gives you the option to stalk your prey and get into 
 tightly guarded locations completely unnoticed. But you have to make smart use of it, since moving 
 while in cloak will quickly drain your energy bar. And that's the real beauty of the nanosuit, 
 it's not an element that will completely alter the balance of the game in your favor, but rather 
 one that will make it plausible for one single guy to have a fighting chance against dozens of 
 north korean armies. You can only have one power activated at a time, and once your energy depletes 
 you have to wait for it to recharge before you can use another power again. If you don't make smart 
 use of the nanosuit you will get torn to pieces, and even when you make good use of it you still 
 have to play with your surroundings with extreme caution. The nanosuit may make you feel invincible 
 at times, but you certainly won't be.
  
  The game also does a great job at not overwhelming you from the get go, as you'll slowly discover 
 each of your powers and will have plenty of time to get familiar with them. In fact, during the 
 first level you may actually find yourself straying too much from the main path and mission, simply 
 to play around with the environments and your abilities. You may find yourself playing lumberjack 
 (and getting yourself killed by the falling tree) , tossing explosive barrels in the air for some 
 nice fireworks (which will alert anyone nearby) , playing around with the wildlife (crabs, fish, 
 chicken, frogs, there's all sorts of animals in here) , tearing down to pieces every korean camp 
 (even after you already cleared the place) , setting up amazing strength jumps (a quick combination 
 of max speed and strength can allow you to make some spectacular leaps) , etc. The fact that nearly 
 every element in the gameworld is destructible or malleable in some way, brings an unprecedented 
 amount of realism to the environments.
  
  And of course, you'll have a nice array of toys to destroy such environments. You start the game 
 with a standard set of pistols and the SCAR rifle. Surprisingly, the pistols can remain quite effective 
 throughout the entire game, though you'll more than likely use them as a last resort. Eventually 
 you'll have access to the FY71 rifle (which is the weapon of choice of most korean enemies) , the 
 shotgun, a precision rifle (which works as a sniper rifle of sorts) , a rocket launcher (which has 
 the same excellent laser tag function found in Half Life) , an SMG, the Gauss rifle (a futuristic 
 weapon that can one shot kill anyone, as well as a small group of soldiers) , a minigun (not as 
 powerful as the ones found in other games, but still quite effective) , the alien MOHAC (you only 
 use this weapon in two levels, but it's got unlimited ammo and is quite effective) , and finally 
 the TAC gun (another futuristic weapon that works in conjunction with the nanosuit and can effectively 
 launch nukes, though you'll only use it in the final battle) . All the weapons are very satisfying 
 to use, but the really neat feature of the weaponry in Crysis is the way you can modify almost 
 every weapon on the fly. With the simple touch of a button you'll enter a menu that allows you 
 to add gadgets (such as silencers, scopes, grenade launchers) or change the functionality of your 
 weapon. This works great in the middle of heated battles, as it allows you to quickly change strategies 
 without losing sight of the dangers surrounding you. Also worth mentioning is that just like with 
 the nanosuit, you have to make smart use of your guns. Shooting enemies from afar will likely result 
 in a waste of ammo (unless you're using a scope) , and unless you aim for the head, korean enemies 
 can absorb a lot of damage thanks to their body armor. At times it may seem as if the games is 
 being unfair, but you just gotta learn to use your weapons efficiently and effectively, just like 
 you would have to in real life.
  
  Between the huge open levels and the nanosuit, you have the option to play Crysis virtually any 
 way you want. That is until you are greeted by the aliens and the game becomes a lot more linear. 
 Though you'll get glimpses of them throughout the game, you won't come into direct contact with 
 the aliens until you enter their mother ship, and this is where you're greeted with one the coolest 
 and most original levels in any FPS, a zero gravity environment. It's a rather disorienting experience 
 and fighting aliens in such environment is no laughing matter, since they're extremely fast and 
 you won't have readily supplies of ammo to restock. In a way this level feels like something of 
 an amusement park ride (one section has Nomad screaming "what a ride!") , and on top of everything 
 it's quite a stunning sight.
  
  Once you exit the aliens nest, you'll be greeted with a frozen jungle (another amazing sight) , 
 courtesy of an alien blast. From here on, the game's pace quickens considerably and it'll feel 
 like something of a sprint towards the end of the game. As previously mentioned, the game will 
 become more linear, but much more intense at the same time. You'll come across several exciting 
 set pieces that pack some nice surprises and help build up the anticipation for the game's exciting 
 conclusion. The final battle is nothing short of spectacular, and even if the game ends on a cliffhanger 
 note, there's little to complain after such an exciting ride.
  
  Visually, Crysis is an a league of it's own. There's simply no other game that comes close to reaching 
 the visual fidelity of Crysis. From the moment you're dropped into the island, you'll constantly 
 stop every now and then to do some sight seeing, because this is both a technical and artistic 
 paradise. Whether it's the dense foliage, the sun rising over the ocean, the god rays penetrating 
 through the jungle, the great underwater effects, the amazing alien's nest, the frozen remains 
 of the island, the spectacular explosions, every moment of Crysis is visual poetry in motion. At 
 times the game comes very close to being photo realistic. Of course, this does come at a price, 
 since a high-end PC is required to achieve such graphics with a playable framerate, but if you're 
 willing to sacrifice resolution, you might be able to get away with a lesser system and still enjoy 
 the visual eye candy (For the record, I played Crysis on a setup consisting of an Intel Core 2 
 duo E6600 @2.4GHZ, 2GB of RAM, and a 256MB Geforce 8600GT; I had all the detail on High, but I 
 lowered the resolution to 800 * 600, and I got an average of 30 frames per second.) .
  
  And then there's the game's sound which is just as good as the visuals. The game goes for an orchestral 
 sound that does a great job of setting the appropriate mood at different times, such as pompous 
 sounds as you engage in epic battles, or tense notes as you attempt to infiltrate enemy camps. 
 Your weapons as well as the environments all sound great too, adding yet another layer of realism 
 to the game. The voice acting is also terrific. The fact that Nomad has a voice is another nice 
 touch since it allows for him to show a different range of emotions throughout the game, making 
 him feel much more alive than your typical silent hero of most games. 
  
  A game of this quality is something to behold. This is the kind of game that you'll want to tell 
 everyone about, even those who have no interest in games. It's a game that elevates the shooter 
 experience to new heights, setting the standards for the next generation to follow. Developer Crytek 
 deserves all the praise in the world for sticking to their vision and fulfilling their ambition, 
 because in doing so, they have created one of the most memorable gaming experiences of all time. 
 Between it's intelligent game design, amazing visuals, immersive environments, intense set pieces, 
 and unprecedented level of freedom, Crysis is the definitive shooter experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  First time i played Farcry in 2004 , i became a great fan of the game and its developers Crytek 
 .Farcry was a superb graphically stunning game of its time. When i heard CRYSIS is next project 
 of Crytek , i knew the developers would come up with another graphically stunning and excellent 
 FPS game .And i was right . Below i am going to point out the pros and cons of the game .
  
  
  CRYSIS story is about alien invasion .In a remote beautiful tropical island of south china 
 sea a group of archeologists discover a primitive alien ship buried inside earth for a long time 
 .They start doing research on the project when a part of North Korean army shows interest in the 
 project too , so the project can prove benefitial for them in world domination .Now U. S intilligence 
 sense the trouble brewing and sends it highly enhanced super military to investigate .U. S military 
 group is headed by its leader Prophet and team Aztec , Pshyco , Jester and our hero Nomad .After 
 a mishap landing , soon Nomad finds two of his team member carried away by aliens and killed and 
 his group leader Prophet presumed dead and to top it all hes all alone on the mysterious island 
 surrounded by tons powerful north korean miliary and the strange alien factor .He has to deal with 
 both to bring ultimate peace in our beloved earth.
  
  
  
  The games graphics / visuals are top notch. Crysis without doubt is a superior best graphical game 
 out there . Plus in the game you get to utilise its all new DX 10 / SM 4.0 capabilities if you 
 run the game on DX 10 card plus windows Vista operating system .You get advanced CRYENGINE 2 Technolgy 
 which delivers unmatched realism , realtime visuals , motion blur , water effects and shadows .Plus 
 you get climate change (including day / night cycle) in the game. Say once you fighting on tropical 
 island , next you fighting on a fully ice level in the same island as aliens have the techonolgy 
 to turn the whole place into barren icy place.
  
  
  Your character Nomad is a U. S super soldier with a highly advanced nano suit .The nano suit gives 
 him to recharge his shield , energy and health. Plus he can do maximum strenght , go invisible (cloak) 
 , maximum speed etc for a limited period of time at expense of his suit energy which gets depleted 
 .Plus our hero can customise his weapons according to situations like equipping silencer , iron 
 / reflex / laser sights , flashlights , firing modes , grenade launchers in his weapons whenever 
 neccessary .Nomad gets many ultra high weapons in the game to wreck havoc on his weapons ranging 
 from customisable pistols , shotguns , sub machine guns , scar . FY71, gauss rifle , missile launchers 
 , chain guns etc .Plus he can use grenades too .In the game you get variety of vechiles to ride 
 ranging from cars , military jeeps , motorboats ,tanks to VOTL's ( adavanced military chopper ) 
 which equipped with launchers and miniguns .
  
  AI is really excellent in the game . North korean army can sense you very easily if you not careful 
 and become alert .Some special North korean army specials too use special nano suits like you and 
 you can have a hard time bringing them down .North Korean army have a strong sense of alertness 
 . Now comes the aliens the most ruthless AI in the game , the aliens move at super speed and can 
 bring you down with thier meele attacks or deplete your health by charging ice bullets at you .Its 
 best you use cloak most of the time in the whole game than doing john rambo if you playing the 
 game on normal mode or above .Its best you pick your enemies using stealth more .You can use your 
 surroundings to your advantage say you can mow down trees , fuel barrels , vechiles near the enemies 
 with your bullets too , which will bring down the enemies.
  
  The games character , voiceactings , cinematics rocks. You get to do side objectives while doing 
 main story missions.
  
  
  The game has decent multiplayer modes like power struggle , deathmatch and instant action .It has 
 upto 32 players support in multiplayer. Plus you get LAN mode in the game too.
  
  The games con only lies in its very high system requirement to play the game at its best graphical 
 detail. You really need a high end P. C to enjoy the real eyecandy of the game . Older systems run 
 the game too , but at the expense of lags in certain levels n sacrificing some visuals .
  
  Overall , Crysis is a must own and play game for all P. C gamers .I recommend Crysis highly to everyone 
 .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raza1987
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  Crysis is not only one of the best games of year 2007 but in my opinion it is the best game of 
 all time. I swere i've never played a sci-fi fps like that. It is a combination of gameplay, graphics, 
 and intelligence. Some technical issues are present in this game due to which many graphics cards 
 ignore to give performance+quality. Well i played on all settings high except shadows (low) and object 
 detail (medium) on this system
  
  OS=Windows XP SP2
  CPU=P4 HT 3.0 ghz
  RAM=2GB 667MHZ
  GRAPHICS CARD=ASUS 8600GT
  
  and got about 20 to 35 fps depending on environment 
 due to the absence of a dual core processor. One another good thing about this game is that crysis 
 gives you liberty to play in which style you like, you can sneak by using cloak mode or by destroying 
 enemies with strenght mode. I recommend every gamer to play it. 
  Thanks
  Name=Alay Raza
  Occopation=2nd yaer Biomedical Engineering
  Country=Pakistan
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterGTK
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Hi
  Crysis is an amasing game and we know that end of story thats why i have given it such a raiting. The 
 gamplay is soo balened the grefics are breath taking. (I mean it after playing the game i had to 
 use my asma pump for the first time in over a year) But the thing is that what the gameplay sais 
 it is and what is realy is are two diffrent things as i would not pouite this game as a sandbox 
 game because there is not a lot of space attle so hopefally they will sort thet out with far cry 
 2 or even crysis 2.
  And lets face it the multy player is crap. Also has eny one seen that even when you are invisball 
 outhere players still shout you in the head.
  All togethere after the 2 mounths it took me to finish the game , it took quite a long wile to 
 stop admiring the games credits and play again and thats where i have to get criticall, there is 
 know want to play the game again no new modes no new gameplay mecanics no new guns .
  
  NO replay value!!!!!!!
  
  
  WHY PLAY CRYSIS AGAIN??? 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbarkeri
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best shooters ever made, the outstanding visual effects alone make 
 the game brilliant but when combined with the stuning gameplay it just blows you away. 
  
  Crysis is set on a small island off the coast of North Korea, North Korean troops have taken control 
 of the island and Nomad, a US special forces oprative, is sent in along with his team, Prophet, 
 Pshyco, Aztek and Jester to recover some lost marines. The game starts where Nomad has lost the 
 rest of his team due to a parachute failure and has to find the rest of his team with the assistance 
 of his Nanosuit. The story starts off quite innocently by having to eliminate the Koreans and haveing 
 to go to various places to find intel and shut off GPS jammers. However as the story unfolds Nomad 
 and the team realise that they are dealing with another force as two members of their team Aztek 
 and Jester are taken by what you only presume can be aliens. For the bulk of the game you are playing 
 above ground fighting agains the Koreans however in the later part of the game you are in an abandoned 
 mine, with zero gravity fighting up close with the alien forces. In my opinion this is where the 
 most stunning visual effect in the game are and sometimes this can tell a toll on your framerate. 
 Finally Nomad gets back on firm soil where the final 1/4 and again in my opinon the best 1/4 of 
 the game unfolds. You are taken to an aircraft carrier just off the cost of the island which is 
 under the command of Adminal Morrison, a very firm and aggressive figure. He orderes the launch 
 of a nuclear missile on the island, whether this is a good or bad decision you will have to play 
 the game to find out, anyway the aliens come and invade the aircraft carrier where you have to 
 face a final showdown with the alien warship, of course you provail in defeating the ship and you 
 escape the nearly sunken tanker in a VTOL piloted by Pshyco. Suddenly Pshyco recieves a transmisson 
 from Prophet telling the team he is inside the sphere, Nomad tells them that they are to go back 
 to the island as now they know how to fight the aliens.
  
  The Good: Great Graphics, Brilliant Gameplay, Power Struggle Multiplayer mode will keep you occupied 
 for hours, Replay Value, Good Lenght Game with a compelling storyline
  
  The Bad: Lack of TDM in multiplayer, Cannot play Very High without Vista, Rips and CPU and GPU 
 to bits 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  I have been playing first person shooters (FPS) for a while now and I really enjoyed Crysis. The 
 game is your typical bad dude special ops person that is sent into a hot spot to do something (rescue 
 some scientists) and ends up encountering some bad aliens intent on taking over the world. This 
 is a reasonably fun premise that enables many different types of combat and can get extra crazy 
 once the aliens get involved. I wont give away too much of the plot but I thought the regular 
 fighting with the other humans was actually more fun than the later alien stuff. I mean if there 
 really were advanced alien races dont you think they would just fry all our brains or send 
 out some virus to turn us all to jelly? Of course that would be a pretty boring game and it is 
 a lot more fun to battle aliens that are just a tad more advanced than us that we can kill if we 
 try hard enough. Hey I played all the Doom incarnations and it can be a fun ride if it is done 
 right. The whole Crysis experience is very well done and I enjoyed almost all of the game. 
  
  Dont get me wrong, there are still things that cause you to remember you are playing 
 a game on a computer. Like when you kill a guard at long range and his buddy gets excited for a 
 few seconds but then reverts back to normal patrol mode. I think he is at a slightly higher alert 
 status but I think in the more real world he would be freaking out, or at least hiding 
 under cover and trying to find the sniper, not walking back and forth as if I was 10 feet away. 
 Then the whole alien twist just feels added on. Using an alien gun is cool but now the whole AI 
 can just be made up, we really dont know how they would act. So maybe Crysis does a good 
 job or not, we just dont know. The ending is a bit TOO open ended but I guess after Half 
 Life 2 everybody is setting themselves up for a sequel. I felt a bit let down as I watched the 
 credits roll by. 
  
  One thing that I love is that you can totally drag your system to its knees if you want, this is 
 actually a good thing . . . If any (and I mean any) of your friends have a hot gaming 
 system and brag about how nothing can slow them down, then just have them install Crysis and crank 
 up all the graphic effects to the max. I guarantee that any system built today will not be able 
 to run the game smoothly at high resolution (over 1600x1200) with everything maxed out. This game 
 is a system killer, or more accurately a great system tester. Sure benchmarks are fun but if you 
 can get your system tweaked out so you can run with water effects on High then you are rewarded 
 with some amazing game visuals that you are actually playing. Kind of like actually racing a fast 
 car you built. My system was hot at one time but has fallen down the scale a bit. 
 I really enjoyed turning the effects on and off to try out what was possible and to enjoy what 
 the programmers were trying to do. Like when your character gets out of the water and the water 
 runs off the display visor in a very realistic fashion, refractions and everything, WOW. The ability 
 to shoot out the tire of a vehicle and cause it to loose control is pretty cool. So from a technical 
 standpoint this is by far the best game of the year (in my opinion) but from a pure game design 
 standpoint I think it is a just another good FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  At first I thought, "oh great... another FPS that claims to change it all" so I must say I was VERY 
 critical of Crysis when it first came out. Not only that, the screenshots that were released advertising 
 the game were just AMAZING and that created a lot of hype as well. I wasn't to worried about performance 
 seeing how I have a 2.66ghz quad core, 3 gig, 500 gig raid 0, with dual 8800GTX's in SLI. 
  
  When I hit the first mission I must say.... I was quite let down. The graphics didn't really 
 match the famous screenshots I saw (with all settings maxed) and there was nothing "ground breaking" 
 about the game play in the slightest at first. Another big hype about Crysis was the whole new 
 atmosphere of increased physics that play a pivotal role in game play. Enemy jeep heading toward 
 you? Shoot out it's tires and watch it go flipping!!! Well to be honest.... there are VERY VERY 
 VERY few situations where that's even a possibility. After playing through the entire game.... I 
 really didn't notice a huge physics influence over my game play at all. Also the game is actually 
 quite easy to beat due to this specialized suit you wear which either increases resistance to enemy 
 fire, increases strength, increases speed, or cloaks you depending on the setting. Using cloak 
 allows you to pick off and hide your way through overwhelming odds and makes the game a lot less 
 challenging even though there is a limit on how long you can use cloak. 
  
  Now for the GOOD STUFF:
  
  Though the first level doesn't present very many great "graphic 
 ops" there are plenty of levels in the game where the graphics were just AMAZING!!!!! The jungles, 
 the lighting, the aircraft carrier, ships, were just GORGEOUS and the water effects were out of 
 this world. At times it almost looked like a real life picture in some areas. I might have been 
 a bit let down at first... but the rest of the game DEFINITELY made up for it and then some!! Also 
 the beginning levels and story might be a bit bland, but both increasingly get more and more interesting 
 at the game progresses. Some levels are just outright fun while coinciding with a storyline that 
 just really grips on to you and you find yourself having to struggle to break away from it. The 
 voice acting is also done quite well which helps you immerse yourself better into the story. One 
 of the biggest joys of this game was the ending. I won't give out any spoilers but I will say that 
 this game ends in a way that is NOT typical of other games and for me at least, I enjoyed it immensely. 
 
  
  So despite my initial feelings, this turned out to be a VERY good game and definitely worth playing!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconG1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is simply in my opinion the best first person shooter ever made. The graphics are basicle 
 the best ive ever seen in my life, the physics are just friggen amazing, and the gameplay. It never 
 gets old. In Crysis you are a USA soldier with a super juiced up suit that allows you to have super 
 strength, super speed, invisibility, and better armor. There is even a feature where you can customize 
 your weapon. Youyr dropped on a very tropical island when you star finding out more and more and 
 aliens come the tropical island turns to a winter wonder land and all that good stuff. It also has 
 a multiplayer mode you can play once your done with the singleplayer that is very very neat. Overal 
 if you got one of those juiced up 8800GTXgraphics cards GET THIS GAME!!!!!!
  
  The good:
  Amazing graphics and visuals best yet, Amazing physics engine, awesome gameplay, overall one of 
 the best games ever.
  The bad:
  some small glitches here and there, you need about $2000 just to run the game.
  
  My real score: 
 9.8 thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reino6
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  Sneaking in the jungle, killing enemies and later killing ET-s. And all that inside a high-tech 
 nanosuit. Awesome. That, and Crysis has to offer a lot more. Playing is not ridiciolusly easy. 
 Even if you shoose the easy setting. So the enemies are challenging. Korean soldiers, for exaple. 
 If you manage to take them down quietly, cince then is all ok, but if try to run into close fight, 
 and you encounter 3 or more enemy at one time, then you`ll end up dead soon. If you don`t do something 
 crazy. Game also offers you a very excellent tank battle and an air battle among other things. 
 Game`s length is normal. It doesn`t end quickly. You`ll be able to enjoy it a quite time. And ofcource, 
 you can then change the difficulty setting, and start over. :) I don`t know why, but i compare 
 the Crysis with FarCry all the time. Altough FarCry gets his own sequel soon also. But in FarCry 
 story and especially those cutscenes were awful. In Crysis the cutscenes are a LOT better. It`s 
 interesting to watch them, how story developes. And the story is interesting. Appropriate and so.
 
  Now the only bad thing. Graphics. The graphics are also awesome. But i think what you need is: 
 Intel Core 2 X6800, GeForce 8800 GTX 768, 2GB RAM, Vista. I`m having: Intel Core 2 E6400, Geforce 
 NX7900GT 256RAM, 2GB RAM, XP. I haven`t really a problems with the game, but it`s annoying, when 
 you have to play the game in 1024x768 and medium settings and in some cases below that. The game 
 in these settings still look great, but... That`s how PC game industry works nowadays. I hope someday 
 i get to play Crysis with all the bells and stuff. :) Playing it with high quality is a whole another 
 world.
  I also had a DVD reading error a while i bought the game. But then i installed a newer version 
 of my Samsung DVD-RW/ROM firewire and it worked instantly with no errors.
  I don`t play multiplayer, so i can`t tell what`s good or bad there.
  The game is getting a sequel 
 or an expansion pack, i`m sure of that. So, let`s wait for it, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viniterra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  So many expectation has been created around this game. So I was afraid that the game would not 
 deliver all it promises.
  
  But I was wrong, on my first impressions I just realise the game surpass all my expectations.
 
  
  First the graphics, it's amazing, all the ambiances (Crytec signature) are fantastic.
  
  Then we pass to the physics. The feeling of put an entire building down is something without 
 precedence. Now imagine the case you where using this building to take cover! Is this safe? I don't 
 think so...
  
  And finally the story. With all this features anyone could imagine the weak part of the game could 
 be the story. But no, the story is attention catching, and makes you like to play to the end.
 
  
  Crysis is an amazing game like few others for PC. One of the best shooters I've played ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cravenlevay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  This game is cool as it gets. The stealth slash strength etc suit makes the game the ultimate shooter. 
 I usually dislike shooters but this one is in a class by it's self. Really the only problem with 
 it is one bug. A part where you are fighting the mother ship and no matter what it won't blow up 
 then you have to start the level over to blow it up. That quite pissed me off but the game is worth 
 it regardless. I would have to say that this game is spectacular. This game is a thousand times 
 better with a good machine and graphics card to run it on. So if you have a good up to date system 
 then get the game immediately. Game is a cutting edge shooter. The Ai of the game is great also. 
 The enemy's are difficult as if you were facing another person in game online. Definitely can play 
 the game through quite a few times. They just need to make it longer for it feels quite short. 
 When and if they make a Crysis 2 then I will be getting it ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citedsam
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  It was a cool game. It starts by fighting Koreans but things get complicated when you run in to 
 aliens, I say if you have a great computer then get this game. Its got kind of complicated controls 
 but after about ten min's it gets easier. It's got awesome weapons like shotguns, rocket launchers, 
 Gauss rifles, machine guns and many more. You get great ability's like super strength, super speed, 
 becoming invisible and super amour. You can customise your guns like putting a sniper scope on 
 a shotgun you wouldn't want to but you get what I mean but you can put fire bullets or silencers 
 I didn't because a gun doesen't sound deadly if you can't shoot a guy with out the big bang afterwards 
 you can even put a laser pointer but the enemy can see the laser so don't. So if you have a great 
 computer get this game or your going to regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquaintus
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 18, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Multiplayer just plain sucks. Air is too powerful nothing counters it. Camping of spawn points 
 in mass with Air. Air can capture locations by floating over it. Headshots rule the day, even though 
 your armor is supposed to absorb damage it doesn't. Your suit powers are short, not powerful and 
 unimpressive. Helicoptors and Vtols can look down at 90% vetical angles and hover/float in that 
 position. Missiles and Bullets can go through walls and bunkers. Anti-tank missles go through tanks, 
 similar to COH vanilla where the panzershrek would go right through tanks. They wouldn't do any 
 damage at all. Punkbuster wont allow 64bit Vista. So it pointless to have Vista 64 or 4+ gig of 
 ram because Punkbuster forces you to to use 32bit Crysis for multiplayer. I wouldn't mind so much 
 if Punkbuster actually eliminated hacks, but nope, there is a superman hack out there. People flying 
 around, going at lightning speed, and freezing you aswell. And all this is happening on Punkbuster 
 servers. Insane, Punkbuster forces you to adopt 2gig max ram and 32 bit OS, and yet it doesn't 
 do its freakin job at all. End result is the user is what pays for the inconvenience of the hacks. 
 There is no more than 100-200 people playing online at any given time. I expected a ton more players, 
 but seeing how flawed the game is, I don't blame the consumer. Also, if your in a vehicle, and 
 your ally is sitting next to you, and your vehicle blows up, you lose points for that. If you abandon 
 a vehicle, and an ally walks near it, it blows up, and you lose points for it. Overall, the result 
 is NO TEAMWORK or you will lose points for your vehicles auto-selfdestruct. If I leave a vehicle, 
 it isn't mine, and I don't expect to get any deduction in points if it blows itself up for some 
 unknown mysterious reason. If an enemy leaves a truck or humvee it gets autolocked. So you can't 
 hope in and take it. That is stupid, if it is abandoned, it should be claimable by anyone. And 
 it shouldn't selfdestruct. Half the time your avoiding any vehicle in the game just because when 
 your noob you learn quickly that vehicles are self-destructing bombs waiting for you to get close 
 and explode on you.
  
  Since the problems are so overwhelming that consumers will be punching holes in their walls and 
 pulling out their hair, then the score gets a 1 from me.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tobio19
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  .... Crysis a long while back was hard to believe in, I mean come on "close to real life graphics" 
 but now when we play it, they were completly right about it.
  
  Crysis is an FPS that doesnt just have humans to fight, it also throws in a few alien, which ends 
 up being quite satisfying. the game not only looks marveles but it sounds just as good, if you 
 have a 5.1 surround sound speaker set, then prepare for an epic movie expiriance. the storline 
 is short but worth playing, in the end all you do is tend to cry out for more.
  
  While in most games, as soon as the game is finished, you would tend not to touch it again untill 
 a few freinds come over and you want to show off the game, but in crysis not only are there a heap 
 of ways to play a level but the game comes with the full sandbox 2 editor, now guys this is what 
 crytek used to make the game. so you can make a whole game of your own with it. talking about the 
 multiplayer now, its great really fun and a huge difference in gameplay with the new nanosuit, 
 and powerstuggle is an epic warfare that always delivers.
  
  In conclusion I would state that this game is a must buy, and if you love great graphics and a 
 movie expirenced game, then I strongly recommend buying this game.
  
  Tobio19 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Signal2Noise
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is a somewhat fun and immersive gaming experience. The main thing is I can actually play 
 it on my computer with medium settings and DirectX 9 for best results. But that's all I have to 
 say about the plusses of Crysis. The 600+ other posts will give you a good idea of the game.
  
  My only real complaint about Crysis is the totally in (s) ane AI. The KPA can spot you from long 
 distances, in dense foliage, even with cloaking enabled on your nanosuit no less. The KPA also 
 instinctively know that it's you, the enemy, driving one of their Red Army marked vehicles and 
 shoot to kill from hundreds of meters away! I mean there's dozens of other vehicles around so how 
 can they possibly know one of them is being driven by the 'other' guy?? A recent article in leading 
 PC gaming magazine commented on the well done believability of the AI in Crysis. I have lost all 
 respect for that particular magazine now.
  
  I'm on my hundredth save now and I think I'm about a mere one hour of game time into the game. 
 Thanks to that 'believable' AI. Crysis should have come packaged with a disbelief hat and a bottle 
 of codeine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  As many of you guys out there, I expected a lot more from this game. The only reason I gave it 
 8.5 is for the stunning graphics, which are literally years away from any other game I have seen 
 or imagined. This engine is so good that Crysis deserves high score only because of it. Plus, it 
 could be a good basis for better games later this year.
  
  I found the first half of the game fairly interesting, with almost non-linear storyline. Well, 
 missions were still mostly linear, but you could at least f**k them and go sightseeing. The forests 
 and beaches are extremely realistic. 
  
  The rest of the game, however, does  big time. Somewhere after the 
 "tank level", the game grabs your nose and leads you through all the levels until the end. Maybe 
 this is true only for me, but being a puppet totally screws any idea of freedom, which is generously 
 suggested by the vast locations. 
  
  I don't even want to mention the aliens clich. These things were just so pathetic, that I almost 
 threw myself out of the window watching them "fly" over me while trying to escape their stupid 
 ship.
  
  As a conclusion...
  
  Outstanding graphics. Couldn't say more here. But that great potential was just left unused. After 
 all the commotion, this should have been a much better game. I cannot help myself thinking of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 with this engine... Aaah, dreams... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  - Graphically, this game is a stunner, in both DX 10 mode or DX 9 the visual experience is just 
 jaw dropping. The lighting effects are spot on and the atmosphere in some areas are downright saturating. 
 
  
  
  Audio:
  - Audio-wise will offer what is expected, you can hear the leaves rustle past you as you walk brush 
 past them. Vehicles driving by, even the clinking of brass hitting the tarmac is a nice touch.
 
  
  
  Gameplay:
  **Singleplayer:
  - Two major complaints length , and fluidity. COD 4 was bashed for being short, but the story moved 
 smoothly, and with a foreseeable purpose. In Crysis you play along, and the game suddenly ends, 
 and I found myself asking where did the rest of it go? It one of those games once you really get 
 knee deep into it, the game just stops and leaves you wanting much more.
  
  - The weapons are a nice touch, my favorite being the SMG, but you can attach upgrades unto your 
 weapons, and you get your hands on some really nice gear. Unfortunately, you only get a taste, 
 and you do not really get to use them as much, or in most cases you don't get enough ammo to really 
 get a good handle on the weapon or tool available.
  
  - The combat is sporadic, and most of the time offer different approaches to attack, or defend. 
 The AI could be a little more intelligent and not so scripted, you will find enemies through replays 
 in almost in the exact same area, pretty much doing the exact same thing. The enemies rarely massed 
 their fire on me, and other than a few instances the enemy rarely used grenades effectively.
  
  - The suit, which is the mainstay of the game will come into alot of use, for either running 
 from point a to b, sneaking around, snatching the enemy and tossing them like toys. The suit which 
 may be powerful, the power is fleeting - you have to constantly ascertain whether you have enough 
 enough power to preform a particular maneuver or tactic. 
  
  
  ** Multiplayer:
  - The multiplayer is a nice touch if it wasn't so poorly policed. Thus far most of the games I 
 have joined in progress had some sort of blatant cheating. Noting in the game your character does 
 not have some sort of free floating hover function, or the ability warp from one end of the map 
 to the other in less than a second.
  
  - The downside is the cheat protection is just not working, most of the admins aren't policing 
 enough. Thus far I have not found a server where someone was not trying to cheat in some form.
 
  
  - In small matches you will run into the same issues that plague BF2, and that is if you have about 
 12 or less players the level of action is greatly diminished do to the map size, where as BF2's 
 map do adjust, Crysis does not.
  
  
  Technical Aspects:
  - If your PC isn't up to snuff Crysis will kill your PC, if your PC is up to snuff your PC at this 
 point in time that this review was typed up will probably still die with max resolution enabled 
 with all the bells and whistles. If you do have them up to max you aren't going to get steady framerates 
 past 50 frame per second.
  
  - The games physics are pretty nice, and seemingly broken in others. You can destroy most buildings, 
 and really make some Greenpeace activist cry with how you can fell a jungle.
  
  - This game is entertaining, and has its good aspects, but it does not exactly excel at multiplayer, 
 and its single player just too abruptly ends, and feels short. This game if anything is the baseline 
 technical demo of what PC Games should strive to be graphically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  In Crysis, you're a Delta Force operative anno 2020. What appears to be alien technology has been 
 uncovered on a tropical island. You're there to make sure the North Koreans who've taken control 
 of the area don't get to keep the goodies. Helping in your fight is your futuristic nanosuit; which 
 can provide you with any of 4 boosts: speed, strength, armour and cloak. It also regenerates your 
 health.
  
  Crysis starts off good enough with gameplay and jungle environment very much like its predecessor 
 Far Cry. The levels aren't as big or open as those of Far Cry, but you'll still have plenty of 
 options open to you. The graphics are clearly the best I've ever seen, provided you can turn everything 
 to high or max detail settings. Unfortunately I think only an 8800 Ultra or better will do that 
 for you at appreciable resolutions. I recently bought a brand new PC (8800GT, Q6600 cpu, 2Gb memory) 
 and the first half of the game I would only get "smooth" frame rates at 1920x1200 at medium settings. 
 Halfway through the game the changed environment made the FPS take a hit and forced me to go to 
 1440x900. Ugh. Well even at medium detail it probably looks better than anything else, but not 
 by much.
  
  The AI is somewhat of a mixed bag; they'll take cover and flank you, but when you turn on your 
 cloak they seem to totally forget you're even there and tend to turn their back on the place where 
 you just went invisible. Not good.
  One of the selling points of the game is the highly destructive environment. Trees will snap like 
 twigs all around in a fierce gun battle; it's a nice feature, but like all new technologies it's 
 simply overused and overdone.
  
  I already mentioned it; halfway through the game the s*** hits the fan. Too bad because from that 
 point onwards the game is a 13 in a dozen slugfest, where it's just run & gun, and that's it. The 
 aliens are boring to look at and not fun to fight. You're even thrown into a VTOL aircraft and 
 there is no joystick support! To add insult to injury at some point you have to escape the pull 
 of sucking air, which at the time just feels like the controls don't work.
  
  Oh and can we have three hurrays for the latest trend in video gaming: .... cliffhanger endings. 
 What we always wanted is finally reality. Gits.
  
  Seriously they're going to have to get smart to prevent the expansion pack from being as boring 
 as the last part of Crysis.
  
  All in all, Crysis is not worth buying a new PC for and/or upgrading to Vista. Crysis is still 
 a good game but it can't match the sheer greatness of its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bernardofd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, there's CryTek again proving that they can make more than great-looking games. Crysis has 
 definitely the most impressive level of graphics and terrain interaction that I've ever seen, although 
 there's no mid-end PC that can run it in maximum detail. As for example, mine PC, a Core2Duo E6550, 
 2GB RAM DDR2 800MHz, eVGA GeForce 8800GTS 320MB and running Vista Ultimate with DirectX 10, could 
 barely run the most crowded scenes in a decent fps in (mostly) medium settings and no anti-aliasing 
 (although it was running perfectly fine for 99% of the game) .
  
  Besides the technical stuff, the single-player campaign is great, although a little short (leaving 
 an opening for sequels) . Great voice-acting (stands out when Aztec prays in spanish for his life 
 in the early-game) and ambient sound, smooth gameplay, nice enemy IA, several tactical option for 
 complete an objective and the vast inventory of weapons, weapon-customization items and vehicles 
 adds a lot.
  
  (Warning: some spoilers)
  The only set-back was some minor flaws, pretty countournable. I had some trouble in the Courier 
 stage with the collision detection system of the engine. Right after the nuclear attack to the 
 island and the alien's counter-attack, the floor of the Almirant's cabin did not hold any collision 
 properties, and the player's and almirant's bounding-boxes just fall to the middle of the ship 
 in a polygon-void area. Weird, but resolved with a game "reboot". I still haven't played the game 
 with the recent released update patch, so I hope this is fixed.
  
  I also didn't have the opportunity to play the multiplayer feature, but, from far as I'd seen, 
 the Power Struggle mode sounds like a LOT of fun.
  
  Resuming, this game aimed to be in the history of the FPS genre, as Half-Life, Wolfenstein 3D or 
 Doom, and one can say that it succeeded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  This game has almost everything - non-stop action, great AI, graphics leading the charge of moore's 
 law, varied targets/play style (go stealth, front out attack, scout, tanks, on foot, etc.)
  
  What it doesn't have:
  -a good story. You've seen this theme before. Even the imagery. For 
 example, think: "Independence Day" + "The Matrix" - minor complaint
  -good acting (the testosterone level here is over the top, so much so it becomes tedious) - minor 
 complaint
  
  Major complaint: The reliabiliy of this game was completely unacceptable. In every sense:
  At 
 the end game levels, the game crashed every 5 minutes. Vista? The Game? Particular HW? Unknown.
 
  framerate: Vista ranks, in terms of performace, the HW this game was played on at "5.9" across 
 the board. The game is marked as "recommended performance" of 5.0. It also auto-detects maximum 
 quality on my machine as the right setting .
  At this setting, and curiously even at "high" setting across the board, the framerate was 20 for 
 most of the game (yes, this is high-end, brand new, HW) . But at crucial scenes and levels (e. g. 
 the entire end level) , the frame rate dropped to: 1 frame every 5 seconds in places, sometimes 
 worse.
  
  Consistency is key - this game doesn't have it when it comes to framerate - at settings *it* chose 
 (or Vista ranks as "just fine") - so much so, it made some levels unplayable. ... it would most 
 definitely take a multiple card system to fully use this game.
  Top of the line (quad core, DDR3 system and card, etc.) HW with a single card is not enough - since 
 this problem is with specific levels, not the whole game, you choose: Vista or Crytek's QA dept.
 
  Add to that frequent crashes, and the frustration put a major bullet hole in this game's armor.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uvanguliashki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The jump in graphical achievments that CryTek made will start a new page in gameing history! It 
 was going to happen sooner or later and thakns to the dudes in CryTek it came sooner. The game is 
 verry beautiful but a pane in the wallet. It took me 1500lv (the bulgarian currency) to make it run 
 decently on High. The game is a beginning of a trilogy (no wonder it was so short) . Yes it was short;
 
  Yes it was expensive;
  And yes it was hanging on a card...
  But it is worth the money it is a great game and it is not leaner!
  And that will make you want 
 to replay it all over again and again!
  As i said (wrote) the game is great and if you're a gameing maniac (like me) and have the money then 
 just upgrade your PC get your ass out and by the game! It deserves it!!!
  
  Before i forget:
  The game has a editor and it's verry cool (right now im working on my new islands) . You 
 can make your own maps missions and games and share them with your friends! The thing is it isn't 
 so easy to use, so it takes some learning. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stappy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Despite popular rumours, you don't need a high-end Computer for Crysis to work. On my Quad Core 
 CPU, with a GeForce 8600 GT 512MB, and 2 GB Ram, it ran fine on medium (and looked better than any 
 other games) . In terms of graphics and physics, it's the most realistic to date. However, i believe 
 modders will find it a paradise. A simple map editor allows for anything between Tornado's, to 
 flying cars to be placed anywhere. But because of the physics craving such a high speed CPU, i 
 need to take 0.5 points from it. This is a must buy from anyone that likes open FPS games.
  
  The multi player part of the game, however, is another story. It reminds me of a cross between 
 Grand Theft Auto, and Counter-Strike. You may choose your own spawn, buy your own vehicle, and 
 customize your weapons in any way you wish. Each gameplay mode has it's own objectives, and each 
 map bears a similarity to a part of the Single Player area. It will keep you playing for at least 
 20 hours more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinfirst002
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  Crysis is an astounding achievement. The first thing to say about this game of course is the graphics. 
 Crytek have done the best job at making it look not just very realistic, but real. The engine not 
 only relies on photorealism unlike some other game... but has many astonishing features to make 
 the graphics first class. Not only the graphics itself, but also the complex skeletal and facial 
 features make it even more a realistic environment. CryEngine2 is seriously one of the best engines 
 to use. Talking about graphics, as you might already know, it requires an "uber" rig capable doing 
 all those fantastic calculations. However, it still looks great at lower settings comparing to 
 other games on the market. The game is very immersive, this works because of the realistic enriched 
 environment set in the game. There are tons of interactive objects to play around giving the player 
 creativity on how to accomplish the mission. The storyline of the campaign was quite good too; 
 which goes from what seems to be a routine mission to something that screws up the island, although 
 it ends with an infamous cliffhanger. It is also very fun too having a futuristic 'Nanosuit' allowing 
 doing quick manoeuvres and extreme bunny hopping actions. I also like the idea that you can grab 
 onto North Koreans, throw them by the neck, and like saying, "sit the f$#& down". The multiplayer 
 side is pretty cool and good fun although it is not very addictive and has a few drawbacks. Nevertheless, 
 who knows, maybe Crysis 2 would have one of the best multiplayers. Overall, this is worth the buck 
 with all the fantastic sploding awesomeness and a user-friendly powerful Crysis editor programme 
 (Sandbox 2) just at 50 dollars. Crytek has made a game like no other, it is the best game, most 
 fun, and allowed me to mod it for months, and probably years. Can't wait till the rest of the sequel 
 comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zertos
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  the graphic are great and the game play is awesome but the only thing that lets it down is how 
 poorly they made the story line its really cheesy and its really nothing new its seems earth is 
 always getting invaded that type of story line has been use so many times it makes me think does 
 game designers care about game detail or just whose game got the best graphic detail. Apart from 
 all that tons of fun game time and its one of those game i just want to play loud cause its fun 
 but i believe crytek and to much better. also they need to fix tons of bugs that are in the game 
 that ruin the game experience and so that stop you in your tracks when playing the game cause it 
 wont allow you to carry on, i could really go on and on with what's wrong with the game but mostly 
 it has tons of little problems and only one big disappointment which is the story line of course 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Wow oh wow crysis is closer to real life when playing the game it out beats every other game out 
 there right now in visual effects. Crysis is full of stuff like good shadows, skies and water. 
 The single player will get you looking through every bush cliff for enemies waiting to pwn you. 
 The nano suit abilities are neat I use the cloaking ability allot, but doesn't last long (that 
 sucks) . The speed enhancement can get you out of harm and get through the level quicker. The strength 
 option is very cool, jumping to high places and punching Koreans and cars into the air. The ability 
 to customize you weapons and the weapons you pick up is very well done. This game crysis make you 
 think you're trying eliminating Koreans but twists it into fighting a million year old aliens. 
 One thing they should have added is more tanks to drive in the beginning and more air to air combat 
 missions (that would be fun) . One thing I hated in the game was when I was in the alien mother 
 ship and you killed one of them and more came out (that went on forever!!!) . The creators should 
 of put some of the big alien machines inside to kill you that would be insane. I encountered a 
 few glitches in the game like getting stuck in a weird area or making my computer crash by loading 
 up at a save point where I was cloaked in a battle with the aliens. Bad thing about this game was 
 the ending in which makes it look like there's either a crysis 2 or add on package or they're adding 
 the rest of the single player in some kind of patch. The multiplayer is kind of good but gets boring 
 really fast you'll wind up playing single player again. Also everybody is using cheating programs 
 online and punk buster isn't helping the online play.
  
  Overall this game is the best game I ever seen!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatbigmouth
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  What I like about this game is the stunning detailed world that you play in. Moving trees, animals, 
 etc makes your screen come to life as you blast your way through the dense jungles and forests. 
 Excellent shader effects and solid textures looks brilliant. However, if you don't have a GeForce 
 8800 or similair video card, you can't benefit from all these brilliant graphics. 
  
  Here are my System specs:
  
  AMD Athlon 64 X2 Dual Core 3800+
  2GB 667 DDR2 
  Asus GeForce 
 8600GT 256MB DDR3
  
  Crysis kills your hardware. I could only play it at medium settings and on 800x600 if I wanted 
 smooth gameplay all around. At 1024x768 it's still pretty playable, but in areas with a lot of 
 enemies and fighting involved, I experienced lag. 
  
  The game gets a bit boring after a few hours. You shoot Koreans around every corner, while the 
 story isn't exactly keeping you on the edge of your seat. The Nano-suit, however, is an incredible 
 feature. It makes the game all the more interesting to play, as you can modify your skills and 
 tactics to fit the situation in the game. If you need a burst of speed quickly, you are able to 
 switch to "Maximum Speed" mode. Or if you're taking heavy fire, "Maximum armor" could be the key 
 to life or death. 
  
  Generally, Crysis is for people who crave extremely good graphics. But if you're unable to set 
 the quality to at least "High", it's not worth the price or time. It's because of the next generation 
 graphics that people buy this game. If you're looking for a much more thrilling gameplay experience, 
 with half the requirements of Crysis, get yourself Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. 
  
  I'm giving Crysis 7/10, simply because it doesn't feature a very interesting story, isn't very 
 addictive, and requires the most absurd system specs to run properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blubadox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I am sure the world would be waiting to know why I never reviewed Crysis (yea sure) . I didn't write 
 a review early because I wanted to try in and outs of this game before posting my opinion. Crysis 
 is a game where game play mechanics are balanced and enhanced at the same time, many developers 
 fail to understand the basic blocks that make a game entertaining, and after all gaming is a form 
 of entertainment. The basic blocks include the following elements: genre, story, user interaction, 
 level design, graphics, sound, music and so on, if these elements are not properly implemented 
 then the game fails to attract the gamers' attention. Crysis from the scratch puts a lot of emphasis 
 on these basic blocks and sort of improvises them to make it more entertaining.
  
  Story: In a nutshell- it's a simple rescue mission on a hostile island filled with North Koreans 
 but something goes wrong  the rescue mission turns into a deadly struggle for human survival against 
 aliens. Kina cool
  
  User Interaction: Customizable weapons, Vehicles (trucks, boats, tanks, flying VTOLS) , GPS, Nanosuit- 
 that can adjusted depending upon the game situation, the suit supports four modes: Armor, Strength, 
 Speed and Cloak, all of these modes are dependent on the suit's energy which drains out very soon 
 so you have to wait until the suit re-charges again- it's pretty quick in Normal difficulty mode.
 
  
  Level Design: The levels are very well designed allowing you to play the game in any way you like 
 in a dense jungle not to mention there is zero gravity alien space ship level which is a bit different 
 and there are ice frost levels which is a result of alien frost wave turning the jungle into a 
 frozen paradise.
  
  Graphics: One word- Phenomenal, every bit is realistic, immersive and fluid, by far the best looking 
 game ever, It uses DX 10 effects really well but all that eye candy comes at a price. Using 64bit 
 version of Crysis will slightly enhance the performance.
  
  Sound: Nothing much to say here, they've blended the sounds of nature, weapons and aliens very 
 well.
  
  Music/Voice: A bit of Hollywood touch to the game which is true because music is scored by pros 
 from Hollywood.
  
  Multiplayer: Where you destroy enemy headquarters in multiplayer mode called Power Struggle, but 
 first you have to capture energy sites that will allow you to make weapons, vehicles in factories 
 etc which will aid you in the mission, as you progress in the game you will earn point which can 
 be used to buy stuff (yep there is a nice purchase system) . The maps are also huge...
  
  So what is there to complain about? There are some gamers who like maxing all of the visual effects 
 which is quite impossible with crysis at the moment because the graphics are futuristic so the 
 hardware must be futuristic aswell.
  
  Also technical issues are obvious when you have something this big. Crytek has already issued a 
 first patch and I am sure there are more to come.
  
  Oh an I almost forgot, there is a Sandbox Editor that allows you to make your own maps, models, 
 it's also very easy to use just go over to Crymod. com and download some tutorials.
  
  As you can see Crysis enhances every aspects of the FPS genre, you cannot really complain here 
 but if you do then you must be one of those whiners who want to max everything.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Octavius09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I just can't understand why so many people want to compare Call of duty 4 with Crysis. I have both 
 but i see them as totally different games, so i won't compare them in my review of Crysis.
  
  Single player:
  When i first started up this game i was a little disappointed that there 
 was no intro movie, but once i started my single player game everything afterwards made up for 
 it. The first cut scene already dragged me into the storyline and made clear to me that i was going 
 to enjoy this game. After jumping out of the plane the tutorial mode already showed it's use by 
 telling me how to deploy my parachute and use my night vision. This tutorial mode helped me throughout 
 the entire game without ever becoming annoying or to overly helpful. After landing a bit roughly 
 in the ocean my Delta Force squad leader "Prophet" gave me my first mission and rebooted my nanosuit. 
 Getting used to this suit is vital, because basically your suit is your main weapon. Of course 
 you get to use guns, rifles, shotguns, assault rifles, rocket launchers, mini guns, different kind 
 of grenades and even a alien weapon but still when you don't use your suit properly to given situations 
 you will have a struggle for life and ammo. Also your weapons can be altered during the game. Not 
 all options for these guns will be available at first but throughout the game you will be able 
 to collect them.
  
  The first part of the game you will be fighting against NKPA (North Korean People's Army) soldiers 
 in breathless jungle fights. These NKPA troops can become pretty though at times when trying to 
 engage heads on. But fortunately you have your nanosuit to help you outsmart them. You can use 
 this suit in 4 different modes: armor, strength, speed, and cloak. Armor absorbs and heals damage; 
 speed will allow you to reload and run faster; strength gives you the power to lift heavy items 
 and to throw items including nades and enemies much farther away, it also makes you jump higher 
 which is useful to get to higher places more easily; and finally my favorite one cloak that makes 
 you become invisible and reduce noise output. For those who have seen Predator movies will recognize 
 most of the functions with the suit the Predator is wearing.
  You will also be able to drive most vehicles in the game, but the controls of these vehicles are 
 not always simple at first and you will need a bit of practice before feeling comfortable in them. 
 You can also switch seats in these vehicles and use their guns. On normal and easy setting you 
 can use the guns even while driving them. Your nanosuit will interact with the on board weapons 
 in this case.
  In the jungle fights your cloak option will come in handy, and setting up a shot and strategy to 
 engage your enemy's always seems the best option. Sometimes it even proves to be more rewarding 
 trying to sneak past them without even engaging them.
  Another option for you to use in your strategies will be using the destructive environment to kill 
 your enemy's.
  Almost everything in this game can be destroyed and the physics look pretty impressive while not 
 always perfect.
  
  The second part of the game will have you fight against aliens. These are much faster and much 
 harder to kill then NKPA troops. So taking your time to slowly set up your shot isn't a part of 
 the game anymore. Instead you will find yourself going through your ammo on a fast rate, and always 
 in need of bigger weapons. You will have to be quick and precise or you end up reloading on a regular 
 basis. Again a vital part will be selecting the correct settings for your nanosuit and weapons.
 
  
  While the first part of the game gives you much freedom how to finish missions, the second part 
 will be much more linear but still allows you some options how to get the job done.
  The storyline and cut scenes look great, and at moments you feel you just want to hurry through 
 missions to see the next one.
  Also a big plus is that not one new game will look like the previous one. The AI will do always 
 something else and the huge maps will give you plenty of ways to end a mission.
  
  Multi player:
  Also the multi player maps look stunning, but only 2 modes are available (instant 
 action, a deathmatch type mode and power struggle, this is more a team based mode) . Yes, the missing 
 of a team deathmatch surely can be seen as a mistake.
  
  Game engine:
  The environment (especially the jungle) looks absolutely stunning, not one screenshot can do justice 
 on it, because you really have to watch some movie clips to see how breathtaking it is.
  You will need a beefy PC to run this game on higher settings with a decent frame rate, but still 
 on low settings this game looks great.
  Crysis uses a new engine "CryENGINE2", it's one of the first engines that can use Direct3D 10 (DirectX 
 10) for Vista, and still can use DirectX 9 also, for both Vista as XP.
  The game comes with an editor called "Sandbox editor", but you will have to install it manually.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  This game looks really awesome in all it's glory but still has some space for improvement.
  Both 
 single player as multi player look very well done, but on the latter the missing from a team deathmatch 
 surely is felt.
  If you was saving to upgrade your RAM and Video card, now is the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Bob_UK
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Crysis had a lot of hype surrounding it. Message boards with endless topics that read "omg it hs 
 gd gfx bt is it gd gmea?"!??"??52568590" could be spotted from far away distances if you had a 
 special type of equipment.
  
  Crysis is a great looking game that will test your hardware to the extremes. The sound effects 
 are good but I noticed that some sounds were direct copies from other games. The artificial intelligence 
 in this game is somewhat difficult to describe. OK, maybe it isn't. The AI is stupid. Enemies will 
 do whatever it takes to make you fall back in your chair with laughter as the run past you completely 
 ignoring you standing there with a gun aimed at their face. I do hope future patches will address 
 some of the issues in this game. You have a special suit called the Nano Suit which gives you amazing 
 powers. There is Maximum Strength, Maximum Armour, Maximum Speed, Weapon Customisation and Invisibility. 
 The main story is boring and predictable. The ending is clichd to Hell and back.
  
  The multiplayer in Crysis is average. You have only two game modes. These are Power Struggle and 
 Instant Action. Power Struggle is like a Battlefield copy. You can buy weapons and equipment like 
 in Counter-Strike: Source. Instant Action is basically Deathmatch. Where is Team Deathmatch? Where 
 is Capture the Flag? The absence of these popular game modes make me shake my head and tut.
  
  Crysis does have glitches as well. I found guns spinning about in front of me, in the air, 
 cars flipping over for no reason, cars standing up perfectly with missing tires and the aliens 
 freezing when you kill them, stopping you from progressing in the game and forcing you to reload 
 a save. No game is perfect but the lads and lasses at CryTek could have released a working and 
 stable version 1.0 of their hyped game.
  
  Overall, Crysis gets a 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpaticoman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  I know everyone is talking about this game. Obviously another review on its virtues wont do much 
 harm. However I will only talk on its atmosphere and inmersion. You really feel like having some 
 holidays in your nanosuit in the greatest place in the world. Incredibly beautiful beaches, jungles 
 come out direct from Jurassic park, mountains Alpine high. Sounds of birds, of somethings moving 
 in the forest, water falling, ... If it wasn't for the badasses I would definitely go to that place, 
 build a house and live there for the rest of my life fishing and eating coconuts and having bathes 
 in the sea. 
  Maybe I will some day.
  Regarding the nano suit, what can be said but where the hell do sell those things. Imagine one 
 of those when we where in high school. Free entrie to cheer leaders change room using the morphing 
 skill. High speed if your suits energy depletes in the worst moment. Super strength to jump a couple 
 of walls seeking a safe place. And maximun protection in case your ass gets kicked ;)
  Breathtakingly beautiful. The begining of the new generation games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- 
  This is a very revolutionary game. While most shooters out there are very linear, Crysis allows 
 you to pick whatever way you want. You can cloak and pick everyone off one by one, you can just 
 run past the enemy, you can try to do it rambo style. You can come from the the north side, or 
 the south side, east side or the west side. The possibilities are endless. The physics also can 
 come in handy. Enemy concealed in the flora? No problem, take a jeep and shoot down all the trees, 
 and rip apart the flora. Expose your enemy. Also helpful when you your line of site is blocked 
 by an annoying tree. The AI is also very good for the most part. You will see some weird stuff 
 here and there, but that is understandable since this is a sandbox type game and nothing is scripted.
 
  
  Graphics-
  What can I say? These are the best technical graphics ever. The detail is amazing.
  
  Sound- 
 The sound is awesome. The ambient sound really makes you feel like you are there. Especially if 
 you have surround sound.
  
  Value- Since no battle is ever the same, this game will probably last you for a while. Also it 
 has a pretty good multiplayer mode called Power struggle which is basically Counter Strike meets 
 Battlefield.
  
  
  This truly is an interesting and an amazing piece of work. If are interested in shooters, and your 
 computer can handle it, then you should definitely try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinnlm
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  you have to give it to crytek it is quite realistic. The game play is beautiful its AI is such 
 that it is different every time around the story is good if you have played far cry then you know 
 hat i am talking about. I would advise getting this game it is a game you will play many times. 
 The plot is great It is hard to stop playing once you start. The world is almost fully interactive 
 you can knock down walls pick up sticks and club the KPA. The nano-suit is a very nice touch combining 
 strategy with shoot em up. If you cant buy wait until you can because you'll never finish if you 
 rent. The multi-player is great especially for the halo fans. The sandbox allows you build your 
 own levels with the same tools the creators made the game with. The main downfall is that it takes 
 a powerful computer to run it on. You need Intel Pentium 4 2.8 GHz (3.2 GHz for Vista) , Intel Core 
 2.0 GHz (2.2 GHz for Vista) , AMD Athlon 2800+ (3200+ for Vista) or better definitely go for better 
 because you lose a lot of the realisticity of the game play. The game play is hard even on easy 
 you probably wont beat the game the first time without dieing 20 times. But Its not the frustrating 
 i am going to whack my screen with the keyboard type of game. I once again really advise buying 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassam7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Woah the game is something really special! The story is amazing, the character s are amazing and 
 the graphics are out of this world! OMG!!!!
  
  Let me first take a breath before I continue the graphics are so undeniabely brilliant that you 
 can't take your eyes of the game! Even these graphics are not full said Crytek you will need a 
 monster PC to have full graphical output! 
  
  I just love the way you can customize your weapon and most important of all use the awesome features 
 of your incredible nano suit! With the nano suit u have super speed, super strength (which lets you 
 grab your enemies and shove them off the island! and lift heavy barrels) , super jump etc, cloaking 
 device for a limited amount of time! 
  
  The games forests and jungles are awesome, very well designed and if you shoot a bamboo tree it 
 will fall down! 
  
  The game also lets you roam around freely through the islands no tension! 
  
  In the game you 
 can also drive boats, trucks. 
  
  I love this game!
  
  Btw I played this game at my friend's house I don't own it. I wish I did! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uacagin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Even before the game came out, people already had enough of the game by watching its stunning videos 
 of its graphics and gameplay... And when the game came out, i didnt see any reviews that gave the 
 game below 90 points, and i think it would be a shame to give a game like this even 85 points. To 
 run Crysis you have to have an unbelievable computer because the system requirements is really 
 high. When i first started the game, i just stopped and looked at the graphics for a long time and 
 shooted some trees to see if they said true about the trees that can fall when you open fire. The 
 nanosuit you wear in the game gives you a huge advantege against your enemies. The nanosuit gives 
 you 4 options;  weapon modification. The invisibility 
 doesnt last long and the lenght depends on if youre running, walking or stopping. The hardest part 
 in the game for me was the part when you go into the alien ship, because the aliens just wont die, and 
 there are alot of them. But thats not a bad thing about the game. The most annoying thing was, when 
 the koreans in the game copy your nanosuit and your character tells that the nanosuit they're wearing 
 is useless compared to ours, but it actually isnt... Your walk while youre invisible doesnt last 
 long but they can run super long distances without being visible again. But still i dont think that 
 this game has any weaknesses and its certainly the best game of the year..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fifolon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly a new breath of fresh air! Absolutely stunning visuals, heart throbbing game 
 play, and a twisting story with an unexpected ending.
  From destructible environments to life-like weapon handling, how can anyone not play Crysis without 
 having the urge to chain themselves to the chair and play the game till its complete?
  All I can say is that the story immerses you none stop and the deeper you go into the game, the 
 hungrier you become for more.
  The graphics are stunning and the environment is very well done. What's unique is the fact that 
 nearly everything in the game is tangible and destructible. This really adds to the game's extraordinary 
 performance (especially when being fired at by enemies) .
  On warning though, this game rapes the life out of any machine. I recently bought a new rig with 
 Sli and 4 gigs of RAM. Ran very smooth.
  I recommend this game to any one who's into jungle sci-fi!
  Multi player is really stable, enjoyable 
 and after sometime addictive!
  So if Crysis is your cup of tea, GO OUT AND BUY IT! You won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrowningFerret
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  This is graphically the best game I've ever played and the first FPS where having a destructible 
 environment didn't feel like a tacked on gimmick. However with the quality of the physics engine 
 and its level of destructibility in game causes one to expect things that are beyond the normally 
 expected. This can most easily be seen in a lack of bullet penetration, hence you can shoot a high 
 powered rifle at a guy the other side of a wooden door and kill the door but not harm the guy. 
 Another example is that you can rocket a guard tower with a sniper in it and the guard tower will 
 be destroyed but the splash damage doesn't hurt the guy standing 2 feet behind the aluminum wall 
 and he walks away from the ordeal unharmed. Don't get me wrong here, this is hands down the best 
 physics engine I've seen in a game its just that it on first glance it raises the bar to a level 
 that even it does not meet. 
  
  The only reason I don't rate this game a 10 is the lack of replay value. The campaign is solid, 
 even though it ends too soon with a cliff-hanger ending. However once the campaign is finished 
 for me all that remains to do in an FPS is head online and try the multi player. The multi player 
 isn't bad its just that its not on the same level of Call of Duty 4 (which has bullet penetration) 
 and Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Cryses is a spectacular game, the atmosphere , the gameplay and its long, its a must buy.
  
  1st of all, the story is amazing , going on a cool mission , with some great guns is masterpiece. The 
 graphics and the atmoshere are the most amazing thing in tha game. for the 1st few levels the game 
 is fine , but when you pass already 7 levels it becomes pretty hard. Shooting in the game is fun 
 , aliens aspecially.
  
  The game lasts long and it really fun. The enviroments are amazing, through the jungles , some cool 
 alien caves and lots of more. Its a first preson shooter , so its cool. The gameplay is alright , 
 its good. Also the multiplayer works just perfectly . the explosions work perfectly the same , 
 
  
  i dont see any probs in this game so then its PERFECT.
  
  Enviroments: Perfect
  Story: Great
  Gameplay :Perfect
  Multiplayer: Superb
  Graphics: Outstanding (like perfect)
 
  Atmoshere: Outstanding
  
  WARNING: MUST BUY 
  
  Crysis is a spectacular game, it doesnt seem to have alot of flwas either. A great game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardnexus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Crysis, is an easy best FPS choice. I don't quite understand why there're so many arguements about 
 it but I do quite understand the level of frustrations could be bundled with this game. 
  
  Hardware consuming - Many reviewers point out that they can't run the game smoothly and result 
 of a 2 star. Crysis, like F. E. A. R., is a game for tomorrow's hardware. You really need very high-end 
 graphic card in order to utilize its potential. How high is high? A reviewer said that 7900 is 
 high. Well, my 8800GTS 640mb can't run this game in last stage which is an open sea environment 
 with lots explosions in a heavy rain. I have to lower the setting to low in order to avoid lagging 
 so that I can shoot those aliens. If you need a clear line between high or not-high. 8800 is the 
 line. Keep in mind that this is a game that CPU matters. If you have a crappy CPU, you will experience 
 lagging. 
  
  Bugs - There're several known bugs in this game. The most annoying one is so called "none-trigger 
 event" which many people experienced in the stage where you have to save a hostage in a school. 
 What happens is you got stuck in that stage, can't go anywhere and can't do anything. It's almost 
 like you spent $49 to play only 1/3 or the game. I don't think the newest patch fixed this bug. 
 However, there're many websites provide solutions such as go certain path in order to trigger certain 
 event. My personal opinion, after calling EA support for help, the best solution is to download 
 the saved game with the right sequence from the Internet (may people offer that) , overwrite your 
 old saved game, and start from there. 
  
  Did I say bugs? Oh yeah, it has more. 
  
  After you spent several hours to find a bug fun such as a precision rifle or mini-gun and save 
 all the ammos for them. You feel good about yourself. You saved the game and go to bed. Next day, 
 when you load the saved game and often time you're in the middle of a situation you need firepower, 
 you realize your mini gun is disappeared from your inventory! That's another bug that new released 
 patch didn't fix. 
  To fix that, you have to have yourself killed and the next time system load the game, your inventory 
 will be accurate. 
  
  One last bug I'd like to point out is a weird bug. I guess it has to do with the psychic dimension 
 they put into this game due to the massive 3D environment. This bug will cause you a sudden death 
 without any reason. It happens when you try to squeeze yourself through a tiny space. For instance, 
 space between a barrel and the wall or the space between a desk and a chair. If you keep on pushing 
 it, you'll die instantly. For a game like Crysis which focused on every details to be realistic, 
 this is not real at all and sometimes can be very frustrated. 
  
  A perfect example I have is in the stage where you need to go to the school located in the center 
 of a village (the same stage that you might stuck in there) . This is a difficult stage because 
 you have to wipe out all North Korean soldiers. In addition to that, you have to follow certain 
 path in order to trigger the event. Well, after spending 45 mins to kill 99% of the enemy, you 
 tried to squeeze through a space between two barrels in order to get a clean shot of the last standing 
 enemy. All of a sudden, you die without any reason. And you'll turn off you computer right away 
 because you just notice that you have to start doing the same thing all over! 
  
  
  Crysis is a highly anticipated game especially the release date got postponed several times. Those 
 frustrations make this nearly prefect masterpiece less attractive. I'm still amazed by the detail, 
 the beautiful environment, the cinematic sequence, the background music and the designs even when 
 I played the second time. It's kinda understandable for those people who gave 1 star or 2 star 
 reviews because of the frustrations caused by bugs and hardware requirements. I don't know about 
 bugs but I do know that the correlation between hardware and ultra realistic presentation is positive. 
 Because of that I truly appreciate the effort that Crysis put together. As a matter of fact, I'm 
 leaning toward appreciation over frustration on this trade-off line that Crysis gave us. I'll easily 
 give it 4.5 out 5 with all those annoying bugs and frustrations. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: franekKimo
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  I have Toshiba P100-429, Intel Core Duo 1.66, 3GB RAM, NVidia 7600 128MB - on minimum details it 
 works absolutely fine. And to all of you who are going to say that I'm missing more important thing 
 in this game - graphic - I do not care about graphic. Game is good when you play it because it's 
 interesting not because it looks awesome. I was surprised that even under DX9 I could still cut 
 the trees with my gun. Anyway - game is a little bit boring, the only interesting thing is that 
 magic suit. I've never had such interesting possibilities before in a game. You could hide, go 
 like tank, speed up. I like sneaking so camouflage is really great here. Some people say story 
 is not interesting. I love Quake 2, Unreal, Half-Life, Far Cry - not because of story - they are 
 just good shooters, with well planned maps, interesting enemy's, also graphic (old but still good) . 
 I have to say that I would like to see this game in full details, just to check it out. But if 
 game is playable on minimum details for me it means it's good enough.
  I'm giving it 7.0 because the only thing that makes this game interesting is nano suite. Otherwise 
 it's just another shooter like many others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viperboy2025
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I beat the game in 3 straight days of playing roughly 6 hours a day. Very good game, if you get 
 it play at least on Hard, although Delta difficulty is where ALL the fun is at. The harder you 
 play the more realistic the game is, not just by enemies being more accurate but there are other 
 features that make harder difficulty more worth it.
  
  reason i didn't give it a perfect 10, is because I also played Call of Duty 4, which I felt was 
 even better and crazy in terms of lots of action and eye-candy, and game play. The game play of 
 Crysis is almost -perfect, but very slightly might at one point or another seem slightly repetitive, 
 just slightly. I am gonna have to disagree with many review sights that think its the best game 
 of the year, Its a great game and awesome game that will make you money worth it, but I think of 
 it as the 2nd best game of the year. Which is still awesome. 
  
  It was a little buggy when I bought it also especially toward the end of the game, it seems they 
 were in a rush to release this game, they only game out with a patch in January, which did fix 
 the bugs, or most of them at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalepeace
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Everyone one wants a realistic game, with an amazing sound track, intense AI, Superb actors, and 
 Gameplay like no other. Well Crysis is that game. Based on the new Cryengine 2, it brings gaming 
 to a whole new level never before witnessed by gamer.
  
  You are a member of a elite Covert Task force sent in to a North Korean Held island to rescue a 
 group of Archiologists. It begins with intense cut scenes and a little jump out of an airplane. 
 As the night goes on things begin to go terribly wrong as you and your team realize you are not 
 along on the Island, something else is there.
  
  Graphics: The Cryengine 2 supports some of the best graphics ever before witnessed by gamers. Intensely 
 realistic environments with destructable trees, houses, fences, Heck almost everything can be destroyed 
 some way. It also has a time of day effect, How long do you want to wait, you can attack now or 
 just simply wait for the sun to go down and attack in the cover of darkness. It is a new leap in 
 Video Game graphical performance that leads the way on the new DX10 engine.
  
  Audio: The game has a seperatly written sound track. It almost sounds and feels like a movie. With 
 the amazing voice acting and sinamatically based music you could get lost in the realism of this 
 game. Acting is top notch and leads to a great experience.
  
  Gameplay: The game play is always ever increasinly difficult. With realistic AI and destructable 
 environments no where is safe to hid anymore. Watch as the enemy make plans to surround you and 
 cut off any hope of escape. Or just observe as the enemy goes on its daily routine. Should you 
 wait till the enemy is asleep? This game will have you up in you seat and many long nights trying 
 different ways to play in this open environment. do the missions in many different paths and combinations. 
 Even skip certain tasks all together. With many nano suit capabilities you become a formitable 
 attacker. EVen choose different weapon customizations in the real time Customizational weapons 
 option.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Watch in amazement, good people. By playing mad libs, and substituting key elements of the original 
 Far Cry game design, I am able to transform it into a completely new, and not at all derivative 
 game!
  
  
  A highly-trained ____________ ( retired commando / nanotech-enhanced commando ) fights alone through 
 lush, tropical jungle islands against an overwhelming force of nondescript ____________ ( mercenaries 
 / North Korean soldiers ) all the while investigating the mysterious threat posed by the indiscriminately 
 violent ____________ ( mutants / aliens ) who attack both our hero and his enemies.
  
  As he proceeds through the game, our hero confronts and helps defeat the ____________ ( nanotech 
 virus / alien civilisation ) that was unleashed by the recklessness of the crazy ____________ ( 
 German scientist / North Korean general ) . An ambiguous, but vaguely positive finale occurs.
  
  
  In all seriousness, though, there are really only two substantial changes from Far Cry:
 
  
  1) The nano-suit. A cute little gimmick, at first, but it occurs to me that the gameplay has balanced 
 to take this gimmick into account... which means that fights are *not* balanced for you to engage 
 in without repetitive changes between stealth and armor mode, or using speed to sprint past enemy 
 patrols altogether because it's so tedious to spend 10 minutes killing 10 enemies.
  
  2) More linear area design. Far Cry's level design essentially consisted of "you are at point A 
 on and island, you need to go to points B and C" and the rest was left up to you. This was quite 
 fun, and really, the chief appeal of Far Cry's gameplay. Crysis is still open-ended, but you are 
 forced into a more linear track through the levels - which I suspect is to mitigate how demanding 
 the graphics engine is.
  
  So, basically, it's Far Cry. If you liked Far Cry, you'll like Crysis. Maybe not as much, because 
 the only addition to the gameplay turns out to be an annoying gimmick, while the open-ended level 
 design has been castrated by the demands of the new game engine. 
  
  But yeah, it's still a great game.
  
  I'd just prefer it if game developers didn't just rehash 
 the same material in order to demonstrate their excessively demanding new graphics engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  There you go, Crysis is here and i'm gonna review it :D First thing you'll notice are the graphics, 
 that is if you have a graphics card that can run the game at least at medium details, cause at 
 low it looks great but it's not the revolution everybody's talking about. Also, even on the very 
 buffed PCs you might experience slow-downs at high settings during the cut-scenes or intense gun 
 fights. Storywise... not much at all. Aliens trying to conquer the world, bla, bla, been there, 
 done that! Gameplay, hmm, borrows ideas from other games so it's not revolutionary on that side 
 either, but the controls are fine. The only original thing it has in gameplay is changing the suit 
 modes. So it's revolutionary graphicwise, but it's not a total revolution as many people say. That's 
 just my opinion, you don't have to bash about it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludacrisbeing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Overall a wonderful package of lush and crisp visuals and some good AI. 
  You will need a monster rigg to play on any setting that will show you how good the engine is but 
 even then if you run vista good luck as you will no doubt be treated to various crashes and freezes 
 up on saving which the patch does not fix... good luck and if it works you will have a great game 
 to play.
  The jungle and water effects on high are simply stunning and the AI when it wants to be smart will 
 actually do their best to flush you out in a intelligent way. 
  The guns are well designed but get better as you progress through the game.
  The inclusion of 
 the Nanosuit is a good idea but micromanaging this function mid battle can be a chore that is not 
 wanted... could the idea be that if this soldier has all this at his disposal he could probably 
 use them all at the same time like the superhuman he is??? guess not...
  
  Graphics - 9.5
  Gameplay - 9 Story - 8
  How it runs - 5 Crash City usually after doing about 
 10-15 mins of hard yards then KAPUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PurelogicsBack
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best game I have ever heard as far as hype goes. I think I know the reason 
 for it too. The gameplay is awesome and the performance and visual effects are as well, especially 
 the Visual Effects.
  
  
 
  
  Unfortunately for the PC version it is a very high demand game for you PC, meaning it requires 
 a lot out of your processor, Ram, and especially your Graphics card. I cannot run it from my crappy 
 computer. I suppose I could run it on low settings on my laptop but that's no fun I want it all.
 
  
  
  
  If you have a new, well a newer computer (Quad core with 8800 or above Graphics card) Then give 
 the PC version a shot. Or just shoot for the Xbox360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therightchoice
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Good stuff
  The singleplayer is good and its pretty replayable but at parts gets ridiculous like when some 
 guy talking to you tells you to sneak in somewhere but a helicopter always sees you and justs blasts 
 away at you and can track you down anywhere. at times you will be against two helicopters and a 
 small army of koreans, sometimes a whole bunch of them wearing nano suits and there impossible 
 to kill. bottom line dont try this on hard mode. but most parts of singleplayer are really good. 
 the graphics are the best ive seen.
  
  The Bad:
  The multiplayer sucks really hard. There is only 2 modes of wich to play. Power struggle and instant 
 action. power is just super crap. you need prestige points to buy weapons wich you gain by killin 
 other people wich sounds quite good bt really isnt. if your on the losing side theres not much 
 chance of coming back up becuase they normally have 3 helicopters and a plane and 3 tanks all hovering 
 around your base blowin you to shreds if you try to escape the spawns. Its exteremly slow paced 
 almost like a rpg/shooter wich gets exteremely boring.
  Instant action is just deathmatch, all-on-all you spawn with a pistol you gotta go find a weapon 
 and then just find each other. I havent came across any vehicles in insant action probably becuase 
 for some reason hardly anyone plays it and crysis always crashes on me, There could easily be vehicles 
 on insant action. There is just two gamemodes on multiplayer wich is pretty poor let alone the 
 fact there both plenty **** it would be ok if they were good. NO TEAM DEATH MATCH?!?!?
  
  all in all i find that crysis is inceredibly frustrating a waste of time and money with an over 
 complicated multiplayer, if you want a good shooter buy call of duty 4 that is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philomeena
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Firstly the graphics are gorgeous.
  Trees, water, textures, smoke, explosions. This really is the most beautiful game to look at. And 
 the sound is good too.
  It took some tweaking (thanks to inCrysis forums) in order to get the best out of the game - customising 
 draw distance so that rocks didn't magically appear and disappear, plus strengthening the weapons 
 so it doesn't take an entire magazine to kill one man - but once you get the set up right it runs 
 quite smoothly.
  
  It's really a game of two halves. 
  Half One - Jungle fighting the Korean forces. This is great. Yes - it's quite linear, and yes - 
 the Korean AI isn't fantastic.. but these levels are just as enjoyable as the first half of Far 
 Cry was.
  Half Two - The Aliens. And just like Far Cry, this is where it falls down. From being a stealthy, 
 tactical shooter in the first half.. once the aliens arrive it turns into an extremely linear pure 
 shoot-em up. I heard a phrase "3D Space Invaders" and that sums it up quite well.
  
  The nano suit is quite clever but becomes tiresome to use. Cloak.. move a bit... shield... cloak... 
 move a bit... shield. And the strength feature, again is too heavily scripted and linear. You get 
 to a pile of high rocks.. you have to use strength... you get to another pile of high rocks.. etc 
 etc.
  
  In summary.. I really enjoyed the first half.. and although the second half is probably better 
 than most similar titles.. it's not a patch on the first half, and thats a disappointment.
  Ignore the 95%+ scores - they're based too heavily on the graphics. Crysis is a good game - but 
 the gameplay doesn't quite live up to the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -BassO-
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  
  The first time I got ambushed in Crysis, I freaked out. Bullets whizzed past and the screen blurred 
 as I wove through the jungle while the landscape around me got torn to shreds by bullets and grenades.
 
  
  After a a few hours, the novelty wore off. The AI is insanely predicatble and the story gets linear 
 and old. It does feel a lot like Far Cry. The main difference is that Far Cry pioneered open-air 
 FPS, while Crysis feels very constrained. There are always a few ways to reach an objective, but 
 they are laid out and scripted. It feels quite confined, after the numerous sandbox-styled games 
 that appeared since Far Cry.
  
  The visuals are yummy and vicious. But the combat-system feels off. It takes an insane amount of 
 bullets to kill either you or the enemy. For your superhero powers and instant-reload shields to 
 be seriously tested, you need hordes of enemies thrown at you. The sheer volume of simple AI attackers 
 kind of dull the suspense.
  
  In the end, it's a great tech showcase for a new layer of involvement in a videogame environment. 
 Now let's wait for someone to actually come up with some matching gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da5mann
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  At the start of the campaign the jungle is so beautiful, and then it just looks awesome so you 
 knock some trees over. right before you get bored with the jungle, you go into the ship, and can 
 not find which way is out. After that, you most definatley not want to put the game down, not even 
 once you beat it. the multiplayer is great, makes you stratigize in order to defeat enimies, and 
 insane skill is needed for deathmatch. buy this game, it won't disapoint. i think that the whole 
 idea of needed more than teamchat and saying stay close to me a shoot everyone is why so many people 
 do not want to play this game online. and for those type of people all that i have to say is that 
 you obvisiously have no skill, anyone get good at any game after you play it so long. unless the 
 game takes stratagy, then it takes a deal of putting effort and though into the game, not just 
 a finger made of steel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snokdruid
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is the long awaited, sandbox FPS from Germany's Crytek and EA. You may know Crytek for making 
 the awesome Far Cry which had amazing graphics in the day. Most people are aware that Crysis, has 
 pushed the evelope of graphics once again. The game doesn't overlook story and gameplay either 
 though.
  
  You play as 'nomad', a soldier in the United-States Special Forces and you and a few team mates 
 parachute down onto a tropical island to investigate a report of missing scientists. After the 
 first 10 minutes of the single-player you become aware that you aren't alone on the island. You 
 come in contact with Korean soldiers (believed to be the kidnappers) fairly quickly but that's 
 not all. 1 of your comrades gets mutilated by some form of alien machine. 
  
  The USSF has engineered a Nano-Suit that you and your comrades can use to have a huge advantage 
 over the Koreans. Besides looking cool, the suit gives you 4 abilities which you can toggle between. 
 This includes strength, speed, armor and stealth which is very important. The game really rewards 
 you for using the stealth mode and going slowly. It is very satisfying to stand on a hill and overlook 
 the enemy base and then taking out hit targets first. 
  
  Crysis is Crytek's show-off game to promote the immersive graphical technology of Cryengine 2.0. 
 If you have a high-end pc, you will be able to see the most breathtaking scenery to date. Not only 
 does all the vegetation, water, sand, lighting, snow, ice and explosions look almost photo-realistic 
 at Very High (DX10) and High (DX9) it is completely destructible. It is very satisfying to drive 
 a tank through a village and just plow through huts and awnings. 
  
  Half way through, the game stops being sandbox and is more linear. You enter a system of caves 
 that belong to aliens that are against you and the Koreans. Suddenly you are in zero gravity and 
 have to find your way out while dodging aliens. After escaping, the landscape changes again and 
 now everything is covered in snow and ice. 
  
  The multiplayer side of crysis is very interesting with one of its game modes 'power struggle'. 
 It mixes the best from Battlefield 2 and Counter-strike, two very big multiplayer shooters. You 
 have an economy to buy weapons and grenades with. Weapons can be modified to your likings. If you 
 prefer different scopes and if you want a flashlight, laser pointers or other attachments like 
 a grenade launcher. This makes playing feel completely different even if your enemy is using the 
 same weapon. 
  
  Crysis, in my opinion, is the best first-person shooter to be released in years. It is just one 
 of those games that you have to show your friends. Be warned though, your game experience depends 
 a lot on how well your PC performs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strider1979
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome from the start when you jump out of the plane and land.
  There is no hard core "trying to work what the controls are while getting pumped from the emeny" 
 like other games (Halo) . Customisable Weaponry A huge arsenal of modular weaponry gives you unprecedented 
 control over their play style. Blow the opposition away with experimental weapons like the TAC 
 launcher, discover alien technology and utlise custom ammunition from incendiary-tipped rounds 
 to tactical munitions that can silently put foes to sleep. A high-tech nano-suit allows you to 
 augment their abilities in real time on the battlefield. Players can choose to enhance their speed, 
 strength, armor and cloaking abilities to approach situations in creative tactical ways.
  
  
  
  
  All in all the game has been a joy to play and looking forward to playing muti=player 
 to melt my friends... muhhahahahahaahaa mmmm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  What's to like:
  
  - Challenging
  - Freedom
  - Cool suit powers
  - Smooth opening sequence
  - Good AI
  - Good Ending
  - Great vehicules
  - Great audio (voice 
 overs and environmental)
  - Superb graphics and physics (helicopters especially)
  
  What you may not like:
  - Killing random alien forms after facing more "intelligent" Koreans
 
  - Performance on a slower machine
  - Save often on Vista, it crashes regularly
  
  
  Story - Not as good as Far Cry but...
  
  It's that generic "Aliens are about to invade planet 
 Earth" plan. Despite still being a good one, there's nothing personal like Far Cry.
  
  The fact that you can hear them speak Korean is a very nice touch to the immersion feeling of the 
 game.
  
  The story itself will unravel nicely though, enough to keep you interested.
  
  Game - It's a lot like Far Cry if you have played this masterpiece before. If you haven't, well, 
 the great thing about this game is that you are free to move and approach your objectives in the 
 matter you like.
  
  For instance, you can sneak to your enemies, snipe them from afar, blow up a car next to them, 
 etc. So it has some great replay value as you may want to retry it using a different play style.
 
  
  
  Weapons - Standard weaponry but...
  
  Sure, you have the standard weapons that behave really well in this game, very realisticly.
  
 
  But in addition to that, you have been given a special suit that grants you special powers.
  
 
  Powers are:
  - Strength -- You can grapple your enemies and throw them. You jump higher.
  - Speed -- You run 
 faster.
  - Armor -- (Default) You take less damage from bullets.
  - Stealth -- You gain invisibility until you attack.
  
  The fun in this game is to use those 
 powers in the heat of the battle. It's best done with the option to use keyboard shortcuts instead 
 of the special key for it.
  
  
  Conclusion - Visually impressive
  
  It's a beautiful game that you will enjoy exploring. The ending is memorable and the general level 
 design is impressive.
  
  Great engine, good game.
  
  I give it a 8.8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gage666
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Well normally a game with great graphics they tend to have good to great game play...... sadly crysis 
 does not.... Sure the graphics are amazing but the game is not....1st off you can shoot down trees 
 yay thats good but is it useful? no not really fire a gun even silenced will eventually point you 
 out and since most fire fights there are 10 to 20 guys and it does not take much to kill you even 
 with super amour... 2nd you will most likely use the same 2 to 3 weapons through out the entire 
 game and generally just stealth killing 1 guy at a time works in almost every battle.... another 
 way is nading cuzz the enemy mostly just bundles up close together and rushes yah and forget firing 
 through walls that does not work yet you have all these future weapons... story line meh seen better 
 again am I missing anything? I can't be the only one who fails to see why this game has so much 
 hype 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joewspecks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Now I play all sorts of games and I love my PC and for once I have found a game that challenges 
 my machine for all its worth. Crysis is a fun first person shooter with a decent story. Considering 
 there will be more in line we can only hope that things will get better. There's no questioning 
 the graphics of the game if you have a PC that can handle it but not all is lost the game has many 
 settings to allow lower end PC's to adjust for the lack performance. The settings rang from low 
 to very high and Crysis in my opinion looks decent in medium settings. Yet for most people not 
 all settings will have to be set on low or medium but in arrange of settings across the board. 
 If your looking for a new action shooter with a scifi twist with large sand box levels then Crysis 
 may just be the game for you........ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catsi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  First, let me say a few things. I don't have a powerful machine, I'm gaming on a laptop, with dual 
 core 1.8ghz, 2gig of ram and a radeon mobility 1400x. It's not going to win any awards and it's 
 nothing special. Also, I have never been particularly good at first person shooters, I'm the one 
 at the bottom of the listing wondering how everyone managed to headshoot him all the time.
  Now that's out of the way, on with the review.
  
  Unless you've been under a rock the past 
 few months, then you know Crysis, and the type of reviews it's been getting. This one is a little 
 late in coming, but i thought I'd throw in my two cents worth.
  Crysis is fun, if you like first person shooters, if you like action, hell, if you're a botanist 
 or an art critic and you like looking at trees or pretty pictures all day you're going to love 
 Crysis.
  Usually the first thing out of peoples mouths is that Crysis is gorgeous. The second thing out 
 of their mouths is that you need a monster PC to run it and that most people will be going home 
 with tears in their eyes because they can't play as their computer is now a smoldering pile of 
 ash. I'd like to make a slight adjustment here. YES Crysis will chew your computer up if you put 
 everything on max, I doubt there's a computer out there that won't chug at some point. But the 
 thing is, YOU DON'T NEED to put everything on max. I played through the game, and was still mesmerized 
 by the settings, the graphics and how my little baby laptop was giving me stunning graphics AT 
 A DECENT FRAMERATE. With a little tinkering, you're going to fall in love with how the game looks, 
 and your girlfriend or boyfriend will come up behind you and complain how you don't live on such 
 a beautiful island with them in your luxury villa.
  Indeed, the only time my framerate dropped was in the alien spaceship (damn those little floating 
 particles, DAMN YOU) but it's over in 10 minutes and then you're back outside breathing in the 
 fresh clean air, while being attacked by many ugly monsters and watching things blow up. Even in 
 the forest, and the gunfire is ripping the trees apart (literally) , the framerate is still decent.
 
  
  The sound is amazing, you're going to feel drawn in and enraptured by the score, setting the tone 
 wonderfully. The sound effects for the atmosphere is great, giving the feeling of a tropical island. 
 I did find the waves a little lacking, there seemed to be no surge and back of the waves, but that's 
 just me being picky.
  The weapons sounds are decent, which is wonderful considering you're going to be hearing them alot. 
 Get your ears tuned, because if you're lucky enough to have surround sound, you might be able to 
 find out where the pesky buggers are that are shooting you.
  Once inside the spaceship, everything becomes eery and quiet which fits in perfectly. It would 
 have been nice to have had something a little more, maybe the garbled slurs of an alien race, but 
 it seemed to work all the same.
  
  Now for the gameplay and here's where I draw issue. The game play is amazing, it's fast, its furious, 
 and... a bit too damn easy. I am sorry, but someone with my skill level at first person shooters 
 should not be able to finish on the hardest setting. There is a culprit for this crime, and you'll 
 be wearing it. Yes, I am referring to your suit, your kick-arse, cool, makes you look as though 
 you wear your muscles on the outside and rolled in ash, suit. It has several lively functions: 
 Super Strength, Stealth, Speed, and Armour. Two of these are mainly useless, and the other two 
 are insanely helpful.
  
  Strength is kind of helpful, as it lets you jump high and over fences. It steadies your aim, allows 
 you to kill enemies in one hit and survive falls. Other than the occasional jump over a fence, 
 you won't use it much. Unless you like the idea of hugging lonely patrollers to death.
  
  Speed. Unless you're planning on running away from people, or just so bored of staring at the stunning 
 visuals that you want to run even faster, then you're not going to use this. It drains your energy 
 so quickly that you're not going to be moving fast for long, and it just has no practical uses. 
 It's even useless for running away, which I will explain in a moment.
  
  Armour, this is your life, your essence and your loved companion. It will save your skin 6 times 
 out of ten and is essential for all firefights. It's rather self explanatory, bullets hit you, 
 energy goes down, energy disappears, health goes down, rinse, repeat.
  
  Stealth, say hello to your new girl/boy friend. While you might cheat on it occasionally with the 
 others uses, and you spend a lot of time with the armour on, this ability is so loving that it 
 will always take you back. Why run away super fast from a fight when you can disappear and relocate? 
 Why stand and take massive punishment on your armour energy when you can disappear and relocate? 
 Why blunder into an ambush when you can disappear and ambush them? Stealth allows you to sneak 
 around and own the battlefield. It is one of the coolest abilities, and the one that ruins the 
 game. Why you ask? It makes it far too easy. In a huge firefight that you just can't win? Duck 
 around the corner, 2 sec recharge, and use stealth. Ambush a patrol from the east. Use stealth, 
 move around to north and hit them again. Rinse, repeat. Remember Far Cry? It wasn't perfect, but 
 you felt a little better once you got a kick-arse ambush in. The Stealth in Crysis makes the game 
 far too easy, and once you've learned how to use it, then it's smooth sailing.
  
  While we're on the subject of the suit, let's talk about it's energy and energy consumption. You're 
 going to be very impressed (not to mention a little surprised) at how fast your suit will recharge. 
 I'm interested as to HOW the suit recharges, and how it does so so quickly, but there you are. 
 The speed at which it recharges drops the difficulty of the game somewhat, because once you learn 
 to manage that as well, you're set. For some reason, your health seems to regenerate in much the 
 same way. Apparently Nomad is the son of Wolverine, the way he regenerates after a heated engagement 
 is impressive.
  
  Moving on from the suit, I must admit that the idea of using different attachments on your weapons 
 is really cool, and something I hope to see again. But I must ask, does your character, Nomad, 
 possess an unlimited amount of scopes, lasers, etc? Does your suit reproduce them once you've found 
 one? It's a little perplexing.
  
  Now for the AI. It's not perfect, and it's not that intelligent. Occasionally it's going to impress 
 you, but when I'm sniping and they just stand there and look surprised, then it's a little annoying. 
 He's facing west, I shot him in the back of the head, so wouldn't the guy standing next to him 
 know where I am? Apparently not. There have been a few AI mistakes, such as hiding behind a wall... but 
 on the same side I'm on and the physics can get a little... wild, but they're small glitches that 
 you must forgive, especially when dealing with the sheer size of this game.
  
  Now I know what a few people will be saying. "Dude, get to the multiplayer! It's so cool" First, 
 I don't play multiplayer, it's just too time consuming and addictive. Second, you should never 
 rate a game off the multiplayer. Nor should game developers drop the singleplayer in favour of 
 multi. We have Unreal Tournament, and Quake for that. Even Halo has a tendency to drop the ball 
 on singleplayer in favour for multi. If you want to make a multiplayer game, then go for it. But 
 please, please, don't just patch together a passable singleplayer experience for the rest of us.
 
  
  I would like to say, that the above is not directed at Crysis. The story is interesting and will 
 keep you engaged. Finally we don't have another emotionally crippled mute who just guns down everyone. 
 The story will involve you, and leaves you with a happy little cliff-hanger, setting the stage 
 for Crysis 2.
  
  So there you have it, it's a flawed gem but a gem none-the-less. It's a little disappointing when 
 a few quirks can leave you breathless, but strangely unsatisfied while you watch the credits roll 
 after a thrilling and powerful ride. It's worth a pick up and don't let anyone tell you that your 
 computer isn't good enough for it. Even with the minimum requirements, it looks gorgeous. After 
 our bumpy and action thrilling adventrue through some unidentifiable island, all that remains now 
 is the wait for the sequel to be released. We hope it isn't too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilburtonboy748
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Crysis, the most hyped PC game of 2007. Does it live up to the hype, well, yes and no. Without 
 a doubt, this is a must have for anyone that has the appropriate PC. The graphics in this game 
 are the best out there at this point in time, no contest. Overall, this game is just great, however, 
 every game has it's downfall, and this game has 2.
  
  Graphically, this game is stunning. The best water effects I have ever witnessed. The grass, trees, 
 and everything green is gorgeous. But this game does not only technically amazing with it's graphics, 
 but the physics behind it are amazing as well. While in a firefight, I was doing just the usual 
 distribution of humble pie to my enemies, when i accidentally hit "G". When I hit "G", i through 
 a grenade into a nearby building. Naturally when you accidentally throw a rare grenade, you are 
 upset. However, when it exploded, the building erupted in an amazing explosion. Things that were 
 once in the building, now resided in trees and other places up to 100 virtual yards away. It just 
 beutiful to see how realistic the environmental damage is due to the physics. 
  
  Next is the AI. The AI is very good, but not perfect. The enemy soldiers will go on patrols, sit 
 around, smoke, talk, and just do whatever their hearts desire. They talk a lot, and to get the 
 full effect, you can put it on the hardest difficulty to hear them speak Korean. The only problem 
 is their awareness. Occasionally they seem to be fine with their buddy's death, and also after 
 they are sniped, they just stand their wondering what happened. They refuse to look for cover.
 
  
  As for the story, it's decent. Few cutscenes that make your computer weep, and the rest is all 
 up to you. I won't give any spoilers, but lets just say there is a turning point in the game, and 
 it goes downhill from there. The sandbox nature of the first half of the game is addicting. However, 
 after the turning point, you will notice a decrease in performance, and there is no longer any 
 exploration. Also, the enemies you face after this turning point suck. They shoot at you and can 
 fly. But for some reason, these enemies insist in getting about 3 cm away from your face and just 
 looking at you. It's annoying, and plain not fun to fight.
  
  So Overall, Crysis is a good game. It has explosive action, unprecedented graphics, fun little 
 abilities to spice up action, weapon customization, and for the most part is a great game to explore 
 and just have fun with vehicles and confusing the hell out of your enemies. On the downside, it 
 lacks real innovation to the FPS genre, has a poor second half, and the story is lacking. And lastly, 
 make sure you check the requirements before you buy the game, because it is quite the hog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Com_Psyche
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  One of the nicest games i've ever seen. I guess you could call the storyline shallow... it's not 
 really original. 
  But the game play more than makes up for it.
  The graphics are top-notch, and the sound is amazing. It's easy enough to enjoy, yet still hard 
 enough to be challenging. 
  I guess the spaceship level is a bit confusing, because there is no up or down, no real direction. 
 It's zero gravity all the way, and since it looks kinda the same all over, you might get lost. 
 But that's no problem, since you can admire amazing realistic imaging.
  I loved the weapon system, which lets you upgrade your guns however you want them. For me sniper 
 scope and silencer really paid off. 
  The most fun was the gauss rifle, which just rules, and maybe the AK-47 lookalike. 
  Lots to 
 say about the vehicles. Not too many models, but the ones that are there are pretty well made. 
 Maybe they would have needed a little more attention. Looking at the rest of the game... i just 
 can't help but feel that they didn't go all the way here. 
  The handling is ok, maybe a little dodgy if you play with external cam.
  The "plane" dog-fight 
 is pretty nice, but you have too little time to get used to it... and might crash a couple of times 
 before realising that flying over smoke wil get you down real fast.
  The engine would have been put to much better use as a support for a normal tactical shooter, not 
 a sci-fi one. But i guess the special powers would have been gone.
  I say keep the suit, but make it more realistic in the add-on. :)
  I just think with a "CoD4" 
 kind of storyline and gameplay, this game would have needed a new mark ... something like 11. Plus 
 it's kinda short and leaves you wanting.
  
  More weapons would be nice, more vehicles, basically more diversity. Hopefully there will be an 
 add-on. 
  
  The 9,5 score is not in comparison with other games, but a score that says "i'm waiting for more, 
 i know you have it in you".
  If i were to compare it, i would be forced to rate it 10 and no other game would even come close 
 to 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hinkwokching
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  Just purchased the game, enjoying it a lot, very impressive graphics. Looks super cool on my slightly-above-average 
 spec pc. Enemies are quite smart. And I like the suit controls, it does add a lot of dynamics to 
 the game, allows the player play-style to be enhanced. Multi-player seemed very cool, although 
 ping isn't great for me, so been shot before seen the enemy pull the trigger type of occasions 
 are often. It's almost just another FPS, but it gives you a feeling that it isn't.
  
  The scenery and maps are massive, and does allow some freedom for the player to approach specific 
 targets and destinations. Good amount of vehicles to commandeer, they are not ground-breaking, 
 but since it's inclusion has become an unwritten rule for FPS games, it doesn't hurt to have them 
 and they do add value. Weapon selection is good, cool variety of customization, although somewhat 
 strange that there seem to be a suppressor immediately available for just about every weapon. To 
 elaborate, flash/sound suppressors are not one size fits all. I also wished that there is thermo-imaging, 
 I mean come-on, you've got clocking devices, but no thermo-goggles? Besides, it would help spot 
 enemies.
  
  All-in-all, very nice game, small flaws here and there that doesn't hurt the game all that much. 
 Any FPS fans should seriously consider obtaining this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergio8221
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  an amazing game but too high requirements and the second half of the game is not so intense and 
 not so well built and not at the same level of the rest, moreover the end is a bit disappointig.
 
  But the good things ecclipse the cons of the game. Amazing technology, intense, amazing technology, 
 vehicles, amazing technology, multiplayer, amazing technology, etc...
  A good point are the weapons that are very classic but at the same time very well ballanced and 
 distributed through the entire game. Good to see a half life 2 like rocket launcher with laser 
 guided missiles, so funny to play with it.
  A pretty important thing in first person shooters nowadays are vehicles, in crysis we are well 
 suited with a wide spectrum of them, from tanks to boats there are multiple vehicles to drive.
 
  In conclusion although it has several minor mistakes this game is suited to be an instant classic 
 for its technology and immersion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari2001
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Everyone one wants a realistic game, with an amazing sound track, intense AI, Superb actors, and 
 Gameplay like no other. Well Crysis is that game. Based on the new Cryengine 2, it brings gaming 
 to a whole new level never before witnessed by gamer.
  
  You are a member of a elite Covert Task force sent in to a North Korean Held island to rescue a 
 group of Archiologists. It begins with intense cut scenes and a little jump out of an airplane. 
 As the night goes on things begin to go terribly wrong as you and your team realize you are not 
 along on the Island, something else is there.
  
  Graphics: The Cryengine 2 supports some of the best graphics ever before witnessed by gamers. Intensely 
 realistic environments with destructable trees, houses, fences, Heck almost everything can be destroyed 
 some way. It also has a time of day effect, How long do you want to wait, you can attack now or 
 just simply wait for the sun to go down and attack in the cover of darkness. It is a new leap in 
 Video Game graphical performance that leads the way on the new DX10 engine.
  
  Audio: The game has a seperatly written sound track. It almost sounds and feels like a movie. With 
 the amazing voice acting and sinamatically based music you could get lost in the realism of this 
 game. Acting is top notch and leads to a great experience.
  
  Gameplay: The game play is always ever increasinly difficult. With realistic AI and destructable 
 environments no where is safe to hid anymore. Watch as the enemy make plans to surround you and 
 cut off any hope of escape. Or just observe as the enemy goes on its daily routine. Should you 
 wait till the enemy is asleep? This game will have you up in you seat and many long nights trying 
 different ways to play in this open environment. do the missions in many different paths and combinations. 
 Even skip certain tasks all together. With many nano suit capabilities you become a formitable 
 attacker. EVen choose different weapon customizations in the real time Customizational weapons 
 option.
  
  
  Overview: All in All this is clearly one of the best FPS games of 2007. With the amazing detail, 
 sound, open environment, destructable "everything", The Nano suit capablities, the Customizable 
 weapons, and The awsome AI this game will keep you playing long into the night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePlumpPenguin
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a great game, possible one of the best ever released. Overall, its graphics, game play, 
 physics etc is great. It is pretty much bug free (I couldn't find any while playing) and comes 
 across as a well polished and perfected package that you would be hard pressed to find anywhere 
 else. Special effects are wonderful, and little touches here and there add to a great deal of realism. 
 The only bad points if that all that wonderful scenery etc requires a lot of grunt to run (but 
 even on the lowest settings it looks wonderful) and that the singleplayer is way too short (but 
 still awesome) . I haven't tried any of the multiplayer yet, though the concept/modes available 
 should be adequate enough to satisfy anyone. This game is a must have for practically anyone who 
 has the slightest intrest in first person shooters.
  
  If you buy this game I guarantee you'll like (or love) it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mc_do_og_le
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  So what is Crysis you may ask? Crysis is full of action packed si-fi first person shooter. This 
 is a game that will have you playing out of you seats. Seriously the things that you can do in 
 this game is both really cool and really funny. And because it is a first person shooter you can 
 do any thing you want any way you want. For instance in the game you have a power suit that gives 
 you several powers and one of those powers is enhance strength. And add that with the ability to 
 pick anything up and now you can throw things super far!! And when I say you can pick any thing 
 up you can pick up live people and throw them at other people. The funnest thing you can do is 
 throw chickens at people and kill them. As for the overview of the game you start by fighting Koreans 
 and then fighting aliens its pretty straight forward. So really get this game if you want to have 
 a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GP1mil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a good game, but it lacks longevity in a way it only took me 5-6 hours to complete on 
 a Saturday. The game has fantastic visuals and great game play, but just wanted to last a little 
 longer then that, guess that is why CryTek is doing more then one. 
  
  The suit powers is what make this game stand out in my eyes with the cloak ability, strength, speed 
 and armor. Gives the player multiple ways to handle a situation, my favorite being cloak and running 
 up and choking the enemy out with your hand. The Koreans are great in how they react when your 
 super run by them or uncloak, they respond to you as an alien like being and are shocked. The guns 
 in the game are your usual assortment, or assault rifles, submachine guns, snipe rifle, shotguns, 
 rocket launcher, alien gun and the portable tactical nuke which would be sweet to actually use 
 the gun longer then what was allowed in the game. 
  
  Your buddies in the game are great and are animated quite nicely, not only that but the Marines 
 that do the invasion are great to, its fun sometimes to see how long you can keep them alive and 
 moving along with you, but most of the time they get killed pretty fast.
  
  The vehicles in the game are pretty much in most games, tanks, helicopters, jeeps, boats, cargo truck, 
 random civilian trucks and the VTOL which is sort of an all purpose support craft able to fight 
 in the skies and drop off troops.
  
  The good thing with Crysis is the loading, most of the missions don't require loading that are 
 on the island, it only starts to load when you discover the aliens and when you arrive on the aircraft 
 carrier which aren't that bad. The missions themselves aren't really a certain level like normal 
 games are but more of an open ended like meaning you can do it anyway you want.
  
  Overall Crysis was a fun game and it pushes current hardware to the limits and I'm looking forward 
 to the next 2 releases in the Triology.
  
  SPECS:
  AMD Athlon 6000+ X2 3.0GHz
  BFG 8800GTX OC 900mhz/1800mhz
  2GB RAM PC-6400 4-4-4-12 800mhz
  Windows Vista Business 32-bit 
 
  DX10 mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muscleserge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  When people say "next gen" the only game so far to qualify would be Crysis. It brings a lot to 
 the table: stunning graphics, amazing physics, life-like sound and best of all sand-box style gameplay. 
 All of these things help to immerse you into its fictitious world. The gunplay is great, the nano 
 suit is great, and you can see the polish that this game received. I highly recommend this game 
 to anyone with a decent PC.
  
  Specs of my comp:
  C2D e6400 @ 3.2ghz
  2GB DDR2 800 ram
  8800GT OCed
  
  I found this game to be pretty well optimized. Don't buy 
 into any statement saying otherwise. I played the game @ 1680x1050, with all high, except shadow 
 and post processing medium, and got 43FPS average. The game's graphics justify its performance, 
 unlike say R6: Vegas. The very high settings should have been locked or hidden until mid 2008 when 
 new generation of GPUs would be released, that way the game wouldn't be bashed for its performance 
 as much, it was basically embarrassing, for say 8800GTX and ULTRA owners because their mighty cards 
 couldn't run a game MAXXED.
  
  The game is great, the multiplayer is alright get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKIlore
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  After taking in all the hype and having played Far Cry, I was really looking forwards to this game. 
 Hyped as a leap forward in gaming I Couldn't wait to get this thing installed and give it a good 
 thrashing.
  
  Unfortunately as you play through the single player campaign It becomes apparant that his game 
 is very linier, giving the player little scope in terms of depth of game play. This game certainly 
 didn't push me to my strategic / tactical limits. Sure you can appreciate the DX10 effects ,but 
 the Ai "ain't all that" and before you know it the games over, leaving you just hanging there with 
 a tactical nuke gun that you bearly get to know.
  
  When I think of games like Morrowind / Oblivion, Operation flashpoint/ ArmA
  I can't help but 
 be disappointed with how short and rigid Crysis is. theres nowt new here.
  
  If you want online FPS better off with Quake: ET or for something different try STALKER. for a light 
 RPG element. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GautamIyer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Now before I get down-and-dirty with the review, Crysis has received substantial flak from a visible 
 minority for its inescapable criterion for lower-end systems. Most people have acknowledged this, 
 so I will do the same. While I appreciate that poor revisions to any game can, in fact, hamper 
 the gameplay and subsequently, the enjoyability of a game, I will have all know that Crysis was 
 designed for next-gen PC's. That means that even in the next few years, while gpus are advancing, 
 the engines for the graphically-acclaimed Crysis will not evolve substantially, if it does so at 
 all. If you want to issue a complaint, complain to the GPU manufacturers. That being said, I thought 
 the game was marvelous.
  
  There are many notable queries about Crysis that I'd like to point out: it's impeccable introduction 
 and usage of the nano-suit that will, no doubt, sate anyone's thirst throughout the game, if the 
 crystal-clear waters of the sunny shores don't do it first. What's impressive about this technology 
 is that it sets the foundation and groundwork for future games to reprise its use and ideas for 
 limitless possibilities. It somewhat reminded me of Jedi-knight outcast, where the protagonist 
 was allowed to use force speed and strength to maneuver around levels and kill enemies. Sure, it's 
 not quite the same, but it doesn't have to be. Sneaking up behind North Korean militia whilst cloaked 
 and rendering them dead, while manipulating the strength-factor to establish myself over roof-tops 
 and gun people from above was fascinating to say the least. A true testament to gaming ingenuity.
 
  
  What was also ideally impressive was the graphics. I know it's been touted before, but not by me, 
 so I will do so now. The aesthetical appeal was remarkable to say the least. I could literally 
 walk along the entire coast of the sunny shores, and perhaps, take a little dabble down to the 
 ocean floor (or atleast try to) before springing back up like a dolphin in a sea basket. I thoroughly 
 enjoyed the surroundings and quite simply put, did not want to leave the beach.
  
  However, all good things must come to an end, and that leaves me to define the alien mother-ship. 
 I did not, what so ever, enjoy this particular portion of the game. Yes, it was stunning, and yes, 
 it was incredibly well designed, but I couldn't, for the life of me, enjoy it for very long as 
 I moved frantically around and about searching for sizable orifices yielding my escape. Even my 
 achievement of escaping the mother-ship was predicated on luck and perseverance. I still don't 
 know how I did it.
  
  The alien segments were fun in theory, with the best of intentions, but the execution was underwhelming. 
 The glitches in the game affected certain scenarios to the point of impeding progress. There's 
 this one helicopter segment, where it feels almost impossible to control the chopper and execute 
 the tactics required to pass the particular mission. Again, I have no idea how I did it, it must've 
 been luck. 
  
  It's hard to quantify the difficulty of the game. I played it on the hardest setting, and it still 
 wasn't all too difficult. There were moments where I had no idea what I was doing, but all-in-all, 
 I found myself maneuvering through forestry and alien cesspools with relative ease. The nano-suit 
 made it substantially easier, but then again, it was the best part of the game.
  
  I won't delve too much into the ending, but regardless of what anyone says, I liked it. It wasn't 
 fantastic by any means, but it reassured me that sometimes things are not what they seem, and at 
 other times, things are exactly as they seem. That was meant to be confusing.
  
  Overall, it's a great game, although, some revisions will definitely be required for future installments. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeb23
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I finally decided to upgrade my PC last week and get a better vid card. I still am running xp so 
 I dont get to see DX10 yet. 
  I dloaded the demo of crysis because that is all you hear about for PC right now... how good the 
 game is.... how much it stresses your system...
  
  Well my 8800GTS can run this game on HIGH settings at 1280X1024 without a problem! This game looks 
 AMAZING! I have played many many games over my time and this really is the best FPS ever played!
 
  
  Its not just the look of it though... its the awesome gameplay too. 
  
  I am so tired of the FPS that involve just running and gunning as much as you can. This one has 
 wonderful tactics! Cloak mode ftw! Sersiously... this game takes time to get through it but its 
 worth it. I am only about 20% done with it so far but I have seen many parts of it. I cant wait 
 to see more! 
  
  If you have a machine to run this game, go get it. Ok, done with my review, back to playing now 
 lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordon_freman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  i dont know that can i say any thing or no ? i dont know can i say any thing that showed the game 
 features or no? but i know this that is the best game in any thing:1-graphic: shading - mapping 
 - vertex shader - anti aliasing - diffuse - albedo - meshing and ....... 2- sounds: stereo - 3d 
 sounds and..... 3- atmosphere 4-controling (the best control in world gaming history) and very things 
 more than i said . but this is not the best game of the year and the cod4 is not the best game 
 of the year. the best game of the year is the orange box and half life 2 episode two. half life 
 2 and crysis is more than the them time . they are very biggest for now the are for ten years or 
 twenty years later of the gaming world. just half life and just valve software hhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhh 
 hhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSlacker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Revolutionary? Why would I say this? Well, Crysys has introduced never before seen in game graphics, 
 amazing AI, sound that will blast down doors, and a physics engine leaving you open mouthed, drooling, 
 and wanting more. To start off, lets just say the hundreds or thousands of dollars you may have 
 spent to play this game on upgrades was well worth it, I have yet to see in game visuals that shock 
 me every time I play. For most games, I don't ever think that high visuals makes the game any less 
 or more enjoyable, but just tweaking the sliders to high/very high make the game play so much more 
 amazing.
  
  AI - The A. I in this game can become extremely challenging at harder difficulties, they flank, 
 grenade, offer suppressing fire for their own men. And when you think that you have finally got 
 used to the first couple of bad guys you meet, they start coming out in hordes. Do you run? or 
 do you stay and fight? This decision crosses your mind every second. You never want to die and 
 slow down the action. (NOTE: who cares if you die, crysys has amazingly fast load times)
  
  Physics - Never before have I sat around (except maybe parts of HL2) and just blew **** up for 
 no reason at all, or messed with what I can throw around. You see 5 guys in an old rusted up shack? 
 No problem, no need to go in and waste ammunition, lob in a grenade and watch as the building falls 
 down on their heads.
  
  Game play - Some of the fastest pace FPS gaming in a while. The Nano-suit commands offer on the 
 fly change of strategy. Every aspect of this game lends itself to the game play, and not one of 
 them brings it down. I would have to say this is ALMOST a perfect game, but all games have flaws.
 
  
  Minor bugs with dead bodies. On the RARE occasion enermy AI will be stuck on Retard mode. (STRESS 
 RARE! I usually have amazingly smart enemies who feel like they are actually fighting for their 
 lives.)
  
  And like GS said, the bad thing is that the story ends, you can only put so much into one game. 
 The story was pretty unique, and had a couple of twists. Sometimes easy to predict. For people 
 who bash this game because their computer cannot handle it, get a grip of yourselves. Either wait 
 untill you can upgrade, or buy a new computer now, because this game is 100$ worth it.
  
  Game makers LISTEN! This is the new bench mark of PC GAMING, and it proves yet again that no counsel 
 can ever have a better game.
  
  Cross your fingers for a Sequel!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YeeHarr
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  The nanosuit is cool. The stealth mode makes the game much easier than it would be otherwise.
 
  
  The physics in the jungle is cool. It's nice to brush past bushes and such.
  
  The reviewers rave on about destroying some shacks and things but you the game is full of indescrutable 
 objects. I want to put a dent in a fridge door. Nope it's completely impervious. What about those 
 crates lying around. Nope they are completely indestructable.
  
  What's completely uncool are the bugs that prevent you finishing the game. In particular in Exodus 
 I can not get into the gunners seat and hence can not finish the game. Other people have had the 
 same problem. And from the looks of the net there are plenty of other people with similar issues.
 
  
  And don't get started on the AI. I play on delta and there are still stupid AI people who just 
 stare at a wall when their buddies are falling around them.
  
  The bad guys don't try to surround you. The only times they even vaguely seem to be smart is if 
 they are scripted (at least as far as I can tell) .
  
  CoD4 is a much better game. No graphics bugs. Good AI. No mission bugs. Massive amounts of variety. 
 Excellent weapons modelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off well enough. You get to play around in your own little sandbox and test out 
 the nano-suit's powers. After a while you get used to using only the shield and armor abilities 
 when actually fighting, and you learn that the strength and speed abilities are almost entirely 
 useless except to navigate terrain quicker.
  The combat vs the Koreans is ok but its really not fun since they can take more shots than you 
 can. Plus they have telescopic vision so if any part of you is in line of site, seemingly no matter 
 the distance, they spot you. Its friggin stupid and makes the fights seem the same every single 
 time. The fights against the aliens are pretty lame. I can't really think of a single interesting 
 thing about them  .  They move around really quickly and can take alot of punishment so you just 
 keep your armor mode on the entire time :\ Although when you first encounter the mini drones its 
 quite efficient to strength melee them to death. Its the only part in the game where it pays off 
 to use strength in a fight XD
  I played through with everything on medium and the physics on high and up until I got to the alien 
 parts everything ran smoothly. But when I got in the mountain my frames dropped noticably, but 
 its a graphics intense area so it makes sense. But when I get out of the mountain and play through 
 the frozen island part....... it looks worse than it does when its frozen but the frames are twice 
 as bad! It was a friggin slide show in the wide open areas when I fought multiple enemies.... it 
 sucked : (
  Guess I'll mention the sound too. It was quite good, I can't think of any complaints.
  The story 
 is extremely generic, no comments on it besides that.
  
  Overall it was a decent purchase. Some of the korean fighting areas were interesting when I didn't 
 use cloak all the time. It resulted in extreme lameness most of the time but sometimes you get 
 lucky and pull of some cool stunts. The main thing that sucks about this game is that you're so 
 friggin weak.... it would have been more efficient for a single normal korean to go through all 
 the stuff you did. The only thing Nomad has over a single Korean is that his suit protects him 
 from the extreme cold areas. Other than that he dies in 2-3 hits with armor mode on :\ This game 
 is clown shoes to be honest, the developers are excellent at level design but couldn't make a fun 
 game to save their lives. The thing that really saves this purchase for me is the sandbox2 editor. 
 I dunno how to do much other than create an island with houses and objects and stuff but its really 
 fun to mess around with ^^
  the end?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlanoJim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the overall game experience. I thought the AI was better than most first person shooters. 
 Graphics and sound very good. However, I was somewhat disappointed after all the hype. Single player 
 game a bit short. Found most of "advanced weapons" a little weak or with limited use. I have a 
 very good graphics card and fast dual-core processor, but in some sequences where there were many 
 other characters in play, my frame rate got very choppy and would crash intermittently. Definitely 
 detracted from game-play. Storyline was also a little "hokey" - never could figure out relationship 
 between N, Koreans and Aliens. Not any closure in storyline relative to N. Koreans. Actually found 
 the game play against conventional opposition more appealing and realistic than alien chapters. 
 I will probably play again at hard level. I am not a multi-player fan, and miss the effort of days 
 past in developing games to provide a longer and more satisfying game experience for the single 
 player and campaign enthusiast, Seems as if the total experience becomes watered down trying to 
 be all things to all folks.
  
  PlanoJim now living in Aledo, TX
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkytaco44
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a great game that showcases the brilliance of directx 10 and the crytek2 engine. You've 
 probably already heard what the game is all about so I'll just make my point. 
  
  The one issue I had with Crysis was that about 1/2 or maybe 2/3 of the way through the game you 
 start fighting zergli.... i mean aliens. The problem with the aliens was that they force you to 
 use a simple shoot and run strategy commonly found in most fps games. Crytek made the same mistake 
 including aliens or mutant thingies with the original Far Cry. Basically what happened is that 
 you start the game fighting an AI that is fun to manipulate, you like infiltrating their bases, 
 and they are sooo fun to headshot. 
  
  .... But with the introduction of the trigens the game was ruined as you were forced to use a boring 
 strategy that sucked all of the fun out of the game. 
  
  So EA find some way to include a human enemy in Crysis 2. Screw up the plot if you need to, its 
 not like there was one to start.
  
  Oh yeah and the beginning kicked @$$ and the multiplayer is fun whatever. so its worth a buy for 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD 
  Visually this game on the medium setting looks on par to better than call of duty 4 so with this 
 title rocking it on high or very high it does look not only photo realistic but it is the most 
 interactive game out there. the physics in this title would make valve jealous and the visuals 
 surpass ut3, what more could a nerd want in a game. on top of that this game also features breathtaking 
 AI, some perfect level design, great story telling wonderfully inventive aliens. great weapons 
 and gunplay, vehicles you can drive and blow up in fantastic fashion. a nano suit that at first 
 feels like a gimmick but by the end plays fantastically. unique online play unlike anything currently 
 out there, and it's actually fun to play unlike farcry's online.
  
  THE BAD
  I have a great computer, and i can barely manage medium settings, more on that latter. a fist full 
 of wonky graphical glitches, a horrible flying mission, a tedious boss battle and a cliff hanger 
 ending. bad selection of servers for online play, weak online support.
  
  THE RANT (disclamer: it is what it sounds like for a more focused breakdown skip to the next section.)
 
  Ok lets get this out of the way, you really need a good computer to play this title, i ran it 
 on medium across the board with 1920X1200 resolution since i have a 24 inch display and low res 
 looks like Cr@p. my computer is rather awesome i think, her it is:
  pentium core 2 quad 2.4 ghz 1066 mhz fsb,
  the highest end evga mother board out there, 
  8800 
 GTS 640mb graphics card
  2 gigs of ddr2 dual channel ram at 1066 mhz
  Vista 64bit
  so my pc isn't a slouch in any area it's only three months old and it plays call of duty 4, ut3, 
 orange box, world in conflict, all on max settings, AA and everything are cranked to the max and 
 running at 1920X1200, no framerate drops bellow 30 fps, and yet i play crysis and i can't even 
 manage high heck i had slow downs and freeze ups on medium. that being said the sufferance is worth 
 it, i waited to buy the game till a week ago since i played the demo and knew it would kill my 
 computer to play the game. but i finally caved and got it and haven't regretted it. if you liked 
 the good parts of farcry you'll love crysis. the first two thirds are you vs. Korea, and they are 
 perfect, well nearly. you have vehicles that really like to blow up, that's ok but the annoying 
 thing is that they are really sensitive and are very prone to flipping over. the vehicles also 
 get cought on things like a tank and a small boulder, i mean i could step over this thing on foot 
 but my tank is stuck on it. ok. the AI is in general fabulous, except during long range fire fights, 
 if you shoot a enemy from far away he stands there and looks around like why am i getting shot 
 he doesn't hug cover, or run at or away from you he just soaks up the bullets. it feels like killing 
 someone at range is impossible I've emptied entire ak clips into chumps but because they are on 
 the edge of my range they won't die, now add a sniper scope to the same weapon and you are suddenly 
 able to make these executions with less than 5 bullets, wtf. long range warfare and silencers in 
 farcry, i mean crysis, they still feel broken as they did in the demo. yes there is a sniper rifle 
 but you never have any ammo for it so it's a joke of a weapon. i feel that the developers couldn't 
 get long range combat AI to function so they tried to keep it out of the game all together. once 
 you are at a reasonable distance and on a higher difficulty the AI preforms fluidly in a fashion 
 that would make the combine jealous. the problem with crysis is that it's hard to fault it for 
 any weakness because it is already doing so many other things perfectly, i mean this is a huge 
 game when you think about it. you can really do what ever you want and you will almost never break 
 the game. if you read my blogs here you'd know i previously complained how the AI can't handle 
 the cloak well in the final build the cloak is balanced perfectly the AI goes nuts and sprays bullets 
 where they think you are and if you move the leaves on a bush they'll know it's you and shoot right 
 at you. in one section you fight some north Korean nano suits and it's awesome the first time, 
 they are going all predator and sneaking around in the bush, to bad the Path finding is weak but 
 the overall experience in that scene is fantastic. if you played farcry you remember how bad those 
 monsters where in the last half of the game, well in crysis the aliens are actually awesome they 
 look totally unique and are animated with total beauty in zero gravity, in the outside though they 
 would often get cought on invisible barriers it looked like. once you left the space ship and were 
 wondering around in the frozen tundra the aliens were more simple and had more glitches then again 
 i had allot of stuff turned down, but still i would kill a alien and it's corpse would freeze mid 
 animation and it would be stuck hovering in the middle of the air in a rather glitchy state and 
 this would sometimes break the game cause probably for pathfinding or resource reasons only so 
 many can be spawned in at a time and traditionally they explode every time you kill one but if 
 enough of these enigmas happen, say you have four corpses perpetually floating in mid air the next 
 wave won't spawn in. so you have to reload the game even though you killed all of them. there is 
 a flying mission after you escape the space ship and it sucks you will die and not know why, my 
 thing just dropped out of the air for no reason more than twice. the flying mission sucks cause 
 the control scheme and flight model are horrible. ok i'm rambling to much for my own good. let 
 me put it to you this way, i'll compare the single player to call of duty now call of duty's single 
 player is allot less of a game technically and gameplay wise so on the single player front call 
 of duty is like one quarter of the game. would you rather play call of duty in it's glory at five 
 hours or have it be four times as long, but with a catch for that extra 15 hours of gameplay you 
 must suffer one hour, no more no less of glitches or filler, that one hour is gonna be spread out 
 over the game so say 5 minutes here 15 there. that is kinda what happened to crysis, it's about 
 12 hours but about half a hour of that is a mix of filler (bad flying mechanics) or glitches. now 
 i know it's annoying to think of paying more after the price of admition but in games this last 
 fall i felt myself suffering bad game mechanics or technical problems to experience the good aspect 
 of a game, like say texture popins and glitches and wonky combat of mass effect for the peerless 
 story. or the genuinely bad story and main quest of assassins creed for the wonderfully crafted 
 cities and great combat (except in the end of the game that was weak) or in halo the bad single 
 player was suffered so you could play coop with your buds, or online in a better experience. well 
 crysis has this too. for the far reaching game design you must suffer a fist full of small, and 
 i mean small glitches. this isn't orange box and it isn't perfect, but it is also doing things 
 on a grander scale than that game too. portal was like 4 hours, and that was the only truely revolutionary 
 content. crysis is 12, that is three times as long, and it's not just a portal innovation, it's 
 a nano suit, it's a AI it's a graphical it's a level design benchmark for the next four years. 
 as for the multiplayer, in power struggle they created a very deep and compelling game mode that 
 is only marred by the clueless user interface and lack of decent servers. there are two main categories 
 of servers, dx10 and dx9. dx10 servers support day night cycles and more interactive environments. 
 dx9 doesn't. the concept of power struggle is you have capture points like battle field except 
 different ones give you different bonuses, like one is a spawn point, one is a energy source, used 
 to power another capture point the weapons factory and experimental weapons facility, you must 
 control the experimental weapons factory and it's power sources to unlock nukes witch you then 
 use on the enemies base to win. yes you use nukes in a fps online game to win it's awesome. this 
 online mode has a few small glitches, mainly connection issues with larger servers that freezes 
 the game. again probably fixed soon in a upcoming patch. i had a harder time finding a server worth 
 connecting too. since servers with more than ten people are rare and the maps are to large for 
 less than 18.
  
  THE BREAK DOWN
  
  GRAPHICS
  Well i on medium this is still one of the best looking games this year. on high and very high the 
 game does look are behave like a photo realistic immersive game world, this game is made of the 
 stuff that console gamers want but won't get for at least another generation. the art design for 
 the aliens is fantastic the animations for everything is perfect and peerless, the motion blur 
 and depth of field and lighting and vegetation and physics are all to be aspired to.
  10
  GAMEPLAY
  This is a title that proves that technology can propel gameplay, without the advanced 
 AI and interactive game world the user would be left with another action shooter instead the technical 
 aspects of this game open up so many options that there is almost a optional puzzle side to this 
 game, seeing how you can accomplish something, say you play as much of the first 2 thirds of the 
 game as you can, without killing or being seen. using the physics in the environment with your 
 nano suit, the first time i had to infiltrate a village i ended up speed stealthing my way through 
 the whole thing until a cinematic, i only killed like 4 guys, the next time i played the same mission 
 i layed wast to the whole camp and killed probably fifty guys or more. the awesome part of how 
 you craft your own experience for the first two thirds of the game makes the more scripted ending 
 feel more natural, you know like you were building towards something inevitable and fantastic, 
 the gameplay wonderfully propels the story. and even though people compare this to far cry there 
 are so many things in this game i could never do in any other title that is why it gets this score. 
 it's not just different in setting, but in possibilities. on top of that there is a multiplayer, 
 and a solid one at that.
  10
  SOUND
  you've got great voice work great weapons and explosive effects, great sounding aliens.
  10
 
  VALUE
  darn it when i set out i didn't think to give this game as good a review as i am but weaknesses 
 and short comings aside this title really is a must play. it's a pc exclusive that made me proud 
 to play on this platform. at for the dollar packs a good punch
  9
  TILT
  Well i guess there isn't much to say this is probably my favorite single player shooter of last 
 year, no wait bioshock just barely beats this title and you know why because of a few glitches 
 and a bad flying sequence. 
  9
  OVERALL
  this is the reason we pc gamers play the platform, this game isn't possible this generation not 
 even on the ps3. i doubt we'll see anything that can rival the experience of crysis till the next 
 console generation as for pc the only thing on the horizon that looks like a challenge is farcry 
 2 ironically. but by the time farcry 2 comes out you'll finally be able to play crysis on very 
 high. and as such they will be neck and neck hopefully. oh and one great thing i love about this 
 game is that it is really playable on the highest difficulty so that is my next challenge.
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGLeo34
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Remember Far Cry? The Good Graphics, the lush jungles, the constant AI enemies hitting you from 
 hundreds of miles away with their super xray goggles, and the constant fact that you had to bind 
 Quick save and quick load to the mouse buttons just to get anywhere in the game? I do.
  
  And heres Far Cry with a huge Nano Suit on. The nano suit does give you the ability to go fast, 
 cloak, have superb strength, or have some extra armor. 
  This would SOMETIMES be cool because you could use strength to pick up enemies and throw them into 
 buildings and whatnot.
  
  The game also contains stellar graphics, of course some machines can run this game at the highest 
 settings while others must play it at low settings just so it doesnt chug. others will be sstuck 
 tweaking their system, alot, like every Half Hour or so. Oh, you want the highest settings? Okay, 
 thats, oh, at least 6 of 7 grand. Yep, you need that much for a PC to run Crysis well.
  
  But whatsworst about the game is A. The Level Design and B. the AI is oddly awful.
  
  The Level 
 Design in this game is stupid. But there are some parts of the game where the level has you oding 
 really cool stuff, like hitting some logs over to kill some soldiers. But besides that the Level 
 Design is bland unintuitive, confusing and BORING.
  
  Back to the PArt of hitting logs to kill soldiers, when i first did this I wondered, they saw me 
 a while ago, i just hit these logs on them and they didn't move, flinch or even say NOOOOOOO!!!!!. 
 Why didn't they? well the answer is The AI is awfully dumb
  
  Well My Head hurts, I think ill go back to sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: era999
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Oh MY GOD this game will blow your mind Graphics and story is Unbelieveable and crazy there is 
 no game better than this. From going invisable and grabbing people or my favourite. go ivisble 
 grab someone where there is no one around go invisable again and the others think hes floating. 
 Great its the first game with interactive enviroment ive played shoot a tree it falls over and 
 breaks. throw someone in water they try to swim but drown great. One problem you need one amazing 
 computer to play it. I play it at my cousins because of his computer but still good. 
  
  Ok game starts when you jump out of a heli with your team mates but something happens... your parachute 
 breaks and you fall onto hard ground good thing is your suit helps you survive. You beat a few 
 enemys til you meet up with one of your mates hearing your teammate Aztec saying im stuck in a 
 tree on the radio. You start to hear a dripping noise you go through tree and theres nothing there 
 eventally Aztec comes out of the tree with his Ribs laying out and blood all over him and his eyes 
 straight white, who could have sone it find out on Crysis or read a walkthrough still best computer 
 game of all time. 
  
  This is my longest reveiw that tells you how good it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure I could be impressed after Far Cry, then along came Half-Life 2 raising the bar, 
 and now Crysis leaped that with room to spare. 
  
  I won't go into the fantastic graphics as those are covered so well in the other reviews.
  
 
  For me what made the game so outstanding was the story line and the ground breaking introduction 
 of the nano suit. Other games have tried to introduce modes like bullet time or speed, but the 
 integration and the access method I think are revolutionary and make the game so much better than 
 the earlier attempts.
  
  I agree with others that COD4 adds a differnet dimension with the more squad based play, but I 
 personally like the "lone wolf" aspect of Crysis and others. 
  
  While the missions were fairly straight forward, the story line kept me going. I am on my second 
 time through the game, this time on Delta. I really like that they didn't just make the enemies 
 harder to kill or add more but really made significant changes like no crosshairs and you can't 
 shoot the miniguns from the drivers seat ect... this really adds to the realism.
  
  I really like how each year there is a game or two that really pushes the envelope and makes everyone 
 else step up to a new level. I am anxiously awaiting Far Cry 2 and hope to see yet another leap 
 frog in entertainment.
  
  My one and only gripe is actually about the patch. As you can read on many forums, the patch introduced 
 some major issues with saving and loading games that made it unplayable. Luckily I could reinstall 
 the game without the patch and without losing progress and keep playing.
  
  BUY IT IT"S WORTH EVERY PENNY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dib9394
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  Crysis has attracted the attention of thousands. When the game got released, reception was quite 
 high. When the game was released I was very surprised by the graphics, gameplay and the highly 
 intelligent A. I. The story is about five delta units that are ordered to rescue American scientists, 
 that had discovered a strange artifact in the middle of the island, that has been sealed off by 
 the Korean military but suddenly, the artifact reveals that their aliens their and start clashes 
 on both the American and Korean military, forcing them to join against the alien menace which doesn't 
 make it interesting for me though. Your the character, Normad, who has a special nanosuit (like 
 the rest of the squad) that has four abilities; Armour, Speed, Cloak, Strength that says the word 
 "Maximum" for first said of the sentence of an ability (Except for Cloak) .
  
  The gameplay is quite fun witch focuses you to use both stealth and attack. You'd be able to use 
 items on your gun due to your purposes. You have to focus in the environment for stealth to attack 
 your enemies and the abilities to help you out. Sometimes it always focuses in large battles against 
 your enemies along with your allies.
  
  The graphics is very much the most amazing graphics ever in video game history. With high amount 
 of shadows and lighting totally sets up the atmosphere quite nice.
  
  Crysis is a well-done game by Crytek, creators of Far Cry, with realistic graphics, smart gameplay 
 and intelligent A. I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenaciousAds
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Oh MY GOD this game will blow your mind Graphics and story is Unbelieveable and crazy there is 
 no game better than this. From going invisable and grabbing people or my favourite. go ivisble 
 grab someone where there is no one around go invisable again and the others think hes floating. 
 Great its the first game with interactive enviroment ive played shoot a tree it falls over and 
 breaks. throw someone in water they try to swim but drown great. One problem you need one amazing 
 computer to play it. I play it at my cousins because of his computer but still good. 
  
  Ok game starts when you jump out of a heli with your team mates but something happens... your parachute 
 breaks and you fall onto hard ground good thing is your suit helps you survive. You beat a few 
 enemys til you meet up with one of your mates hearing your teammate Aztec saying im stuck in a 
 tree on the radio. You start to hear a dripping noise you go through tree and theres nothing there 
 eventally Aztec comes out of the tree with his Ribs laying out and blood all over him and his eyes 
 straight white, who could have sone it find out on Crysis or read a walkthrough still best computer 
 game of all time.
  
  Thanks Tenacious Ads 
  
  This is my longest reveiw that tells you how good it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  There is absolutely *nothing* that compares to Crysis's graphics. They are the most realistic graphics 
 in any game to date. The physics are very good too. But the game length is VERY short. (well quite 
 average compared to other modern, linear, mainstream shooters) And the gameplay, while the suit 
 was quite fun, is still very dated, like any other popular FPS.
  
  Gameplay: 5.5/10
  - Nothing really new. Typical FPS stuff. There aren't enough different weapons, and not enough 
 different enemies. The game is also very short and becomes quite boring and repetitive over time. 
 I didn't even finish the final boss since I was so fed up with the game, just screaming "*THIS* 
 is the final boss?? Already?? The game just got started, WTF?!" The alien ship level could've been 
 A LOT better, and I would've like to spend more time on the frozen mountain.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 6/10
  - Well, it's ok. Nothing like STALKER, Thief, Deus Ex or Penumbra 
 though. But still quite good for an linear FPS. The story is a basic  
 -story. The graphics add to the atmosphere though, especially the destructible environments and 
 lightning effects.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  - No question. As I said, nothing compares to Crysis when it comes to graphics technology. While 
 they are indeed very impressive, that doesn't save the game though.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  - Meh, mostly basic stuff. Nothing that special. It's good that on Delta the Koreans, you know, 
 actually speak Korean.
  
  Physics: 8.5/10
  - They are indeed good, but when stuff like Endorphin/Euphoria and Digital Molecular Matter are 
 already gonna appear in some 2008 games, I just can't give Crysis's physics 10 or even 9.
  
  Replay value: 4/10
  - While it's theoretically fun to try some new approaches, the game becomes 
 more and more linear towards the ending. And in the end, you just *have* to shoot enemies, 100% 
 stealth isn't an option really... After all, we've seen this stuff in Far Cry already. It's a good 
 thing that it has a level editor though.
  
  Value for money: 4/10
  - 50  for this? I don't think so. If it had expansions and/or was about 2-5 times longer, then 
 it could be worth your money. But for now, I suggest saving your money. Unless you have a monster 
 rig that can run this on high/very high and wanna see some impressive eye candy.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 7.5/10
  - Yes, it needs a very powerful rig to run smoothly. Quit 
 whining. Did any of you really expect to run it on full? I have never EVER seen a game that most 
 medium/high-end PC's could run on full when it was released. So shut up. Otherwise, I haven't encountered 
 any crashes or major bugs except a few minor graphic glitches.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Probably not. 
 If you desperately need a first person shooter, and can run this game, you maybe should try it. 
 But I suggest buying STALKER instead.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Any FPS fan who likes to think a little about tactics (not just mindless run & gun) , and people 
 who enjoyed Far Cry. Providing you have a quite high-end PC.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Stunning Graphics + Amazing Gameplay + Nice Ideas + Nice Setting + Amazing Artificial Intelligence 
 = GOTY i guess. Well i like the fact that EA has some really good ideas on this game, of course 
 EA is a great company... Its just one of these games that the story is, well, exclusive, or in other 
 ORIGINAL, I mean... who wouldnt agree, probably you, the story starts out as a normal mission... 
 you know... kick some korean butee (not to be racist) but, suddenly this some sort of weird... alien 
 thingys invade, so your are on a bad situation... aliens attack unexpectedly and. its amazing just 
 great... and the *STUNNING GRAPHICS* ONE WORD .A-M-A-Z-I-N-G!!!! you can see the detail the perfect 
 texture almost looks like a high definition photograph and every move... amazing... if you havent 
 seen the beauty buy yourself a amazing Vista desktop
  ... Now to settings... Philippines!. hahah im filipino so kinda, its exciting so an island where 
 nobody but u and koreans are in amazing place to battle aliens :)
  Artificial Intelligence or A. I a little dumb but still amazing, you wouldnt expect this kind of 
 game to come out XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bygy02
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  hard but fun Like Far Cry, the first half of Crysis is essentially a "sandbox" game where you're 
 put in the middle of incredibly large levels and tasked with an objective. How you get the job 
 done is pretty much entirely up to you, which is part of the brilliance of the game's design. For 
 instance, the environments are big enough to give you a wide range of latitude. Do you have to 
 get to a certain point on the map? You can take a meandering route that avoids patrols and go stealthy, 
 or try the up-front approach and try to blast your way through, with the danger of enemy reinforcements 
 showing up. Need to infiltrate a North Korean-held village? You can try the front gate, or maybe 
 explore and find a quieter way in. 
  
  Couple these huge environments with the powers of the nanosuit, and you have a ton more options. 
 You can play like the eponymous character from the movie Predator and use your cloaking abilities 
 to stalk North Korean patrols, picking them off one by one and watching the survivors react in 
 confusion. That could be via a silenced rifle, or simply coming up from behind a guard and grabbing 
 him by the throat and hurling him off a cliff, or through the roof of a building, or against a 
 tree, or whatever catches your fancy. Enhanced speed and strength give you an amazing amount of 
 mobility, so you can vault atop buildings and come down behind someone, or run up against a North 
 Korean vehicle next to a cliff and push it over the side. In a heartbeat you can switch between 
 different roles, from stealthy assassin to seemingly unstoppable death dealer. It's a game that 
 makes you feel like a superhero, though not an invincible one, because you simply can't run roughshod 
 over the enemy. Crysis rewards smart, fast thinking. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel1130113
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is definitely a great shooter game that you would like to get. The gameplay style is awesome, 
 and the graphics are off the hook!!! Of course, the graphics will look cool only if you have a 
 super computer with the latest and greatest of hardware. But still, even with low graphics the 
 game still looks cool and you can really experience how the story disenvolves. This game reminded 
 me of Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4, and I think Crysis will make it up good for many players since 
 it's flexible in the graphics sense. The only thing that I found a bit annoying is that some controls 
 will have to be adjusted because I felt them a bit "off limits" were it'll be a little confusing 
 or it'll be hard to reach, when in a tight situation. Crysis is a very good shooters game that 
 makes it up real good in many aspects and will keep you in the game for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aakash16
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  I know that it is the best graphics game but yet the gameplay is very boring . In none of the missions 
 there is a good objective like it was in COD4. Though COD4 was short but was itself the best but 
 CRYSIS , it has a long gameplay but with no excitement. powers of nanosuit are great , but tank 
 battles are not very good as they were told in Gamespot review. For me the missions are rotten 
 ,there are no good sound effects. But there are some good pt. s also but still I'll give this game 
 5.5. .... . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ionizer23
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  I've never seen graphics so life like this. The stunning DX 10 gives this game the extra edge. 
 Trust me you'll want a new computer now. Guess what this is just the first game of a trilogy! So 
 be prepared when Crytek unleashes the next stunning game. 
  
  Crysis sets the benchmark of High definition to a new level never seen by the world. You'll have 
 to get a beefed up system if you want optimum performance. What I recommend would be an overclocked 
 Core 2 Duo at 3.2Ghz and 2 Geforce 8800GTX SLI for the best! I'd also recommend that if you're 
 not familiar with computers, save up and get an alienware.
  
  Crysis is a must for high end gamers who want to test their computer to the limit. There are few 
 games with the beauty of this game. If you want a game, this is what you're looking for. Crysis 
 isn't for people who aren't gamers. This game is simply incredible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodygaurd1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is the most impressive looking game to date with graphics and story. The extreme requirements 
 to run it are a let down though. The total amount I spent to upgrade my graphics to play this was 
 $300. This may be a laugh to the people who had to upgrade or get a new computer. The story is 
 one of the best out their (except for the ending) . The AI is great and the environment is living 
 and plush. Most of your time is spent running through the jungle to enemy bases and blowing them 
 up, the standard gamer would love to do that but it gets a little repetitive. The explosions are 
 beautiful and the game has a few graphical issues. There was even one time when i was playing and 
 as soon a tank came rolling in it just started floating and spinning in circles. This games story 
 is one of the most detailed out there (I will not reveal it, you must play it to find out) . Overall 
 I recommend this game to any gamer willing to spend a large amount of money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denic98
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  just iff the top of my head a few reasons why this is a spectacular game and my favorite are 
 
  1) THE BEST looking visuals of any game to date by a technical, and in my opinion artistic, standpoint.
 
  2) great controls, moding weapons or changing abilities is easy and convenient during firefights.
 
  3) interactivity with everything in the game, from turtles on the beach to fallen trees and chunks 
 of buildings, the ability to interact with every seen object in the game puts it above even half 
 life 2.
  4) destructibility, certain buildings and vehicles would have sufficed, but crytek went as far 
 as to have every single building destructible and damn near every tree.
  5) difficulty, crysis is certainly a challenge, but it is no impossible feat that canot be overcome 
 with some slight skill or common sense, even though some other reviewers say that easy mode is 
 more than impossible, but honestly while i play on easy, it does not take 6 accurate head shots 
 to kill an enemy, crysis sets it difficulty to a pretty-but-not-quit realistic level making it 
 hard to kill enemies recklessly from 500 yards away or by running up to a group barehanded nut 
 it is rewarding when you do defeat them.
  
  i cannot be fair in judging other first person shooters that came before this after playing this. 
 it raised the bar, for all games. and saying a personal opinion, this game kicks halo's ass any 
 day of the week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: londonrider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  I have mixed reactions on this FPS. For me it looks like 2 games in one- Jungle part and Alien 
 part. And they feel and play very differently.
  
  The Jungle part
  That's not so impressive graphically, but very quality part. And it's enjoyable indeed (it reminds 
 series Lost a bit?) . You are grinding through jungles full of hostile soldiers, and from time to 
 time hints of something-not-right appear. Well, while maybe this part was a little too long for 
 my taste, still it's the flawless piece
  
  The Alien part
  This is where the graphics and designs become really amazing. The first time I've entered the alien 
 ship I was just wondering around- it was so awesome! However there were frustrating or just silly 
 levels (like fly-a-plane) . The worst was the final boss level- but not gameplay wise. It had so 
 many bugs, that I spent 70% of time of reloading...
  
  The bottom line is that Crysis was a very impressive adventure, but I wouldn't call it the best 
 game of all times. I still prefer it to Bioshock. Though, graphically wise I was more impressed 
 by Lost Planet Extreme Conditions (on a gaming PC with Vista) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Crytek did it again with Crysis. They produced a game that raises the bar for all FPS for years 
 to come. AI intelligence, realism and graphics really pushes Crysis in being an instant classic 
 changing the face on how FPS are made.
  
  The year is 2020, the US military have created a new technology called the nano suit. The nano 
 suit allows you absorb bullets, increase strength by jumping higher, allows you to run faster, 
 and hide from enemies by cloaking to near invisibility. The story starts off as you and rest of 
 your squad is free falling on to an island some where in South China Sea. You will encounter North 
 Korean army where they have captured the island. Not long have you have landed on the island, you 
 will be engaging the enemy.
  
  Crysis is not the type of game you can run and gun. You must hide, watch your surroundings and 
 carefully make your shot. The AI will always be in a squad and whenever they think they see something 
 or you make a shot, they will work together as a squad to find you. A player will be able to know 
 where each of the AI location and where he is looking at so he could swiftly move or make a shot 
 without any of the other squad team seeing. If a player were careless enough to be spotted by the 
 AI, one of the AI squad members will run back to a base or town to get help. Sounds like explosions 
 and gun shots will also attract enemy AI similar to what you expect in a real world situation.
 
  
  Graphics are by far the best of any game yet hit the market. It will take years for Crysis graphics 
 to become outdated, since no computer yet have the ability to maximize it. A high end computer 
 two years from now will have be capable of running Crysis on the highest settings at very high 
 frame rates. Right off the bat, after you land on the island, you will notice you are in a tropical 
 environment. The trees will have a very realistic and life like feeling to them. You could almost 
 see the individual leaves on a tree like you would see in a real life tree.
  
  With all the great graphics, AI intelligence and sound effects gives this game a lot of realism. 
 When you are engaging the enemy AI, you could hear where they are when they walk, hide in the tall 
 grass, bushes, behind a rock, wall, and everything else in the world. The AI will realistically 
 look for you when you are hiding and will come to your location if you are too loud. Along with 
 the great graphics Crysis have to offer, you got the most realistic FPS have yet to come. Crysis 
 really have reached a new high for all first person shooters.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolGuy6654
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  The german team behind Far Cry and the CryENGINE have come back to make one of the most hardware 
 dependent games in along time. This game ,Crysis, is a Si-Fi First Person Shooter (FPS) , and has 
 most of us know there are so many FPSs on the market , more than you can count on yours and all 
 your firends fingers and toes. Thats not always a bad thing beacuse the gamers know what they what 
 in a FPS and for the most part Crysis fufils all of those needs.
  
  When Crysis was first shown at E3 and has won many awards at E3 and GDC ,even before it was released. 
 The spectulation with Crysis were people wondering if Crysis could measure up on its promises (great 
 gameplay and great graphics) . In all ways Crysis lives up top these promises.
  
  The Crysis story is a typicial Si-Fi plot the main character has a special suit called "Nano Muscle 
 Suit" and it the main gameplay mechanic and is a very interesting part of the game. The suit is 
 capable of four modes: armor, strength, speed, and cloak. Armor lets you soak up more damage than 
 before, strength lets you chuck grenades (and enemies) , speed lets you zip arround the map in super 
 speed, and cloak well lets you cloak.
  
  Another cool aspect of Crysis is that you are able to customize your weapons on the fly by adding 
 scopes, scilences and other knick knacks. Well back to the story, it starts out by you doing a 
 Halo jump down on to Korean land. On the way down you get attacked by an unknown creature and are 
 seperated from your team and must regroup with your team one by one. When you find your first team-mate 
 you are told by your leader to rush to Aztec (a team-mate you sent a disstress call) and by the 
 time you get to him he has been killed and instead of just leaving him Prophet (your leader vaporizes 
 hiom so the Koreans dont get the Nano suit.
  
  The rest of the story plays out like a normal Si-Fi story with some epics battles, One of the battles 
 happend in an alien ship with zero-gravity which is flippin sweet. 
  
  Descpite Crysis being a hardware hog it is definaly a game that any one should buy. That is if 
 they have a good enough PC to run it at at least medium and even at medium it looks great.
  
  9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Couple these huge environments with the powers of the nanosuit, and you have a ton more options. 
 You can play like the eponymous character from the movie Predator and use your cloaking abilities 
 to stalk North Korean patrols, picking them off one by one and watching the survivors react in 
 confusion. That could be via a silenced rifle, or simply coming up from behind a guard and grabbing 
 him by the throat and hurling him off a cliff, or through the roof of a building, or against a 
 tree, or whatever catches your fancy. Enhanced speed and strength give you an amazing amount of 
 mobility, so you can vault atop buildings and come down behind someone, or run up against a North 
 Korean vehicle next to a cliff and push it over the side. In a heartbeat you can switch between 
 different roles, from stealthy assassin to seemingly unstoppable death dealer. It's a game that 
 makes you feel like a superhero, though not an invincible one, because you simply can't run roughshod 
 over the enemy. Crysis rewards smart, fast thinking. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: radialheadfx
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  1. Can not install game from the disk. Had to find a work around on the game site forum, along 
 with over 2,000 over viewers. http://incrysis. com/forums/viewtopic. php? id=13177
  2. Sound Errors through out the game.
  http://incrysis. com/forums/viewtopic. php? id=13195
  3. 
 The opening menu screen and mouse do not line up, so you really dont know where your clicking.
 
  http://incrysis. com/forums/viewtopic. php? id=16220
  Definitely read through the games forum site before purchasing, because even powerful machines 
 are incapable of running this super buggy "games for windows" tragedy. Although a new patch has 
 been released, this patch does not correct any of these bug issues. However it does increase the 
 frames per second performance.
  My System:
  Vista Ult. 32 bit
  AMD 6000
  2x8800gts in SLI mode
  4 gig ram
  X-Fi soudcard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocalipsis6
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Graphics and Audio may not be the whole deal in gaming (They cause overrating sometimes) , but Cryisis 
 ultra-realistic environments will make you feel like you are really there running and shooting 
 enemy soldiers & aliens on a tropical island, wich make a totally inmersive experience. The plot 
 may not be the more original, but the game manages to make it feel credible. From both artistic 
 and technical point of view is truly a masterpiece.
  
  About the gameplay? It has been tried before with Far-cry, but the "sandbox" gameplay makes other 
 shooters feel too narrow and corridor-style, so theres a lot of re-playability here.
  
  The difficulty is well balanced, it has a credible AI, the koreans act like real soldiers, but 
 still is not very innovative and there are a few bugs there.
  
  The only badside is that is too short. I mean, seriously, i didnt expected the single-player campaign 
 to end when it did, wich was somewhat of a disappointment.
  
  Nevertheless, If you got the rig to support it, dont doubt about trying it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothkin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  People talk a lot about how Crysis has great gameplay, good weapons, cool mechanics, unbelievable 
 graphics, blah blah blah, and that is all true, it does have those things, but the reason why Crysis 
 is genuinely a magnificent game, is because it has everything! Theres awesome fighting and gunplay, 
 theres great vehicles, and many kinds of them too. theres a tank fight! theres a jet fight! you 
 fight people! you fight people who are invisible! you fight tanks! you fight aliens! you have flying 
 aliens! you fight them in zero-gravity! you fight in buildings! you fight in some weird alien fortress! 
 you fight in the winter! you fight in the jungle! you fight in the water! you fight on a aircraft 
 carrier! The fact that Crysis looks fabulous while doing this makes it jsut that much cooler. you 
 can be invisible, grab people by the throat, blow up a car by shooting the gas tank, knock down 
 a tree! this game really exemplifies an all around perfect and pristine achievement. 
  To add on to all of that, theres also a great multi player. you cna play power-struggle or instant 
 action. the former is a kind of warfare (UT3) kind of mode, while instant action is just deathmatch. 
 the gameplay on both are fabulous, and because your life is somewhat fragile, like CoD, even beginners 
 and noobs can still have fun, unlike UT. It would be nice to see other modes, like team deathmatch 
 or capture the flag, hence the 9.5, but still, an excellent game. i gotta go though, play some 
 crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyronecarr2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  An truely incredible game in near every respect. Fro astounding visuals, to amazing story and gameplay, 
 crysis is all it was crakced up to be a more. A powerful game that will be around for years and 
 remain a classic. Perhaps, the greatest shooter made to date and we can only expect more and better 
 things to come. [An truely incredible game in near every respect. Fro astounding visuals, to amazing 
 story and gameplay, crysis is all it was crakced up to be a more. A powerful game that will be 
 around for years and remain a classic. Perhaps, the greatest shooter made to date and we can only 
 expect more and better things to come.] [An truely incredible game in near every respect. Fro astounding 
 visuals, to amazing story and gameplay, crysis is all it was crakced up to be a more. A powerful 
 game that will be around for years and remain a classic. Perhaps, the greatest shooter made to 
 date and we can only expect more and better things to come. [An truely incredible game in near 
 every respect. Fro astounding visuals, to amazing story and gameplay, crysis is all it was crakced 
 up to be a more. A powerful game that will be around for years and remain a classic. Perhaps, the 
 greatest shooter made to date and we can only expect more and better things to come.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSjoerd
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Crysis for the last 2 days now and though at first the game really seems all 
 ace. Nice graphics and atmosphere. But after a lot of skulking, I noticed some overpowering feats 
 to the AI. I wanted to play the game stealthy and I thought if, like in real life, if I would crawl 
 up a beach, no guy from a guard tower all the way to the other side of the map would be able too 
 notice me in a second. maybe if I would have staid there for three minutes someone would see it, 
 but this guy was apparently coincidentally looking right at me, EVERYTIME!!! So I quickly gave 
 that up and used the cloak feature like everyone else. So I was cloaking through a camp when suddenly, 
 6 enemy's were standing 30 feet ahead of me. So I though a grenade would do the trick. So I pulled 
 the pin and a soon as the grenade left my hand those 6 guys flinched their 360 degree vision saw 
 a grenade coming at them and before the grenade even exploded the whole camp was on full alert. 
 So they all ran hard and my grenade was wasted. So I was forced to pull out my AK derived assault 
 rifle. It took 5 to 6, 7,62 mm rounds before they guy divided to drop dead. I'd like to meet the 
 guy taking 4 of these rounds and would still walk and jump around. 
  My point is, due to the fact that the AI made it impossible for me to play the game the way I wanted 
 to play it, I find the reply value very low. I proved myself when I started a new game for a second 
 round and got bored in the second map. I also missed being able to shoot through walls like in 
 Call of Duty 4. In Crysis you have to blow up the wall before you can kill the guy behind it. 
 
  
  Verdict;
  Looks isn't everything. A total waste of money.
  I also missed being able to shoot through walls like in Call of Duty 4. In Crysis you have to blow 
 up the wall before you can kill the guy behind it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mushroom_Cloud
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is  Everything in this game rocks I played single 
 player mode and beat the game and love it. To me the hype was right and this is a Masterpiece. 
 There are a few boring levels but it all ties together like every action packed game I've played. 
 My hardcore Halo friends almost had heart attacks when I gave them a preview sneak peak at it.
 
  
  I thought the ending was great it leaves you with a nice well thought out hanger that fitted the 
 game very well. Stand back Master Chief theres a new sheriff in town! The A. I. in Crysis wasn't 
 as stupid as some other games I have played very life like intelligence I might add. I put this 
 game and others like BioShock and Half-Life 2 in my MVP games collection! There are few games I 
 like but Crysis just blew me away just as BioShock did and Half-Life 2 along with Call Of Duty 
 4. I would recommend this game to anyone since it's just amazing!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_ozz
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Yes it is yet another groundbreaking achievement from CRYTEK. CRYSIS is a great accomplishment, even 
 greater than what FAR CRY achieved.
  
  GAMEPLAY : 9/10 EXCELLENT
  The concept of NANO SUIT is really cool. It gives u additional powers like maximum strength, maximum 
 speed, maximum armor and also u can get invisible. Nano suit is where crysis scores the max points 
 as it keeps things fresh compared to other shooters. The AI is really good, as expected for a game 
 from CRYTEK. We can also hop on to any vehicle and the driving controls are pretty satisfying.
 
  
  GRAPHICS : 10/10 OUTSTANDING
  No words to describe how beautiful this game looks. CRYSIS is simply a 100% technical accomplishment. From 
 shadow of the vehicles to the shadow of a rooster, from the sunrise to the sunset, changes in climatic 
 conditions CRYTEK has given a lot of importance to minor details. The lighting effects is also 
 brilliant. I am sure no game can equal crysis on graphical achivements for the next year and a 
 half or so.. Atleast..
  
  Sound : 9/10 EXCELLENT
  The sound effects are really cool in CRYSIS. We also get a good feel of the weapons cos of the sound. The 
 voice acting is not superb but good, could have been better though.
  
  Story : 8/10 GREAT
  The story is actually the weak link in CRYSIS. Its not a total let down though but considering the 
 fact that CRTYEK is planning for a triology, it kinda sums up the lack of proper ending.
  
  Multiplayer : 9/10 EXCELLENT 
  There is no team deathmatch else it provides for a great multiplayer 
 experience.
  
  Difficulty : Medium
  On the default difficulty the game is pretty easy given the fact that u have the nano suit and 
 completely open ended gameplay. So we can either use stealth or simply gundown the enemies. On higher 
 difficulty settings the game gets really tough with the enemy soldiers capable of taking a large 
 number of bullets.
  
  Overall : 9/10 EXCELLENT
  Yes this game is a system hog but if u have a pc that can handle this game then this is a must 
 have. Even thogh the story is not all that good the graphics will surely pull you through this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rvp_23
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  My Sys Spec:
  
  Athlon 64 X2 3600+
  XFX 7600GT XXX Edition 256MB DDR3
  2GB DDR2 667Mhz
  ASUS M2N-MX
  
  Bioshock , Call Of Duty 4 , Half Life 2 EP2 , F. E. A. R makes 
 my system look like Ferrari Enzo but Crysis makes it looks like a broken Model T-Ford. It runs 
 on the lowest res ( 800 x 600 ) @ med settings. BUT Crysis's Photo-realistic Graphics & its GAMEPLAY 
 satisfies me like none other I've experienced before.
  
  Even though the Game is very taxing on the system its frame rate its extremely stable.
  
  Gameplay 
 in Crysis is better than every other First Person Shooter (Except Half-Life 2 & its Episodes) . 
 The reason is the supercharged state-of -the-art cutting edge Nanosuit you are given to play with 
 (Currently being tested by the US Military) which gives you the option of whether you want to approach 
 the situation like the Predator and stalk your prey (Cloak Mode) or go guns blazing like Mr. Rambo 
 (Armor Mode) or show your rage like Hulk (Strength Mode) to pick up guys by the neck the punch 
 them in their face!!!!. The suit also got an additional mode called (Speed Mode) which helps you 
 go around the gigantic maps & also comes in handy during some fire-fight escapes.
  
  Personally my favorite mode is the ' Strength Mode ' when you enable it the suit becomes red which 
 symbols ' Anger & Rage ' and it turns you into a super soldier ( Like the Universal Soldier Movie 
 ) you can jump on the roof tops, kill guys with a single, powerful punch and helps you steady your 
 weapons against the recoil when you are looking through the scope!!!!!!!!. This is superb.... Crytek, 
 You are the best!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Physics & interactiveness is simply life-like. You can't hide inside a house during a firefight 
 the explosion from the Grenades will blow every cover around you!!!!!!!!!!
  
  And the Graphics? Man............... If your system can't play Crysis on Very High Settings download 
 a HD Trailer of Crysis and get a feel for its true  just like 
 i had a vacation to the island on the south china sea!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  In case your system can't play crysis the way you expected please don't give this masterpiece low 
 scores you poor  finished this game 3 times and can't stop playing 
 it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Truly Crysis & its developers deserves nothing less than 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steveperry2004
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  We all know what Crysis does right: beautiful scenery, clever AI, advanced physics, the list goes 
 on. The problem with Crysis is that the endgame, much like Bioshock, seems to forget what made 
 the rest of the game so much fun. Crytek takes you out of the sandbox and puts you on the slide, 
 using artificial linearity during an escort mission followed by 'defend the base' style segments. 
 Instead of outwitting North Korean troops with a mix of all of your nanosuit's powers, you'll generally 
 be confined to stealth or defense against the late-game enemies.
  Crysis is still a game that any FPS fan owes it to themselves to play through, as it is the best 
 single-player FPS experience this year. But savour the first part of the game, as that memory may 
 be the only thing taking you through to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogzsnet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Crysis is by far one of those games that has changed the way gaming, and in particular FPS, will 
 unfold in the future. Crytek has perhaps, in this gamers opinion, created one of the best games 
 of all time. From the very beginning Crysis shows that it's much more than your typical "run and 
 gun" shooter. Your elite team of special ops commando's are given the task of parachuting on to 
 a tropical island in the Pacific in order to extract a research team that has been over run by 
 a North Korea invasion force. Details are sketchy at best, and you get the hint that your character 
 (Nomad) isn't being told everything by the team leader (Prophet) . At least every commando is equipped 
 with a state-of-the-art bio-suit, and some cutting edge weaponry. The suit is by far the glue that 
 binds this great game together. Looking like a wet dream of Sam Fisher's (from Splinter Cell) , 
 the bio-suit turns your character in to a veritable one man army. You have numerous special abilities 
 granted to you by the suit, each activated from a user-friendly menu. The strength ability that 
 allows your character to jump many times the normal height of a human being, making it easy to 
 avoid enemy fire by simply jumping on to a nearby roof, or right over a speeding vehicle. In addition 
 to the vertical affects, the strength option grants your character increased upper body ability, 
 making for some great melee take downs, with the best being grabbing an enemy by the throat and 
 hurling him at his comrades. There's a speed option that allows your character to run like the 
 wind, making it easy to blow by overwhelming opposition or cover long distance in quick order (watch 
 out for trees though) . The stealth ability makes you all but invisible, but has a high energy consumption 
 rate when you're on the move so use it wisely. The last, and probably best ability, is the increased 
 armor effect. This is the suits default setting, and will automatically turn on when your suits 
 power drains to zero. It hardens the bio-suit's skin to make it bullet resistant and can be a literal 
 lifesaver at times. Even your weaponry can be altered, allowing you to put silencers, flashlights, 
 various optics, and even IR pointers, on a variety of weapons to customize how you fight. However 
 let us be practical for a second my friends; the suit, the gadgets, the Korean enemies, they are 
 all fine and good, but they alone do not make a great game. What does? The story, and Crytek delivers 
 in this department as well. The game goes from adrenaline pumping event to adrenaline pumping event, 
 while you move in a mad dash across the island looking for the missing research team. Yet all the 
 while, in the back of your mind, you're left wondering who or what is waging war on both you and 
 the Koreans. The game keeps you guessing right up until the end, and delivers on a cliffhanger 
 that all but shouts Crysis 2. I urge everyone to go out, buy Crysis, and experience all the bells 
 and whistles for themselves. Yes you may not be able to run the game on its full system settings, 
 but even toned down, the game doesn't fail to deliver one of the best gaming experiences of all 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  IT IS NOT EASY TO MEET THE EXPECTATIONS SET BY CRYTEK AFETR FAR CRY AND SO MANY MONTHS OF WAITING 
 FOR THE GAME TO FINALLY HIT THE STORES. BUT CRYSIS HAS EXCEEDED ALL EXPECTATIONS. ITS NOT ONLY 
 A TECHNICAL AND GRAPHICAL MARVEL, BUT ALSO FEATURES AN INTELLIGENT GAMEPLAY NEVER SEEN BEFORE IN 
 THE GENRE. IT IS WITHOUT DOUBT THAT ALL GAMING GIANTS WOULD NOW TRY AND FOLLOW CRYSIS'S FOOTSTEPS 
 AFTER ALL , ITS SHOWN THE PATH FOR FUTURE GAMING. ONE WOULD HAVE WISHED FOR A LONGER SINGLE PLAYER 
 CAMPAIGN BECAUSE GIVEN THE HIGH STANDARD GAMEPLAY, ONE WOULD WANT MORE. OF COURSE A SEQUEL IS DUE 
 SHORTLY. THE ONLY DRAWBACK IS THE SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS, AND I DONT THINK THERES ANY CPU OR GPU WHICH 
 CAN RUN THE GAME IN VERY HIGH SETTINGS AND ALSO SMOOTHLY. BUT EVEN THAT IS TOO LITTLE FOR THIS 
 GAME OF THE CENTURY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I always post my computer specs so you get an idea of where I'm coming from.
  Q6600 2400mhz - OC'd to 2900mhz
  8800gts 320mb - OC'd to stock gtx
  Asus P5K Deluxe
  4G DDR2 
 RAM
  
  this game kills even my computer, even to the point where my gpu turns of completely from not enough 
 power, which has to do with my power supply but whatever
  
  This game is definitely not all pretty to look at fun and dandy, it's the most advanced engine 
 ever created! (CryEngine2) This takes physics, visual graphics, and gameplay to a whole new level. 
 The only complaint I have for this game, is not the high max. requirements, but the multiplayer. 
 I think that the maps should be smaller. It takes much to long to get to where all the action is, 
 just to die (possibly) seconds later. 
  
  The story is not the most amazing ever, but it's still good. Whatever, awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Succumbus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent. It's very good far going with first person shooters.
  
  The Good:
  
  Great innovative story, although the alien part is kinda ruined throughout all 
 the hype before the game came out (They try to make it look like its a mystery at first in the 
 game)
  
  The engine is just gorgeous, real time shadows, trees falling, plants leaves moving as you go by. 
 Just about anything can be picked up and thrown at enemies or whatever you desire. 
  
  The water is just beautiful, it makes you feel like you're really swimming in some tropical lagoon. 
 I love how it looks and the bullets going through the water look real.
  
  The openness (sp?) of the game and the variety of using your suit is just awesome. You can go stealth 
 and sneak your way out of a pack of foes, or go strength and through guys into others, or go speed 
 and fly past them, or just hold out with max defense. The Island that your dropped off on is pretty 
 far stretched, you dont have to take a direct path. Hop in a boat, grab a humvee, or just walk 
 if you want to get to the object on your map.
  
  The particle effects on this game look so good. Explosions are so convincing, bullets hitting the 
 water and the ground react so well.
  
  Game has a good variety in environments and the anti-gravity section is just awesome.
  
  Overall 
 its a well made game. Very well made.
  
  ----So I was totally a pessimist against this game in every way when it came out, so I wasnt a 
 die-hard fan from the beginning when it first was announced ---
  
  The Cons:
  
  Difficulty can be frusterating for those who havent really played fps's before. I found myself 
 dying or just about dead with easily 20 enemies around me. At first its difficult to understand 
 the how much the suit can do.
  
  The helicopters have supernatural senses, which suck. Somehow they spot you sitting in bushes recharging 
 your energy 200 feet away. When you dont have any rockets either, well, it gets really frustrating.
 
  
  Not too much of a variety of guns, in the beginning you start out with a cool gun, but not too 
 far into the game I found the ammo low so I started to just use the guns and ammo I got off enemies, 
 which was, well the same gun for 70% of the gun, till near the end you start getting more variety 
 (minigun, scar - again, alien minigun, etc...)
  
  The enemies sometimes are pretty dumb and the bulk of their strength is really just in their numbers, 
 this can be fun as well :p
  
  You need a damn good machine to play this on higher settings.
  
  ----Overall I think this game 
 is very good. It's very satisfying to blow things up with rockets or shoot the cliche' red barrels 
 with a little flame symbol on them. This game is definately a looker and I believe will satisfy 
 most fps fans needs.
  
  One more note: I played this game on medium settings with particle effects on high =]
  
  thanks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_hosi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Crysis was easily one of the best games to come out of 2007 for a number of reasons. The graphics 
 are pretty obvious, the game looks incredible. It is by far the best graphics in any game out there, 
 but that is not even the half of what Crysis really is.
  
  Do what you want, that's the flow of the game. Lets say for example, you have to attack a small 
 N. Korean outpost that is in your way. Now the obvious choice is to bust down the front door and 
 blast everyone in reach. But you can be more subtle if you want. You can, sneak in past the guards 
 at the gate, put your nano suit on maximum strength, and smack a building wall making it collapse 
 killing everyone inside. Or you can get on on high ground and drop explosives on the buildings. 
 You could just go past it and not engage in combat at all, you are only limited by how creative 
 a tactic you can come up with.
  
  Now for the Nano suit, this thing is awesome. It has 4 modes, Armor, Strength. Speed, and Stealth. 
 Maximum armor allows you to take more damage. This is good when your plan won't work out as well 
 as you hoped and you end up in a tight spot. Strength lets you do a number of things. It helps 
 stabilize your gun for long-range combat, you can jump very high, and you can melee incredibly 
 strong (bashing down buildings and sending troops flying) . Speed allows you to run fast, very fast 
 but you can hit trees and do some damage to yourself. But that's ok, you have a nano suit that 
 repairs any damage you take over time. The stealth mode is the most useful. It turns you invisible 
 as long as your power lasts. You can sneak up on somebody, and grab them when nobody is looking. 
 Or just get past a heavy patrol you don't want to get near. 
  
  
  All in all Crysis is an awesome game that anybody with a decent computer can play and enjoy. You 
 don't need to have a top of the line rig to play it, you just cant max it out. But even on low 
 settings this game is amazing to look at and to play. It is a must buy if your rig can handle it 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtickner
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  I'm not a huge fan of FarCry. It's lame implementation of the Tr-Gens or whatever they are called 
 and a few other things i had a problem with plague Crysis which makes like this game a lot less 
 then i could have.
  
  (Now, i will give Crytek the thumbs up on the graphics because they are truly insane)
  
  Crysis 
 would have been a much better game if they ditched the aliens. The 1st half or so of the game is 
 great and much more fun to play than the other. It's all lush jungle and great environments, killing 
 other men and cruisin' around in a wide array of vehicles. Then we move into the 2nd half and it 
 the game just travels down a pretty steep hill for me here. The aliens have wrecked this game for 
 me just like they did FarCry. The environment changes into you mainly being in some gaylien ship, 
 then a boat and the occasional frozen over jungle, gay. Your new enemies are even worse than the 
 environment change, what is it? Some stupid flying squid things, an oversized crab and then to 
 top it off a HUGE ship that you and a puny V-TOL manage to take out yourselves.
  
  I see a lot of praise to the AI in Crysis, why would anyone praise a games AI when on numerous 
 occasions i stood infront of a person and he didn't react untill it was time for the death animation, 
 or where i could follow a character around for ages and he nor his freinds would react to me being 
 there. The only FPS game i have seen with outstanding AI is Killzone, yes Killzone. Playing MP 
 and you go in a sniper tower with your buddy, chances are you wont be there for long seeing as 
 your opposition have seen you, shared the info around and started gathering explosives and rocket 
 launchers to blow you down, oh yeah and they generally attack in clusters, flanking you from either 
 side after sending out a scout for you to waste your ammo on.
  
  Sound is good in Crysis, want a real mans explosion pumping through your sub though? Play GRAW 
 2.
  
  Crysis isn't all bad though, it is semi enjoyable and probably worth a play through. In the end 
 it is overrated, and got a tad boring after a while and not worth the money. want an FPS worth 
 the money that you can actually run without making your computer go into meltdown? get Bioshock, 
 i have a rather mediocre system and i can fang Bioshock into the max settings at 1440 x 900 and 
 it looks prime!
  
  Ciao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MigLeader
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  This game is the best ,its multiplayer mode makes a new world of gaming , even the singleplayer 
 you just feel the action just as if you are in the battle but what makes me a little sad that there 
 is no fast airplanes to play in multiplayer mode but this can be fixed later.
  
  the graphics is the best even if i played at low , as i can see no other game have this kind of 
 feeling in graphics like this game , also the ai is really great that act right in front of the 
 player.
  
  the only thing that i am sad about is there is no fighter jets in multiplayer games but i think 
 that this can be fixed with mods .
  
  the editor (Sandbox 2) is new generation in modding and editing any game,
  i haven't found any 
 game that have like this editor, simply you can edit everything in the game with a real ease.
 
  
  overall the is amazing and definatly worth playing.
  
  all i can say and shout now is (WHEN CRYSIS 2 WILL BE OUT) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedihalo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Considering I bought a new graphics card just to play this game it certainly had a lot to live 
 up to in my opinion. It didn't disappoint! The card was worth the buy and allowed me to at least 
 experience the fantastic graphics on a high setting. 
  
  The visuals are stunning but you really need some of the latest hardware in the hope of appreciating 
 the details of the landscape and the game play. The story line itself is sound and exciting and 
 it never gets boring, there are some tricky parts you will be making the most of your nano suit, 
 a device that is quick and easy to learn and control.
  
  The AI is one of the best I've experienced, on a harder setting you start to realise you need to 
 out think the enemy and be a bit more stealthy in places rather than running in all guns blazing. 
 You will be using the stealth mode quite a bit to get yourself out of sticky situations. 
  
  Apart from the amazing hardware needed to run it, its only other drawback (which will hopefully 
 be fixed in the recent patch) is the trouble some players and I have had with the bosses. Halfway 
 through the game and the end boss and not being able to lock on with certain weapons. The solution 
 is to reload the level again but this became a little annoying
  
  Overall the game is fantastic and definitely worth playing if you have the machine for it. Its 
 fun as well as action packed, you can stare in awe at the pretty environments or you can destroy 
 them at will, or sit there stealthily watching and listening to the AI interact with each other. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  This game speaks volume. You're a special operative sent out on a rescue mission only to discover 
 an unbelievable twist.
  
  To this day, I haven't recuperated from that idea that i have an superb nanosuit what can bewitch 
 the Korean forces ( in most part! ) then you fight your way out from an ancient alien civilisation!
 
  
  Must say, I do enjoy the game immensely - but I must be critical about the ancient cavern. They 
 look like prawns that really begun the evolution before man! ( And the twist reminds me of Predator 
 the movie with Arnie!)
  
  In playing this game, I was put off with the giant prawns and its the only reason why the game 
 won't get the full marks - yet will receive one of my highest marks to date.
  
  The developers put alot of effect into the game making it less repetitive the second time round 
 of playing combat ( except the storyline - I mean what you take me for! ) .
  
  All that I can say is that this game will test other game developers to match its awe. ( obviously 
 making it alot longer might just do the trick! )
  
  Is it worth playing? The answer is yes. it's worth the experience.
  
  And remember folks, upgrading 
 your computer system allows you to appreciate previous games alot more in turns of speed and frames 
 per second - what I've noticed!
  
  So good hunting gamers alike! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abedeuss
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Before launching Crysis, I expected it to be something like Far Cry... Which bored me, as it was 
 a normal FPS with very good graphics. But Crysis... It's just perfect.
  
  First to rate is the quality of graphics. Stunning, just stunning. At lowest resolution, at lowest 
 detail/shadow/everything, Crysis looks better than many, many games, like Bet on Soldier, Half 
 Life or Quake 4. Everything is perfect, physics, HDR effects and other effects. The only disadvantage 
 is huge system requirements. This game can literally eat any PC, from Athlon 3000+ and GeForce 
 7300 GT (my PC) to Athlon 64 X2 Dual-Core 5400+ and GeForce 8800 GTS (my cousin's PC) . But in return, 
 it gives almost photo-realistic graphics, which is really, really great.
  
  I already mentioned physics. They are also awesome - You can crush enemies with trash cans, rocks, 
 metal plates, other enemies or your fists. If you can sneak behind enemy lines, you can jump on 
 their shack and break the roof above them, killing them instantly. It's also possible to choke 
 enemies, hurl them over a clif or at a wall. The only flaw I noticed is that bodies after death 
 are immobile and ghost-like. But that's not that visible, so it doesn't break the fun.
  
  Plot - Pretty nice, makes the game look like a great action film. Pretty obvious, if someone red 
 a review, he knew that aliens are going to attack player. Oh, yeah. We shoot to enemies as Nomad, 
 a skilled soldier of U. S. army with a nanosuit. He is sent on a recovery mission on a Korean island. 
 It will, however, turn into a survival horror, when your comrades are being killed by a mysterious... 
 Machine? Animal? Whatever it is, there's going to be a lot more of it later. Plot isn't that important, 
 however, as you will end up shooting almost everything that moves anyway.
  
  Another thing is the nanosuit. I know I should mention it earlier, but Crysis is mainly the best 
 looking game ever, so... Anyway, there are 4 modes for the armor. Strength, allowing super-high 
 jumps, great power in melee, steadier arm and ability to throw grenades at even 50-60 meters. With 
 the Speed mode, Nomad is able to make long dashes, far jumps, fast running, swimming, climbing 
 on ladders. It's probably the least useful mode, as you will use it only when running away or traveling 
 long distances on foot, while not in a vehicle. Another mode is Armor, which allows you to survive 
 more bullets, as they drain your energy instead of health. Of course, both regenerate pretty fast, 
 but it's very good mode during combat. And last, but not least, Cloak. It makes you 95% invisible, 
 so enemies can spot you only at melee range. You are going to use it quite often, even with it's 
 2 flaws. First, it drains your energy, the faster you move, the more it drains. Another is that 
 as soon as you attack someone using a gun or fists.
  
  Gameplay - Very good, at this time only Gears of War can beat Crysis at this field. Fights are 
 intensive, bullets are flying everywhere and you very often mow down a forest in a battle with 
 3-4 enemies. The AI helps a lot - Koreans are using same tactics, that U. S. army is using in real 
 life. Aliens, on the other hand, use a tactic similar to Blitzkrieg - they try to surround the 
 player, then assault him and charge at him. It doesn't seem too hard to beat, but each assault 
 can kill a player without Armor mode on. This makes fights even more challenging.
  
  Audio - Nothing special, although effects are great. After grenade explodes near Nomad, he is deaf 
 for few seconds, and the screen is blurred. Sounds are fine, not bad, but not excellent. I can 
 say they are just okay. Same goes for audio track.
  
  In conclusion, if you buy this game, you get 10 hours (in 1st try, but you can play Crysis non-stop, 
 at 4 different difficulty levels) of Single Player game and at least ten times more in multiplayer, 
 deathmatch and an objective mode, called ,, Power Struggle''. The worst thing, however, is that 
 the game... Ends. But don't worry, there will be Crysis 2 and Crysis 3, possibly even better, if 
 that's possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  crysis is visually excellent and comes with exciting, immersive gameplay where the objects are 
 almost lifelike and the gameplay is realistic. the graphics are so superb that even on medium quality 
 settings, the graphics were already better than many other high-end pc games. on very high quality, 
 my pc struggled and gave only 6 frames per second. the gameplay is realistic, letting you modify 
 your weapons in the battlefield, like adding scopes, silencers, and flashlights. the different 
 battlesuit modes are very interesting and have to be used wisely in firefights or you risk being 
 overwhelmed by koreans. the sound design is good but not great, the korean soldiers voices sound 
 weird in both english and korean. the gunfights produce very generic sounds but with good quality. 
 crysis demands much from your pc and even with my pc (overclocked 3.4 GHz Core 2 QX9650, dual nvidia 
 8800 GT Ultra video cards, creative x-fi sound card) it couldn't play on very high settings and 
 could barely keep up at high settings. i had no choice but to either lower the settings or the 
 resolution.
  because crysis is such a great game but requires you to spend thousands to upgrade your pc , it 
 does not get a good score because good games should be available to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fms10
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Whats going on any more. This game to me is shorter than call of duty 4.
  Its good but its no 9.5, I know now for sure, that there's pay-o-la involved in gamespot reviews. 
 Its harder then it is fun. Its almost impossible to go around enemies, the areas are much smaller 
 then far cry, In fact far cry, fear ,halflife 2, are better overal games by far. The game is good 
 , but if I were you I would split the price with a friend and when one finishes playing give it 
 to your buddy, because its really only half of the game. The other half will most likely be out 
 soon. Its ashamed,
  
  Whats going on any more. This game to me is shorter than call of duty 4.
  Its good but its no 
 9.5, I know now for sure, that there's pay-o-la involved in gamespot reviews. Its harder then it 
 is fun. Its almost impossible to go around enemies, the areas are much smaller then far cry, In 
 fact far cry, fear ,halflife 2, are better overal games by far. The game is good , but if I were 
 you I would split the price with a friend and when one finishes playing give it to your buddy, 
 because its really only half of the game. The other half will most likely be out soon. Its ashamed, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDFS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  First, Crysis is the most stunningly beautiful game I have ever seen, alright you already knew 
 that, but now is there anything else? YES!
  
  For the first time of all the Gaming history of all time...
  
  - Graphics : Do I need to say 
 anything? screenshots will speak for me...
  
  - Environement/Sounds : A korean island, a paradise... who doesn't like it? ;) it makes you feel 
 there under the sun by the beach and in the jungle, you hear the birds, the leaves, the waves hitting 
 against the shore, etc...
  The weapons are pretty much accurate, the explosions are awesome!
  You can hear them talking 
 in Korean on Delta mode as well, that's just great.
  
  - AI : May I say solid? because this is the word that describes the incredible intelligence of 
 the enemies in this game, they really want and try to catch you when they see you, they act like 
 a real patrol or section.
  If they hear something weird (leaves moving, steps, etc..) they will switch from relaxed to alert 
 and danger mode really fast.
  And on Delta difficulty, it's very hard to finish this game, but not impossible.
  
  - Rag-Dolls 
 : YES! finally... f-i-n-a-l-l-y... realistic Rag-Dolls with outstanding graphics, for a time I 
 thought it was impossible, but no, it's just that Crytek are smarter than the others.
  
  - Gameplay and Nano-Suit : This is without a doubt the best and most innovative suit I have seen 
 in my life, Crytek obviously knew where they were going with it and it ended up so incredibly great, 
 this is a huge addition to the game, the possibilities you have to how to kill your enemy are infinite, 
 hence one of the greatest replayability in a FPS single player.
  You can grab /choke and throw the man through a wall with strength mode, you can jump on a roof 
 top and get him in surprise, you can go cloak mode (invisile) for a few seconds and escape or hide 
 in the bushes and wait for the patrol to come closer and kill them all one by one while looking 
 at them freaking out (but watch out for cloak) , you can throw a wooden plank behind his head, I 
 tell you it's like an action movie... but this time YOU choose to do everything you want to kill 
 your enemies, and the ways are endless.
  
  - Multiplayer : is not useless this time, the MP is very good, 9 maps and I play sometimes but 
 it's just that most of gamers will play with CoD4 more than Crysis, why? I don't know, the fact 
 that there are no team deathmatch modes is a huge lack, but Power Struggle (BF2-style) is very 
 addictive, deathmatch is deathmatch for the ones who like it, the nano-suit works so fine in multiplayer, 
 it's almost sad that not everyone plays Crysis online.
  
  - Conclusion : Crysis is the Game of the Year (2007) without a doubt, and it should have won more 
 awards, why it didn't? because we are only a few who can play this game with very high settings 
 even with high settings, and peoples instead of upgrading their PC, they stick to poor games like 
 Orange Box.
  But if you have a great PC, you can't keep living without playing this game, you'll play and play 
 again, I didn't waste my money with this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeyc
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I'll be the first to admit. I'm not a fan of Tom Clancy games or the predecessor to this game, 
 Far Cry. It was no surprise then when I played this game that it wasn't all that I thought it would 
 be. The fact that it was rated so highly made me curious to see what all the hoorah was about. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, it just didn't measure up to what I expect of a great game. Sure enough, the graphics 
 are phenomenal. You can see every blade of grass and the rendering is superb. However, game play 
 and plotline is more important to me than how flashy a game looks. I found this game to be overly 
 confusing with all the technical options and the play a little too hard.
  
  There are a few improvements that I think could have been made to increase the playability of this 
 game. First, a better tutorial would have benefitted the game. Secondly, the tactical controls 
 might have been a little better laid out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is an achievement for all FPSs.
  
  The game itself is completely awesome, with lush, detailed environments, all of which can be destroyed. 
 Also, the gameplay is fantastic in itself. Having multiple ways and options to approach your objective 
 is what makes the game fun.
  
  However, this game also has it's cons. The AI is not exactly the best, sometimes taking longer 
 than common sense dictates to react to your presence. Also, the cloak option really baffles them, 
 especially in the vehicle with the machine-gun, which you just fire, cloak, fire, cloak, and you 
 can easily eliminate them through this process, provided the vehicle does not explode.
  
  The multiplayer is also lacking. It's just another generic multiplayer mode, with a "Power Struggle" 
 mode, which is much too like Battlefield in comparison. Also, the system specs show that it might 
 not work with some systems.
  
  Crysis is good, but there are many flaws that hold it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaffleFries55
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is not for the weak. It's indeed a very hardcore intense game. If you are in it for the 
 singleplayer, well you better be playing it on hard mode because it is very short (9-11 hours) . 
 The multiplayer is very badass and you'll spend hours playing it. The learning curve takes an hour 
 and a couple hours to get used to the good players on multiplayer. The fun things about this game 
 are being able to throw people in singleplayer, using your suit technology ( ( (maximum speed=you 
 run really fast... maximum strength=you can jump really high, throw people far, and punch very hard... maximum 
 armor=you dont get hurt as fast and bullet bouce off you like kid's toys) ) ) , and shooting up every 
 thing in site. The physics are amazing and if you like playing around Crysis can make you satisfied 
 with that too including you can shoot pick up destroy and do almost everything that seems real 
 enough to you. The graphics are amazing, but you should at least have like a 6800gtx ( ( (Im currently 
 running Crysis on a 7900gtx on medium for multiplayer, possible high for singleplayer) ) ) The weapons 
 are really badass especially the fact that there are alien weapons and nukes! You can customize 
 weapons while running around in multiplayer and the nukes well.... lets just say your not gunna 
 get a weapon as satisfying as this in any game. You should really buy this game whether your a 
 hardcore gamer, play around, online-gamer, or just simple FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hari006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Well, I would say that anybody with a brain that is a shooter fan wil love to play this game. it 
 also runs and looks great with all the settings on medium at a lower resolution. Really good job 
 of scaling this game to most peoples needs.
  
  
  This game literally lets you play the game how you want to. Want a stealth game, put on a silencer, 
 turn on your cloak and stick to the bushes. Want some run and gun action, go full auto and fill 
 those. Koreans with lead. Want to mess around? Turn on cloak and walk up, grab a chicken then chuck 
 it at a Korean. Shoot twice to a red barrel nearby and use it like grenade. The gun play feels refreshing 
 and difficult all at the same time. The guns have recoil so you need to plan for that. Koreans 
 wear Kevlar, so shooting them in the chest with a silencer on won't make them easy to kill. The 
 game has fantastic ballistics, bullets lose velocity the further they travel. Makes you want to 
 plan out your attacks accordingly. The levels have a variety of weapons laying around so you can 
 switch out your strategies on the move.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarvin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  One word i can say about crysis is 'superb'. The storyline has been well developed and elaborated 
 up to the smallest detail. As for graphics, it is astonishing that crysis can reach a level of 
 detail almost to the real world condition. Every part and details from the AI up to the cinematic 
 enviroment has been crafted to perfection and extra focus were given on the minor details that 
 contributes to the large success of the game. The respons of the AI towards the movement and decision 
 done by players reflects that the level of gameplay and graphic engine has matured vastly and shows 
 the respond of developers to the increasing interest and desire of hardcore gamers. The difficulty 
 of levels can be increase but the only downside is towards the ending of the game where the storyline 
 can be developed even further and the difficulty can be increased by a notch. Hoping the further 
 sequential of the series can be further developed considering the reviews from gamers around the 
 world to maintain the level of recognition and respect given by gamers towards this title. 
  
  Go EA and the CRYTEK development team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackhawk96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  Everyone that has really played this game should love this on low settings or High I played it 
 first on low and it was fun then I also played it on High and it was Exhilerating I want everyone 
 to play it and know what it's like. This is definetely one of my top 5 games including Battlefield 
 and F. E. A. R. and it beats them hands down. I just wish they advertised it more then people would 
 know about it but to many people are slamming it, maybe they just plain suck, I don't know. The 
 only thing I found disagreeable was some of the glitches and lag online, one glitch I found was 
 hilarious I through a grenade under a tank and it floated up in the air and it continued to shoot 
 at me. The lag really sucked but the patch should help and I think it will. So everyone buy the 
 game and prepare to be amazed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kfoss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  Graphics wise the game is very impressive on all settings, snow, water, trees, and what not. Its 
 all pretty pleasing to the eye. Sounds awesome too. However, I can't help but think they could 
 of optimized it more to get more out of it. There's some lacking in motion realism in the environment. 
 How trees react when you run into them, laying or stepping on brush its just not that spectacular 
 for the amount of CPU power that's required.- all the weird little things that make you go WHOA! 
 That seem to exist in other titles, are missing here. Now granted everything in the environment 
 is breakable. Throw a grenade into a snipers nest and WHAM, the whole thing is coming down into 
 a house. However, while all this is nice, I find it rather useless. Its just easier to get the 
 rifle, put it on burst, and go into zoom and pick em off one by one cause the Ai is just TERRIBLE. 
 Snipe a guy standing right next to another guy and the dude who's left just stands there. Like 
 dude! Where's my bro! VANISHED! Or when there chasing you through buildings and running into walls 
 like ping pong balls. Best off when you're firing from a fixed position for a while all the enemy's 
 converge together in a giant hoard, making themselves a prime target for a grenade. Hello SPREAD 
 OUT!!! Or even better, the boat gunners never seam to realize that there pals, lying in plain sight, 
 dead on the beach, are actually dead. I guess they don't carry binoculars. Same thing with vehicles, 
 there nice, drive well and all but its not WOO! Its more like WOW im a really big target to shoot 
 at! And im on fire! (they don't last very long on difficult.) Also the dialog of the soldiers is 
 rather dull and repetitive- Yank this and F that, rarely do they ever speak actual Korean.-Although 
 I do like the nest gunners. There crazy howling screams are a welcomed break. In a way I feel the 
 actual mechanics of the game along with its enemies are designed to be awe-inspiring if the game 
 is played a certain way. Problem is if you don't play it the way the "director" intended, (whatever 
 that might be) it just feels like a standard war shooter with fancy graphics.
  
  now as for the second half of the game, the whole fluid space alien ship with sentinels in snow 
 -200 cold as liquid nitorgen with enough wicked fire power to blow you into next tuesday! yea its 
 as good as can be!!!! thats what makes crysis worth playing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I find it kind of difficult to find an appropriate tone to write this. There's so much media hype 
 and presence offered by this game, i feel it's hard to write soemthing while avoiding the presence 
 this game has seemed to have spawned into, so I'll just be plain, and ignore it all.
  
  Crysis is a fun game. It's also, a very beautiful one. Ambitious, too.
  
  If you play it expecting 
 nothing, you'll find it throughly enjoyable from beginning to end, which I've done now, twice, 
 on two different difficulty settings.
  
  If you're looking for game of the year material, and have actually played other games in that grouping, 
 it might leave you wanting more.
  
  There's a danger to sandbox games. If there isn't a significant and compelling reason to go outside 
 the beaten path in a sandbox, there seems little point in doing so. And, outside of infiltrating 
 a base from a different angle, there seems little reason for it in crysis, especially when driving 
 a jeep or a guntruck can get you there twice as fast, and three times easier.
  
  Which kinda makes the play in crysis a bit dissapointing to me. You can explore the world, but 
 there's little to compel you, beyond idle curiousity, to want to do so. It's still a point A to 
 point B shooter... they just opened up the corridor for you along the way.
  
  Though, played as a point A to point B corridor shooter, it's a hell of alot of fun. Freedom in 
 combat approach is delightful, weapon choices are abundant, and once the aliens show up, the game 
 really does step it up a notch, and become alot faster and more intense (if a tad less realistic.)
 
  
  I'm not certain the setting is as immersive as other games this year like COD4 or Bioshock, but 
 I blame the sandbox for that. The open environent takes away from urgency, and in the absense of 
 depth that an open environment has the potential to lend, the pace seemed slowed significantly 
 for no good reason than saying "but you can take the beach OR the road to your next destination." 
 But either path eventually funnel to the same location (geographical barriers like mountains and 
 waterfalls make sure of that) , so what's the point?
  
  But, as a game played for the missions only, it plays great, the combat rocks, the nanosuit is 
 terrific, and the story, actually, was pretty enjoyable, if cut abrubtly short at the ending.
 
  
  And, it's absolutely beautiful! Which makes me wonder something...
  
  ... if the game didn't look so good, would I have played it at all?
  
  I'm not sure I know the 
 answer. But it was, and I had fun, and fun's no small thing for a game to give me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 61SCYALP
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  First things first, i can't run this game on max, i barely get 30 fps average on tweaked medium 
 settings thanks to nvidia and its hunk of crap 8600 GTS. (TIP: HDR rendering makes a big difference)
 
  
  PRO's
  -Graphics are amazing and it was just such a joy to look at.
  -Physics were great fun to play with and i really enjoyed the explosive barrels.
  -Explosion 
 Effects were just plain awesome and just made me want to blow apart buildings.
  -Powers were well thought out (except for one) .
  -Its just generally enjoyable (well with tweaked 
 difficulty) to romp through the jungle switching through your power to give you advantage and lets 
 face it picking up an enemy and punching them in the face over and over again is just too fun to 
 pass up.
  
  CON's
  -Who ever made the difficulty levels non customizable is an idiot, i just wanted to go through 
 this game relaxed on easy but i still had to use my brain a little bit which is not something i 
 wanted to do. I ended up tweaking config files to create a much easier and more enjoyable easy 
 mode. Cloak was a horrible power and should have been weakened for harder difficulties or even 
 disabled on delta.
  
  -Stupid AI bugs were annoying and considering they were trained they suck at finding cover. Far 
 too accurate on easy and not accurate enough on delta. When you sniper someone silently and they 
 find the body they always headed straight to your location which was stupid. AI was incapable of 
 fear when you killed all there team mates without being discovered.
  
  -Weapons all felt and sounded weak and were the hell was the gore, i mean the language used in 
 the game wasn't exactly mother approved so why no gory blood.
  
  As you can see the cons while sounding big and annoying just really can't outway the just plain 
 fun bit about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Given the pre release hype over Crysis I was expecting something uberly revolutionary, well at 
 least in the graphics department anyway- cos Crysis was the poster boy for Vista only "make-everything-pretty" 
 DirectX 10. Ah, well 1) nothing useful is done with it and 2) you can get the same graphical effects 
 in DX9. Old news, but it was a letdown.
  
  What we have essentailly is Far Cry, but with superpowers. Cool ones, you shouldn't want to use 
 tactically- just go at it and mindlessly kill stuff up the way you really shouldn't. Eg- On the 
 first level your group leader, Prophet, is advising you to infiltrate an area to retrieve some 
 generic-data-stuff, "I suggest you use stealth" he says. You've got invisibilty powers to do this 
 but hey, I just drove an amoured 4x4 in there, ran over some Koreans and blew the place up. Its 
 more fun, and with destructable scenery the action orientated way just works better, its been a 
 long wait for this game do you want to waste time trying being invisible, sprinting in unseen and 
 not having onehelluva fight? 
  
  The game really allows you to feel like an action hero, and its pretty fun just plotting insane 
 ways to destroy entire outposts and seeing if they work. Trouble is, the later levels in the game 
 become more linear and you lose the freedom that made the first chapters of the game so fun, the 
 run up to the end will feel like a downhill journey into an average shooter, which doesn't even 
 give you the chance to use your powers creatively.
  
  If, like me you have waited for ages for this title the be released, you'll be dissapointed at 
 the small amount of time you spend in the frozen landscape featured on so many screenshots, the 
 unrevolutionary gameplay and the fact that unless your PC is bleeding edge you won't be treated 
 to those next gen graphics.
  
  
  The Good- Looks good. Throw people through roofs. Punch aliens in the face.
  
  The Bad- Need 
 a bastard PC to make it look good. Ultimately becomes a typical shooter. DirectX 10 waste of time.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnygopher123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  
  This is one of those games where you say "Wow this is amazing!" that's what I said to myself as 
 I blew up my first building with a lot of people in it. It's just "freakin sweet" The visuals are 
 phenomenal, ranging from the weapons to the sky. The weapons customization is neat too because 
 you can control what you want on that certain gun of yours. But all these visuals come at a price. 
 Your FPS. I have to go on low settings just for a decent frame rate. Thats one of the only bad 
 things is that you can't run on high without the worlds fastest computer. Overall, stunning visuals, 
 amazing guns, puts this game on my number one! (that was not supposed to rhyme) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwass
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a good game overall. Its gameplay is amusing and the scenery and AI look fantastic.
 
  
  Crysis's gameplay isn't that different to another shooter except that you can choose to do everthing 
 your own way which gives Crysis alot of replayability.
  
  On the weapons scale Crysis is top notch, there aren't a huge variety of them but nearly everyone 
 is customizable to your liking. For example with the basic machine gun you can put a laser scope, 
 silencer and change between automatic, single shot and tranquilizers. So this gives the weapons 
 an extremely fun feel to it. 
  
  Also one of Crysis biggest and most unique features is the Nano suit which you always have, the 
 suit allow about 5 different uses but can be combined into a combo. The suits main abilities are 
 cloaking, extra shield, super strength, super speed and harder damage. When you combine one or 
 two of these some weird stuff can emerge. My personal favourite is sneaking up behing enemies using 
 cloak, grabbing them by the throat and using super strength throwing them away killing them.
  
  The AI in Crysis are pretty intelligent, they travel to where they hear noises but firefights 
 are something most people will breeze through. Crysis's vehicles can be a little hard to drive 
 and your better off just speeding off with the nano suit. 
  (tip: go into Crysis hints and cheats and get "faster energy recharge" and the one in which you 
 can super speed and you don't lose energy, makes it alot easier)
  
  Since your in the jungle alot of the levels may in the beginning be repetitve but in later levels 
 this disappears, but the gameplay makes up for any level design flaws.
  
  The normal difficults or hard is probably best as its neither impossible nor a walk in the park 
 and it presents some what of a challenge, unlike easy would which would just be a breeze.
  
  Crysis is an extremely powerful game and even my brothers pro game computer lagged once or 
 twice in massive fights so you'll want to have a decent PC before purchase.
  
  Some people may feel that Crysis doesn't really offer much new but when you actually thoroughly 
 play it through you will realise that it indeed does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maestro85282
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  There is one impression, in particular, that immediately defines Crysis as a landmark experience: 
 the environment and world in which it is set. This reviewer's immediate impression.... no, the immediate 
 SENSATION, can only be described by saying the island really feels like a living environment. 
 
  
  This is something that really should be experienced first hand; meaning, no amount of worded description 
 can really capture the way in which the Crysis island breathes. 
  
  And I have only experienced the DX9 version so I can imagine the number of wide smiles on the faces 
 of DX10'ers. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 711rocks
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It has like the best physics and graphics, but at the same time it can be 
 turned down to low to look like a game from 2003. I have a geforce 8600 gts which was about $120 
 off newegg taking off $50 for the game that came with it. So i play med-very high at 1024x768 no 
 aa. Even if the graphics suck the game is still awesome. I mean who doesnt like picking up boxes, 
 chickens, and even Koreans and if you turn the physics to med and switch to maxium strength you 
 can destroy their huts or use grendades or cars. The single player changes from infantry fights 
 to intense battles with vehicles and stuff which looks really cool on high graphics. The multiplayer 
 is pretty sweet being one of the best i've played and i've played halo and all those games. Its 
 not the best, but good. So the single and multiplayer is awesome which is the game which makes it 
 awesome. So buy this and see how good it runs on your pc. It might just be that good to pay $700 
 for a geforce 8800 gtx ultra, but make sure to have a core 2 duo if your arre using vista. I was 
 using a p4 and it totally sucked on high. I got a c2d and it was much better at about 25-35fps.
 
  
  Here are my specs
  asus 
  c2d e8400 (3ghz, 1333mhz fsb, 6mb L2 cache)
  evga geforce 8600gts 512mb
  1.5gb Patriot pc2-5300 (667mhz) 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toriphilewill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  First with the bad: I really do feel for those that cannot play this game the way it was intended. 
 You do need a top notch PC to even attempt to play this on very high with 16XAA. I just built a 
 computer in September and I still play the game on mostly high, with some mediums there and it 
 is amazing. The developers made a game that very very few machines could run on it's highest settings. 
 Some could say that Crytek is pushing the boundaries of gaming to its limits. I feel that if you 
 release a game that so many people can't play at its best, you shouldn't release it (or not charge 
 so much for it as it is not polished and finished) . The game can get a bit boring, especially if 
 you abuse the cloaking device. 
  
  Now with the good: Gameplay is great. Having the ability to customize your weapons and suit on 
 the fly is a huge plus. The beautiful detailed and destructive scenery add to the games overall 
 experience. Enemy AI is impressive as well. Enemies will seek cover, radio for help, and form attack 
 squads to hunt you down. Some enemies will engage in fire with you, while others will try and flank 
 your position. Open ended objectives lets you finish the mission the way you want to. There were 
 several points in the early missions where I could understand where the game wanted me to go, but 
 I chose another route that turned out to be a bit easier. Weapons were fun, gameplay and graphics 
 were all top notch. Multiplayer was a unique experience as well. 
  
  I am a fan of games that are all about gameplay. I could play mario all day with no problem. Graphics 
 and impressive hardware come a very distant second. There are other cutting edge games out there 
 that produce a way better experience for everyone (COD4 was done very nicely) , that were obviosly 
 optimized and polished for current PC's.
  
  If I had the choice to buy this game again, I would. I would wait until the price drops to $29.99. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper5030
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Simply an amazing game that leaves you speachless. I've had the game for a week now, playing through 
 the single player, and I can't believe my eyes and ears each time I start a new level in the game. 
 Just the first level blows most any other FPS out of the water; I played it hours on end in the 
 demo, haha. After that, you figure it's just going to be the same as the first, which definately 
 wouldn't be that bad, but NO!!! It gets better, and better, and better, and then... BETTER!!! Wow!!! 
 Graphics, sound, and gameplay are top knotch. Get a good computer and get this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  System: Dell XPS 410
  Duel Core E6600
  2gb RAM
  Nvidia 640 mb 8800 GTS
  
  I was actually somewhat disappointed in this game, I hate to say. I looked forward to this for 
 over a year.
  
  First the good. Graphics are very good even with the low to medium settings I was required to use 
 because of my system. Audio, for the most part, was excellent. AI was a slight step up from other 
 games in the genre, but not as much as I had expected. The game-play was engaging - at least for 
 most of the game.
  
  The only negative aspect in the graphics and sound department was the tremendous amount of computer 
 power that must be needed to run higher settings. Although I have a mid to high computer system, 
 I was required to run the game at a low resolution with advanced settings set to either low or 
 medium. I couldn't come anywhere close to my monitor's native resolution of 1920 x 1200, even with 
 all settings on the lowest setting.
  
  What was odd is that if I let the game detect and set "optimal" settings, it would select a a medium 
 resolution and high advanced settings. But playing at that, I could only get maybe 12-15 fps. So, 
 the detection system was useless. I had to tweak manually to get the framerate to acceptable levels.
 
  
  I finally was able to get the framerate at an average of 35-40 fps - which is very acceptable, 
 however, every few minutes, I would hit a "bump" and my framerate would briefly drop to 0 and then 
 bounce back up to the 35-40. Because this was happening so often, I had to take another step back 
 in the graphics department and play on DX9 mode instead of DX10.
  
  It was disappointing to have upgraded my computer to a duel core, 2gb or RAM and a 640mb Nvidia 
 8800 GTS DX10 graphics card only to run a game on DX9 with low settings and a low resolution. And 
 this was after reading tweak guides, turning off background programs, downloading the latest drivers 
 from Nvidia, etc. Very odd, and I suspect Crysis was rushed out and not optimized correctly.
  
  The story and the characterization were weak in my opinion - characterization more so than 
 the story. This is a fairly straightforward FPS with not a lot happening with character development.
 
  
  Levels early in the game were much more interesting with more openness and options. As the game 
 progressed, it became more and more linear - to the point of being very limiting.
  
  There were a lot of glitches in the game - items floating around, things spinning. There was a 
 lot of clipping. Some problems became quite a nuisance. For example, getting an objective to clear 
 an area and after doing so just standing there for additional directions. None came and I spent 
 the next ten minutes searching around until I found a hostile in a boxcar just spinning around. 
 He wouldn't die by gunshot, so I had to grab him and throw him to the side. Once he died, it triggered 
 the next script and I got an updated objective.
  
  The last few levels were excruciatingly glitchy. On the ship, I kept falling through the floor 
 to the point that it was extremely hard to complete the objectives. The boss battles were lame. 
 It appeared to me that the game was rushed toward the end and they just threw some things together. 
 The ending was a let down. And the thing is, the game itself was very short - maybe 9 hours or 
 so, I would guess. You'd think they could develop something a little better in a few year's time.
 
  
  I enjoyed the game, but it just wasn't as good as I had expected. High expectation can do that. 
 On a scale of 1 to 10, I would give Crysis a solid 8. If it were optimized to run better and without 
 the glitches (which could be possible with some patches in the future) I would up that score to 
 8.5.
  
  Crysis isn't a bad game one bit, and for FPS fans seeking a new shooter or for those who have been 
 marginally interested in the game since it's announcement, it is definitely worth checking out. 
 Keeping that in mind, don't expect the next great shooter, or nothing close to what Crysis has 
 been hyped as being. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyshadow
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is really a new type of shooter simply because of all the different aspects it combines. 
 To name a few: Most buildings are destructable, drivable vehicles are not hard to find and you 
 are able to customize your weapon on the spot, either to what you prefer or what would best fit 
 your situation. The graphics on Crysis are absolutly amazing. But, it's fair to say that no computer 
 can run the game on it's best quality settings unless you are truly rich, or perhaps have four 
 AMD Dual Cores and a dozen NVIDIA 8800 series GPU's with a liquid hydrogen cooling system and about 
 20gb of RAM. The most dissappointing thing about this game is it's length. I do not understand 
 what is wrong with game developers these days. They might just be getting lazy. But I do know, 
 that games are SHORT. Nowa days games are VERY short. Crysis was quite easy when set to "Normal" 
 difficulty and I finished the game in no time. It was way shorter than I had expected for a game 
 of it's caliber. And as a side note, the game's ending was so terrible it could make a grown man 
 cry. And don't think that the multiplayer will save you when you finish the game. The multiplayer 
 is one of the worst I've ever seen and there are about 30 people online on average. Thats 30 people 
 out of all Crysis owners. The multiplayer is just sad. The game also has many glitches. The developers 
 have been a very long time knowing about the issues but are yet to release a patch, so I had to 
 finish my game with many glitches throughout, or wait until late Q1 for the chance of a patch. 
 One glitch that almost gave me nightmares was a troop carrier truck full of enemy soldiers which 
 was upside-down on the road with all the tires spinning normally and two soldiers sat in the back 
 chatting.
  
  Jake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I loved Farcry, a game that really just came out of now where and made its mark with huge maps, 
 open game play, and kick arse fun factor. Now we have Crysis, a really expensive game that makes 
 my 8800 GT card choke and my system crash to the BSOD on a regular and unpredictable schedule. 
 Nevertheless, this game, from the first frame, has me hooked. It is worth the $70.00 price tag 
 and the frustrating computer killing crashes. As I play more, the more I want to play. A real winning 
 combination of great story, excellent game play, and great graphics. Just frigging awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluevog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  However once I played it on my box ( Vista Ultimate 32 bit, XPS 700 E6600 8800 GTS 648 MB with 
 3gigs of Ram Dell 24" LCD) I found the game to be very buggy. 
  
  It seems there's an issue with Sound Blaster Audigy 2 cards which cause lack of or distorted sound. 
 Only resolution was to use my on board sound card.
  
  Anti Alias... Forget about it, unless you enjoy watching a slide show. The Graphics are quite impressive 
 though.
  
  Game play gets extremely repetitive after a few hours. No replay value at all.
  
  In Summary 
 I blame Microsoft for a crap Operating System, Crytek for releasing the game in Beta format & Nvidia 
 for lack luster Forceware drivers.
  
  Hopefully we'll have a decent Direct X 10 game released one of these days.....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tompouce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  First, I have a 8800GT in SLI and no need to talk about my processor but it is the first dual core 
 of intel and it gots 3.4 GHZ per core... and 1Ghz of RAM...
  
  Look... I can run it on very high without problem with a constent 30 Frame per second.... and wow... this 
 game is amazing!!... I've tried it on medium quality... and it stays insane... i like it more on High 
 quality than very high because of the sky, he seem more blue and clearer. This is why I would prefer 
 this to the video game. Weapons, Vehicules, Trees and caracters are just totally insane. And now 
 about the nano-suit... this is just what makes the game awesome. I like games that are unique, and 
 this game is totally the only of his kind. The aliens are just a little bit to small... they are 
 make for us to be more easy to kill.... but it would have been more cool to have the us army and 
 marines included in the action. but it is still an awesome game. I never used a real gun in real 
 life but i guess it is as hard to shoot than it is in the game, but let me give you a trick. Put 
 the Maximum strenght and then use a sniper or any other rifle, you will have more accuracy.
  
  I hope there will be a sequel to it and with better graphic (if they can AHAH!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XlagooferX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  i loved this game alot! but there where someparts where it could been better like more open multiplayer 
 could of had bots. dont get me wrong tho, THE GAME WAS FREAKING AWESOME! And the specs on crysis, 
 you need at least 7800gt to play. but i loved the multiplayer was awesome! also you can use items 
 around you to fight in combat like shoot down small parts of tree pick it up and throw it. oh yea 
 you can pick up anything you see in this game. there is a little freedom in the game but still 
 the best part of the game it kicks ass! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrenton2004
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  Well having just completed Crysis, I will have to say it was a great game but slightly lacking 
 in a few places.
  
  Graphics.
  Outstanding, (as was Farcry's when that came out) . Found the lush jungle environment a little more 
 enticing than the alien & frozen environments. The amount of effort that has gone into the design 
 of the levels was mind-boggling - just check out the level of detail presented in the ships interior 
 during the final mission - even the phone textures have each number and speed dials labelled correctly.
 
  
  Audio.
  Also outstanding, the automatic weapons, the artillery explosions, the alien effects were all of 
 a high standard. Even the voice acting was pretty good. The music was ok.
  
  Game-play.
  The graphics & audio come together very nicely, the suits modes are nice and easy to jump between 
 (I had a preference for the keyboard short cuts) . It was great to be able to have a multitude of 
 different choices when it came to assaulting the Koreans: standard frontal assault, cloak + stealth, 
 jump onto a mounted machine gun, or pick up a barrel of fuel, throw it at the enemy & detonate 
 it - the number of options was invigorating.
  
  The Korean outposts were well laid out for the usage of obstacles as cover. The destructive environment 
 greatly improved the unpredictability as to what may happen next. Whether that was being pinned 
 down in a ammo shed & having it blown down around your, or being perched up in a tower snipping 
 off enemies & then having the tower topple over from enemy fire, it was all just awesome fun. There 
 is even a level where you're driving a tank around at break neck speed (well as break-neck speed 
 as a tank will let you) whilst artillery shells are falling all around you - top fun.
  
  And then, just when you're really getting into the game (with memories of Farcry nostalgia) , you 
 encounter the alien mother-ship where the game-play & level-design takes a noise-dive into a linear 
 & predictable framework. The graphics are still great, the sounds are still top notch, but the 
 flexibility that made the game so good up to that point is gone. 
  
  Examples (Spoilers here) : 
  1. You drift through the mother-ship via pre-specified pathway, with 
 certain sections being magically opened up once you shoot a specific number of aliens. (If you 
 don't shoot the aliens the next section won't open up) .
  2. The ongoing fire fight with alien walker, it's not destroyable during this phase (a point confirmed 
 when you exit that battle field) , but you're not aware of this, so you're happily firing away at 
 this beast in the pointless attempt at trying to bring it down.
  3. Final level, you go from one location to the next, doing mandatory chores, in a specified sequence, 
 even the final boss fight is quite linear.
  
  Farcry Comparison.
  What made Farcry so good was how everything just fitted together nicely, the humour, the action, 
 the variety of weapon types, the great number of different enemies you had to face, & even the 
 auto staged saving mechanism. (Crysis allows you to save at any time - I think in its case it is 
 warranted - mainly during the final boss fights - as one shot can easily kill you) In Crysis your 
 character is pretty devoid of humour, there is only 5 or 6 different weapon types (although the 
 variable weapon configuration is a nice touch) & once into the alien mother-ship the number of 
 enemies is very limited, I think there's about 2 or 3 aliens (not counting the bosses) , and they 
 are fought over & over til the end. And well, could you really call that an ending? (One of these 
 alien types seems to be a straight rip-off from the 3rd Matrix film)
  
  So in the end a great game, but let down slightly by the enforced linear playability near the end. 
 I can enjoy this type of game-play (COD4, Doom3 etc.) , but with Crysis I was hoping for more of 
 the same as Farcry & it presented this up to a certain point. (Maybe the bar of expectation was 
 set too high with all the hype) .
  
  But anyway still a great game, 8.5 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nytemarex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  At first, I was skeptical about this game. Boasting its great graphics and physics but not the 
 gameplay. I played through the singleplayer campaign and it was AWESOME. I never played a game 
 that is so involved, including Half-Life 2. This game has all the elements of a first-person-shooter 
 plus more. Driving through the jungle and other superb areas (I'm not going to give any spoilers) . 
 The firefight is immense and the weapons are great, despite I wanted to use the SCAR more often. 
 The missions are all unique and the tactic in each is open-ended. I mostly used my stealth ability 
 while others may want to use brute force. The graphics and the physics are perfect. You can't ask 
 any more from it.
  
  The only downsides of the game are high requirements to enjoy the graphics at the max, singleplayer 
 campaign ends (believe me, you don't want it to end) , and the cliffhanger. As well as the multiplayer 
 I'm not a fan of Counter-Strike so Power Struggle is a bit weird in my taste. However, I should 
 be able to acquire it.
  
  Overall, EVERYONE should play this game. Including the people who played Halo 3. Believe me, you 
 will be blown away from it.
  
  RECAP:
  
  Pros: Immense gameplay; A storyline that is unforgettable; Beautiful graphics; Accurate Physics; 
 Great interaction between characters; environment is great; Technically Proefficient (high requirements, 
 yes, but it will blow away Halo 3 graphics and physics by 1000x, at least)
  
  Cons: Multiplayer needs some tuning (dieu merci for patches) ; singleplayer campaign ends; and the 
 cliffhanger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nizzleton
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 10
  Stunning visual as long as you have a decent graphics card (pref 8800gt) but I'm using an ATI x1300PRO 
 with low settings and yet still find the game remarkably pretty. On very high settings the game 
 as I've seen it is down right remarkable. 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Needless to say, jumping between strength mode to speed mode to cloak is more fun than I imagined, 
 expecting slow downs and error messages. Instead I got to shoot 3 koreans, big one up and throw 
 him of a cliff and cloak before anyone else saw me all in about 5 seconds. Marvelous.
  
  Lifespan: 10
  The single player campaign is somewhat short, but the replayability due to numerous 
 checkpoints makes up for it. Online is what really gives this game a solid 10 for lifespan.
  
  Online: 9
  The game's online has an easy to use online browser and chat lobbies but a mere 
 two game modes. fortunately in the upcoming patches there will be new game modes introduced and 
 other updates - you can also view your stats online currently, which adds to the lifespan.
  
  Atmosphere/Sound: 10
  With stunning atmospheres from snow to jungle to zero gravity, Crysis 
 immerses the player in it's believable storyline and stunning visuals. Voice acting is superb, 
 helping you settle in and understand the plot without becoming irritating like many other games. 
 Explosions are realistic and mesmorizing, from blowing up a jeep to airstriking a heavy cruiser, 
 the game doesn't dissapoint.
  
  
  Wow. game of the year without a doubt. Crytek manages to snatch all of what we love from fps's 
 and slams them together in to the perfection that is: Crysis.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fongster2005
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  There are moments in Games, as there are in movies and on TV where collectively as a group we remember 
 them. The dogs diving through the windows in the original Resident Evil, a moment remembered because 
 it does what few games can really do, pull an honest to goodness emotion out of you.
  
  Whether it be fear or awe. It is a real emotion.
  
  Crysis has a moment like this.
  
  This 
 does not detract from the fact that the game is incredible to play. Is graphically beautiful. Many 
 games have this.
  
  Crysis has that moment. In this game a moment where you stand on the deck of a huge air craft carrier 
 and you shoot alien ships out of the sky. "Seen it before!" yes you have, and so have I.
  
  Yet never before have the ships I have shoot down behaved so realistically. Not just crashing into 
 the sea in a preset pattern that you can do nothing about, but crashing on the deck around you... depending 
 on when you shoot them and the direction they were flying in.
  
  The image of a ship flying straight at me, being shot out of the sky by my BFG and then crashing 
 on the deck right beside me, skidding along wiping out my fellow soldiers.
  
  That is a water cooler moment. It is a moment where you just stop shooting for a moment and you 
 enjoy the beauty of what you are watching. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObviousMan
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is one of those games which only comes around once and a while. It is the Half-Life 2 of 
 PC gaming for 2007, or at least that is what all the hype tells you. 
  
  If you watched any of the trailers for the game online in the weeks and months leading up to it's 
 release, you (like I) would be amazed at just how great this game looks. Truly this is the best 
 looking game to grace any gaming system, ever. In this respect Crysis and the studio behind it 
 Crytek should be commended as they have once again pushed the envelope forward. If you are looking 
 for an eye popping visual experience in a game, then there is really no where else to look. 
  
  This game also takes the formula that Crytek pioneered in Far Cry back in 2004 and runs with 
 it again. Once again you are set on a tropical island and you can pretty much go anywhere and do 
 anything. The addition of the Nano suit to your arsenal simply means that you can go and do more 
 than you ever could before. See a wall you would like to jump? Just put the suit in Strength mode 
 and you are set. Want to sneak up on an enemy? Put the suit in Cloak mode and they will never see 
 you coming. It's things like this which make certain parts of Crysis amazingly fun. You can play 
 however you want and take as much time as you need to do it. 
  
  Crysis is also really the first game I have played which lets you customize your weapons however 
 you want. Throughout the game you collect upgrades for your weapons such as silencers, laser sights, 
 new types of ammunition, and advanced scopes. All of these options again let you play the way you 
 want to play. You can outfit the standard run of the mill AK-47 in the game with a silencer and 
 sniper scope and pick enemies off at 200 yards all day long. If that isn't your cup of tea then 
 grab a shotgun and blaze away at close range. 
  
  While the Nano suit, customizable weapons, and sandbox style game play all make Crysis fun, it 
 definitely has a lot of flaws which need addressing. One of the first issues I noticed when playing 
 the game is that the silencer is completely ineffective. In my opinion the purpose of the silencer 
 should be to let you pick off enemies without alerting the reinforcements. In Crysis though it 
 really doesn't matter though. Whether or not you use a silencer flares will go up and more troops 
 will come rushing into the area. 
  
  Another issue in the game is a lack of variety of weapons. You start out with the scar rifle, which 
 is by far the best machine gun in the game. However, after the first 5 minutes of the game you 
 will be out of ammo for it and not see another bullet for 5 hours or so. Whenever you are out of 
 ammo for the scar you will be forced to use an AK-47 which has absolutely no killing power. Unless 
 I got a head shot it often took me 7-8 rounds into the body with this gun to bring down an opponent. 
 On a brighter not the shotgun is an absolutely fantastic weapon that is always fun to shoot. Overall 
 the combat is fun, but it is nothing groundbreaking. 
  
  By far the largest issue with this game is the story and the complete lack of originality it puts 
 forth. In summary aliens invade the earth and you try to stop them. If you haven't heard that story 
 before then you have been living in a hole. Besides this, the alien enemies you face look almost 
 exactly like the sentinels in the Matrix movies. I would actually be surprised if Crytek and EA 
 weren't sued by Warner Brothers. Throughout the game there is really no rhyme or reason for why 
 certain things happen and it really bothers me. Following this theme the ending to the game is 
 absolutely worthless. Remember when everyone said the ending to Halo 2 sucked? Well this one is 
 worse. Crysis is a game waiting for a sequel, and unfortunately it's story can't stand on it's 
 own without it. 
  
  The best way for me to summarize Crysis is Far Cry with a face lift. However, the fact of the matter 
 is that 3+ years later Far Cry is still a much better game than Crysis will ever be. Both of these 
 games are about the experience and the game play, not the story. In Far Cry however, the game was 
 able to overcome the lack of a strong plot because it came to a conclusion and the plot elements 
 that were there all worked together nicely. Besides this the revolutionary game play the Far Cry 
 offered more than outweighed the weak parts of the story. Crysis may have destructible environments 
 and customizable weapons, but I didn't feel that this really made the experience unique. Overall 
 there was just nothing in Crysis good enough to make up for the story it lacked. I have nothing 
 against sequels, but I do have a problem paying $50 for games which have no conclusion. Games such 
 as Half-Life and Halo (only the original, not Halo 2) managed to firmly conclude their stories 
 and still leave plenty of room open for sequels. 
  
  If running around a beautiful island and playing the game "your way" is all you could ever want, 
 then pick up Crysis and you will love it. If you are like me and you want something a little more 
 from your games, then you can probably skip it. For $10 or less you can pick op Far Cry and play 
 a far superior game anyway, and it won't need a $300 video card to run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Graphics. That is the first thing anyone thinks about when they think of Crysis, and rightly so. 
 The gameplay isn't all that great, and the story is pretty typical.
  
  The gameplay is kind of a mix of greatness and too many moments of mediocrity. The first half of 
 the game, all the scenes in the jungle environments, is really fun. Unfortunately Crytek decided 
 to stick in some "swimming" levels that are just painfully annoying. There is nothing of note about 
 these levels that is good, other then the look of them. FPS games where you get to swim are just 
 painful to play, always have been, always will be. Yes I did play Descent. No I did not like that 
 one either.
  
  There are two key mechanics to Crysis' gameplay. Weapon customization and Nanosuit.
  
  Weapon 
 customization is not as important a factor in the game as has been suggested. The interface to 
 do it is super slick and intuitive, but the need to customize weapons is basically zero. It really 
 is just personal preference and you are never required to make any of the customizations, except 
 maybe the flashlight for some levels. Being able to put a scope on a Gause Rifle is kind of neat.
 
  
  A lot has been said about the Nanosuit, and honestly it's all true. The added ability to swap around 
 certain characteristics of your character are quite fun. You can swap between 4 different ablities 
 that are all very useful and fun. They all run on the same energy meter so there is a certain level 
 of strategy required to use them effectively. Using the super speed ability to run behind a rock, 
 then turning invisible and jumping out to blast unsuspecting enemies is a really fun tactic, provided 
 you pay attention to how much energy you have. It is common to be sitting in the bush waiting for 
 your meter to recharge while being fired at. I really think this aspect of Crysis, mixed with the 
 FPS elements, provided most of the fun throughout the entire game.
  
  The sound in Crysis is pretty well done. The voicework is top notch. All of the actors are really 
 into their parts and none of their work removes you from the game. They did their jobs perfectly. 
 The sound effects that go with each weapon fire are all unique and fit the weapons well. As do 
 the explosion sound effects when anything goes "boom" in a dramatic way. My personal opinion about 
 sound in a game is that if you don't ever think about it, it was done just right because the only 
 time you should think about it is when something is wrong.
  
  The music itself has a very military/patriotic feel to it, and is perfectly suited for the game. 
 All the cutscenes are balanced well with the music and carry the intended dramatic effect really 
 well.
  
  The story is kind of a typical On-Earth-Alien-Invasion Sci-fi story that doesn't really have a 
 lot of surprises, although the first one in the game is done really well. All in all the story 
 is really about several well done dramatic cutscenes all stuck together into a mediocre story. 
 The game doesn't even completely close out the story as you are left feeling like there is a lot 
 more to do, but sadly credits are rolling and it's over. I am getting tired of games doing the 
 "to be continued" feel at the end, and Crysis is no exception. Just finish the damn game the first 
 time please. If you want to do a sequel, fine. But at least end the first one.
  
  The graphics in Crysis are the talk of many a forum these days, and as previously stated, rightly 
 so. The game looks great on high end machines that are capable. Unfortunately the game scales very 
 poorly, and the lowest settings make the game look really bad in comparison to screenshots and 
 videos bouncing around the internet. I played most of the game at the lowest resolution (800x600 
 for me) with all the settings on Low. At these settings I was still getting 30fps on average, with 
 occasional peaks up into the mid 40's and frequent dips into the 10-20 range. Here are my computer 
 specs to give you an idea:
  
  P4 3.4 ghz 800FSB
  7950GT 512MB 550/1300 8xAGP
  1gig OCZ PC4200 2-3-3-6
  250gig Seagate - SATA150
  
  Now I do realize the single core CPU 
 and 8xAGP are going to raise a lot of "Well duh it runs poorly" statements, but those specs run 
 a lot better then you would think. The 7950GT is a super beefy card for the 8xAGP interface and 
 I am getting 4500's on 3DMARK'06 with it. This is absurd for an 8xAGP rig. I upgraded to this card 
 after getting Crysis, from having previously been using a 7800GS with 256MB of video ram. This 
 older card was running the game quite a bit slower. The fact that I saw such a performance difference 
 really just makes me question why 8xAGP was ignored so quickly considering there is obviously plenty 
 of bandwidth room to work with.
  
  Unfortunately Crysis has some seriously piss-poor optimization issues. Why a game runs at a constant 
 30fps for 15 seconds, then suddenly stutters like crazy for 3-4 before going back up to 30fps is 
 a mystery. I did plenty of tweaking with the settings with my card and was able to turn up the 
 resolution to 1280x960 with all settings on medium. At these settings I was only loosing 5fps but 
 still having the randomly stuttering madness. I tweaked my ram a bit. I defragged to make sure 
 all the texture loading would be as fast as possible. I also went into task manager and removed 
 all programs that would push my total memory usage over 1gig while playing and was STILL having 
 these problems. So despite the fact that my card can crank out a healthy 25fps on medium, with 
 a perfectly acceptable resolution, the game still can't function smoothly. Even when overclocking 
 my single core CPU to 3.8ghz on water cooling the stuttering continued. I blame this on piss-poor 
 optimization since the blame really doesn't belong anywhere else. The game just does a poor job 
 of grabbing data off the hard-drive as it is needed. It seems that no attempt to smoothly "stream" 
 in data was made. Crytek should have done a much better job of making the game run smoothly for 
 gamers on slightly older hardware. I have absolutely zero problems running UTIII, Orange Box, COD4, 
 and World in Conflict at smooth frames rates without stuttering. These games will at least keep 
 the frame rate maintained at a constent level, instead of dive bombing, peaking, and jumping all 
 over like Crysis has a tendency to do.
  
  I did crank up all the graphical settings as high as they would go to see what kind of frame rate 
 I would get. At 1680x1050 with all settings on High I was running a pretty "smooth" and consistent 
 5fps, and honestly the game looked freakin' incredible, as a slide show tour. I killed a few enemies 
 and managed to blow up a gas station at these settings (it was a chore, trust me) . Truely an impressive 
 looking game.
  
  Also the inability to adjust the draw distance is mind boggling. That tends to be one of the first 
 settings I look to adjust when having any kind of issues. I appreciate that this game carried the 
 tradition of long draw distances that was started with Far Cry, but it is virtually unneccesary 
 in this game. Having the ability to turn it down a ton would have been a great way to possibly 
 eliminate the stuttering issue. If this is possible somehow in the game, it's not in the menus 
 anywhere, which is a shame.
  
  I have had the chance to experience this game on a much higher spec'd PC, as recently I helped 
 my fiance put together an entirely new desktop computer:
  
  Intel Core 2 Quad Q6600
  EVGA GeForce 8600 GTS 512MB DDR3 Video Card
  Abit IP35 Pro Mobo
  Kingston HyperX 2GB (2x1GB) 
 DDR2 RAM (PC 8500)
  Seagate Barracuda 500GB 7200RPM SATA300 32MB CacheHD
  
  On this rig the game still suffers a bit, but the stuttering is almost not existent. She runs it 
 with all settings on medium. At this level the game still looks great but will occasionally have 
 the frame rate tank into the 10-20 range.
  
  Crysis is a game that will drive many an upgrade for PC gamers. The requirements are steep. There 
 is no getting around this. Even though my rig is somewhat aged, many of the components on it are 
 as good as it gets for how old they are. For anyone out there to try and argue that PC gaming is 
 not expensive is honestly quite laughable in the face of a game like Crysis.
  
  Lastly, I can say that I have been very happy with my purchase of the game. I thoroughly enjoyed 
 the Nanosuit and the big explosions, as well as stalking enemies through the jungle. The added 
 novelty factor of having a game that I can test all kinds of hardware configurations on is also 
 really fun. I am looking forward to playing through it again when I finally get around to jumping 
 to a quad core with an 8800GTx or something. I am long overdue for a system overhaul level upgrade, 
 and I think this game will be the first test for any new rig I end up building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentenced83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Its almost perfect , the graphics are the most realistic ever , the water reflections and the sun 
 rays and so for the graphics it gets a 10 , although my pc struggled to play it on high which is 
 a downside !! i got around 20 Fps !
  the gameplay is just perfect , the best shooter i ever played ! the shooting feels real and there 
 are lots of ways for killing enemies . but sometimes the Ai is a bit weak running beside you for 
 cover instead of shooting giving you their backs !! and i wished there was more variety in the 
 weapons and that enemies didnt speak korean 
  
  but there's one level that made me hate the game and prevented it from being perfect . is thealien 
 level when you are inside the mountain ! its really stupid . you walk very slowly , it takes forever 
 to figure out your way and really that was the worst level in gaming history ! and also the level 
 after it , the alien enemies arent that fun to shoot ,i prefered the mutants from farcry much more 
 , if it wasnt for the levels before the aliens i woldnt give it more than a 5 !
  i would have given it a perfect 10 if not for the last few stupid levels ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONIHIRO
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  This game makes HALO look like a piece of crap.
  
  Of course, you can't put those two side by side in terms of graphics and other things -- seriously, 
 you really CAN 'T put them side by side. HALO doesn't even par with Crysis, nothing does, yet.
 
  
  This is by far the most beautiful game I've ever seen. That said, it's not the best game. It's 
 certainly a contender, but the campaign is pretty short and the multiplayer will leave you either 
 fulfilled or pissed off by hackers. I hate that people say you need a beast of a PC to run it. 
 That's only if you set everything to super high. I play it at all low and it runs perfectly and 
 it still looks good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobartUK
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  When i first got hold of this overhyped interesting game i was over the moon, the gunbattles took 
 some time to get used to, but it did initally feel very different to usual first person shooters
 
  
  it was free roaming at a good level, nice open levels, you could choose who to attack first, the 
 modes of your suit were generally interesting giving you the opportunity to really tackle the game 
 in your own way. 
  
  HOWEVER
  
  it wansn't free roaming at a good enough level for it's hype, the opening levels certainly had 
 the feelings of freedom that lived to its hype, but then we moved into the war section, where it 
 was strictly linear and contradicting its hype and crytek's aims of great freedom throughout, this 
 was made worse in the alien section where due to it's bland unoriginality i don't go into upon 
 replaying the game
  
  the game does have it's replay value, but for me personally it only goes upto the part where you 
 go into the mine, then i just restart and killing believable foes
  
  and this brings me to the story, to begin it feels okay, you're in an atmosphere of ambiguity, 
 a genuinely believable atmosphere, but the story is ruinged by the unoriginal aliens of the game 
 who are all identical and pose very little threat
  
  
  
  
  it just feels so skin deep, however speaking of it's looks they are absolutely gorgeous and i loved 
 every second watching the beautiful ocean and wonderful scenery, my graphics card, a now dated 
 8600GT handled it just at medium settings, which was great
  
  HOWEVER
  
  i then found myself fighting aliens, at about 10 frames a second and jagged animations throughout, 
 so i was left with no choice but to resort to the low settings like so many other pc gamers attempting 
 to enjoy this game. But still, on low settings, this has to be the best looking game i've ever 
 seen, and i doubt i'll see anything as incredible until i get the orange box
  
  *christmas day*
  
  ohh yey i have the orange box, yeah portal is much better looking since 
 it's an intriguing environment 
  
  so yeah, crytek did genuinely put alot of work into this game, and i did enjoy it for the first 
 time around, but despite it's hype, it is in no way groundbreaking, i'd much rather play half life 
 2 or call of duty 4
  
  thank you and goodnight (abrupt ending much like crysis') 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Crysis is the best FPS on PC for a while (probably since Half-Life 2) . The graphics are absolutely 
 amazing, definitely the best in a game ever.
  Basically you play as a special forces sort of guy with a cool nanosuit which has different abilities: 
 Armour mode which obviously gives you better protection and recharges your health faster, Speed 
 mode which makes you run faster, Strength mode where you destroy the environement with your fists 
 and jump higher etc, Stealth mode where you can turn invisible and sneak past everyone or hide 
 etc. These abilities are damn cool and you can even customise your weapons like add scopes, silencers, 
 laser-sights.
  
  Like I said earlier, the graphics in Crysis are amazing if you have a top of the range PC which 
 I dont unfortunately. I would have given the game I higher mark if I had a better PC! I run it 
 on low-ish settings but with the physics up high because destroying things is fun! It still looks 
 good though, but not great. The requirements for Crysis are a bit too steep for many and it saays 
 on the box it takes up 12GB when really it only takes up about 7GB. But still if you do have a 
 realy ace PC then get this.
  
  The environements you fight in are great. The jungles are brilliant and you can shoot down most 
 trees. One great thing is when you walk through a bush, say, it moves and rustles. Some people 
 think it's just Far Cry with better graphics but trust me, this game is better than Far Cry and 
 it is different. The AI of the enmy Koreans is great and you also fight these big-ass alien things 
 later on in the game (which arent frustrating to fight unlike the Trijans from Far Cry) . You can 
 also steal vehicles and pick up any wepaons you want. The levels are huge: you have many options 
 of where you want to go in the game. You can go through jungles to reach the objective, stick to 
 the road, go down rivers... it lets you explore.
  
  I really think this is the best FPS of 2007. I was dissapointed when Call Of Duty 4 got more votes 
 for game of the year and FPS of the year when in my opinion this game is way better (thank god 
 Bioshock didnt win) . If you are a big PC gamer you should already have Crysis, it's the finest 
 game in years. Definitely one for a PC gamer's collection.
  
  Pros:
  +Amazing combat
  +Suit abilities make the gameplay amazing
  +Best graphics ever so far
  +Best phsyics ever so 
 far
  +Its Crysis!
  
  Cons:
  -Short
  -Extreme system requirements but worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Just played Crysis recently, and very obviously, the graphics were stunning. If you do not have 
 a high-end graphics card, then playing this game at mediocre graphics will just ruin your entire 
 gameplay experience. 
  
  The story begins when you are airdropped to a remote island which has been taken over by the Koreans, 
 and you need to rescue some civilians. Obviously, things aren't as they seem. So, as the story 
 unfolds mission-by-mission, you get treated to a rich, lush outdoors and a freezing, crystalline 
 indoors. 
  
  The attention to detail in this game is staggering. You can pick up almost any object in the game, 
 and your nanosuit takes the game to an entirely different level, giving you more options for taking 
 out the enemy.
  
  I personally felt that the ending was a little choked; I felt that this was going to be an end-of-the-world 
 kind of premise, but after the game I sort of felt that the game almost went there, but came back. 
 The game feels a little too "localized"; like all the bad stuff is happening only around you and 
 nowhere else. The game could have been even better if that element had been incorporated.
  
  This is perhaps one of the flawless games for which no patch was released. I did get stuck 
 on a particular mission... On the ship, after meeting with the admiral when you need to go to the 
 armory, the admiral just disappeared and the armory door never opened. I had to reload that level 
 to resolve this issue...
  
  Anyway, excellent game, though I still think it can't top Call of Duty 4... hope you guys enjoy 
 both games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boltarrow5
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Lets get this issue out of the way first, yes crysis is the very best looking game to date with 
 its extremely destructible environments and overall realistic details. That said however my computer 
 was barely able to run it on an nvidia geforce 8300. The graphics are great but what makes this 
 game phenominal is the gameplay. I absolutely adored the sandbox mode at first and cutting through 
 the Korean base while in cloak mode was always a good time. Just when the battles started to slip 
 into slight repetivity you enter the zero g environment of the alien ship. Crysis seems to hit 
 a small snag here because it makes the aiming much tougher. But as soon as i left i found myself 
 absorbed into the very fight for survival on the island between the aliens, koreans, and the special 
 forces operatives. This coupled with one of the coolest ending boss fights ever makes crysis's 
 single player a smash hit. In my opinion the multiplayer aspect while missing a team deathmatch 
 mode is the most fun to be had in crysis. Power struggle matches are an absolute blast to play 
 and can last up to ten full hours which makes them probably the longest first person shooter matches 
 in history. All these aspects packed together make a game which justifies buying that new 3000 
 dollar computer and the game. This is the best game of the year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobman_420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Holy &^$%! 
  I still cant believe that such a good game even exists!! the game play and story and graphics are 
 solid! Everything is solid! The Ai is awesome to watch cause they act like real solders! The more 
 I play it the more I love it! I am in love with this game!
  
  There are some minor easily ignorable glitches that can easily be fixed with a patch. An example 
 of such would be if you use your super strength and hit a vehicle and it bounces off something 
 and hits you die. We should be able to run maybe not quite as fast but for longer when were in 
 speed mode. and when grabbing people/aliens it does not all ways give you the option. minor livable 
 stuff. 
  
  Now lets talk more about the good stuff. first of all your a super solder unlike ever seen in gaming. 
 you are an army of one. you are a threat to everyone and everything on the level. that's not saying 
 your invincible but you are a superior being. I love how the Koreans fear you. I like thinking 
 if I were a Korean what the fudge would I be thinking if I got a glimpse of what I am seeing. some 
 thing is just wasting my men and we cant do nothing much about it. 
  
  I could go on and on about the goodness about this game. The best part is just the way you feel. 
 you feel like predator. someone so powerful that armies have a hard time dealing with you. anyone 
 out there that likes shooters HAS to get this game. too bad the system requirements and pretty 
 hardcore. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnbsecretscom
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  yeah, great graphics but it's so stupid. just my 50c:
  
  1. koreans die only after taking about 20 bullets. first u need to get their hats off then u can 
 to make a headshot. oops actually u need to make several ones since i dunno what are their heads 
 made of.
  
  2. i dunno why nomad didnt get decent rifle for his special assignment in the beginning. that's 
 stupid to get mega-super-nano suit with a silly funny rifle.
  
  3. if u duck & get to some kind of an on-road obstacle u cant get up. u need to get off from it 
 to get up. there's plenty of stupid movement bugs in the game.
  
  4. like if u jump from inclined plane u get stricly 90* from it. so stupid. like a man cant control 
 jump angle with his feet. so rock jumping is silly.
  
  5. the game is buggy. 
  
  6. it's quite short. i thought there will be a 2nd part after defeating the final boss.
  
  
 7. the story is so overused.
  
  so i ended the game disappointed
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadeInFinland
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Crysis is by far my favorite game from 2007. Although it demands a lot from your PC, I play it 
 with minimum graphics, and it still looks great.
  
  I love the weapon attachments and the nano suit, you can approach any situation however you like; 
 get a car, drive into everyone, then blow it up, or even sneak in undetected, grab enemies and 
 throw them off cliffs.
  
  The difficulty of the levels steadily increases as you get use to the game, making the game the 
 perfect difficulty the whole way through. I love the storyline, it is one of the most creative 
 plots I've seen so far in a FPS, and their realism grabs you and brings you into the game.
  
  Crytek has really outdone themselves with the environment, one of the coolest things I found 
 in the game is that you can shoot down a tree (it actually breaks right where you shot it) , you 
 can grab the fallen tree, and use it as camouflage.
  
  I tried the multiplayer, and it's a bit beyond my computer's abilities, but it's pretty fun, although 
 Crysis doesn't stand out too well in that area, other than the fact everyone still gets to play 
 with their nanosuits :P.
  
  I found that there were still a few bugs in the game, although I still haven't played a game without 
 bugs. For some missions, when I completed the objective, it hadn't told me what to do next, so 
 I had to restart that certain area.
  
  I read a few player reviews that hated the AI, but I loved it! They actually use what they see 
 and hear to their advantage, actually making it seem like actual intelligence. You can throw something 
 at a wall behind them, they'll hear it and turn, then you can jump behind them, and toss them twenty 
 feet.
  
  I also loved the diverse assortment of aliens, there were several different types instead of just 
 one type of alien, and I ended up finding different ways to kill all of them! If they're in the 
 ship, use the shotgun, if they're the big guys, Gauz, if they're the little guys, grab them and 
 throw them.
  
  One of the final things that made me go 'wow' is the inside of the alien ship. When zero gravity 
 came, and how easily the camera rotated around as you were flying, made you actually feel like 
 you were there, you can shoot the crystals, and hear their peaceful ringing as they drift around.
 
  
  The music and sounds are perfect, fitting into the game well, and the ending keeps you waiting 
 for more.
  
  I highly recommend this game, there a few flaws, but this game is well worth it! Imo, this is the 
 best PC game from 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximaxi4eva2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  I had alot fun the first mission, and was amazed at the nxt gen graphics. But having to kill all 
 those North Koreans gets boring, and then all of a sudden your thrown into some big mine... hive... thing. 
 And then you get on your naval ship and kill something fairly big with some crap nuke thingy.
 
  Multiplayer is fun though, with power struggle, way more vehicles and cool alien weapondry... and 
 great weapon system. The graphics are good and bad, because you have to have so much stuff to get 
 it good; next gen graphics card, good internet, you might as well get a new motherboard.
  Its not all complaints from me, because Farcry really sucks.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pet3rrr
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 15, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  I've been watching this game for a while before its release. The graphics is what caught my attention 
 in the first place. But the graphics don't define a game's quality. My fingers became lackadaisical 
 after playing about an hour or two of Crysis, for the game only provides great graphics. 
  
  The story is nothing interesting, but more so of something quite mundane. It has been done 
 many times and Crysis did not attempt to even shine over the rest in the ilk. The un-engaging, 
 and lackluster story was not able to hold onto my attention for more than 20 minutes. The ending 
 was also quite horrible. More horrible than the ending in I Am Legend, but at least I Am Legend 
 was great the other 97%. 
  
  Yes, the graphics are amazing. This is one of the things that I like about the game. The detailed 
 environments, characters, etc. are really great. If you have a new rig and want to test it, Crysis 
 would be sure to bring it down on its knees. For those of you who are curious about the performance 
 on my system, here are the specs: 
  
  Intel Core 2 Duo E6750 @ 2.67GHz
  Gigabyte GA-P35 DS3L motherboard
  2GB G. Skill DDR2 800 @ 5-5-5-15
  XFX GeForce 8800GT 512MB@ 
 600MHz Core/1800MHz Memory
  Windows Vista Ultimate
  
  I ran Crysis with High settings (1280x1024 resolution, no AA) , and my system did not stutter. The 
 game ran smoothly as butter, EXCEPT, after the first half of the game, it got extremely laggy. 
 The promised patch supposedly fixes this issue that some people have, but Crysis is not a quality 
 game that I'd like to keep up-to-date for more enjoyment. 
  
  Other than the graphics, I also liked the nano suit. It made the game too easy, but I must admit, 
 I really loved throwing chickens at the Koreans. 
  
  If you enjoy and love indulging yourself with mundane stories and piss-poor gameplay, and have 
 a $1000+ computer, Crysis is something you should try. Don't get me wrong, I love making myself 
 a God in this game by tweaking the config file, and have unlimited nano-suit-energy and etc, then 
 running around at full speed and stopping at point blank with a Korean, then pounding the crap 
 out of him. Also, nothing is more satisfying than being able to kill a baddie with a damn chicken. 
 Seriously, download the demo; it's worth it. Once you install it, immediately rush through the 
 beginning until you encounter chickens. Switch to strength mode with your nano suit and chuck a 
 chicken at one of the Koreans, you'll thank me later. But even with the unlimited chicken-chucking-fiasco, 
 it's just not enough to be able to justify the $50 price tag for a game that had a lot of potential, 
 and then expectedly turned to mush. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: riiaku
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  To start off, the trailer for this game looked stunning. Mainly the physics is what attracted me: 
 You shoot the tire of a car and it goes skidding on the ground, a car blows up and it flips over 
 you, you run up and kill a bunch of guys really fast, etc... However when it came to actually putting 
 these gimmicks to the test, it flopped. I tried to shoot the tire while the truck was coming at 
 me but I got killed because the guy on the machine gun killed me. I was too busy trying not to 
 get killed than to shoot the tire. Then running up and killing a bunch of guys fast wasn't possible 
 because the gun was inaccurate if not aiming. In addition the whole car flipping over your head 
 never happened. Those are just some of the few complaints that I have about this game. 
  
  The graphics are beautiful in certain aspects, however when your looking at the foliage and the 
 ground, the graphics are horrid. If you pay close attention you can see how grainy and poorly animated 
 the graphics are. On the other hand, the lighting effects are top notch, and the water is stunning. 
 The sound was great, I enjoyed the voice acting from several of my teammates especially Psycho. 
 I think thats Jason Statham. Although the sound effects for the guns were kind of lame, They didn't 
 sound real enough and didn't have that guttural punch you would hear with a subwoofer. I'm running 
 a 5.1 Energy Veritas sound system with a Marantz SR8001 so I know when it sounds good or not. This 
 system really makes the sound details in any game shine. Yet, I'm not here to look at pretty graphics 
 or to listen to pretty good sound, the most important thing is gameplay. Thats where it disappointed 
 me. 
  
  I couldn't help but see that its exactly like Farcry minus the nano armor. Although the nano armor 
 was a clever idea, it just wasn't implemented that well. I didn't really find a need to use it 
 all the time. I just couldn't find it as an essential part of the game. It had a short duration. 
 For the first half of Farcry I liked it very much but then I got bored and it felt more like a 
 job to just finish the game, just like in Crysis. Crysis did have its moments when using the anti 
 air tank and shooting down aliens. Also the scene where you fly that transport and you shoot down 
 creatures. However, I got bored after an hour of gameplay. This game is ok in small doses. Some 
 of the few games that I can remember where I could sit down and play for 8-10 hours at a time was 
 Max Payne 1 and 2, Call of duty series, and Medal of honor series. Although other people may disagree 
 with my review, the bottom line is, to each their own. I did not enjoy this game. It had a lot 
 of hype but it did not deliver in the end. As I've said before the gameplay is identical to Farcry 
 minus the nano armor, which in the end wasn't really implemented that well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  3 words: OH MY GOD. This game if awesome!!! Well, that is if you have the right hardware.
  
  Gameplay: extremely solid and difficult. Aiming is pretty easy once you get the hang of it, 
 but this game will pound on you. Weapons feel very tight, all though they kind of do seem dated. 
 9.5/10
  
  Graphics: Absolutely incredible. It is breathtaking, the deep blue is almost drinkable and lifelike, 
 the jungle textures are unsurpassed, this game is the best looking game in the planet right now, 
 ONLY if you happen to have a completely trained PC that was trained to take on punishing system 
 requirements. If you have the minimum req. for this game, you wont miss out on the action, cuz 
 ull probably will have a solid framerate as long as you keep the resolution low, and settings low. 
 To play this game, i suggest getting your cpu upgraded, and getting the latest graphics card. My 
 recomendation is an NVIDIA GeForce 8800GT. It's only 250 or 300 dollars, and with top notch 512MB 
 ram of video memory and great performance, you can run Crysis at 1280x1080 with no slowdowns. 10/10 
 
  
  Sound: Everything is solid here. Your squad mates and enemies sound like effort was put in. Weapons 
 sound average to great, and effect noises are excellent. 9/10
  
  Entertainment: This game isn't just eyecandy, it's almost a work of art, a masterpiece. This game 
 takes the FPS genre to a new level and you'll enjoy this game or admire at least all the way. 10/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dacolenutt
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  This is probably one of the most imersive games I have ever played, other than the Half-Life chronicles. 
 This game grabs you from the opening scene and never lets go till end credits. I played my first 
 time through in covert mode, and I feel like I know what it's like to be a special forces unit, 
 at least in spirit. The story line is good, not great, but it is enough to make it worth while 
 to finish the game if you are playing for a story. The graphics are superb, and I can only imagine 
 what they would be like wide open as my machine can only run it on "medium pace". There are a few 
 glitches that I encountered in the game, and I do not know whether this is machine based or code 
 based so I am not at liberty to flaw the game, but I did run into instances where the larger MOBS 
 would be stuck or ghosted inside walls. This was a rare occasion though, and other than that, the 
 game was flawless, beautiful and addicting. Don't pass this one up, but don't bother buying it 
 unless you know for a fact your system can handle it as you may just get frustrated with poor frame 
 rates, and slow load times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulsd2002
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  To start thing off, I'm a huge fan of Far Cry. I still love to play it now and again. So I've eagerly 
 anticipated this game since it's first preview. I was a little concerned my Radeon 1900 XTX wouldn't 
 be up to the task. However, I run the game very nicely @ 1400x900 with only shadows and post imaging 
 set to med everything else High no AA or AF though. Pretty pleased there as well. 
  
  Initially I couldn't get the installer to work. Luckily I have to DVDROMs and when I tried to second 
 drive it install without further problems. I spent the next two hours trying to work out the settings 
 I could live with (see above) and then began my journey. The first 3-4 hours were really very fun. 
 The A. I. is pathetic and some of the NK soldiers can take 15-20 shots anywhere other than the head. 
 Even still it was a lot of fun. Oh, I forgot there were a few points where when you complete a 
 mission and the goal isn't triggered (this happened 3 times through out the game) . Twice I figured 
 out what to do next on my own, once I had to search the net. 
  
  The game is full of bugs and not just the extraterrestrial kind. Several time I was killed jumping 
 over a box or lockers that had fallen and blocked your path. I had to use my rockets to blow the 
 things out of the way. There are several things like this that pop up. The NK helicopters are extremely 
 aggravating.
  
  The NK levels really are beautiful and well laid out. I even like the anti gravity level. Not to 
 give anything away but after that the game tanks for me. The rest of the game is very linear and 
 extremely frustrating. The ending was a mixed bag for me. This game has potential but they rushed 
 it out the door and the latter levels were poorly designed. 
  
  In the end if you're a fan of Far Cry wait until the patch comes out at least before buying this 
 game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roguetrp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, ts a great game engine, propably the best. The game could have been better. 
 Cloaking is almost all their is to do. Its nice in the beginning, but becomes somewhat tedious. 
 The final battle is dismal. I expected more. The wepons are nice, but I wanted more. The best gun 
 is only given to you close to the end. I was so annoyed when the game ended, as this was the time 
 the game became really good. Its almost like they cut the game short. An expansion is a possability, 
 but what will be great now will be not so good a year from now. 
  Hey look, its action packed and really well built, but I think that is the main probelm, the engine 
 was thw parketing aspect, people wanted to see the graphics. 
  I would rather play a great game with crappy graphics than a great looking game that has very little 
 to offer.
  Sorry guys, but I think the spider was way more interesting than the ship.
  Thats life for you.
  All in all, its worth playing. The system stories are bull, so dont worry. 
 AGP can play Crysis. Not just in low, but in HIGH. Get it if you like.
  I give it a thumbs up, but don't expect too much. Well done to Crytec for the engine, but COD4 
 beats this puppy hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reyveign
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The Single player portion of Crysis is - in my opinion - one of the most enjoyable of any game... 
 however.. after completing the Single player story and switching to Multi player, I found that 
 MP was not quite as satisfying.
  
  I do not mean to brag, but I am very good at pretty much every First Person Shooter I have played, 
 and multi player is very much the same way. However... with Crysis I found it to be almost impossible 
 to kill any enemies at all.
  
  When other players have Maximum Armor, they are virtually invincible. Even multiple shots at point 
 blank with shotguns would not kill enemies. And as it is with first person shooters, you know multiple 
 close range blasts is not something people walk away from.
  
  However in Crysis it's quite the opposite. Even though I would have a more powerful weapon, and 
 hit more times in a more vulnerable area (Torso, head) people would oftentimes kill me first, and 
 with a less powerful weapon, and with less shots.
  
  I would have the most powerful assault rifle available, and pummel bullets into an enemy, the majority 
 hitting in the head and torso, and he would have a pistol, shoot me a handful of times, and I would 
 be dead.
  
  Not only this, but the maps only support a max of 32 people, I believe. And the vast majority of 
 the maps are much too large, in my opinion. It is possible to find a point in the map, right out 
 in the open and stand there... for the entire match, and never be spotted by an enemy and/or shot 
 by one. Having large maps such as these means you'll have to spawn and normally find the battle, 
 by driving there. If you run you could be running for 5+ minutes, doing nothing but running.
  
  I don't know about other people but this almost immediately killed my interest in Crysis, and 
 after I played it almost everyday for two weeks online.
  
  All though I loathe the multi player portion, it doesn't hurt my review at all as playing MP is 
 entirely optional, and the Single Player portion is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grainp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Of course I don't have a very powerful system so I don't get the best graphics but as far the game 
 itself I don't think it's better than other shooters. Enemies are smart and not easy to kill with 
 their bullet proof vest, they'll work as a team so they'll flank you and call for reinforcements.
 
  
  It's cool to be invisible or very strong which allows you to play a mission in different styles. 
 Of course it's fun to drive a variety of vehicles and you get a good range of weapons. You can 
 shoot about anything but it gets boring after a while, same thing as picking up all kind of objects 
 and animals. I guess the better your system the ore you enjoy the graphics. It's mostly jungle 
 and alien ship.
  
  But at the end of the day you kill a few bad guys and fight Aliens so the game lack originality 
 in my opinion. I never felt "involved" in the action like you move your body to dodge a bullet 
 on screen. I was told Call of Duty 4 is lot more involving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  crysis is the most antecipated game of the year for sure, but after playing you still wonder "is 
 it all that?!"
  all respect to the gamespot editor, but mention that is "easily one of the best shooters" you gotta 
 be kiding!
  one thing is true, crysis delivers a solid unique experience, as soon as you begin playing you 
 can see that.
  but it is a game that begins just awesome, and then begin to fall slowly.
  the you reach the end a bit dissapointed.
  the major problem is simple, the history doesnt fit.
 
  but pay attetion, the problem is not the fact of the aliens itself.
  but the problem is that, naturally a game when played, specially one like crysis, it is expected 
 to keep improving the experience until the ends.
  but as soon as the alien comes by, the experience quality just fall.
  wanna know why?!
  well, 
 lets see the simple fact, it is not funnier fighting aliens than the koreans because, with the 
 aliens the so cool gameplay becomes repetitive and boring.
  against them the nanosuit doesnt have much use, and it is not fun at all facing them, just like 
 the farcry monster, the aliens are very strong, very fast giving a total nonsense experience.
 
  so conclunding about that, the game is awesome, until the aliens shows up...
  and now we got the so polemic subject, how crysis is heavy.
  it is very heavy, and lets face 
 it
  in the medium quality the image is not much better comparing to the other games, and the draw distance 
 is simply a piece of ####!! so it is dificult to get used to the "poping-up" plants and objects.
 
  the reason to all that is that crysis was launch to early.
  to say that the game is for future hardware doesnt make sense, cause everyone wants to play it 
 now, and everyone pays for the best hardware to see the games in the maximum.
  crysis should be launched in the future, but the decision is already made...
  well the final 
 opinion, play it until five hours of game, after that, when the aliens shows up, just play if you 
 really like it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cataclism
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  (This is my first review and English is not my mother language so don't be too hard on me) .
  
  NOTE: Before reading you should know that I'm am against all kinds of blind and ignorant platform 
 loyalty that I fear is what is hurting this game's reputation. Also, you should remember that your 
 preferences are King and Queen to you. After all, you may simply not enjoy shooters and/or sandbox 
 game play at all. 
  With these things in mind, I invite you to read my review:
  
  
  Crysis is a first person shooter from the makers of Far Cry where you will be taken in a secret 
 mission to a tropical island in the pacific in search of a group of scientists. The North Koreans 
 have taken over the island because the scientists have uncovered remnants of an alien ship that 
 fell on hearth millions of years ago.
  
  You may find that many people bow before the "complete awesomeness" of it's graphics while many 
 others call it "junk" for those same graphics accusing it of being "All flash and no substance". 
 
  There is much more about Crysis than graphics however and I find that many people are giving it 
 bad scores without even playing it. Others may have played it but simply in the wrong way. Keep 
 in mind that this is not a run and shoot type of game. It requires some thinking and some strategy 
 but above all, in order to enjoy it to it's fullest, it requires creativity.
  If you just mindlessly shoot everything in your path you will be missing much of what makes Crysis 
 such a great game. The game is basically a "sandbox" game: you can approach any situation in various 
 ways which are only limited by your own creativity. The scenarios are huge and are what makes much 
 of this possible. It's somewhat hard to explain but I found myself having numerous ideas about 
 things to do in this game. One of the ideas I'm looking forward to try the most (my gaming pc is 
 currently away) that i recently had, consists in attaching a piece (or more) of C-4 to a fuel barrel 
 and then throw it (in strength mode) into my enemies (be it a bunch of KPA, tanks, boats and maybe 
 i will try it on helicopters) and then detonating the C-4. And that is just a small taste of what 
 you can do in Crysis.
  
  Another very important gameplay element in the game is the "nano-suit": An high-tech suit that 
 gives you either super strength, super speed, armor or cloak. All the modes can be very useful 
 in the right situation, however, you will probably spend most of the time using defense or cloak 
 modes using only strengh and speed in specific situations. While armor and cloak give some very 
 obvious bonuses strength and speed can also be used in very useful ways: Strength mode for example 
 will let you jump very high and throw all kinds of stuff farther than normal. In fact, you'll find 
 that, sometimes, if you run into an enemy in speed mode or jump in strength mode near them it will 
 probably make them stare at you in complete awe doing nothing, giving you time to attack them before 
 they can react. (Take too long and they will probably attack you eventually, and take into account 
 that his friends will probably shoot at you as well) .
  
  And then there's the physics. Almost everything in this game is destructible: from the huts to 
 the trees. The only things that are invulnerable are some really big trees, rocks and the more 
 resistant buildings. (After all, you won't be bringing down a concrete house alone very easily) .
 
  In addition to that you can grab almost everything in the game: From the previously mentioned 
 fuel barrels, to boxes, wood planks, fruit, water bottles and even crabs, chicken and your living 
 opponents. (weirdly, dead opponents can't be grabbed) . And if you don't have anything near you 
 to grab (hard to happen) just get your rifle, shoot a tree and grab a piece of it.
  
  Another thing that helps with the sandbox game play are the weapons. Practically all weapons can 
 be customized to some extent, even if some have substantially more mods available than others. 
 You can expect to find a lot of them for your standard "assault rifles" (the SCAR and the FY71) 
 but much less can be applied to your "heavy" weapons (like the minigun) . These mods include: Silencers, 
 laser pointers, scopes, grenade launchers and the FY71 even has a secondary ammo type (incendiary 
 ammo) . However, as was said before, not all mods can be attached to all weapons. For example, you 
 can't attach a silencer to a shotgun.
  And you don't need to worry about getting all scopes for all weapons because once you get a particular 
 mod it will be available to all weapons that can use it.
  
  Notice how until now I only spoke about the gameplay? ;)
  
  The game play is what really makes 
 me like this game. No matter the graphics a game has, if the gameplay is not good I simply don't 
 like it.
  However, it's practically impossible to speak about crysis and not speaking about its graphics 
 because they are simply outstanding. Keep in mind that this game was made for future hardware and 
 not even with the best pc out there you will be able to max out Crysis. It is still one of the 
 best looking games (if not the best) even at high or medium settings. The water in nearly perfect. 
 The foliage moves as you touch it. The character's faces are simply incredible and simple thing 
 like the light penetrating through the vegetation or clouds are amazing to look at. Don't be surprised 
 if you somehow find yourself just staring at the amazing landscapes instead of playing.
  
  One of the most disliked levels in Crysis is the level where you get into the alien ship itself 
 because it's very confusing. There is no gravity in the level and it really can be very confusing 
 at times but I found it to be a very well made level. This is because it's different. Instead of 
 merely "looking" alien this time there's an environment that actually "feels" alien. In my opinion 
 it's a very welcomed change of pace. In fact, if you got inside an actual alien ship you would 
 probably find it confusing as well...
  The aliens them selfs are quite unique. Except maybe the bigger alien machines that you fight on 
 the latter levels. They look a lot like the "squids" from the Matrix movies. Not like that's a 
 bad thing. Also, their strange affinity for cold and ice is also interesting and different. In 
 the end, they are quite unique in my opinion.
  
  The story isn't the best I've seen though... Earth is starting to be invaded by aliens and most 
 characters are rather stereotypical... 
  But the game can provide some really thrilling moments: The most memorable one, in my opinion, 
 occurs sightly at the middle of the game during a tank battle, when you are entering a valley and 
 the mountain directly ahead of you sudently starts to crumble!
  The end is also somewhat weak. It has got "sequel" written all over it and while Crysis is supposed 
 to be a trilogy, it could have been better.
  
  However, like any game game, Crysis also has it's issues: The last levels aren't nearly has open-ended 
 has the earlier ones but if you were faced with an alien invasion you wouldn't probably keep thinking 
 about tactics as much... They also are rather small when compared to the earlier more open-ended 
 ones.
  Also, it also has many bugs near the end of the game but I fear that EA may have an hand in this... 
 We all know that they care more about deadlines than quality.
  
  In the end, despite it's flaws, Crysis still manages to be a fun, thrilling and deep experience 
 for those willing to think and that want a change from the usual run and shoot FPS's.
  
  The sad thing is that I'm afraid that many people give this game low scores even without playing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YEYimeh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Ok I started the game, and my first impression was WOW! It's Stunning!!! You get a very nice graphic, 
 fully customize suit and guns, opened end world, and the Farcry's level AI. Truly this should be 
 an interesting game. But the longer you play the game is getting worse. 
  
  First of all, this game is only around 7 hours length in normal mode, but that doesn't really a 
 problem. The customizable suit is a nice idea, you got fully customizable suit with a different 
 power to choose, speed, power, cloak and armor but mostly, all you will do for the first game, 
 is cloak then armor, cloak armor, I found myself rarely using other type of power unless it was 
 necessary to (like a high jump) , otherwise you will end by getting yourself killed. 
  
  However ,it was fun for awhile, actually the first half of the game is plain fun you will enjoy 
 crysis's opened end mission and lots of its eyecandy. But then again, after you enter the alien's 
 ship, is where the game got worse. You will lose your open ended and bugs will keep rising and 
 it is very annoying one. If you do a quickly quicksave then quickload you will find yourself stuck 
 in a technical glitch (for instance, on the final boss I found myself fall of the ship and cannot 
 continue the game) , I found a glitch like this a lots of time (which I didn't found it the first 
 half) . the mission after you get out of the ship became linier and boring compared to the first 
 half, they also give you a plane to drive which can be destroyed if only you get a few hits (luckily 
 that scene is shot.) and it annoying when you realize you have to load a game from the beginning 
 of the mission again and again to finished it.
  
  Overall, yes Crysis is a good game but is it good enough to live with its hyped? I don't think 
 so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  I found the first half of the game much better than the last half for some reason. Part of it may 
 be the extremely frustrating Alien chapters that leave you either completely confused as to where 
 to go, or dying dozens of times against enemies that dart around very quickly in the air while 
 firing a hail of bullets at your head. 
  
  Another thing I found was that in about 3-4 different spots I was completely stuck due to some 
 sort of bug related to saving the game manually with F5. I had to restart several levels due to 
 this, ruining the immersion and game flow somewhat.
  
  The wow-factor of the graphics ends about 3/4 of the way through unfortunately leaving you with 
 the feeling of a regulation shooter for the last 1/4.
  
  And please tell me you didn't find it mildly odd that you took down the pinnacle of this alien 
 race's defenses (a giant warship) with a single canon..... hmmmm.
  
  This "review" does sound negative but the game is very much worth playing. However, COD4 in my 
 opinion is actually better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amonra69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  The game has its problems, but with patches and the "mod" community this game will become the legand 
 people say it is. Like I said in the Review deck, I generally Hate FPS games. Last one I like enough 
 to play a good bit was Unreal Tournament (original) . This game just gives you so much in game chances 
 to tackle your objectives it makes playing it a pleasure.
  
  graphics 9/10
  probally will up that once I get a bettter machine. I don't get how other people are having problems. 
 I am running it with a
  Athlon 3000+ 64bit
  a AGP 6800gt
  1.2 gigs of DDR 2100 
  Xp pro sp2
  newest WHQL drivers for my video card
  (that is pretty much the min. requirements.)
 
  and i get 25-30 fps on medium. (post processing and shadows are set to low) 1024x768 res
  
  Control 7/10
  In some of the vehicles fireing the main weapon and/or piloting can be a real pain. 
 Also I feel that when your using a scope unless Nomad has been drinking he/she should not be shaking 
 that much. Heck i dont even fire guns and know i would not do a circle that bad.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  Simply put. They give you a job to do. You choose how to get it done. Want to 
 slowly pick off the people guarding your captives. GO AHEAD. Want to run in a with a shot gun yelling 
 LERROOOOOOOOY!!! GO AHEAD. If you can think of a method to tackle it then do so.
  
  Sound 8/10
  I use on board sound and the sound seem to cause my biggest lagging fits. Even in 
 story board progression scenes i would get major lag on spoken parts.
  
  I am generally a RPG/SIMULATION game player. IE Final fantasy/Roller Coaster Tycoon games. I tried 
 the demo and now Play the game cause of it. I am 28 years old and begged for a game for Christmas 
 :) . I was going to upgrade my computer this year for my Recording, but now it needs to pimp this 
 game.
  
  To another reviewer that got pissed that when you change the options on your weapon..... WELL DOES 
 REAL LIFE PAUSE?! Really your character has to change the parts which takes more time then they 
 accually make you use to do it. COME ON REALISM IN GAMES IS A GOOD THING in these types of games.
 
  
  If your weary of trying Crysis just download the demo and try it. The demo has about 20-40 minutes 
 of play time in it and gives you a general feel for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Crysis: Crysis is yet another installment from Crytek. The game's environment kinda resembles Farcry, 
 the place reminds me of the islands in farcry. let me be frank... this game sucks ! the whole concept 
 is a total let down.. the gameplay is totally crappy, the storyline ?....... pathetic ! the year 
 is supposed to be 2020, and the weapons.. gosh !.... u gotta shoot atleast 20 times to get an enemy 
 down.... forget about humans.... those stupid lookin aliens are a pain in the neck.... the only reason 
 why i finished the game was for the sake of the graphics. the 'Nano suit' is the only thing that 
 has a major distinction from other FPS games... the game also has a difficulty "Delta"... i dont 
 think even the developer will be able to play the game at that stage. I never expected Crysis to 
 be such a let down..... And thank God i borrowed this from a friend... i would be kicking myself 
 if i had paid for the copy. I will never install Crysis on my pc ever again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is in my opinion one of the best FPS's of all time. There are some key factors to crysis 
 that just make it amazing.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The good
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The graphics are the best of anything I have seen in my days on a video game. They just look amazing. 
 Everything the snow, aliens, jungle, And the last mission is just damn good looking.
  
  The AI is so smart they actually flank you and try to out smart you unlike most games AI's.
  
 
  I really love how they give you the option to complete your mission how you want. Like for example 
 I thought of some well thought out strategy. I would strap C4 into a jeep thing and then drive 
 it into the base. Jump out run with Maximum speed as far away. Then prone down and watch as they 
 come to investigate what happened. Then put on a supressor. then detotate killing them then pick 
 off the ones living so they can't see me. Then get up cloak into the base and then set charges 
 in an inclosed space. Then lure them in. 
  
  Its just this game gives you like 10 million options on how to complete your mission and it makes 
 it fun. It gives you such a large area around your target to really choose how you want to go about 
 it.
  
  Another big thing is how you can completely customize your weapons. You can add laser's, different 
 kind of scopes, suppressor. They just give you so much customization and choices.
  
  The story is just pretty good actually. I really enjoyed it. It seemed like it may end up like 
 most things but it had some twists with like how the aliens would shoot snow and ice. Have not 
 seen that yet.
  
  The sounds of the game are just amazing also. It really builds up suspense at some parts like the 
 alien ship. Or going through the jungle you hear weird noises. And you hear the koreans chatting. 
 You just really get a lot of neat noises. All the guns and alien weapons and there robot like things 
 all sound really nice. The sound overall 10/10
  
  The multiplayer I think is a good basis. With the incredibly awesome sandbox 2 editor I think we 
 will have a really nice online, multiplayer mod community going.
  
  The multiplayer does have some short comings as it can get kinda laggy bad like the real game. 
 But overall its pretty neat. Just would be nice to see a patch to mabye add some more weapons or 
 something.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Though there are some bad things about this game
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  First this game can't keep a steady framerate to save its life. Its frame rate is just up and down 
 and up and down. Unless ofcourse you got like a 5,000 dollar comp. 
  
  The graphics have some errors here and there and it can get kinda annoying.
  
  To go along 
 with the framerate thing it tends to freeze quite often to.
  
  The online almost feels like it was just tacked on. Doesent feel to great. But I do have hope with 
 the mod community of some really neat mods or improvements or other cool online things.
  
  I have seen some hackers online which was kind of annoying to see.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  All in all I think it was a really really well done game that just came together. For one of the 
 best first person shooting experiences I have ever had. I think it really is a good game also because 
 it evolves the genre. There are just so many new things in this game that really evolve the genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for over 3 years for this game, and now, finally, I have played true that game 
 and can say that Crytek has given me one of the best experience I have ever had in a game before. 
 I will have to say that if your PC can't handle it, your experience will be deeply downgraded, 
 because the Graphics in this game affects the gameplay VERY much. You can play on medium and say 
 this game sucks, but when you try it on Very High settings its like a different game.
  
  The Graphics:
  This game is the most beautiful game that have ever been created. If there is 
 one thing that wont let you down in this game, is it the graphics. This is off course if you play 
 the game on high/very high, because on other settings its like another game. The graphics is so 
 good it almost feels sometimes like I'm in a movie. It's just as good as Crytek promised.
  
  The sound:
  I can't complain about the sound in this game. I have a 5.1 surround system and 
 the game really gives me just the sound experience I want to have. I also think the music in this 
 game is good, Crytek has created a own theme witch is quite good.
  
  The story:
  The story is just fine. It may not be as good as Bioshock or Half Life etc, but it's good enough 
 to me. With the amazing graphics you will get so engaged that the story will almost be better than 
 what it actually is. It's not the best story ever, but for me its way good enough.
  
  The hole experience:
  With the amazing graphics and sound, and a fine story, Crysis will give 
 you an amazing experience. This is if your PC can handle it. I know many of you have been disepointed 
 about this game, but many of you haven't tried it on very high. What I mean is that it is Very 
 high setting that represent how good this game acually is, and not high, medium or low. This settings 
 make the game diffrent, so please do not complain how much this game sucks when you have only tried 
 it on medium settings. I do agree, this game is no fun at medium, but for f**k sake, buy another 
 game and wait until you can get a PC that can handle it! It's worth it!
  
  So as long as your PC is good enough, Crysis is a game that can't be missed. Please have fun and 
 enjoy this masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alastaircisger
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  
  General formula for Crysis gameplay: Misson begins, inevitably, with a radar being jammed. Your 
 mission is to find this mysterious jamming device, kill the KPA guarding jamming device and... 
 REPEAT! (Oh, and insert some thoroughly awful low-gravity alien mothership sequence after the 10,000th 
 iteration of this dull formula which results in little more than infuriating the player and making 
 one feel the effects of motion-sickness) .
  
  AWFUL.
  
  Crysis is little more than a graphically enhanced Farcry with an arguably worse (at least more 
 boring) storyline. All the things that made Farcry so great (AI, weapons, mutants etc) are certainly 
 not present here. Do yourself a favor and DON'T BUY THIS GAME.
  
  P. S. - Did I mention some of the DVD drive issues/conflicts I had with this game? Absolutely terrible. 
 It sometimes takes 10min to get my PC to recognize the DVD! And I'm not the only one exerperiencing 
 this problem (it appears to be an issue with samsung drives; GOOGLE it ('Crysis DVD clicking') 
 for more info, its a real problem.)
  
  (And no, I didn't write this review with the sole intention of being controversial. This is my 
 genuine opinion.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XEZ_04
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The year is 2019 and a massive asteroid has crash-landed somewhere within North Korea. Soon it 
 is revealed that the asteroid is in fact a gigantic alien vessel whose malevolent mission is to 
 eradicate mankind. As part of a covert Delta Force squad from the United States, players must fend 
 off alien advances through tropical jungles, frozen terrain, and other climate-altered regions 
 in an attempt to board the gravity-free mother ship. Created using Crytek's proprietary game engine, 
 Crysis offers a dynamic world featuring earthquakes, tornados, landslides, and breakaway ice. The 
 perpetually changing environment requires adaptive techniques for the squad to survive, and players 
 can commandeer trucks, tanks, boats, helicopters, and other vehicles to help reach their objectives. 
 The alien AI is also designed to challenge, adopting real-world military tactics and coordinating 
 attacks to fight as an enterprising entity. Crysis features a number of options for soldiers in 
 combat, with the ability to grab and use nearly any item found in each destructible environment. 
 Online multiplayer support is available for up to 32 combatants, and a toolset is included for 
 creative players to construct levels for use in either solo or multiplayer action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foddle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Graphics (what do you think...;) )
  Sound 9.5/10
  Longevity and Multiplayer 6/10
  
  Well, where to start with crysis... it had so much to live 
 up to after Far Cry and it definately didnt disappoint.
  
  First, i'll explain the 6/10 for replayability and the multiplayer. I found the multiplayer to 
 be underwhelming, and not really anywhere close to the same calibre of CSS or UT. It was cool, 
 but the graphical tax exerted by the game and bugs ruined it a little, but hopefully this will 
 be fixed, to an extent, in cryteks patch. The replayability of the game was also lacking, possibly 
 due to long levels and maybe just because it isnt the same seeing the beauty for the second time, 
 and you also lose the immersion in the story.
  Not saying that i didnt play it twice before posting this review :) ..
  
  Ok, now onto the 
 good stuff: The Graphics... they're... amazing..
  no, really, if crysis was just a graphical demo it would hve been excellent, but actually experiencing 
 a whole game in the sun soaked beauty of the cryengine 2 is mind blowing. You just stop and stare 
 at the trees, or the view over the coast, and although you spend half the game under the jungle 
 canopy, it just captures the environment beautifully.
  But its not all about textures and pretty trees, the cryengine endorses stunning, immersive effects 
 on the higher graphical settings like water sliding off your visor to mud splashes on car windscreens 
 and a really, really well implemented motion blur which is partially responsible for the games' 
 playability at a lower fps than most shooters.
  
  And it is playable indeed. I ran the game on two different graphics cards, an old 7600gt and the 
 new 8800GTS. On low settings, on the gt, the graphics were not bad by any standards, so you shouldnt 
 be too driven away by the high requirements for the game, but on High, on the GTS, the game comes 
 to life like no other. Snow, leaves, water and Koreans are all rendered in a breathtaking fashion.
 
  
  But if you have the spec. to keep up with the higher graphics settings, then i'll leave you to 
 discover the beauty of this game for yourself, but if you're going to be running it on medium or 
 low you're going to be looking for a better reason to shell out for the game.
  And there is one (lots, actually) .
  
  The Gameplay. Crysis could have got away with not bothering 
 to make a good game under all the fancy graphics, but they didnt. Crysis is more fun than almost 
 any other game while you play it. Your enemies use tactics on a much superior level to CoD4 or 
 Halo 3. They hide, patrol, flank you, try and pin you down with mg fire from their jeeps and generally 
 act like soldiers should, in a videogame. But of course you can fight back with your nanosuit powers 
 ( which are all very cool, and balanced too) , an arsenal of well designed weapons, and vehicles. 
 Tanks, jeeps, boats etc.. they're all there in a game which isnt justified by "BF2 meets Halo". 
 
  
  I'll speak briefly about the sound. Sound is so important in shooters and crysis has some of the 
 nicest weapon/environment sounds out there, and the music's not bad either. Theres not a lot else 
 to say, but it does play its part, and gloriously, i'm told , on 5.1 systems.
  
  So where does Halo come in. ? 
  
  well that's the clever bit. you see, when halo: combat evolved 
 came out it was fun because although it was linear at heart it didnt feel like it, the game steering 
 you to the right places but never forcing you a la call of duty style. Also, there are gameplay 
 parallels although crysis does befit a more careful and tactical approach. The graphics are not 
 particularly similar in anything but quality ( in halo's case i'm talking about "for its time") , 
 but to me the whole game experience was like playing halo through for the first time. This *is* 
 the big game of the year and a showcase for dx10 and what a pc can do. forget call of duty ( a 
 fine game ) and drop your console controller, because the fps genre has served us up a classic, 
 a game with everything: great gameplay, graphics and sound, and the storyline and phisycs can cut 
 it too.
  
  So there we have it, no game is perfect, but crysis isnt far off and with better multiplayer and 
 a few more levels thrown in... maybe it would've scored much, much higher.. the wait is on for crysis 
 2 please crytek ;)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: limbofrog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  If you played FarCry, this game will feel very familiar to you. If you liked FarCry you will probably 
 like Crysis.
  
  That said, this game had a very high production value, was very enjoyable, and had plenty of moments 
 in the game where the type of game play kept changing to keep it fresh. For example you are not 
 always on foot, there are plenty of gun turrets, vehicles ground and air, and even odd environments 
 that help keep things interesting. I loved it.
  
  My only real negative comment would be that you do have to crank the graphical settings down to 
 get a decent frame rate even for fairly high-end machines. I read one article where using 3 x top 
 level SLI 8800 GeForce cards and a good rig otherwise, they were able to squeeze nearly 30 fps 
 on the highest graphics setting. That's not a high frame rate to say the least. Since most people 
 don't have such a sweet setup, you might find yourself running the game at medium or low just to 
 get decent frame rates... even so the game still looks great on "medium" in my opinion and the 
 story is good either way.
  
  The game seemed a bit short to me, but it was so fun I did not care though I found myself wanting 
 more at the end. I watched all of the credits after beating it, dear lord alot of people worked 
 on this game. Hats off to the developers and my thx for this great game. If you have a decent PC 
 and enjoy FPS games, you definitely want to give this one a go, I doubt you would be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sulik1112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  Since there are tons of review for this famous games, i'll make this review straight to the point 
 base on my experience.
  
  Graphics - 10
  The only problem here is that Crysis doesn't scale really well with low-to-mid tier computer. Hope 
 that the upcoming patchs will solve this problem.
  
  Sounds - 8
  The sounds are good and believeable. However, somehow the gun's sounds is not powerful enough, 
 and the protagonist's voice (Nomad) is not that impressive.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  It's a Far Cry reincarnation with the nanosuit's flexibilities. You can be an assassin, or you 
 can be teh Rambo. Replayability is here obviously.
  
  Character building - 8
  Most of the characters are great, from the likable Jester (too bad he died) , to Mr. i. m. teh. boss 
 Morrison. Too bad teh protagonist Nomad is just kind of a weakling whose personality is not that 
 great, and just simply not anywhere as charming as, say, Prophet. Or Jack Carver for that matter.
 
  
  Overall - 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b4card
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  I have started playing Crysis in the past week or two. I played the demo and then got the game 
 as a gift. I love it. It is visually stunning, the interface to the suit is nice and in general 
 is put together well. The ability to modify weapons is cool. It could have been done even more 
 in depth but for the main stream I think they stopped at about the right mix of cool versus too 
 much customization.
  
  However, Crysis is still Far Cry. 
  -It is on an island. 
  -You are still a military person. 
  -You still amp up your attributes (strength, speed etc..)
 
  -Still a weird thing going on the no one seems to understand.
  
  Crysis is also LOST.
  -Big metal octopus like monster machine ... with earth shaking and sound effects.
  -On an island.
 
  -Stranded ship in the middle of the island.
  -Odd buildings from some unknown past peoples.
  
  Crysis needs a patch.
  -At a minimum, I 
 see the barrel of my enemies gun pass through the wall he is hiding behind. 
  
  Again, I still love the game. I am still playing Far Cry which I rate much higher since it is at 
 least a little more creative and original. Crysis however does no shame to the heritage built. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radde
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Crysis is the best game I've played this year.
  
  Performance:
  Everybody say you have to spend a fortune to get this game running well, but I've spend less than 
 1000 Euro to be able to play this game in very high settings smoothly. And i must say even in medium 
 settings this game kicks ass. I'm running a Intel Core 2 Quad 6600 and Nvidia Geforce 8800GTX and 
 everything is fine.
  
  Graphic:
  It's hard to find anything bad. Only players who spend a lot of time by discover the hole world 
 of Crysis will notice here and there some texture issues, but they r so trivially that a normal 
 player don't even recognize them.
  
  Crytek putted the latest technologies in this game and if we can trust them, they had putt also 
 technologies in there that not even exist jet and will be self activated by the game engine - fantastic. 
 If you can play this game at the highest settings you will be overwhelmed by the Pictures that 
 this game is throwing at you.
  
  Gameplay:
  No doubt about it, Crytek gives the player a huge sandbox style game that every time you play this 
 game reacts different. No fight will be the same because of the brilliant A. I.. You've so many 
 different possible ways to get to your mission objectives. Simply go stealth through dangerous 
 areas or unpacking your gun and shoot everybody, or throw objects at your opponents. Almost every 
 cover can be crushed, such as trees, walls, barrels, vehicles...
  
  This screen filling monster at the end of the game reminded me to the good old side scroll games 
 - great job!
  
  Story:
  First at all i was thinking Crysis would have a similar stupid story as Farcry. But Crytek does 
 it's homework and so they putt in a great plausible story with an open ending. And also created 
 great personalities for the other Characters you meet in through out the game.
  
  Multilayer:
  This is the only point where Crytek could have done a little bit more. Power Struggle 
 is a good mode for huge and long battles but will not fit into eSports tournaments. I think they 
 stucked their selves to long with creating this mode so they simply missed to create other, smaller 
 modes. Hopefully they will put more modes into the multilayer with future patches.
  
  The lesson is clear:
  Crytek shows us with Crysis what's possible with actual computer hardware 
 and that no console can even get close to this, just because consoles can't be upgraded this way.
 
  
  Anyway, Crysis is a state-of-the-art A title that kicks as in every single discipline Crytek want 
 it to be the best. And hopefully they will also put the multiplayer to the next level in the next 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: operamaster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Crysis is one of the most solid games i have played so far. The game offers a magical experience 
 with those little details that makes that little special you need. For example while you are sky 
 diving in the beginning you can see moisture on your HUD isnt that cool?
  Anyway the game has the best visuals ive seen in a game so far and it will probably stay that way 
 for a couple of years or till Crysis 2 comes out.
  But the one thing i have to say is a little bit troubling is the A. I. I played the game on both 
 medium and veteran and the NPCs sometimes acted really stupid like on the first stage where 2 guys 
 continually go into the toilet together. That could be a homosexual in-game story but i dont think 
 so.
  But throughout the game the AI didnt bother me very much.
  The game could though be a little to simple sometimes because of your suit which gives you "god 
 powers" allowing you to kill your enemies a little to easily at times. 
  
  But in the big whole the game is a must play game and will stay that way for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hirelingT7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  To begin with is that there will be no game i really mean no game that will be better than crysis 
 in the next couple of years,
  the visuals are the best i have ever seen in a game, with every detail from the water ripples and 
 the sun that is very realistic down to the amzaing A. I. from the NPC. if you just stop in the game 
 and just listen you will every leaf and insect that is moving around unbelievable.
  the next thing that is pretty cool is your suit that will act as defence and a powerful weapon 
 a very cool gadget and addition in the game, it gives a feeling to the player your a god that will 
 never die. the different powers of the suit are very worked out and work properly if using.
  the idea to use a setting like farcry really worked out for the game the end result of this game 
 cannot be lower but much higher than a 10 :D
  the only disappointing thing about this game is that are no pc`s that can play this game properly 
 like it need to be with this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlestar_555
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  crysis is one of the best games i got in my games colloection however i wouldn't give it a 10/10 
 because of the game's performant requirements....
  
  i got the following
  
  Ati Sapphire Raddon X1550 (256mb rate)
  Intel Pentium 4 - 3.00GHz
  2GB ram Memory
  haven't 
 got a clue what the motherboard is
  
  yet with all of those i managed to get medium setting for shaders, shadows, texture.
  however 
 for the rest of the settings, they all on hacked "Very high" settings including water, motion blur 
 ect...
  
  this game is a masterpiece... well written and made, no glitches found, unless cars can fly off 
 the cliff and land on the other end with 50% damage?
  
  if you haven't played this game, then ur missing out. the game makes you feel like you're in a 
 film with exciting story to follow!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: labirenth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:44 am PT
Review:  At first you will think its hard confusing , next day you'll want to sneak up to a tank place 5 
 explosives in its path , hide in the bushes , jump out in front of it , watch the tank gun turn 
 to you and just before it fires hit the detonator and laugh all the way to the next one .
  
  Mind you in the GS review it said not to attack every one in your path because it would be 
 suicide, but where's the fun in that . KILL EVERYONE, and everything . leave no survivors . I thought 
 game play would be a repeat of far cry but it isn't , and I cant find a single bad thing to say 
 about it, even it being power hungry . that only makes it more credible. 
  
  Cant wait to see whats next from the people that brought us far cry ( watch alot of trailors)
 
  
  A First person shooters delight . theres only one game that in my oppinion beats crysis it begins 
 with a B and ends with a K. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  With all the hype surrounding this game and the fact that every review I have done has had some 
 reference to "... until Crysis comes out," I was expecting bleeding edge gameplay. I got it... but 
 only in short glimpses.
  
  Sure the graphics were intense, but with so many bugs it lost some of its flair after having to 
 restart the game, and often the same level so many times. I made the mistake of buying the game 
 online and downloaded it to my pc. Not good.... something about having the physical media that just 
 gives me a good feeling after spending $60. So I saved $10 downloading it... but I dont have it 
 in my library, its in theirs. Throughout the entire game I never did see a patch come out and to 
 date I dont know if one has.
  
  Bugs aside, the game did offer so new aspects to the genre and did a nice job of laying out the 
 levels. FIrst problem was that the game was just to easy. Played it on normal mode and it really 
 presented no major challenges unless I pushed the envelope and tried things out of order. The open 
 gameplay was a great concept, and having multiple options to achieve the same result was a nice 
 touch as well. But with the ability to go invisible, the game lost its, on on edge of your seat, 
 moments.
  
  The first half of the game had my glued to my seat... but then I hit the ice cave level (or whatever 
 it was called) and then I started with the "WTF is this?" I still dont get half the time what I 
 was even doing, but it appeared to me that it was just the developers trying to show off the engine 
 because some levels were incredibly pointless.
  
  So the first half of the game gets a 10, but the second half a give a strong 5. That being said, 
 the game gets kudos for the first half, and its enough to warrent the purchase, but the second 
 half was so bad that I just cant see giving this game more than an 8. But then I look at all the 
 development work that went into the engine and with the possibility of some fantastic games to 
 come based on the new engine, I raise my bar to 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I haven't had this much fun reconfabulating my game machine since Oblivion! My aging Pentium 4 
 was due for replacement, and when CompUSA announced 20% of CPUs due to the store closing... Well, 
 things just seemed to be coming together.
  
  And, so it seems, as did the fun when I emerged on the snowy hillside and unloaded on the alien 
 hordes. 
  
  Which came around just when I'd had my fill of the North Korean regulars.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  I wasn't a huge FarCry fan. The checkpoints, constant search for ammo and 
 health packs, bungling AI, and feeling that I was being hunted didn't appeal to me. 
  
  Crysis has none of these issues. It improves on the original FarCry in just about every way. The 
 checkpoints are still there, but they are very well placed and I never once had that "been here 
 already" boredom that I felt with FarCry. The ammo is available at just the right times during 
 the campaign and health packs are obsolete with the ingenious Nano Suit element to the gameplay. 
 The AI plays much smarter than it did in FarCry, and in Crysis it is clear that although outnumbered, 
 YOU ARE THE HUNTER. Sweet.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  It took research and effort to get Crysis looking and playing the way I wanted it to look on my 
 system. This is something that I enjoy in and of itself. If tweaking config files, upgrading the 
 older components in your system, and stretching your performance to its max doesn't appeal to you 
 (and you don't have a $5K rig) , you likely won't get those "10" graphics.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  The sound of the action is well done - particularly the explosions in the game. Even the suit 
 sound, which is played over and over again throughout the mission as you are constantly switching 
 modes, doesn't get annoying.
  
  The voice acting is a bit stiff, but on the whole the production values, including the sound production, 
 is quite good. The cutscenes are a big step up from FarCry.
  
  Value: 9
  
  The single player mission is a good length - and none of it feels repetitive or comes off as "filler 
 material". Adding to the value is the total shift in gameplay that arrives with the alien hordes. 
 Crysis turns from a sandbox full of toy soldiers into a scene straight out of Alien vs. Predator. 
 The strategy you use evolves with your new enemy, and the fury of automatic weaponry builds to 
 great satisfaction.
  
  There is good replay value in this game. The open nature of the beginning missions, and the visceral 
 thrill of the alien missions are worth another look after completing the game for the first time 
 - and I, for one, found myself wanting more.
  
  Tilt: 10
  
  In the end its all about fun - and in Crysis, there's plenty to be had. Never dull and constant 
 in putting you into the action, Crysis is money well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokobil
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I set down to write this because i really don't get how the mass hype no matter how powerfuly arrives 
 into our head from everywhere manages to obscure the plain trueth. And that truth is that Crysis 
 although it is a valid fun game is not what they try to make us believe.
  
  Graphics: 7/10 On first glance the graphics look amazing (on a top machine)
  On a medium system 
 the graphics look average, In fact when i watched the game in an average system i felt that the 
 graphics of Crysis were inferior to FarCry. Of course if you play the game in a hi end computer 
 the graphics look realy amazing. Yet there is still a problem.... Something ruins the overall feeling. 
 And that is the character models. Especially the human enemies models are mediorce and as if they 
 look bidimensional. Also their movement looks a bit jerky. You get the impression there is something 
 "fake" in the way the enemies move around.
  
  Sound: 7/10 The sound has its strong points but also its weak points. In general the overall sound 
 quality is again fake. It gives out a fake feeling as well. Somehow the guns don't sound powerful. 
 The gun sounds are too "thin" the voices of the koreans sound indiferent and even the sound of 
 yoru footsteps has a fake feeling. 
  
  Story: 4/10 Koreans and Aliens. I am not impressed. I really don't understand why they chose the 
 Koreans as one of the game's "evils" . Colombian or other latin-american mercenaries even african 
 mercenaries or muslim fanatics or even neonazi dudes would seem more appropriate. This first impact 
 you get with the koreans realy kill the game's first impression since somehow Koreans don't create 
 anything.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10 Some very good ideas but poor implementation. some examples. When you fix your weapon 
 the game is not pausing. So you can't make any such tactical decision on the run. Also you have 
 a feeling of strong scripted enviroment. Certain things happen only when you reach certain coordinates. 
 And the foes reactions are somewhat wierd i don't think the AI is anywhere beyond average. But 
 the worst of all is that the way the special powers are triggered is not so well implemented. I 
 wish they were customisable hotkeys for each of the powers. Triggering them through a radial menu 
 without the possibility of the game to be paused when doing that removes the ease of use of the 
 powers. the other option is to have the powers triggered by certain movement combinations. Example: 
 Double duck activates the stealth function. But you may wanted to be in powr mode to do something 
 and you just happened to duck twice in the heat of the battle.... or you may have wanted to have 
 active another power but steped twice backwards which activates the maximun defence mode . Since 
 the powers are necessary to proceed to the game this way of use was not the best idea as i see 
 it. This makes the game in fact harder than what it was meant to be but nor "credibly-hard" but 
 rather "poorly implemented-hard"
  
  All in all a valid fun game but some kind of a breakthrough. I was eagerly waited for this game 
 only to discover that my expectations were not met. In comparison with Call of Duty 4 the latter 
 clearly prevails. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pipinowns
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is has begun the revolution. Like Half Life and Far Cry did, Crysis has set brand new 
 standards for First Person Shooters. I screamed in sheer joy when i set a explosive on a tank and 
 ran in maximum speed then clicked the button and felt the explosion behind me. I dazzled my way 
 through the Alien Space ship staring at the beauty. I threw Koreans in the water and then blew 
 up there cars and buildings. I threw a barrel at a alien and it blew up. I am Legend. And if you 
 get Crysis, you can be Legend also. Crysis is the game of the year. Period. You won't be able to 
 stop playing this amazing game. You will cry when you see some of your favorite characters go through 
 hardships. You will laugh when you here a snazzy joke. You will become part of a experience you'll 
 never forget. Crysis is such a unforgettable game that trying to forget it is a unforgettable experience. 
 Crysis is Legend, You are Legend, I am Legend.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GokuLive
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Like so many, I eagerly awaited Crysis. I upgraded my machine to the following config and the game 
 ran great: Athlon 3800+ Dual Core, 2 Gigs RAM, Vista, GeForce 8800 GT w/512 RAM. For the most part, 
 I was able to run the game on HIGH. It got choppy during intense sequences. However, 85% of the 
 game ran great and simply put was the most impressive gaming graphics I have ever enjoyed. 
  
  The key to Crysis though is how all of its virtues feed into the total experience. The graphics, 
 physics, Nano Suit, sound, weapons and missions all blend to deliver a truly incredible overall 
 gaming experience. I've also enjoyed being able to play the same level in totally different ways. 
 Stealth, brute force, hand-to-hand combat, long-range, short-range, a blend of all of these ... 
 you can take very different approaches and achieve the same objective. That adds to its replay 
 value.
  
  There are some shortcomings though. Personally, I found the game a bit short. It also has several 
 bugs that need to be worked out. I noticed problems with the AI at times. I also had several sound 
 issues. Every 30 mins or so my sound just went mute and I had to exit and start Crysis back up. 
 That got really annoying!!!
  
  Overall, 9/10. The engine/world they created is top notch. The game play is great. That said, it 
 falls short of a 10. The storyline, bugs and length make this game shy of perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DasFlesh
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Crysis is, for the most part, a game to show off the future of gaming. It is a graphical achievement 
 like no other and if you have a PC that could handle it on high, it is worth getting just to see 
 all the eye candy.
  
  Graphics aside though, what makes a fps is how it plays. The focus on your one super soldier is 
 great and you really feel like there are so many ways to tackle a situation. I find myself changing 
 each encounter up just to see how they play out. I'll use the rush them grab them in speed then 
 throw them in strength mode at their teammate strategy sometimes. I'll use the clock and pop out 
 and kill one guy at a time strategy. Maybe ill use the old trusty rush in and kill everyone like 
 a maniac strategy. OR, (at least in the first mission) the speed up a truck and aim it at their 
 jeep parked in the the middle of a heavily occupied village and jump out right before it blows 
 everything up strategy.
  
  The modes are all unique and each feel very useful. In all, there isn't anything to complain about 
 in single player with a classic alien takeover plot and a character with endless possibilities 
 on ways to kill.
  
  That being said, the multiplayer is all about what you like to play. Lots of times, the system 
 of buying weapons is nice, but its frustrating when you have to run over to get somewhere where 
 the action is and then you get sniped going up a hill to get a position over and over again, There 
 is always someone new who's watching you try to get outta your base. Its too big for its own good 
 sometimes and unfortunately the most played map is the biggest. It tries to be counter strike, 
 battlefield and a little bit of joint operations (with the amounts of open space) . the problem 
 is that counter strike doesn't have 100 weapon options, battlefield has enough vehicles and joint 
 operations was a bunch of running more than actually playing. You'll find yourself walking unless 
 your the one guy who gets 10 kills to start and ends up with money to buy anything.
  
  Enough about the multiplayer though, I think the main focus of this game was single player presentation 
 and in that respect its wonderful. The multiplayer is good if you get used to it but its a pace 
 thats only good for people who like that sort of play. It doesn't do much to make it likable to 
 everyone. 
  This is a great game to get just to look at what it has to offer because it is for the most part 
 a new experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3hTwinky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  From all the hype surrounding Crysis, I expected a clever, huge, open-ended, Predator-style, sneaky-explodey 
 shooter experience that would, at the very least, run acceptably on my PC, and that's exactly what 
 I got.
  
  The singleplayer isn't long, but I wouldn't call it short either; its definitely meaty. The sheer 
 number of things you can do, combined with the many ways you can go about doing them adds tons 
 of replay value to Crysis. It also helps that the shooting and action is solid and satisfying, 
 even if there are a few quirks; for a game that requires me to crouch for so long, having a toggle-crouch 
 command would be really nice.
  
  The nanosuit is definitely fun, but the only "useful" modes are armor and cloak; strength and speed 
 are more of a novelty, but that's really not much of a complaint. They're about as useful as you 
 are imaginative, so stupid people probably won't punch a hole through a roof or use max speed to 
 dart between cover, and therefore will deny themselves the full Crysis experience.
  
  The weapon modding is pretty nice too, even if some of the weapons are a little too accurate with 
 the laser attachment. Again though, everything involved is only as creative as you are, and that's 
 what I liked about it.
  
  Plus, the harder difficulty levels are really clever; instead of being cheap and just making enemies 
 do more damage and be more accurate, various gameplay luxuries are removed, like the crosshairs 
 or grenade indicators. Its just a small part of the game, but I thought it was really cool the 
 way they did it.
  
  The multiplayer isn't terrible, but it isn't anything groundbreaking, either. Kind of like a lazy 
 Battlefield, it just adds more length to the game. 
  
  Crysis is a beast to run on the highest settings, but even on medium it looks great, and runs great 
 too, so its not like the gameplay is compromised. On low there is a lot of pop-in, however.
  
  All in all, Crysis is an incredible package, and an awesome experience that I have enjoyed 
 very, VERY thoroughly. The only major downside for me was the ending, which was hardly game-breaking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfarious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  As for the positive stuff I will give a few impressions here. The Far Cry like open ended levels 
 - (on steroids) , and the graphics stand out head and shoulders above other shooters. I upgraded my 
 computer for this game (and whatever is to come) , and its been worth it. In the early part of the 
 Relic level, the day starts to get towards sunset and WOW, it just looks very pretty. The HDR effects 
 are fabulous. ( By the way I have an Intel 6750 chip and the new 512 8800gt card running on all 
 high except one or two on medium. ) The AI is good enough to give me a challenge and seems to do 
 some intelligent things like finding cover and flanking. The physics is another fun aspect of the 
 game so far with buildings, trees, and trucks all delectably distructible. Grenade sounds are awesome 
 as well. The tactics of the suit are pretty interesting and not overly balanced in your favor because 
 of the time limits on there functions. 
  
  The only negatives (and there minor) are the hardware challenges which for the most part have been 
 resolved ( someday I'll play it again on ultra high) and the enemy armor which can take significant 
 hits unless you get a head shot. Also taunts in Korean would be more realistic.
  
  Overall I'm looking forward to taking my time and enjoying getting through the game in my usual 
 turtle slow pace. I'm not too worried about the story being too predictable because the graphics 
 and action are so advanced. Hopefully more people will buy the game so the developers can make 
 a sequel or expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generaljw
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  After reading other reviews good and bad, I can say that my personal opinion on Crysis is still 
 much the same but does now acknowledge some of the shortfalls that one would of thought Crytek 
 could have addressed. I'm really sorry about the length of this but I want to provide people proper 
 info on system specs and Crysis Overall.
  
  However, before I start I just need to make it known that I'm tired of all these gamers who are 
 completely being negative about Crysis for the wrong reasons. I don't mean to sound like I know 
 whats right and wrong but if you look at it from an objective point of view, some reviewers are 
 just dumb and upset about other factors so they just say a whole load of crap really. A lot of 
 people have raised the issues concerning new patches being needed for the game and that overall 
 it all needs to be optimized. That's fine and makes perfect sense. Other people talk more about 
 the game play itself and make reference to the fact that the game is set in 2020 yet the weapons 
 still seem basic, again comments such as that are understandable. But when one particular gamer 
 (and I won't need to get his name coz you'll probably see his review, it's a 3.5) stated that he 
 doesn't like the game coz the difficulty settings are too hard and that the setting such as "Delta" 
 (The hardest setting) is not possible to do, I just think what a fool. Theres nothing wrong if 
 he can't complete the game on high settings, thats why there are easy settings but for him to take 
 his own shortfall (a minor one at that, its only a game) and use that as a means to critiscise 
 Crysis, I think he just sounds like an idiot. If you look at the overwhelming majority that likes 
 Crysis or even likes it but isn't entirely happy, you quickly understand that some of these negative 
 reviewers are just ignorant as they don't acknowledge the positives of the game or raise substancial 
 arguments.
  
  I'll start with Crysis' main reason for being a topic of conversation and that's its graphical 
 potential and beauty and overall effect on a system. My PC specification is Vista Home Premium, 
 Intel Q6850, 4 Gig Ram, 8800 GTX, Auzen X-Meridian sound card and WD Raptor 10,000 RPM hard drive 
 along with a Physics Card as well.
  
  I can proudly confirm that Crysis can be run on Very High settings on Vista with good game play, 
 not blazing fast FPS' but fast enough. The key is the ram. Even with my current set up, the detail 
 on Very High settings looked fairly diminished when I only used 2 Gigs of ram and it wasn't until 
 I put in 4 that the visuals were really bright and beautiful. There are some details in that game 
 that you won't even realise until you bump it up to Very High Settings. The full resolution of 
 my screen is 1920x1200 and although I was able to play at that resolution, the frame rates were 
 greatly affected once i bump up the Anti aliasing to 16Q. So to run on all settings maxed out on 
 a full screen the size of 1920x1200 or bigger, SLI is definitely needed or hopefully the the power 
 of Nvidia's up coming card will be enough alone.
  Also, anyone whose played on High settings will know that it is very gooad as well so if some has 
 a system with ram and a graphics card resembling mine they should be able to do High settings easy.
 
  For all those who have a 1 gig of ram , a while ago I only had 1 gig of ram but I was able to 
 Run crysis fine on high settings, I played it at 1024x768 .
  So before we talk any more about Crysis as a PC Merker, we can already see how my computer fell 
 short of running Crysis perfectly on a full screen on Very high settings with an 8800 GTX. Now 
 although I spent a lot of money on my system, I don't condone going SLI on 8800 GTX OR ULTRA CARDS 
 when Nvidia are only going to introduce their 9800 or 8900 (or woteva they call it) very soon. 
 In fact, from all the talk on the internet, we should of been hearing official news from Nvidia 
 around the start of November but of course they aren't silly enough to miss out on people plunging 
 grands into new SLI set ups at Xmas and even investing in the new 780I motherboard with 3 - way 
 SLI. I spent a year saving up for my system and even from July times I understood that wasting 
 money on A SLI set up that would only be surpassed by a new card less than 12 month's later would 
 be a complete waste, whether u got a job or not. It's a mug's game, it really is but for the ordinary 
 gamer (or one who hasn't much money to spend or to justify wasting on a game) Crysis must be an 
 even bigger problem as it will only run on low or medium settings which overall won't even let 
 the player witness the 1 thing without a doubt that Crysis is good for (Graphics) .
  However, on a good note, buying a good CPU and hard drive will definitely speed up your load times 
 for Crysis as mine were very fast but where it really became noticeable that I needed more Ram 
 was in the opening seconds of a level after a load screen where the 1 gig of ram was dealing with 
 woteva operations it deals with lol and there was a lot of system lag.
  A good sound card will help as others have said the sound is good and I do agree that a good sound 
 card will make it that much better. However, If you're a proper gamer and if you have the cash 
 (and if you can justify your taste for computer upgrading) then I'd suggest getting the X fi meridian 
 prelude. Apparently with an X- fi chip it processes all the audio by itself and relieves the rest 
 of the computer which I'm hoping will be useful as Crysis will have the rest of your computer doing 
 Night Shifts. In terms of Vista and XP, I'll leave that to you as everyone knows that XP performs 
 better and in order to get Vista to perform as well or better than XP (especially in new games 
 like Crysis) , All high end components need to be bought.
  Some reviewers have stated that Crysis is mainly graphically taxing due to it not being optimized 
 properly and not just the caliber of the game itself. I don't know Computer software that much 
 in that sense so I can't say that's a reason for sure but I definitely wouldn't rule it out. An 
 example for this would be Supreme Commander Forged Alliance which is the sequel to Supreme Commander. 
 In this game I have noticed a completely different feel to the game both in terms of smoothness 
 and speed, which is good because it looks a whole lot better and is more graphically intensive. 
 This I assume would be a result of the Developers trying their best to optimize the game so that 
 it can be played more successful by a range of different set ups.
  Now judging by the ending of Crysis, there is definitely a Crysis 2 on its was and I think with 
 that they will improve the game in every aspect as well sorting out all the glitches and optimizing 
 the game for friendlier use on low end computers and even on high end computers too.
  It is because of that why some of use players maybe shouldn't be so harsh in criticising Crytek 
 as they have definitely set a mile stone in creating Crysis and with that they have created obstacles 
 that prevent the game from being a 10/10, which I think is something we can excuse them for and 
 it would be better to criticise them if we Crysis 2 that embodies some of the same flaws.
  But anyway, needless to say, if you're gonna play this game, regardless of what your spec is, YOU 
 NEED A GOOD ENOUGH GRAPHICS CARD AND AT LEAST 2 GIGS OF RAM. My computer only survived well on 
 1 gig because it had the rest of the System carrying it along but with that in mind it also hampered 
 the performance of the whole system, audio included (It was like lip sinking gone wrong at times) .
 
  
  As for Game play, I loved it but some refer to it as mediocre and simple.
  I've read that people dislike the AI in the game and also dislike the character you play as. Well 
 in terms of the character you play as who is called NOMAD, it is important to remember that he 
 isn't suppose to be Master Chief, He can't come close to him and his experience in battle, both 
 of the game worlds are completely different as well. In regards to the scenario of Five Nano suited 
 soldiers being dropped onto the island, I think it's less of these guys being Hero types but actually 
 being the best performing soldiers maybe put forward for using the Nano suit and so thus being 
 deployed for the mission. You can disagree with that but that's my idea of it, nothing major such 
 as these guys being battle hardened veterans or bio engineered soldiers put forth to fight a superior 
 enemy. And besides, if you think of Nomad as one dimensional, think about the fact that Crytek 
 explores different thought processes and different contents of character with the other four soldiers 
 (a lot less with Aztec as he is killed at the start of the mission lol) . I think that the Nomad 
 thinks aptly regarding the situation and is precise (which is what a game developer would want 
 as they want the character to be understood by all around the world who buy it) and manages to 
 complement the personalities of all those around him, the main two being Prophet and Psycho who 
 are very vocal about events that occur during the game. I think that those who dislike Nomad would 
 maybe prefer Prophet as the main character but for those who understand the game, they should understand 
 that Prophet provides a certain sense of rebellious salvation (especially at the end) for Nomad 
 which is better to look upon through the eyes of Nomad rather than Nomad being that character. 
 Also, the annoying Cliff hanger at the end should demonstrate to everyone that nomad himself is 
 changing in character and becoming more decisive and more hero-like in his stature.
  In terms of the AI, yes I do agree they could be more Savvy and dangerous but I think their level 
 of performance varies in different areas. I found that they are most dangerous in forest areas 
 than they are on beaches and in villages. In forests they run for cover and come out only when 
 they want to shoot. 1 amazing thing that no 1 seems to have mentioned about the AI yet is that 
 if you're shooting from an unknown position and you take down a couple of guys, 1 or 2 soldiers 
 will actually come creeping up to your position be it bushes or edge of cliff. I know it sounds 
 simple but you don't actually notice they are coming towards you until you look on the radar because 
 usually they shoot from a few meters away or start speaking about you if they think they're close 
 to you (i. e. "Can you see him", "Come out and fight like a man") .
  And as simple as they can be at times, they will kill you or at least cause you a lot of trouble 
 if you think about attacking them head on. Quite a few reviewers talk about the game play being 
 boring because the nano suit is either not powerful enough or too good. Examples of this are when 
 people say that the suits abilities such as Speed, Cloak, Strength and armour drain the suits power 
 too quickly does making it harder to hide from the enemy if your cloaking or just plain stay alive 
 if your trying to use speed to run or strength to kill. When people say the suits too good, I'd 
 suggest they are talking about the fact that you can cloak then kill, then cloak then kill and 
 pretty much do that as long as you want. But people who complain about this are narrow sighted 
 as we all know that the main reason we'll use cloak and kill is because not many of us want a head 
 on gun fight with the KPA (Korean People's Army) or the aliens lol. If you put the settings on 
 high or very hard and try and take on everyone head on with brute force, I guarantee you your computer 
 will bottleneck way before your enjoyment does. There are times when you're going through forest 
 areas where you need to have your cloak on due to how well camouflaged the KPA can be. At times 
 they just narrowly miss you and you only notice because you happened to see a horde of movement 
 stealthily moving with Laser pointers. Needless to say, if you played Crysis on less than hard, 
 then your opinion on the AI will definitely not as good as its suppose to be. 
  In one review it was said that no character relationships with some of the new characters that 
 appear throughout the game are allowed to form as characters quickly die in this game like major 
 Strictland for example and even the KPA Colonel who seems like a serious guy. I do whole heartedly 
 agree with this and felt like Nomad was losing everyone he came into contact with (and he near 
 enough does) but when you think about it most definitely conveys the idea of Crysis and keeps the 
 action fast paced. You just never know whose going to die next lol.
  Opposed to what some say, the aliens look good but I think players are used to seeing aliens who 
 talk and act human and therefore are easier to understand in their intentions. If I have any complaints 
 about the aliens, it has to be with the boss at the end of the game. I don't really know what to 
 say about it, it served its purpose but there should of been something more. Maybe they could have 
 given it a fancier look or made it harder to kill.
  1 reviewer complained about the inside of the alien ship but I would say that it served its purpose 
 and that I believe was for it to be uncomfortable in terms of atmosphere but immersive in the fact 
 that Nomad is not in control and that it's an entirely different ball game once inside.
  Also there is a tank battle that takes place during the game which I have to say I am very impressed 
 with. Due to the open plan setting of Crysis, when doing the tank level it does not feel even half 
 as confined as tank or vehicles missions do on other games on PC, PS2 and XBOX. Even Halo 2's vehicle 
 missions seem mediocre now that I've done this tank level and i suppose it must of been a hard 
 nut to crack but Crysis managed to do it well. On the tank level you encounter tanks, Humvees, 
 helicopters and most annoying of all KPA with missile launchers. Not only do you have hordes of 
 enemies trying to gun you down but you also have allied tanks and soldiers there gunning away as 
 well so there's plenty of units engaging each other and providing cover on this level. Needless 
 to say the graphics make tanks look good when they're in flames lol.
  A quick reminder about the graphics, If anyone has read what I've written about the game play and 
 finds it interesting or has played the game and agrees with me, they will know that with the added 
 detail and beauty of the graphics on top of all this action and fast paced game play, Crysis makes 
 for very interesting gaming.
  
  I won't talk much about the multi-player as everything negative you've heard about Power Struggle 
 is probably true. I'll play Power Struggle if I have time and I'm curious as to what U can do but 
 other than that I play Instant Action which is basically Slayer from Halo but without vechicles 
 and in its place better graphics and suit abilities. Even without vehicles it is very fun and addictive 
 but it is limited by the number of maps, 8 and possibly even the selection of weapons (or maybe 
 thats just me being picky) due to some only being available in Power Struggle Via Point collecting 
 means. If Crytek wish to have a better multi player then yes, more multi player options must be 
 included like Team death match and Capture the flag which should have been standard but hey, it 
 is wot it is.
  
  Because of the shortness of the campaign ,although to be fair it isn't that short, there just remains 
 a longing for more especially because of how it ends. The multi player will be needed to give Crysis 
 longevity but because of the limitedness of the multi player, the open planned and varied means 
 available of approaching missions in the campaign will also be needed to sustain the overall gaming 
 experience.
  Whether you'll give Crysis a 10/10 or not, I think that you'll enjoy playing it and I think that 
 all those who gave it lo ratings enjoyed playing it as well. Just see what you can do to make sure 
 that system end of things doesn't spoil your play too much thus effecting your overall experience.
 
  Some games only serve to be a waste of time but Crysis will definitely give you something to love 
 and if you play the missions half heartedly the KPA will put you to sleep.
  
  FEED BACK WOULD BE APPRECIATED, ESPECIALLY FROM THOSE WHO GIVE CRYSIS LOW REVIEWS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarb001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Crytek, in making this game, has created a graphics-card-devouring monster that also does great 
 things in the gameplay department, although the fun you have directly correlates with the amount 
 of effort and creativity you are willing to put forward. Of course, being such a demanding game, 
 trolls with older and crappy computers are going to feel the wrath of Crysis, and will in turn 
 respond by calling it a simple tech demo, with little or no substance.
  
  However, nothing could be farther from the truth. The beauty of Crysis is that it's simple yet 
 complex. Storywise, its the cliched alien invasion scenario, but Crytek twisted that cliche into 
 a saga of pissed-off Koreans and island-freezing aliens. Missions typically consist of simple things 
 such as destroying this, finding that, but you are given the freedom to approach the situation 
 how you like, discovering multiple routes, vehicles, weapons and enemies along the way. 
  
  As stated in my introduction, it takes a creative and curious mind to enjoy the full potential 
 of the game. For example, say you stumble upon a village full of Koreans, guarded by a few scattered 
 sniper towers. You could sneak in with Cloak Mode enabled, and kill everyone efficiently and stealthily. 
 Another option would be to run in with Speed mode, taking everyone by surprise, and nailing a few 
 Koreans in the face. Maybe you'd like to climb one of the sniper towers, use Strength mode to kill 
 the sniper perched up there, and use his sniper rifle to take the others down one by one. Or, if 
 you're feeling really suicidal, you run in with Speed Mode, use Strength Mode to hop onto the roof 
 of a building and drop in with style, all the while dealing out MAXIMUM PWNAGE!
  
  Just from the above scenario you can see how many options are available to a Nanosuit-equipped 
 commando such as yourself. If any of the above appealed to you, then I would recommend this game, 
 as it is the pinnacle of PC gaming. However, HEED THIS WARNING! Crysis is best enjoyed on a high 
 end PC, and Medium setting make the game look like crap (at least in comparison with High) . Of 
 course, that doesn't mean you CAN'T enjoy it on Medium or Low. Just dont expect the game to look 
 like the screenshots unless you have a PC that handle it. Or download the demo and see how it runs 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StermerCody
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  Crysis has finally arrived since three years its been announced. If you dont know Crysis is a First 
 Person Shooter set in 2020. The U. S. Special Forces have been developing this nano suit with crazy 
 abilities that want you to play the game to use.
  
  Crysis takes place on a island that the North Koreans have taken over the whole island to investigate 
 a life form that been discovered. The Koreans want to control this life form becuase its a hundreds 
 years in the future with the weoponry. The U. S. Special Forces have been called to duty to evacuate 
 the hostages and investigate anything unusial. you are nomad a member a a small special force with 
 the next generation nano suits. you get on this island by airborne and you find that your team 
 has missed the rally points and you have to find them. later you find one of your team players 
 and you are sent to find your other pale that is stuck in a tree. When you get close to them the 
 crazy life form kills him and all hell breaks loose. I wont spoil the story of the game becuase 
 its more fun to play it and find out for your self.
  
  There is a multiplayer componet of the game. Its supports 32 players in a server. There are four 
 different modes of the game but the most played is power struggle. What this mode is you capture 
 these points on these big maps that require Armor or helicpters. Its a battlefield way in this 
 mode.
  
  Crysis is a outstanding game to look at you are going to need computer parts less than a year old 
 because this game is a system hog. They recommend a Geforce 8800 to play this game and your need 
 a very fast processor. This doesnt make crysis a bad game its just nice to look at the beutiful 
 visuals and the particales effects. If you are looking a fps this one i highly recommend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofbuuwa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  well, I think it's a nice game but it's acutally a bit too short... I finished the game (on easy 
 mode, without cheats) in 5 hours. Hope the expansion will come soon.
  Some ineresting things that caught my attention is that you can actually kill an alien flying machine (alien 
 helicopter??) with 2 shots using gauss rifle, but you have to shoot twice using gauss to kill a 
 korean NANO suit guy even with head shot (does that mean the korean nano suit is as strong as the 
 alien heli?) . Also you can't kill a tank, a heli, an APC nor a triple-A with gauss (does that suggest 
 that our vehicles are stronger than alien ones??) . Another thing is that the rocket from the rocket 
 launcher can fly for ever, which means I can shoot it from one end of the map to the other and 
 can still control its flight path and can even try to make the missle come back to the original 
 place and then fly to the opposite end again and repeat and repeat (if the missle does not hit anything 
 on its path) . If you understand what I mean, you will notice that you can actually play "artillary" 
 with the RL, that is shoot it to the sky for a few seconds and then aim it on the enemy and your 
 enemy will be "bombarded" by your "shells", with great accuracy (unless you don't aim properly) . 
 (p. s. I do enjoy playing like that anyway)
  Other than that, everything else is great, the graphics is great, the animals are great (espscially 
 the shark) , the content is great, the idea is great... etc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --__-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I remember watching the old preview videos on Gamespot thinking, yeah right, it can't look that 
 good. Well, about a half-year later, needless to say I was wrong.
  
  Gameplay: You play as a top secret Future Force Warrior named Nomad. You and your team are sent 
 out on a top secret mission to find out what happened to a group of scientists on a tropical when 
 a the North Korean army took over. The main part of the game is your suit. It has 4 modes: strength, 
 speed, armor, and cloak. You can use the different modes of the suit to help you through different 
 situations, making it very non-linear. The AI for the soldiers is awesome, although sometimes they 
 can be stupid. The aliens are okay enemies, although you can tell a little less thought was put 
 into them, especially the ground based variations.
  
  Graphics: Awesome, but extreme system requirements! For example, in my last issue of Game Informer, 
 "Your Computer" was listed 10 out of 10 for the villains of 2007. Why? It can't handle Crysis. 
 Although my computer could only support Direct X 9, it still looked wonderful. Crisp textures, 
 unique shader effects, and realistic animations make this game more appealing than a naked woman... 
 'Kay maybe not.
  
  Sound: The SCAR is the coolest sounding assault rifle ever. The music in the game is pretty sweet 
 as well. I love hearing the communication going on between the North Korean troops. On Delta difficulty 
 they start actually speaking Korean. Just like the language choice option you had in Splinter Cell: 
 Chaos Theory, or Battlefield 2. The voice acting sounds believable, but the enemy soldiers' voices 
 sound stereotypical.
  
  Replayability: The single-player campaign is surprisingly lengthly, and as Gamespot likes to put 
 it they're some "Oh, snap!" moments. The multiplayer probably the worst part of the game, but even 
 then there it is still average. There is plenty of room for mods to come out because of the CryEngine 
 2 sandbox editor.
  
  Final: Crysis is well worth your time to purchase... If you're computer can handle it. It's got 
 good gameplay and amazing graphics. What more can you ask for? 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricksterlau
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Crysis' gameplay is more or less identical to its predicesor, Far Cry. Open gameplay in lush forests, 
 sneaking in bushes and killing people (in this case the Koreans.) That being said, its soild but 
 nothing new apart from the added abilities of the nanosuit. It allows you to increase your speed, 
 strength and become invisible for a short period of time. This adds a new dynamic of playing the 
 game, whether you want to play sneak and shoot or charging in- rambo type, is up to you. Though 
 one will die very quicking if you choose to play the latter. However the formula becomes old really 
 fast because most of the time you end up sneaking behind your enimes, pop their heads and dive 
 back into bushes, rinse and repeat. It's not because you want to play it that way, it's because 
 its the only successful way. So the idea of bringing the nanosuit into play sounds very interesting 
 but in the end adds nothing spectacular to the gameplay whatsoever. 
  
  Though the talking point of this game isn't about the gamplay, rather, it's graphics. Let me tell 
 you my pc spec first of all. I have a Q6600 OC @ 3GHz; 2GB Corsair Dominator @ 1066 Mhz 5-5-5-15; 
 8800 Ultra OC; Samsung Spinpoint 500GB SATAII & 24" Monitor 1900x1200. If you know a little about 
 computers, then you will know that my pc is very good at handling games. Unfortunately Crysis is 
 the only game that my pc cant run at max settings. Why? No, it's not because Crysis is built graphically 
 2 years ahead of it's time, thats absolutely nonsense. Well yes, graphically Crysis is impressive 
 without a doubt. But is it seriously at a level where the highest end graphics card can't even 
 handle them? For me, that's a definete "no". I play Crysis with graphical settings all on 'High' 
 ('Very high' is the next and highest level) at 1900x1200 and my pc only achieved on average 19 
 or so FPS. So I tuned it down to 1600x1050 and I get 23 FPS. Now these framerates are quite low 
 for a pc of this calibre and I honestly believe that it has nothing to do with the graphical level 
 of this game. There are games out there who arent as impressive as Crysis graphically, but match 
 in areas such as texture and details and yet they perfom far greater than Crysis. Frequently in 
 open areas, the game hitches many many times. The hitches last around a second or 2 and will get 
 on ur nerves like hell when your trying to escape from a chopper or some guards but end up dying 
 because of that. Let me summarize the graphical aspect of this game. Graphically impressive as 
 it yes, Crysis is very poorly omptimized and is a true system hogger. Many bugs still need to be 
 patched on order to play this game with some sense of joy.
  
  For me, I've play Far Cry so Crysis' is nothing special out of the box whatsoever. The nanosuit 
 gives players a few more choices but wont change the gameplay dynamic dramatically. It will be 
 more or less cloak, shoot then hide. Graphically, yes the game looks beautiful but doesnt play 
 the same. Chances are you wont have a pc as good as mine just yet, so your impression of the game 
 might even be worse. As I have said before the game is very badly optimized and gives people the 
 impression that its superior graphics chews up their graphics card... it doesnt. It's full of bugs, 
 hitches a lot and ends up being a frustration to play. Don't bother with this gimmick people. Even 
 if you have a better pc now or in the future, this game is only good for looking, NOT for playing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tscourge
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow the hype around this game really makes you wonder... I'll break this into sections:
  
  Graphics & Physics Engine - Spectacular. You throw something, it flies through the air and eventually 
 falls to the ground (!) . You shoot trees (well, *some* trees) and they are cut in half. But seriously 
 - it's really fun to play around with the environment (for about 10-20 minutes tops)
  
  AI - After playing F. E. A. R, the AI seems exceptionally dumb. North Korean soldiers, for example, 
 don't take cover, and don't cover one another. They just wander around the place where they last 
 saw you which doesn't make much sense considering that they all carry ranged weapons. You shoot 
 one of them down, and they keep wondering around. At times it seems like someone hid a pie somewhere 
 and they're all trying to find it by smell. They don't really seem concerned that someone is gunning 
 them down one after the other.
  
  Nanosuit powers - You use cloaking to hide, come out of hiding, shoot, then cloak again, repeat 
 ad nauseum (or until all enemies are dead) . Strength is used to jump... weeeee - otherwise useless. 
 Speed you use to run really fast... weeeee - otherwise useless. Can't use either in combat.
  
  Weapons sound fine but feel extremely weak.
  
  Story - weak. I just don't care enough to 
 fuss over the cliffhanger ending. I'm kinda glad it ended. The main character is two dimensional 
 and the others are not much better - Psycho is stereotypical (Large, loud and British... much like 
 Juggernaut from X-Men 3) and Prophet is just Morpheus (The Matrix) minus the fashion sense.
  
  To summarize, graphics and all other superficial content can carry a game only so far. This 
 game is a swing and a miss. Crytek could have done much much better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Let me first explain what I ment with the title; the game is a year too late, it is for todays 
 standards not that amazing looking nor is it any revolutionary on any front at all. But even still 
 it is too late it also packs in huge quantities of bugs, glitches and just unfinished moments destroying 
 the potential of the game, especially for the Multiplayer component. 
  
  First off, the story is kind of simple, you and a team of nano-suit equipped soldiers are off to 
 locate and evacuate a lost scientist on a island gotten into North Korean control as there was 
 some interesting foundings on the island. You're off, everything is slow-paced and story doesn't 
 really give much hope for the rest of the game. It ends up like the island is full of fossils from 
 a burried Alien society, or just burried fossils on random which seem to be millions of years old, 
 they start living and you're off to kill them and rescue everybody. Nothing really interesting 
 and the design of the Aliens aren't too fancy either, just big bulks of ice and tentacles. The 
 only solid point of the game is the characters which are introduced in a rushed way and they all 
 seem to die one after another without building any relationship with them at all. If they were 
 to have a more reasonable approach with the characters the game would have been much better, especially 
 if you wouldn't be alone practicly the entire game but the last 90-120 minutes of the game where 
 it is actually surprisingly good at times. 
  
  As I mentioned, the start is really slow, you're just randomly killing Koreans waiting to be killed 
 while not even looking like doing anything more important than sitting around waiting for you. 
 Where the is sequences with allied characters with you they have a tendency to talk to you but 
 not appear in the world, but just out of nowhere pop up in the cutscene later on talking like he 
 was actually right behind you all the time. Other times when these characters are to give you "support" 
 they are not in the world either, if they are they are just standing there watching you do the 
 job, which is actually quite embarrasing. I hoped that kind of gameplay mechanism was getting standard 
 since Halo: Combat Evolved over five years ago. 
  
  The Story is rather simple, but can be quite interesting at times in the more effectful moments. 
 But it ends in a way that says there will be a Crysis 2 in just a few months. I must also note 
 that many of the effectful moments are ruined by music fading away, loading screens popping up 
 in places you never wish for it to be or for the objective just feeling too uninspired. 
  
  Multiplayer was something I was looking forward to, I heard there was a multiplayer mode called 
 Power Struggle that was like a combination of Renegade, Battlefield and Counter-Strike. But to 
 my surprise this game mode has nothing to do with any of those, you're just hunting down random 
 positions on the map in the hunt for money to gain more and better weapons or add-ons in a literally 
 horrible world with alot of performance-drops and alot of bad networking. I'd call that a every-day 
 EA Game publishment, and yet there is no patch for the game, well after a month the game was launched 
 which gives the idea Crytek cares as little as EA Games to serve the costumers, as ever. You pay 
 for it, be happy - that's their mentality, but it will not please anybody except for themselves 
 saving money out of kicking all the staff once the game is launched. As the multiplayer component 
 has potential it is not even close to finished so therefor I wouldn't recommend this game for Multiplayer 
 above any new game such as Call of Duty 4, Unreal Tournament 3 or anything as there is also only 
 two modes on about 8 maps; Deathmatch and Power Struggle. That's right, the didn't even pack in 
 the basic Team Deathmatch or Capture the Flag... How sad. 
  
  All and all, the game is mediocre. Visuals are solid, but only a step forward and not anything 
 like a revolution, far from it. Story is quite uninspired and mechanism of the game isn't that 
 awesome. The suit they introduce is supposed to appear as ber-cool and awesome but I would still 
 consider the equipment used in Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter to be more advanced as this suit 
 is running on a 9V-battery considering the suit energy will drain up for nothing. I wouldn't recommend 
 the game unless you find it below $19 as this will last around 5,5 hours for the campaign and maybe 
 2-4 hours online before the bugs and unfinished programming starts punching you to the point it 
 is not even funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlgrey23
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I bought a whole new system to put together and Crysis came with the 768 meg Geforce 8800 card. 
 So good looks it has. And if that was all a game needed this would be perfect. I found myself just 
 looking around sometimes to see how gorgeous the enviroment was. How lush and how alive.
  
  Unfortunately the gameplay did not live up to the graphics. I encountered lots of clipping bugs. 
 Guns spinning in the air when a enemy was killed. Stupid and often unexplanable stupid AI. Plus 
 it just goes on and on and on. The pacing sees very off. And then the last encounter before the 
 surprise Alien section was more like super mario then a real game. I mean honestly running around 
 and sniping a final boss? In a game supposedly that is realistic in everything else, physics et 
 al.
  
  The game mechanic in the alien ship is pretty neat, but left me disoriented and frustrated. which 
 may have been the point, but after slogging through the outside portion I felt like I needed a 
 better payoff them moments of vertigo and frustration.
  
  I know it sounds grim. But Crysis was fun to play and it did look gorgeous. But even with a intel 
 2 duo, 4 gigs of ram, and a 768 card I would still get freezes in high end mode. I cannot imagine 
 the frustration in anything less.
  
  Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xyrhoshi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  *WARNING* GAMEPLAY SECTION REVEALS SPOILERS AFTER THE NOTE INDICATED. If you haven't played, and 
 you read it, you will COMPLETELY miss out on the fun. Also my review isnt mixed with the spoiler, 
 so dont worry.
  
  Crysis, the most recent game made by the company of CryTek, is an original FPS thats filled with 
 hooks and surprises. I shall review this game on 5 terms: Graphics, Gameplay, Sound, Multiplayer, 
 and Fun-O-Meter.
  
  Graphics: For this section, i'll have to be pretty blunt and straight-forward, saying that game 
 is OUTSTANDINGLY top-quality in graphics. Its so futuristic, that I believe it was built only for 
 the top-of-the-line quality PCs out there, (Anyone heard of Alienware?) . But regardless, I run 
 this game with a GeForce 8500 512mb, 2gigs of ram, and a Dual-Core Athlon 64 X2 5000+, running 
 standard at 2.6ghz. It can run FINE on 800x600 HIGH settings OR Medium/High, (Leave object, shader, 
 and texture on medium) , for 1024x768. I don't even bother for 1280x1024. So nuff' said, this graphics 
 of this game is phenomal, and by far takes the cake for any game I seen released on PC for the 
 last few years. But even if you can't run it on high, you can always run it on medium or low, because 
 Graphics ain't everything right? Well at least to some people. Thats all I have to say about this 
 part. (GRAPHICS - 10/10)
  
  Gameplay: Now for the basic storyline and features of Crysis, it is down straight creative and 
 original... except for some reason I think of War of the Worlds when I see the aliens, but its still 
 not close enough to be considered a match. The ability to use your suit to change between Maximum 
 Speed, Strength, and Armor to defeat your foes is an awesome idea that'll keep your mind sucked 
 for ages. I've played this game over FOUR times, because I wanted to try out different ways of 
 killing enemies. Want to make an enemy vehicle crash? Snipe their tires and watch them pummels 
 through the road. Want to take out enemy boats easily? Shoot a missile launcher at them, or swim 
 under the water, change to maximum speed, and dive right up on top of the boat, and do whatever 
 you wish. The possibilities are endless. And the ability to cloak... oh hell yeah. Its like Assassins 
 Creed sort of, all you gotta do is sneak up behind an enemy, go max strength, and KA-BLAM!! Now 
 for the story-line, I personally like it. It fits in with the title if you ask me. 
  (GAMEPLAY 10/10) 
  *WARNING SPOILER*
  Basically, aliens were "hybernating" in the island that 
 you were Deployed in. Your character is code-named, Nomad, and you are a U. S Special Forces unit 
 that is sortied out to find the missing excavation research team deployed there earlier. Soon though, 
 you and your allies encounter things that lead to idea of supernatural elements... or extra-terrestrial, 
 but they don't know. So its your job to find out how to STOP this invasion force that is about 
 to occur.
  
  Sound: The SFX And SoundTrack of this game is extremely satisfying. The music blends in with what 
 you do, and always plays at the right time, providing also a variety of different tracks as well. 
 As for SFX, WOOO!!! I use a 5.1 Dolby Surround Sound and its all fine baby. You explode a car, 
 you feel the pulse of the shockwave from the shockwave and the carnage you caused through your 
 speakers. Very crisp and nice. Also there is A BIG variety of sound such as trees bristling, wind 
 whistling, and etc. Its all there to give you a fantastic experience in the game. (SOUND 10/10) .
 
  
  Multiplayer: Wheeeeeewww!! This is one of those rare, RARE, games where all the functions of the 
 single-player are the exact same that of the multiplayer version. I actually heard that they made 
 the multi-player version FIRST, then just switch over all features from it to single-player. So 
 everything you get a taste of in single, you get it in multi. So in other words, the multiplayer 
 system is VERY structured and amazingly fun, since you can play with other friends. (MULTIPLAYER 
 10/10) .
  
  Fun-O-Meter: This is my personal section where I say just how FUN this game is. I mean cmon, who 
 cares about the "structure" and "graphics" and crap. So just how fun is this game? If I can play 
 this game four times in a ROW knowing what will happen next, and still have fun as if i'm experiencing 
 it for the first time, then the Fun-O-Meter is skyrocketing off the charts. I promise you will 
 NEVER, EVER, get bored of this game even after a few days. Its always fresh whenever you start 
 a brand new game, because the possibiities of what you do to get to your destination are endless.
 
  
  NOW, LISTEN UP average-speced computer users. I know you have a hard time playing this game, and 
 I don't blame you. But I recommend you atleast get your computer upgraded because, frankly, you'll 
 be seeing more games like this. So if you have trouble playing this game, don't go ranting on about 
 it and giving it low scores because of it. What you have for your computer is your problem, not 
 the games. And i'm only talking to a few of you out there, not everybody. So just find some other 
 game to play, or try to cope with everything on low on 800x600. It still looks good even on that 
 ya know.
  (FUN-O-METER 100/100)
  
  SO that concludes the review. This game deserve a 10 all-round. Because to be frank, there is NO 
 other game that tops this. Not one. Its the most innovative, hypnotizing, best graphically designed 
 game out there thats just TONS of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wyndoo
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The game rocks. There is no 2 ways about it.
  
  However:
  
  It is easy to see that once they finished the the game itself, they rushed all other aspects of 
 the game, such as clipping and User Interface.
  
  I am still working on figuring out how to bind keys to abilities. They give you a pitiful option 
 to bind your moving keys and 1 or 2 others, but you are unable to bind any of you suit abilities 
 to a key for more efficient use.
  
  The enemies will walk right over a dead comrade of theirs and not think twice. While you are able 
 to grab a mob and and walk with him and kill him, once an enemy is dead, you can't move their body 
 . . . 
  
  The anti-gravity part of the game is a sad attempt to individuate itself and is simply annoying 
 .
  
  You can't fire a weapon while climbing a ladder. Headshots dont kill anyone and grenade control 
 on where you throw it is non existant.
  
  FINALLY the shameless EA regular occurance, each time you fire up the game you are forced to watch 
 about 2 minutes worth of seeing what companies made the game what engines were used and what computer 
 is used to play the game.
  
  In summation - Graphics are sick! All normal FPS stuff is decent, but the room for improvment is 
 vast as far as actualy gameplay. The game should have been released in Feb maybe even march.
  
  Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome from the opening cinematic! I played through the entire game on the medium 
 graphics settings and it was STILL the best looking game I've ever seen! All the levels before 
 the aliens attack are insanely open. My brother and I got completely different views on the game 
 because of that! My brother uses stealth and slowly takes out the enemies one by one, kinda like 
 the Preditor or something like that. He'll create a distraction and then use the pistols with silencers 
 to take out whoever is away from the group. This offers from crazy close-ups of the enemy soldier's 
 faces, which are without doubt the best looking faces in any video game to date! I on the other 
 hand turn on the super armor and use it with super speed to run around and blow everything up around 
 me! When I play, enemies are scattering for cover, helicopters are always spinning out of control, 
 enemy jeeps are being used as bombs against themselves! I feel like an action hero that just cant 
 be stopped! Once the aliens came the whole game changed. I was no longer that invincible action 
 hero, I quickly became just another soldier running for his life! The wierd squid-like robots are 
 incredibly hard to take down without the gauss rifle or missile launcher, and there are so many 
 of them. They just force you to retreat until you cant anymore! Then when you finally think you're 
 winning the huge crawler from the trailer cames out and lays waste to everything in sight! FINALLY 
 A GAME WHERE THE ALIENS ARE UN-FRIKIN-STOPPABLE!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
  As for sound, this game dominates! When you fight in the jungle you can hear bullets tearing through 
 leaves, trees cracking and they fall, every footstep against many different surfaces and even the 
 frogs croaking sounds real! The alien machines sound incredible and you can hear their weight as 
 they hit the ground or as the crawler stomps around and destroys everything! The music also adds 
 to it all! The themed music has been stuck in my head from the first battle and locked in there 
 when i finally beat the game and the music was blasting out of my speakers... acompanied by the 
 sounds of choas, death and war! 
  
  If you are unsure about the graphics for any reason, dont be! As stated above I played it through 
 on medium settings and was more satified than playing Gears of War on its high settings... GEARS 
 OF WAR ALMOST MAXED OUT!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Everything is fully touched up from the vast expanses of 
 the jungle, the fires of burning buildings and explosions, and the complexity of the alien war 
 machines... down to the pores on peoples faces, the veins in the leaves, every dang nut and bolt 
 in every dang thing that needs nuts and bolts... even the turtle at the drop zone looks like you 
 could reach up to your monintor and take it out!!!!!!! This game left me in a state of awe and 
 wonder as i began to compare the game's sunset with the Hawaiian sunsets i saw a year ago... It's 
 that dang good!!!! ON MEDIUM SETTINGS!!!!!!!!!!! I cant wait till i can play the game maxed out 
 in a few years!!!
  
  With all that said it is easy to see that this is the greatest shooter ever made... I am a HUGE 
 RTS fan and Supreme Commander wa my favorite game. The immense scale and uncelievable chaos that 
 engulfed entire continents in flame along with some incredibly creative deisgns sucked me in (i 
 was also a huge Total Annihilation fan and still am!) , but Crysis puts Supreme Commander... and 
 every other game... INCLUDING WORLD OF WARCRAFT... to the worst shame that shame could be brought 
 to... I'm not even kidding... CRYSIS will blow your mind!!!! There has never been a game that has 
 made me say, "Holy $#!+" and "WHAT THE F#%$ IS THAT!?!?" and "THIS HAS GOT TO BE THE GREATEST GAME 
 EVER MADE!!!!!" more than this game!!! THIS JUST HAS TO BE THE GREATEST GAME EVER MADE!!!!!!!!!!!! I've 
 never been this crazy about a game before and may never be again... UNTIL CRYSIS 2 COMES OUT!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan015
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Unfortunatly i have todays computer and guess what, so does everyone else. Even with a computer 
 that pretty top of the line i can't run this the way its ment to. This results in alot of poping 
 in the graphics while the graphics in general are good i foten see grass pop into view and that 
 just detracts from the experience. As well, while i apreciate going over the top in cool little 
 things like rainbows in waterfalls, the poping effects makes things that were suposed to add to 
 the graphic experience detract fro it even more. As well from a realism point of view i see two 
 major flaws. First off the weapons are way under powered to the point were u can waste 2 clips 
 just to drop one guy thankfully ammo for basic weapons, or should i say ur basic korean weapon, 
 is plenty. On that same note u think ud be able to get a solid shot every time with a suit of armour 
 designed to enhance ur already awsome person. (Like come on what special forces man can't hold a 
 sniper rifle still in the prone position) Even the strength ability doesn't totally stabalize it. 
 And this armour u think if it only takes about 4 seconds to recharge your power then maybe just 
 maybe u could use ur powers just alittle longer. So for average gameplay, above average but far 
 from the suposedly perfect graphics, and a "Fairly" original idea (i can't help but think of halo 
 when i see powered armour) I give Crysis an 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blingbling4
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Easily the Greatest Technological advanced game to have been made, Crysis boasts crystal clear 
 graphics combined with Crytek 2 intelligent AI system, Crysis deserves to be rated so high. Absolutely 
 Amazing. The online is great in itself, when playing, you develop a develop this sense of deja 
 vu between Counter Strike and Battlefield. Two of the most admire multi player shooters to have 
 existed, and can not be missed when playing Crysis. It's inevitable the pro's will master the power 
 up techniques in single player, making it a joy just to watch them in action and seriously... It 
 is constant action. But not the boring type of action you experience in most FPS such as Rainbow 
 Six Vegas multi player Or Call Of Duty 4 for example where the enemies are constantly respawning 
 making it a pain in the ass and the only way to pass this is to 'advance' Crysis makes the Game 
 So satisfying you will really enjoy shooting every single enemy there is in the game. With its 
 cleverly designed Physics, it manages to create an atmosphere where Headshots are most desirable!
 
  In addition, i know the specs are quite hefty for its recommended play, bust let's be honest, 
 if you have that PC-the game is magic.
  Thank You 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtlr077
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game for a long time. Granted, it has been way over-hyped. 
 This, to me, is not Crytek's fault, but just a lot of people wondering if the game will be as good 
 as its graphics. It is a beautiful game, the graphics are the best to date if your machine can 
 take it. The game is about like Farcry, and that's not a bad thing, but it's not 2004. The AI in 
 this game is exactly like FC. The vehicles handle the same as in FC (poorly) . The VTOL, which was 
 not in Farcry, flies like a lead balloon. The plot is similar to FC, fight KPA (mercenaries in 
 FC) , then fight aliens (Trigens, etc... in FC) . The game goes from open ended sandbox to corridor 
 type shooter in the end, that is a disappointment. The promise of KPA AI that are more lifelike 
 does not seem true here. They still walk around in circles, shoot at nothing, and seem to be incredibly 
 mystified when you cloak right in front of them. I don't see how the promise of AI that will track 
 you based on how you make your way through the jungle breaking branches or stepping on leaves is 
 true, or that something that you do or don't do early in the game will have a meaningful affect 
 later in the game. These were what Crytek was taunting, and it was what I was looking forward to 
 more-so than the graphics. The game is just not that smart, perhaps some patches will take care 
 of these issues. All in all, its a great game, the graphics, physics, sound, and voice acting are 
 all excellent. The story and the way the enemies act are where the let down was for me, I did not 
 feel much emotion or attachment to the friendly characters either, but not every game can have 
 a Half-Life caliber storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeeXP
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is a prime example of how people like to jump on a game that boasts great graphics for 
 its time (remember Doom3?) .
  Lets be real, the game itself is average at best. I can name a dozen FPS games far better than 
 this, but due to not having amazing graphics have recieved less fortunate reviews.
  The computer AI in this game is a joke! There are countless times when you can walk up to an enemy, 
 who stands there looking confused, almost refusing to shoot back at you!
  The game does incorporate some good ideas however, and with more work it could have been a great 
 game.
  It is obvious the majority of its budget went into graphics and level design. It is even more clear 
 the gameplay department was left short for cash.
  In short; graphics aside, this game would not get anywhere higher than a 7.5 on Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Cryses is a spectacular game, the atmosphere , the gameplay and its long, its a must buy.
  
  1st of all, the story is amazing , going on a cool mission , with some great guns is masterpiece. The 
 graphics and the atmoshere are the most amazing thing in tha game. for the 1st few levels the game 
 is fine , but when you pass already 7 levels it becomes pretty hard. Shooting in the game is fun 
 , aliens aspecially.
  
  The game lasts long and it really fun. The enviroments are amazing, through the jungles , some cool 
 alien caves and lots of more. Its a first preson shooter , so its cool. The gameplay is alright , 
 its good. Also the multiplayer works just perfectly . the explosions work perfectly the same , 
 
  
  i dont see any probs in this game so then its PERFECT.
  
  Enviroments: Perfect
  Story: Great
  Gameplay :Perfect
  Multiplayer: Superb
  Graphics: Outstanding (like perfect)
 
  Atmoshere: Outstanding
  
  WARNING: MUST BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PimpinJellyRoll
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  For starters Crysis is definatly the best FPS ever... on the PC that is. Reason is, if you really 
 think about Crysis doesnt exactly give you that same "wow" that halo did because it seems as if 
 you have played it before. Ringing any bells? Thats right, Farcry. You start out on an island in 
 which you can free roam... to an extent. Don't get me wrong but it's a little more linear than 
 it is cracked up to be. I believe probably the only other downside to Crysis is when you hit an 
 enemy he doesn't really flinch. He just continues to fire upon you. Other than that Crysis is a 
 real gem with its extremely stunning visuals and some creative gameplay. (that has been seen before) 
 If you have the PC to run this game go out and but it because it is probably THE best game on the 
 for your computer right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawcool
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  It plays exactly the same as Farcry but with better graphics. Crytek did another great job of making 
 a technically superb game with immersive open environment and good energy AI. But that doesn't 
 make the game standout from other great games of this year, such as Bioshock and Call of Duty4. 
 Don't get me wrong, Crysis IS a very good FPS, it's just that I appreciate a bit more creativity 
 in making a game rather than just repeat (but apparently it works for alot of ppl) what is great 
 in Farcry.
  
  Bottom line: If you played Farcry before, don't bother with Crysis. It's the same thing. But if 
 you haven't crawled through the jungle in Farcry, and if you have a good system, then you should 
 definitely try Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalpesh_78
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  First of all this is one game that has made me upgrade my old P4 to the latest and the best-est 
 of machines. I spent a fortune on it.. but it was totally worth it. I bought this game first and 
 then bought a machine with the recommended specifications.. a bit more in some places. 8800 Ultra 
 in SLI mode, 4 Gb ram.. core2 duo extreme. I've played this game almost thrice. Once i just went 
 guns blazing. once was a total stealth mode and one.. well am still playing it... but i love the 
 graphics, the gameplay (depends on how you want to play it with multiple route options) Can't wait 
 for Crysis2... and i hope it comes soon.
  I played a lot of games before this one.. but this was a different experience all-together. in 
 all excellent game. I'd give it 10/10. I'd say time to upgrade your system to a beast... and go 
 for it. if it plays under 45frames.. at Max graphics.. you better get a better piece of hardware. 
 I'm downloading the Demo now for the level editor thats there. want to have some fun now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjontkd
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  The best FPS game i played in this year
  Need to say more?
  Well, let's start speaking about the graphics! The cry-engine 2 made by crytek combines amazing phisics 
 and amazing graphics, and shows what the microsoft dx10 can do!
  Now the gameplay:
  It's not a revolutionary gameplay but the nanosuit options make the game more variable and fun 
 with powers such strength enhancement invisibility and more
  There is a hand-to-hand combat options also very fun
  You can grab a motherfuc*** on neck and 
 throw him away! Thats amazing
  the only bad is you need a nasa computer to run with all the graphic settings on max like a machine 
 with 4gb ram and two ge-forces 8800gtx on sli mode
  Sometimes, when facing lots of enemies i faced also some lags
  and i have a directx 10 compatible 
 card.....
  THIS is the weak point of this game but i give 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  This review is coming at you a bit later than when most other websites and articles had released 
 their reviews on Crysis. Unlike other publications that sort of take the hype of a game, throw 
 a gold star success sticker on it and tell everyone it's great, I went the other route and actually 
 sat down and played the game. And when I say I played the game, I mean I played the real game and 
 not the demo, and I made it to the end of the game, not just through the first part (Which would 
 be known as the demo, sorry if I ruined that bit for you.)
  
  Crysis is notable for raising the bar in terms of graphical power and physics within a modern video 
 game. If you are one of those people who worked hard and sacrificed a lot of time to earn yourself 
 a fast computer with a great graphics card capable of mind blowing effects and high frame rates, 
 you'll be delighted to know that Crysis laughs at your hardware purchase and will make you feel 
 as though you own some junk that isn't capable of rendering more than a few Flash games and maybe 
 an old copy of Doom.
  
  That's because Crysis tore a hole in what we know as graphical requirements. Coupled with the fact 
 that it actually runs better on Windows Vista 64bit in Direct-X 10 than Windows XP with Direct-X 
 9, you suddenly realize that you have a game few people can play, and even fewer have bought. As 
 of November, according to NPD, less than 100,000 copies were sold. I guess most gamers couldn't 
 get the demo to run acceptably on their computer, so gave up on the idea of paying $50 to own a 
 game that would render a slide show of a jungle scene.
  
  Obviously I'm joking. Well, except for the part about almost nobody buying it. You CAN play Crysis 
 perfectly fine with lowered graphical settings and it still looks really good and plays acceptably. 
 So that leaves the game play itself, so lets get to it...
  
  Crysis is your standard First Person Shooter action title. You play as Nomad a commando style military 
 team member who is dropped into North Korea to retrieve information along with the rest of his 
 team. The game takes place sometime in the near future when we have perfected nano-technology, 
 so that each military member on your team wears a special nano-suit. This suit allows you to jump 
 higher (Maximum Strength) , run faster (Maximum Speed) , become invisible (Stealth) , harden your 
 armor (Maximum Armor) , and ultimately keep you alive from freezing cold or swimming underwater. 
 Each of the suit's various abilities can only be used one-at-a-time. So that you can't have Maximum 
 Armor and Maximum Speed selected. Each ability except Maximum Armor is only usable while your suit 
 has enough reserve energy. When you run out of energy, your selection returns to Maximum Armor 
 where it will then recharge.
  
  The suit provides you with the ability to take a large number of hits without dying. The enemy 
 that you face early in the game is not nearly as capable of surviving your Predator like attacks. 
 Unfortunately for you, there are a large number of North Koreans with guns looking for you, and 
 when they find you, they bring a lot of fire-power down upon you. This is something I noticed about 
 Crysis. While sneaking inside a North Korean base, I was discovered and it felt as though everyone 
 in the base was coming to join in the shoot-out. You can quickly become overwhelmed by the North 
 Korean forces and find yourself dead. So some stealth and the decision to pick your targets wisely 
 will help you move through the game. More adventurous souls can choose to fight the entire base, 
 but I would warn you that the game is full of similar bases, and as the game progresses you will 
 find that the challenges also increase.
  
  Luckily, while your suit never gets any improvements, you are able to operate various vehicles. 
 Tanks, Humvees, Trucks, Vertical take off and landing vehicles, Boats, and many flavors of fixed 
 weapon emplacements are at your disposal. Your carried weapons can be scavenged from dead soldiers 
 or looted from supply tents, and weapons can be outfitted with different configurations and types 
 of bullets. Unfortunately in the single player campaign most the ammo selection is under utilized. 
 You also have various forms of grenades and rocket launchers.
  
  The artificial intelligence that the enemy uses is fairly good. They duck, maneuver, try and flank 
 you, and will use cover to their advantage. Unfortunately for them, you are a cybernetic creature 
 of torrential death and their antics are merely annoyances and only prolong their death.
  
  The problem with Crysis is that it never moves beyond a linear shooter. There are virtually no 
 puzzles, and no character interaction besides stock cut scenes. You will spend your time moving 
 from point to point on a map, and use very little creative thinking on how to get there. Many times 
 I was able to reach a point on the map simply by turning on my maximum speed and running there 
 faster than anyone could catch me. The other option is to stealth out and walk there while taking 
 cover every-so-often to recharge. While I prefer to engage in combat, the repetitious nature of 
 fighting the same units repeatedly made for some dull moments.
  
  
  Later, as the game progresses, you move through an underwater cavern as well as fight onboard an 
 aircraft carrier. There is a small mission in which you fly a VTOL around and try not to get blown 
 out of the sky before you can reach the before-mentioned aircraft carrier. I spent more time trying 
 to figure out how not to get taken down by a tornado than I did fighting in air to air combat.
 
  
  The later missions prove to be more frustrating than fun, however, because your enemy tends to 
 be flying around while you are stuck on the ground and they become harder to target because they 
 move over your head very quickly. (And no, these aren't North Koreans using jet packs, the game 
 changes dramatically about halfway through and for the sake of your own adventure I won't ruin 
 it for you.) None of it feels very inventive or thrilling, instead it just tends to be a bit boring.
 
  
  What saves Crysis from being "just another shooter" is that its environment is done so well you 
 tend to feel as though you have real choices in how things get done. For instance, the graphics 
 don't just set a backdrop they are truly interactive. During firefights the trees will fall over 
 when hit with enough bullets. Some of those trees can become obstacles for vehicles, and must be 
 cleared from the roads, typically with firepower. You can move about freely and complete missions 
 as you see fit. If that means walking completely around an enemy base to reach a waypoint, you 
 can do that. If it means swimming underwater to avoid patrol boats, you can do that too. How you 
 choose to complete each mission is your choice. The game world that was created here provides that 
 option for you.
  
  There are graphical points in the game where I was amazed at what was going on. As a mountain starts 
 to break down, and large pieces of the mountain give way, you will find giant boulders crashing 
 around you while still maintaining a distant view of the mountain as it all combines for you in 
 real time. It can be pretty cool to witness.
  
  The sound in the game is decent, although the voice acting could have been a bit better. There 
 are times when Nomad sounds as though he's in great spirits when a disaster is taking place. The 
 distant ambient sounds in the game, however, are excellent and even on a plain stereo speaker setup 
 sounded amazing.
  
  At the end of the game thing end on a bit of a cliff-hanger so we can expect a sequel if the game 
 sells better after the holidays. Overall, I thought Crysis was fun enough that I'd recommend others 
 to pick it up and play it. It has some issues, but on the whole I felt it was worth the asking 
 price and it felt long enough and satisfying without ever being cumbersome to play. Something I 
 wish more games had going for them. Rated three out of five. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooluc
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is amazing. its graphics surpass any other game out so far, for the consoles or the pc, 
 and the gameplay is fresh and will get you addicted. I'll split this review into 3 parts: The gameplay, 
 the single player and the multiplayer.
  
  The gameplay:
  The gameplay in crysis is quite different from that of other FPSs, to say the least. In crysis, 
 you have a 'Nano-muscle suit', a suite that give you either Increased strength, increased speed, 
 armor, or a cloak. but, to balance things out, you can only use one ability at a time, and you 
 have an energy meter, which, if empties, you must wait to recharge before you can use your suit. 
 Then, there is theweapon customization. In crysis, you can make your weapons your own with tens 
 of customizing options. For example, you have your regular assault rifle. One quick tap of the 
 customize key, and you get a mini-menu where you can choose which sight you want on it (reflex, 
 assault, sniper, or none) the attachment (grenade launcher or tactical) silencer (on or off) ammo 
 mode (regular or incendiary) and if you want a laser pointer or not. Finally, the destructible 
 environments. That's right, everything in the game can be destroyed, from trees, to houses, to 
 sniping towers.
  
  Single player:
  The game starts out with you skydiving off a V-Tol (a kind of hovercraft) . while falling, an unknown 
 object takes out your chute and you land in a lake. You then have to meet at the landing zone. 
 but, on your way there, some unknown alien creatures start to pick off your team one by one. the 
 game starts in the jungle, and there are some zero gravity levels. i won't say any more to avoid 
 spoiler.
  in short, you fight aliens AND north koreans, all while following an amazing storyline
  
  Multiplayer:
 
  also amazing. there are 2 multiplayer modes: instant action, your regular death match, and power 
 struggle. 
  in power struggle, there are 2 teams, the americans and the north koreans. the objective of this 
 mode is to capture the enrgy sites, prototype facility and war factories. each of these areas allow 
 you to purchase different items (using points you earn by killing and completing objectives) . Once 
 you captured enough energy sites and the prototype facility, you get access to nuclear weapons. 
 These allow you to nuke the opposing teams base. The winner is the team who nukes the other teams 
 base first.
  
  
  in conclusion, crysis is simply the greatest FPS to come out in a long time. it deserves to be 
 up there with half life 2 and the other great FPSs.
  
  one word describes this game: perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demi_veritaz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  People have either liked this game, or hated it for having such high requirements. In truth, you 
 could play this game on medium or low and still brag, to some degree, but if you really want to 
 play this well-crafted tech-demo, you'll need a decent rig. You don't need the "beefy" computer 
 systems that people have been bragging about. That's right, you don't need an 8800 gtx, or a quad 
 core.
  If you have a the accessories, and just need to update your tower, then I have some suggestions 
 for you.
  Dual 3 ghz Itel core processor. (crysis uses maybe 50-70%)
  2 gigs of decent to nice ram. Nothing fancy required, but it helps.
  Vista, if you want dx10 
 features. Not a biggy.
  My suggestion for the graphics card is the nvidia 8800 gt, especially if you cant afford the gtx, 
 but still want to play on ultra high.
  I run it in 1024x768.
  Lower res? Yes, it IS a graphically intense game. If you want to up the resolution, set everything 
 down to th high option, but for ultra detail, 1024x768 works fine.
  You can play this game with a rig worth under 1000, and on some of the highest settings. I know 
 because my tower is worth 750 and can run it extremely well (average of 40-55 fps.)
  If you want a decent place to make a fantasy rig, try cyberpower (where I custom made my rig)
 
  Im sure there are other places you can go, so if you can, find a place that let's you pick and 
 choose your stuff so you can get the most out of your money.
  Crysis is worth getting, if you can play it. With all these great games coming out, it's probably 
 time to upgrade anyway.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  this is what a truly great game is all about. Far Cry was indeed good But Crysis is great. The 
 Sounds get your attention. in the woods when all was silent, i heard a russle in the bushes, Crouched 
 to fire and it was a Frog jumping. Spooked me for an instante, The underwater sences are just as 
 fantastic as the woods wild life abounds never a dull moment. If your enemys not shooting take 
 a moment to really look around is awsome. No fish or wildlife in Farcry. The communications between 
 soldiers and real life movements of objects being shot are so neat. hide behind a barrel to have 
 it shot to roll away, woops. you need to rescue several science spec, who were kidnapped by asian 
 soldiers who love to slur you with american insults. you fly jet fighters drive trucks jeeps fight 
 real time looking beasts, and just try to avoid death, to much to report, its so worth the 40.00 
 price tag.. you wil play this one many times, your suite makes you stronger, invisable, puts objects 
 on weapons so useful, war never looked so good. plus your team mates keep getting taken by a blue 
 flying creature. its a wam bam thank u kinda game. i loved it and im very hard on games. the end 
 says a sequal is around the corner. Ive played so many bad games that This is a true saviour. They 
 say it was short i didnt think so. you have to take your time, not to be rushed. Savor the color, 
 action, the story, sound, to live out the belly of the beast, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  I finally can say I've experience the world of Crysis. I went out and bought a big rig gaming pc 
 to play this bad boy. I glad I did and I don't regret spending the money to run this game. I'm 
 pretty sure you'll all know the story behind Crysis. You're team is send out to this isolated island 
 to save some scientists that send out a distress signal. Your job is to go to the island and save 
 these scientists, but as the story progress you find out that you're not alone with this island. 
 Koreans are guarding the island but there's also something else and you're find out later on what 
 you're up against. 
  
  The graphics in this game if you have a computer that can run it looks beautiful. If you have Windows 
 XP with all the settings on medium with a good graphics card nvidia 8800 gt and 2 GB of ram you'll 
 be able to see some really nice graphics on this bad boy. The explosions just look amazing I just 
 wanted to play and blow everything up. The audio in this game is just as amazing. I never have 
 seen explosions this great in video games. The physics are great to look at when you blow things 
 up as well. 
  
  The enemy AI is not as great but they do through a lot of enemies at you at once so in order for 
 you to survive you'll have to use all 5 of your nano suit powers which are speed, cloak, strength, 
 armor, and modify your weapons. The game has a pretty good length when you play it in normal. It's 
 also a little challenging on the normal settings you will die often if you don't use your suit. 
 There were times I would use my cloak which is one of my favorite to bypass all the enemies in 
 one level and use speed to run away from them. Sure some of the gun fights are fun but they will 
 throw countless enemies at once time to finish you off and they will come from all directions. 
 
  
  If you want to talk about the best FPS of 2007 and they are a lot this year well you'll have to 
 play this game because this is one unique FPS to play. I think is the first to use one massive 
 environment to go where you please whenever you want. It also has its straight path to continue 
 the story. The game also has multi player which is a plus to any FPS for me because I'm more of 
 a SP type of guy but believe me if you have the PC that can run this baby than you should definitely 
 go out and buy this game now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  I would have given this game the "revolutionary" tag instead of instant classic, but i thought 
 that may cause an uproar, so instant classic fits and it will do
  
  Gameplay Pros: Much like Far Cry was, Crysis is a fairly open ended non-linear fps that is quite 
 often referred to as a "sandbox" game. It is not quite a sandbox game, but it is probably one of 
 the most open ended first person shooters you'll ever play, not including stalker since that's 
 an rpg-fps. Where Far Cry failed, Crysis succeeds. Gone are the ways of overly aware soldiers, 
 gone are the ways of extreme difficulties on later levels, gone are the ways of action being hindered 
 by lame little things called tridgens. The developers at Crytek really learned their stuff this 
 time around, and the few flaws the Far Cry had, Crysis improves on virtually all of them. The Ai 
 in Crysis while not perfect, is very good. Considering there are so many spots where the AI can 
 foul up, Crytek did a good job of making them dangerous adversaries. They will kill you, and kill 
 you, and kill you, if you do not adapt to the play style needed to conquer Crysis. What makes Crysis' 
 gameplay so fun is the sheer amount of ingredients Crytek gives you, the player, to make it fun. 
 The possibilities are almost limitless in this game. Each time i play it i find something new and 
 exciting to do, or a new one to kill and mame the enemy. Many things are destructible in Crysis, 
 making finding cover difficult and battles in crysis... intense to say the very least. Crysis is 
 a rare exception where graphics really do effect gameplay because the better your graphics are 
 the more immersed youll feel in each battle. The nano suit and customizable weapons really make 
 the game that much better too. Being able to quickly run here, change to strength and jump over 
 some guy then grab him, its just not the kind of great thing youve seen in an fps before. Crysis 
 will go down in history as one of the best PC FPS ever made.
  
  Gameplay Cons: There are still some bugs that need to be patched, mostly graphical and AI bugs, 
 generally they do not hurt the experience, even when you might need to reload a save. Nothing game 
 breaking by any means, but it is definitely worth a mention. The AI can still do foolish things, 
 but like i said earlier, there are just so many spots they can go wrong, it amazing they are as 
 smart as they are. Some people may want longer or faster replenishing energy, cus you can sometimes 
 get stuck in a rut and be walking really slow while about 50 guys are shooting at you, it can get 
 frustrating, but do not let yourself get put in this position. 
  
  Graphics Pros: Well well, the thing that attracted most people to Crysis, its graphics. I ran the 
 demo on my older system, 7800 gt, 3.4 ghz, 3 gigs of ram. It ran on medium fairly smooth (17-35 
 fps) which is oddly very smooth in Crysis. I built a new system before i got the actual game, it 
 has an 8800 gt , e6750, and 2 gigs of faster ram. Im running on xp with very high tweaks, the game 
 looks amazing and plays amazing with a constant fps of 35-45 which is ridiculously smooth. No other 
 game looks better than crysis at the moment, its just no contest, crysis is ahead of its time. 
 There were spots in the game where i literally spent about 10 minutes just looking at everything 
 in awe. Like a few parts on the carrier level, some of thos flooded rooms are seriously mouth watering. 
 But even with my old machine at medium the game looked great, low is a different story, but medium 
 looks good for today, its just that high-very high looks surreal. The special effects in crysis 
 like motion blur and explosions are also unmatched, getting dirt thrown on your screen and everything 
 else when bullets and grenades start flying is literally one of the coolest things to happen in 
 an FPS visual wise.
  
  Graphics Cons: you need a powerful system to run it at its best, but with some successful tweaking 
 you can do well. There are some graphical glitches, mostly to do with stuck physics.
  
  Sound: The sound in Crysis is simply fantastic. Nothing beats the sound of that crackin fy71. The 
 voice acting, while still cheesy sometimes, is farrr better than fary cry this time around. Every 
 sound in Crysis is absolutely fantastic, Crytek put as much care into that as it did the graphics... well 
 maybe not but you get the point
  
  The story took me about 10 hours to beat on normal but i plan on playing again and again and again 
 and again
  
  plus all the mods we have coming, i knew about a year ago i said to myself "erik, crysis is going 
 to become the next half life 2"
  
  i said this because of all the awesome mods i knew were going to be made for it, its insane graphics, 
 physics, intense gameplay and just generally everything about this game made me think of how half 
 life 2 effected the pc gaming population.
  
  Crysis is an amazing game that should not be missed, if you don't have the rig for it now, get 
 one, and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pc080972
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  Overall nice game and a decent storyline.
  
  Graphics is the best i've seen since bioshock.
  
  The game had a lot of problems with clipping 
 and in the final showdown I keep falling through the floor of the ship - fortunately it was possible 
 to power-jump out through the floor and onto the deck again... this game must not have been tested 
 very well.
  I used the lastest Nvidia drivers as well before even beginning the game.
  
  Screen resolution MUST be set to the one used in the game - idiotic programming and the first time 
 i've seen this in a game in the last 5 years.
  
  Sound was often stuttering on a SB Audigy2
  
  Playing the game is great fun however - especially 
 the diversity which is introduced with the many different kinds of vehicles and planes to fly - 
 very nicely implemented.
  The suit never really gets too powerfull, but the cloaking feature can be spammed between stealthed 
 attacks too easily to make it much of a challange on hard difficulty.
  It's really only with a lot of mobs that it becomes a matter of survival.
  E. g. the final showdown 
 in the game can actually be done hit-and-run between stealths
  The lack of timers in the game tasks makes it a bit hard to understand the constant reminders of 
 hurrying to this and that - you basically have all the time in the world to complete it, so the 
 stealth method is usually the best.
  
  So the game can be played like the invisible man with a gun and hit and run. Nice feature, but 
 too easy for my taste in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  German developer Crytek made a big splash with their previous title, Far Cry, which garnered a 
 fair amount of critical acclaim and became somewhat of a cult classic. Now, they've once again 
 set out to turn the PC world on its head with Crysis. After being announced in early 2006, Crysis 
 quickly became a poster child for Microsoft's latest API, DirectX 10, showcasing the gorgeous effects 
 and photorealistic textures that the platform was capable of. Now the title has finally been released 
 on the public, and the results live up to the hype.
  
  No bones about it, Crysis is the most gorgeous game ever, boasting many great effects and cinematic 
 details that pull you in like no game before it. The gameplay is also great, with intense action 
 and excellent AI. Unfortunately, to see Crysis as it's meant to be seen, you'll need a super-high-end 
 PC with all of the latest bells and whistles; otherwise the look will be way scaled down. Still, 
 if you've got the machine that can handle it, Crysis is one of the best shooters that you'll get 
 your hands on this year.
  
  Crysis also has some extremely impressive AI under the hood. Much like in Far Cry, the AI will 
 search you out realistically, attacking in formations and calling out for reinforcements. The alien 
 AI acts a lot more organic than the human AI as well, not quite attacking in a pattern, but rather 
 pouncing like an animal, which is a nice touch and pretty frightening.
  
  However, the graphical presentation is what will truly have people talking about Crysis. Given 
 the right PC configuration, the game is absolutely stunning, with amazing textures and an obsessive 
 attention to detail. The character models look fantastic, and the jungle environments feel alive 
 and teeming with elements. The game's engine allows for great effects that help with the game's 
 ambiance, like frost appearing on the scope of your gun during the ice-covered areas, or trees 
 splitting in half and collapsing when under gunfire. The game looks amazing, and will no doubt 
 dazzle any gamer.
  
  Unfortunately, all of this beauty comes at a hefty price. The game requires a behemoth of a gaming 
 rig to run properly, and you must be running Windows Vista to get all of the DX10 benefits. While 
 the game will work in DX9 (and look pretty damn great doing it) , you'll need a fully equipped computer 
 running Vista with at least an 8800 card to get good results.
  
  The sound effects are very well done, with fantastic effects like explosions and gunfire booming 
 from all directions as well as small nuanced sounds that come from your nanosuit. The soundtrack 
 is also well done, fitting within the mood of the game nicely. The voice acting sounds nice, but 
 some elements (like the Korean voice work) sound a bit on the cheesy side.
  
  Crysis is an artistic triumph on the PC, offering up an aesthetically incredible experience with 
 solid and exciting gameplay. The game is incredibly immersive if your computer can handle it.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYK0TK
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I found it to be a bit short but maybe that was because I'm not used to spending all day playing 
 a game. It was so addictive I couldn't wait to see what was coming next and just had to keep playing.
 
  
  The graphics are obviously some of the best in a game yet (but everyone knows that already anyway) 
 and the sound track was pretty far up the ranks too.
  
  The levels are amazingly detailed and so large you can wander around for hours exploring the different 
 paths and buildings and not get bored, even if you just want to find somewhere that shows of the 
 beauty Crysis has on offer. The AI could be smarter, often walking into your ambushes but trying 
 to take on a large group of KPA (or aliens for that matter) is no walk in the park... unless you 
 have a precision rifle and the room, or ammo, to use it.
  
  I didn't come across a single bug either, so combined with a great, immersive and somewhat believable 
 (depending on your thoughts on aliens) storyline I think it's gonna be a long time before I uninstall 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkaeda1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  just finished this game and i have come to the conclusion that it is the best single player game 
 i have EVER played... and this for me beats my former best games such as final fantasy 7, metal 
 gear solid 2, and command + conquer: red alert, cod4... granted those are completely different 
 games but none have given me the depth, variation, strategy and polishness that crysis did.
  
  Even though its really short and i played it at medium settings (shaders/shadow low) it still 
 looked fantastic and almost as good as halo 3. I never played Far Cry, so this environment was 
 new to me
  
  Still it beats cod4's linear single player but still lacks the multiplayer polish (although they 
 introduced a new concept) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onimushu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm starting to get the feeling that those bad reviews come from people who just played the Crysis 
 demo, and played it through only once or twice. I played the demo about 20 times before I gave 
 in and bought the game (couldn't make it to Christmas) . I thought Crysis would follow suit with 
 the demo: a few KPA soldiers every 100 yards in "Far-Cry-esque" environments. Man was I wrong! 
 After that initial level, things heat up to the point where I was trying to survive, even on easy 
 mode! I spent most of my time with the demo orchestrating cool sequences to take out each soldier. 
 Grab, strength mode, throw, shoot, smash, grab, etc. I don't want to give away the scope of this 
 game before you drop your jaw too, but, I'll suffice to say that at times it feels the entire KPA 
 Army is fighting you at one time. Imagine playing through your favorite James Bond action scene 
 with a nano-suit and your fighting N. Koreans instead of henchmen. The tanks, helicopters, trucks, 
 dropships are all here. This is Halo 3 for adults! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craig9080
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  It Looks pretty if you playing on a $4K computer, but the gameplay is amusing at best. I'm still 
 angered that a company would even think of releasing a game that needs hardware that hasn't even 
 been invented yet in order to be played at max settings, it just sounds like EA made a very VERY 
 inefficient engine and to top it off, didn't really care about the best part of an FPS... SHOOTING. 
 Its just not fun. They spent far to much time implementing the cloaking mechanism and enemy AI 
 to realize that shooting at the enemy was not fun and woefully unsatisfying, and that should of 
 been the easiest thing to do. and FYI, apparently Koreans are made Titanium.
  
  I wish i had something better to say about this game, i was one of those guys who, before its release, 
 was hailing it as the next great thing in PC gaming and that its engine will be the premier base 
 for all the next gen FPSs. But im proud to say that that is not the case and that the UT3 engine 
 has taken that title by force with COD4, Bioshock and UT3 itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_massenger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  Besides the system requirements of the game, the graphics of Crysis will make you feel like you're 
 inside the game, of course with a medium or more system settings, but either ways the graphics 
 is one of the best I've seen and the gameplay is one of the best, unique in the FPS genre. 
  
  Of course you think every shooter game is the same, you have weapons, you go and kill stuff? 
 Well, Crysis is the same, but what makes it difference is the graphics, most FPS games the graphics 
 doesn't effect the gameplay as much as Crysis does, and what makes the gameplay better is your 
 suit. About the suit, you have 4 different abilities and the usage of each drains from your suit 
 energy. First, Maximum Strength which double the strength allowing you to lift and throw larger 
 objects, jump higher, cause greater damage in melee attacks. The second ability is Maximum Speed, 
 which allows you to move at up to twice the normal speed, walking speed is enhanced at no cost 
 to suit energy, but running ( holding LEFT SHIFT ) greatly lowers suit energy limiting the amount 
 of time you can sprint for. Third is the Cloak ability, which makes you totally invisible to your 
 enemies, but shooting while in cloak mode drains all of your suit energy making you instantly visible. 
 Last is the Maximum Armor, which boosts the level of protection of your armour and any damage taken 
 will reduce suit energy rather than your health, which is the most ability you will be using. 
 
  
  The soundtracks are pretty good for an FPS game and the sound effects are great and works even 
 better if you have a surround system.
  
  The multilayer is fun too, there are two modes, Power Struggle which I really don't understand 
 so far, but there are two teams and you have to capture the other team's base, but in this mode 
 everything is unlocked, even some of the vehicles you can ride in the Power Struggle mode and not 
 in the single player. The second mode is Instant Action which is more like death match, you just 
 keep killing the other players until the time runs out and then they announce the winner of the 
 match.
  
  I say that Crysis is a must play game, if you don't have a PC that plays the game, buy one, and 
 I think who gives a low review to this game is just jealous because they don't have a PC that can 
 run the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomal_rocks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Crysis is one of those rambo type of games through which you blow up an entire army of N Korea 
 and aliens single handedly as if your army has no reserves left and gives all objectives to you 
 only. Without the exceptional graphics, there is nothing big deal in crysis. I mean if you have 
 played call of duty 4 campaign, crysis campaign is totally opposite. No backup support. No other 
 players around you as if battles are fought with only few people. Only you matter between the good 
 and bad.
  
  Gameplay is also repetitive. The only powers of your suit you will most likely use are the cloak 
 option and then the armor option to recharge your suit. Sometimes you will use other powers because 
 the game forces you to use them in that situation.
  
  Graphics is exceptional i must agree. But the engine does not matter because crytek does not license 
 their engine in huge numbers unlike Unreal engine or other engines. So if u are not satisfied with 
 ur last generation 6800/7800s/7900s or X900/X1800/X1900 cards while playing crysis, think again 
 before upgrading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedmetalhead
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  
  i've read here and there in reviews from sites that the story isnt that good, i dont know where 
 they get that, i think its very good, they are planning to make a triology so at the end of the 
 game you got some kind of an not yet ended story. 
  the grafics are are absolutly great like they promised, though i suspected a little better, i could 
 set everything on high with a geforse8800 gts 320mb , 3gb ram, amd dual prosessor 2,8 ghz. ( dont 
 have vista) yes yes i've updated my pc a bit to run the game :-D.
  they made everything interactive, really fun, trow a guy trough a house lol. and you can pick up 
 animals haha. very cool all that, good job crytec.
  
  there's one bad thing wich is bothering me in the game, and thats the AI. the AI is good offcourse, 
 but there acting stupid sometimes, but i can imagine that it must have been hard for crytec to 
 make the ai with those powers you got and the interactiveness. 
  when you grab a guy , his partners just keep fire at you and kill him. what men would do such a 
 thing ? 
  helicopters see you, even when youre hidding behind a tree.
  
  they should have added an slowmotion-power to the nanosuit too, that would have been ultracool. 
 or the ability to combining powers.
  
  but the game is realy great, i ran the game perfect without a lot of lagg. ( the game did crash 
 a few times)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacopper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I was the first one in the office to play this game and now I can look down on those console fanatics 
 and brag about computer games outperforming those underpriced little plastic boxes that you connect 
 to a TV... 
  But enuff 'bout console vs. PC gamers. The game is all that what you've probably been reading in 
 reviews: outstanding visuals, a revolutionary game since The Far Cry and so on. I was really surprised 
 that my moderately-priced system was able to pull this game with almost all settings maxed out 
 (thanks to SLI mobo and 2 GPU's?) . The only one I set to "medium" to save some resources was shadow 
 details.
  About the game itself: a pretty long game. Took me about 12-14 hours to finish and with very few 
 reloads. Fighting with the Koreans was out of this world realistic and fun. Although, fighting 
 with the out-of-this-world creatures was somewhat uninteresting. The final alien boss was pretty 
 easy. I actually spent more time running around picking up ammo than dodging his onslaught. There 
 were a couple of minor but tolerable bugs, but I sort of expected this: the game was released last 
 month. But the best par the game has a very open ending (don't they all?) and I'm hoping a couple 
 of years down the road Crytech will release yet another game that the rest of publisher would have 
 to catch up to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidney2k1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  So it's finally here - the game that PC gaming enthusiasts have waited over 2 years for. Thousands 
 hurried to buy the best processors, the best GPUs, and flooded message boards abound all asking 
 the same redundant question - "Will my PC rig run Crysis?"
  
  
  Unfortunately, that's were I have to start, and the answer for most will be: Probably not.
  
 
  
  
  Graphics/Performance:
  Crysis is a beast and unarguably the best looking game ever created. But if you've been following 
 the game's development for the past 2 years - no doubt you have - you will notice a very clear 
 distinction between the Crysis you bought at the store, and the Crysis shown over those years in 
 the videos, most specifically the Jungle Fight Dx9 vs. Dx10 ..... it's not the same.
  
  Long have we been duped by the promise of what games "could technically look like" - Killzone 2, 
 Mass Effect, S. T. A. L. K. E. R.; it seems to be a growing trend, and while completely unacceptable, 
 it has become tolerable. Crysis, while an absolutely stunning game. simply does NOT look like you'd 
 expect it to. It turns out that the game can (and has been by some clever modders) "edited" to 
 appear to have the perfect lighting conditions and other settings to match the graphical awe of 
 the previous tech demos, but at an extreme cost - framerate is unplayable. There's wide-spread 
 belief that Crysis has a hidden Ultra High setting that will be later unlocked once we have "hardware 
 that can handle it," and that's perfectly fine except for one thing - we didn't shell out hundreds 
 of dollars to play a game that could one day look like that.... we paid to play that game NOW, as 
 you've been showing us for the past 2 years.
  
  
  As with any PC game, Graphics and Performance are as husband and wife. Let it be known - CRYSIS 
 WILL BRING YOUR PC TO ITS KNEES! Regardless of you're killer rig (say Quad Core processor, 8800 
 GTX SLI, 4 gb RAM) , you are NOT going to get this game running 60 FPS on the highest resolution 
 at the highest settings. And that's if you even have that rig. For 90% of PC gamers, you are going 
 to be shocked at how low you have to place the settings to get a playable framerate.
  
  Crysis does, however, make up for this with some highly tweakable Cvars settings that allow you 
 to custom tailer performance for your PC, in order to squeeze out every last framerate improvement 
 possible. It also allows for enabling near Dx10 features in Dx9 at achieving the "Very High" quality 
 look at Medium-High performance.
  
  
  I played the game with a 2.33ghz Core 2 Duo, Dual GeForce Go 7950 GTX 512mb cards, 2 GB of RAM, 
 and windows XP using the very well-known "Very High Tweaks" to enable all of the Dx10 effects, 
 and was able to hold a comfortable 40-45 FPS @ 1280x800.
  
  SLI & Quad-Core support are present, but extremely weak at the moment. A patch is in the works 
 to address these issues, but release date is unknown. At least it's Dual-Core optimized. CPUs and 
 GPUs are known to hit their core temperature thresholds while playing Crysis, so expect Throttling 
 and slow-down to occurr every now and then, especially during heated firefights.
  
  
  Story/Presentation:
  You play as Nomad, a special forces soldier in the near future equiped with 
 a prototype Nanosuit that essentially turns you into one badass mo'-fo. The story centers on an 
 unnamed island in the Pacific from which a distress call eminates from scientific researchers, 
 claiming that the North Korean Army (KPA) - which has become an obvious Super Power 20 years from 
 now - has ceased control of the island for unknown reasons. Turns out that there's more than just 
 "research" going on as you quickly find that there are long dormant Aliens on the island, that 
 humans have managed to idiotically awaken, jumpstarting an invasion.
  
  There are cutscenes, but the bulk of the story is told through the actual gameplay, specifically 
 the levels and the entire transformation of the island from lush jungle retreats, to a frozen, 
 deadly bubble of man's (both American and KPA) struggle for control... and survival.
  
  If there's anything that hampers the story and atmosphere, it's simply that it ends far too soon... or 
 more truthfully that it takes over half of the game before the **** really hits the fan and draws 
 the player in, but at that moment, you realize that you're playing on borrowed time and it will 
 soon be over. There's plenty of room to develop one hell of a franchise and story here, but it 
 would've been nice to see it now instead of latter.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  You remember this, right?.... before Graphics were king?
  
  Unfortunately, in a sea of spectacular 
 First Person Shooters this year, Crysis sits in the middle of the pack. Strip away all of it's 
 graphics, and basically you're left with a pretty decent shooter, but nothing revolutionary, or 
 worth getting excited over.
  
  As Nomad, you are equipped with 4 different Nanosuit powers - Maximum Strength, Armor, Speed, and 
 Cloak. All can be abused thoroghly (especially cloak) , and have their uses. Each drains from a 
 shared Energy bar that recharges when not in use (i. e. in Armor mode) . There's fun to play with, 
 but there's not a single moment in the game where a power is required... just that it helps to make 
 things easier. Your character isn't impervious to harm, and you will die more often than you'd 
 expect, but it's enough to fit any play style - from the John Rambo wannabe, to the Sam Fisher 
 stalker... everyone will find their own way to play.
  
  The Graphics and Physics system really help drive the gameplay. Being placed in the jam-packed 
 jungle environments with fully destructable vegetation and buildings makes for some intense gameplay. 
 Unfortunately, it's only for the upper-eschelon of PC gamers, as when you turn down the settings, 
 those features disappear, thus creating a tremendous impact on gameplay. Less foliage, less tress, 
 less objects, less physics... it all changes how you can and should play the game.
  
  You'll go it solo 90% of the game, so friendly A. I. - no matter how good or bad - is pretty much 
 irrelevant. Enemy A. I. doesn't fare so well, needless to say it needs work. The KPA are smart enough 
 to shoot you in the face and ask questions later, whenever they spot you, after for firing a signal 
 flare for backup. They're relatively accurate and more of a threat than you'd think, but they can 
 be pretty stupid at times. They will actively chase you and flank you, but throw your suit into 
 Cloak mode directly in front of them, and they have no clue where you are, and don't even bother 
 to look. They can be ditched by simply ducking around the other side of a short fence or tree, 
 or by jumping onto a roof. They will follow you into water and drown, and wil sometimes run TOWARDS 
 your grenade instead of away from it..... but at least their comments are funny.
  
  There are plenty of weapons and vehicles, but the latter won't get much use. Guns can be customized 
 on the fly via a real-time in-game command menu - which has ridiculously been touted as a "next-gen 
 feature" - and all serve their purpose., though there's a limited number of them. Make sure you 
 aim for the head as in the near future (as now) , as the body armor in the game actually works how 
 it does in real life... enemies can absorb 7-8 rounds to the chest before going down... better yet, 
 aim for the FACE, as a headshot that hits a helmet will only send it flying off and your target 
 running for cover.
  
  Sound:
  Absolutely fantastic. Meaty gunfire, explosions, ambient noises, and pretty good voice acting.
 
  
  Although some will come to be haunted by the sound of "Maximum Armor!!"
  
  
  Multiplayer:
  Power Struggle is very similar to a Battlefield game, where teams attempt to gain 
 and hold control of various locations. Maps are extremely vast and detailed, althoug there is no 
 Breakable Vegetation in Dx9, which is a shame since even people with Dx10 cards will play in Dx9 
 via XP as it yields a substantial performance boost. Online play is definately worth a go, but 
 clearly no the main draw for this game.
  
  
  Overall:
  Crysis feels like one giant, impressive Tech Demo. It's not "souless" like the concept implies, 
 but it's not extraordinary either. It does enough things to stand as it its own game, and it does 
 them well. Still, the question of "will it play on my PC?" stands above all, and for most the answer 
 is simply "no," and for those who can play it, the answer shitfs to, "yes, but not like you'd expect."
 
  
  :Let's face it, Crysis has always been about the Graphics - that's what people expected and cared 
 about. Unfortanetly, I can even give an A+ to the game on that note because UNLESS you are playing 
 the game on high settings with all of the bells and whistles, you will be diasspointed. Not only 
 that, there are a handfull of other games that not only look better to Crysis's "Medium" settings, 
 but also play a LOT better. It's strange to think while Medium would be so demanding than other 
 games, yet be outshined.
  
  Still, for the graphics whores who have the hardware (and they most likely do) , this is their dream. 
 It may not look like the promo vids, but it is still the best damn looking game ever made (for 
 now) . The gameplay isn't anything to jump about, but with pretty visuals, large open levels, and 
 an active mod community already at hard work to make improvements and create some stellar custom 
 games, Crysis is DEFINATELY worth the buy.
  
  .... just make sure to pick up an 8800GT and a Quad-Core processor as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrapp
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  you don't have to miss because Crysis is a remarkable, explosive and cinematic action shooter that 
 wil make you jump off from your seat because of its exhilarating action experience and awesomess, 
 with outstanding graphics and a cool and captivating storyline, and with the only con that this 
 is a very power hungry game, that means, that you will need at least a core-duo proccessor and 
 1gb of RAM memory to run it properly and smooth.
  
  In the game, there was a lot of original ideas putted in motion and between them the most i liked 
 was your nanomuscular-suit, and its great weapon customization in real-time, that makes up a grand 
 diversity on your play-styles or ways of playing, because every action you do in the game, have 
 its consequences, and they can be good or they can be bad.
  
  So, i can tell a lot of good things about this game, but is just a review, so lets settle this 
 up:
  
  Singleplayer: Great and awesome as its gets, the lengthy single-player campaign is very good from 
 beginning to end, although some moments of the game were not so good, most of the single-player 
 campaing is really great, cool, and repetitive, really worth it, but the only little dull thing 
 is the aliens part, is a little bit boring, cuz the alien AI is stupid though fast and deadly, 
 but they appear only at the last half of the game, so don't worry.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is also great, you got deathmatch named "Instant Action" that will 
 make you feel once again a heat and adrenaline pumping action, and then you have "Power Struggle" 
 which is a unique mode as a combination of the conquest mode of Battlefield with a buying system 
 ala Counter-strike, wich is definetely the highlight of the multiplayer part, and both modes (instant 
 action and power struggle) are perfect to play with your friends on LAN parties or online.
  
  Gameplay: SImply excellent, innovative and awesome. There could be some things that you may 
 don't like about this game, but definetely you will like most of the things that come up the gameplay 
 mechanic. The gameplay is great, cuz as you have two excellent features like the nano-suit and 
 the real-time weapon customization system, is really cool and innovative to put it on motion as 
 your levels where you are passing by are BIG!, no, big no, they are HUGE!.. Enemy AI is also great 
 like its predecessor providing good tactics to take you down. where your actions and tactics have 
 to be smart and aggressive enough to neutralize them, did i told you that you can grab NK soldiers 
 by their necks and punch them in the face with the butt of your gun?
  
  Graphics: Awesome, just awesome, this is the reason why you got a moderated demanding system requirements 
 for this game, but playing it with a low-mid end rig, i had a great experiencie, even the graphics 
 options set on the lowest, the game looks very nice, although on high is where you gonna see the 
 heaven come true. Every detail is fully attended, textures, post-processing effects, and physics 
 are very awesome.
  
  Sound: Sound is great and right, although some games made a better audio department, this game 
 got great sound effects and music scores into it. The voice performance is nice too.
  
  Quality: Perfect, no bugs, no crashes, no problem
  
  And plus, as a good lasting appeal, you 
 have an editor to make your proper maps where you can play it and share it on the internet, recommended 
 for expert modders. 
  
  Well, thats it, Crysis is a great overall shooter, worth the money you spent on it, if you like 
 a cinematic and explosive action, you have to try this game, you won't be disappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainsawjesus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  In brief, this is possibly the greatest game to grace the gaming world. The level of detail is 
 amazing, the game play is immense, the AI can be sometimes dumb but generally good 9 out 10 times, 
 the weapons feel good, all customable, the physics are awesome, not since playing F. E. A. R have 
 I had this much fun with a game.
  
  Only draw back is that the replay factor doesn't score high, ok you can go back thru and approach 
 it in a different way but once you have finished it once the buzz of playing the 2nd time it doesn't 
 feel t as immense, although with that said you can't beat some of the battles you have. So once 
 thru great, twice thru great battles but a tad wide open with the jungles at points.
  
  The biggest draw back about Crysis is that you really really need a PC that can handle it.. I think 
 anyone with a card lower than the top end 7 Series will suffer. Get an 8 series, kill off all background 
 applications and then go in for the kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmacGamePro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Having played the demo on my piece-of-crap computer (geforce 6600, 512 mb ram!) , I understand the 
 frustration of having choppy framerates or crappy graphics. I just received my new computer and 
 installed crysis. I am able to play this game on very high with good frame rates. But Im not writing 
 this to show off. It really bugs me when people give Crysis crap just because they cant run it 
 on max. The average gamer doesnt have a good enough computer to play this game on max. So quite 
 your whining and complaining and just enjoy the game. 
  
  Graphics: Crysis has excellent graphics, the best of them all. That is unarguable.
  
  Sound: 
 The sound is good and the music is original and goes nicely with the game. It's nice to have sound 
 effects like the tinking of bullet shells as they fall on the metal floor and the echoing of gunshots 
 in a valley. 
  
  Gameplay: Crysis is one of those games that really gives you a lot of options on how to complete 
 a mission and will have you coming back to try something new. When I played the demo, I spent at 
 least 20 hours trying out new ways to tackle and objective.
  
  
  Graphics doesnt define a game so if your computer sucks balls then quite biching and just play 
 the game. If you take the time to enjoy the actual gameplay, then you will love the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaQuick123
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Crysis was, bar none, the most anticipated game of 2007. And the Demo looked promising. And thats 
 about pretty much all the game had going for it.
  First of, Gameplay is nothing spectacular. A little more dynamic than your run of the mill FPS, 
 but nothing really special. Guns are very weak, requiring often times 5 or six direct shots to 
 the head to drop an enemy. Sure, kevlar will do that, but since when is FPS a SIM category.
  The graphics are stunning, nay, ridiculous, but, while it looks great in some places, small, poorly 
 done geometries and bumpmaps quickly take away from the overall graphics score. And the fact that 
 there is no computer that can run it smoothly yet also cuts down on its GFX score.
  Physics is great, but repetitive. If you're going to boast great features, at least do them well. 
 Physics in Crysis is a bore. Too predictable and too buggy for my taste. But I have to admit, lobbing 
 grenades into houses and blowing them to smithereens is pretty fun. 
  However, when I played the game with the physics entirely off, i noticed something that should 
 be obvious to seasoned gamers like myself; the gameplay hardly changed at all but my FPS went through 
 the roof.
  Some people say the AI is sorta dumb, but i think its fine as is, It IS a game, and it IS supposed 
 to be fun.
  The sound in the game wasnt spectacular, and id daresay that is recycled. not worth more than an 
 8 in my book. It really is pretty much 8 across my board. So averaged it gave me the 8 im displaying 
 here.
  The Gamespot editors choice would be better given to a game everyone could play, not just the editors 
 with their sponsored supermachines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Before you start calling my sweet mother names and state any kind of newbie behaviour I might have, 
 let me clarify that Ive been playing FPSs since the times of Wolf 3D. I made it through Doom and 
 Quake and keep up to date with Bioshock, CoD 4 and UT3.
  
  So, being a huge FPS fan, I couldnt help but feel disappointed when I first played Far Cry. Sure 
 it was beautiful, and still is, but darn if its story and characters were a bundle of clichs... 
 Retired marine: check. Spy hottie: check. Megalomaniac scientist: check. Ugly creeps: check. Everything 
 was your run-of-the-mill "guy takes over world" B Movie-esque plot bad movies got us used to. Also, 
 the EXTREMELY punishing difficulty was a downside, even more so when you couldnt see anything from 
 the lush and beautifully rendered vegetation (remember? on easy one trigen could knock you off 
 on two hits... armor or not. And thats on easy difficulty...)
  
  So, when I saw the trailers for Crysis and some of the previews, i got quite worked up. The fact 
 that you were a TRUE spec ops soldier, with a kick ass suit and a real enemy, made the story seem 
 much more plausible.
  
  Again, I got disappointed. But lets start from the beginning.
  
  You are Nomad, a member of the special Delta Force sent in to investigate the mysterious disappearance 
 of an excavation team in an island located on the Pacific. You parachute in, but things start to 
 go awry since one of your squad members, whose parachute got tangled on a tree, is found ripped 
 to shreds... along the Koreans, whoa re the ones responsible for the hostile military presence 
 on the island. From then on, you'll start to unravel a story that covers a bit more than lost archeologists...
 
  
  Evidently, the story is weak. The koreans are just a mere cannon fodder for you to hone your trigger 
 before moving on to the (get this) aliens. Hence, it feels like the first half of the game has 
 no relevance whatsoever, and the second half has a repetitive pace that ends with a terrible cliffhanger. 
 
  
  The aliens themselves lack tons of originality. They look exactly like those weird sea monkey baddies 
 that appeared on the first Unreal, and the ship environs are your typical biomechanic stuff we've 
 seen to death on The Matrix. Oh, yes, speaking about The Matrix, all the robots the alien use are 
 practically rip offs from the Sentinels. The alien ship level is a painful exercise on zero grav 
 maneuvering, which makes the game more cumbersome than it should.
  
  I heard this game allowed you to have a lot of freedom as to where to go and which path to take 
 to accomplish a mission, but thats only partly true. While you can take off-road walks, you'll 
 usually end up in a road, with the korean patrol which will summon reinforcements. Then you'll 
 say "What the hell" and jump guns blazin', courtesy of your all-mighty suit. Yes, you might be 
 able to sometimes stealth successfully, but that will have more to do with your suit's cloak mode 
 than with the level design. Unlike Far Cry, where you could take a boat and give the island a total 
 run-around, you cant venture more than 500 meters off shore before you get a destroyer shell up 
 your suit, thus hampering any "no showdown" approximations to any problem.
  
  However, on the technical side, yes, this game is perfect. The water is extremely realistic (though 
 the Source engine still beats it by a bit) , and the physics system is top-notch, allowing you to 
 break EVERYTHING. The sound is nice, though sometimes it feels phony (the robot sounds are just 
 hilarious) . The vegetation needs special mention. I can't describe it as anything else but perfect. 
 The shadowing, the character modeling... all these aspects are simply some of the best. (Again, 
 comparing with Source: the facial expressions do fall a bit short, as the lip-sync. Why so much 
 comparing? Well, Source set high standards on character design... and havent been outmatched) . 
 Some levels are fantastic (the carrier... ooooh the carrier) while most are just... nice. Islands, 
 no matter how lushly rendered, do get old. And while the ice trick is neat, it will bring your 
 system to its knees, courtesy of ice refraction. Which leads to the other quirk. This game totally 
 needs a MONSTER rig. Otherwise, get ready to lower down some details seriously.
  
  Also, the Artificial Intelligence use on the Koreans is simply superb. They flank, they cover, 
 they lob grenades, they call reinforcements, etc. They are way tougher than aliens... Aliens just 
 swim REAL fast on their zero grav, making them REAL hard to hit... theres where their difficulty 
 lies. And the robots, well, they just charge at you.
  
  The suit characteristics are fantastic, but you cant help feeling they should have been better 
 balanced. The suit has four modes: Maximum Armor (self-explanatory) Maximum Strength, which allows 
 you to jump higher and punch real hard, Maximum Speed, which allows you to run faster, but sprint 
 is useless cuz it drains energy FAST and cloak, which is great, as long as you dont move too much. 
 Needless to say, youll spend the game on Maximum Armor, because any other setting will get you 
 killed faster than a cockroach on a 5 star restaurant. There is a self regenerating health system, 
 which is much appreciated, given the toughness of enemy soldiers.
  
  And thats it... A fantastic technological demo, but not much of a game. It could have exploited 
 more its resources, or bring us a more coherent story, but it was not meant to be. Thanks, but 
 Im gonna keep HL2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerLordz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is one of those games that you just love.
  Its amazing how the graphics look better then a 360 or a PS3.
  I think Vista is the top system 
 that has the best gaming graphics.
  Crysis + Vista = Never going to have a life again
  you will enjoy every part of the game.
  There isnt much bad stuff in this game.
  The language 
 to be honest is not at all bad.
  If you like 1st-Person Shooters then you will love this game
  Crysis is definitely a christmas 
 buy
  or a awesome birthday present!
  once you play the game you will never get off!
  i have played this game for about 16 weeks and just absolutely loved it
  it was amazing the graphics 
 are just astounding
  I love the gameplay it feels so fresh.
  This is the best birthday or christmas present ever!
  the music soundtrack is excellent there 
 is so many freaking tracks
  I love it, it is the bomb
  I love how sooooo many tanks are included i love blowing the crap out of other tanks too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TANGJUICE81
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  So far I've played this game twice and I'm looking for more. But that's a good thing in my book. 
 I love the graphics, the expressions of the Koreans when you jump out and take them down. It's 
 like F. E. A. R. where you can play over and over again and not get bored. There are so many different 
 was to go through this game. Full-on or stealth and take out your enemy one by one. Overall, this 
 game is the new generation of FPS, with all the gravy. If you haven't gotten it yet go and get 
 it. I can't wait until they follow up with this game. It's going to take over the shooter franchise 
 for some years. I have nothing bad to say about this game... but if you really want to see this 
 game get a good pair of nVidia SLI cards, some good memory and a fast cpu and you'll be good to 
 good. I am working with on grfx card right now and I want to see what the full potential as far 
 as grfx goes in this game. It's a demanding game as far as grfx but even if you set you system 
 to medium you still get awesome effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crysisfreak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is a very good game, but i knew that the things that i've read in some gamer magazine couldn't 
 be real. Crytek sad that Crysis was perfect, and so the magazine did too.
  When i got home from school a day, then a saw a gift on the table. I couldn't wait too innstall 
 it, yes it was Crysis. When i had innstalled it, i started the game. once i've started it, a weird 
 feeling came, like something was wrong.. It wasn't the feeling that i've expected. It didn't feel 
 so good as i was expecting, but i knew that. And i think that 80% of the feeling is because i don't 
 have a computer from tomorrow. I have to play Crysis on low/medium, and that destroys much of the 
 game experience. And the other thing is that the game is still lagging, so that's very irrytable. Crysis 
 is a very good game so i recommend you to buy it.
  The point is, that is if you're going to buy Crysis (like i recommend) , you should first buy a 
 new computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperCanel
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  Hey this is a perfect game in all aspects. There are not many games which have physics and effects 
 as realistic as this one. For example tanks can knock down walls and demolish small buildings if 
 they bump into them. If you hit a barrel some liquid flows thorough the bullet hole. And splash 
 effect changes depending on its flowing to the ground or the sea. If you hit the same area a few 
 times small trees can be cut down from wherever you hit. And believe me, this game has the best 
 nuclear explosion effects ever! (Before Crysis, in the last mission, I think FEAR was the best.)
 
  
  -Just as I told, the games which have best and most interactive physics are Source Engine games (Half-Life 
 2, Dark Messiah, ...) and Crysis!
  
  -You can drive lots of Korean and American vehicles including nuclear tanks, hovercraft, assault 
 helicopters, etc... And I must tell you that you can even modify your weapons! I think multiplayer 
 is even better than Battlefield series!
  
  And there is a player who says the game is not like its "predecessor" FarCry. Of course it is not! 
 BECAUSE CRYSIS IS NOT A SEQUEL TO FARCRY!
  That is a different game. You should read more carefully.
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eizenstahl
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Overhyped beyond belief, up there with Bioshock as far as those go.
  Now, the game isn't bad, some of it is quite good actually, especially the first third of the game. 
 The rest left alot to be desired.
  
  Graphically it's both pretty and pretty impressive, almost all the time and all over the place. 
 The world feel dead though, but I can't really put my finger on why, but it felt abit too plastic 
 and artificial for me, like the 'oiled up roads' I've seen in the later versions of the Need 4 
 Speed series. Animations are good, can't really complain, so are most textures and models. One 
 thing that has to go though imho, is the 'motion blur' (it can be turned off or atleast lowered 
 to almost non-existance though) you get then you turn around. I mean, I'm no rocket-scientist, 
 but my eyes/vision don't behave in that manner when I turn my head from side to side (unless Im 
 very very very drunk) , my digital camera however, might.
  I'd give the graphics a 9.
  
  Sounds are ok, abit repetative the things the N-Koreans are saying, but that was sort of expected. 
 Weapons and grenade sounds are ok/good. Sound is what it should be by todays standards, can't complain.
 
  Soundscore 7
  
  Gameplay: I might be harse here, but the Nano-suit adds pretty much nothing to the gameplay. Reason? 
 The 'battery-time' .... or lack of it. Sure, runspeed will save yer hiny acouple of times, as will 
 stealth-mode, but other than that... it might just be have left out of the game. All in all it's 
 just another run and gun game, nothing more, nothing less, just slightly more good looking and 
 polished. Farcry was a run and gun game as well, but atleast Farcy felt (and was) a load more open 
 and free as far as 'go from point A to B and kill some guys'.
  Weapons are ok as far as 'feel' goes, but there where too few and they where too similar.
  I 
 got tired of the game just about when I entered the Alien ship.. it was way too annoying, too frustrating, 
 and I got terrible Jedi Knight 2 flashbacks (from the falling ship with wacko gravity) .
  The aliens are very uninspiring, last parts of the game (last third? ) felt tedious and boring. 
 It just dragged on and on and on (not unlike Bioshock) . The part where you fly one of those landing 
 ships could have been removed alltogether, not fun, but awquard and added nothing to the overall 
 experience (or lack of it) .
  The whole game (the whole genre to be honest) left me wanting more... more focus on the game, more 
 thinking, more planning, less run and gun and less focus on the graphics leaving the rest in the 
 dust.. sort of.
  Played through the game on Hard the first time.... wasn't that hard imho, more like 'normal'. At 
 more than one encounter, the easiest and smartest (?) way to beat it, was just to run towards the 
 next waypoint and 'take it'. Reminded me abit of the respawn tanks in Bioshock. Where is the risk? 
 Where is the challenge?
  Cant comment on the multiplayer, havn't tried it, never will either.
  Gameplay score: 6
  
 
  Not sure I would recommend the game to anyone except maybe to one who only wanted an ok no-brainer 
 FPS and nothing more, because thats exactly what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  * Wonderful level designs that i'm dying to see in full DX 10 on max settings someday. Was able 
 to play with high frame rates on a 1920x1200 LCD, Windows XP, 8800 GTS (640) , and 2.4 Core2 Duo, 
 with everything on High except Objects (Low) , Shadows (Med) and Shaders (Med)
  
  * The detail on the aircraft carrier level was unexpected, and the detail and animation on the 
 aliens and inside their HQ was phenomenal. The tornadoes on the VTOL level were cool as hell. Death-by-tornado 
 is definitely one of the most interesting examples of game physics I've seen yet.
  
  * Final boss battle felt sufficient bad ass and over-the-top, and definitely worth playing through 
 on Delta for the most intense experience. I played it on Normal, and that was definitely too easy, 
 even moreso once you figure out basic game tactics and weapon choice
  
  * Good ending, didn't want it to end at all, and definitely looking forward to the expansion pack 
 or sequel ... the ending leaves it kinda open for either.
  
  Cons:
  
  * Story is right out of cliched '80s action movie hell with instantly forgettable characters. Granted, 
 shooters don't necessarily need a great narrative to be a great game ... but it certainly raises 
 the game to the next level of immersion and interaction when you care about what's happening and 
 you care about your role in the overall fiction of the game. * Nanosuit powers add an interesting 
 wrinkle on traditional shooter gameplay, but it's not nearly as compelling as you think it would 
 be. The only truly useful power you'll use over and over again is (the slightly overpowered) stealth 
 mode. The other powers (Strength, Speed) are entirely situational and rarely used unless you're 
 tossing around items/people for comic effect in Strength mode.
  
  Overall Crysis does what we hoped ti would ... but not much more. It obviously raises the bar for 
 next-gen game environments and graphics with a solid, albeit forgettable storyline to propel you 
 along the way.
  
  However, compared to truly excellent fare this year like Portal, Bioshock, Call of Duty 4 and Half-Life 
 2: Episode 2, it's hard to look at something like Crysis and excuse the developers for not investing 
 as much time and talent into the personality of the game world and plot as they obviously did with 
 the technical engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Well Crysis is a great game. Many things come together to make the game what it is, not just the 
 graphics. Yes the game looks stunning, but it also plays stunning. The Gameplay in Crysis is uncomparible 
 to any other game. Throughout the game you have a nanosuit which is needed to survive in the insane 
 situations that you are put in. The suit has four abilities that can be switched to on the fly, 
 cloak, strength, armor, and speed. Using any of these abilities is great fun not to mention that 
 cloak literally lets you survive the game.
  
  The Graphics/Environment are top-notch which is know by many, but the huge environments cannot 
 be given justice. Huge glorious explosions and vast environments make Crysis unbelieveably lifelike. 
 Playing Crysis is a great luxury, every new scene that you enter is a new experience and you never 
 know what is coming, the open environments let you decide how to kill most of your enemies and 
 accomplish all of you objectives. Crysis does have a huge PC requirement to see it at its best 
 and the framerates are not great. With this one setback, Crysis still deserves the patience and 
 time of all FPS gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masoud03
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  as mentioned the game is very beautiful in terms of graphics and visuals , but i think every one 
 knows that no existing computer can run this game with its full potential , sounds cool but when 
 you want to actually play the game , you need to bring down the setup from mind blowing to just 
 a good looking game , i think EA and Crytek didn't think on this one clearly. the story is good 
 to some point but the events don't match, like you see your friend torn apart but later you find 
 out the aliens can only shoot ice ..!?!!?
  or you see a ship in the middle of the island with no explanation how it was done, you never see 
 your enemies carrying huge objects around. some bugs are also seen in the game , like you have 
 a shadow even when invisible !?!?! or sometimes your enemies run to a wall ( they get stuck to 
 it) for taking cover !!?! some times you want to snipe some guards in a stealthy way but enemies 
 see you from miles !?!?
  all in all , crysis is enjoyable and is good but not to die for, you should play it 5 to 6 years 
 from now when graphic cards can actually support this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  When Doom, Quake, Half Life 2 and all other games that revolutionnized the industry came out, I 
 was blown out by the graphics and everytime I was showing them to my friend and telling them : 
 Soon it will be like if you are there . Crysis is the very first game that answer to my prop&amp;#293; etic 
 sentence. When I went to bed after my first night of gaming, I could vividly remember being on 
 the island. I did not remember I was playing a game or being on the second level... no.... I was 
 on real island, hiding in the foliage. Now I will have to change my sentence to my friend to : 
 Soon it's going to be the holodeck . The story line is very good if somewhat used . But the mix 
 between batteling the Korean and the Alien is very good. The change in level design is perfect 
 and the last couple of level are down right exciting. Add to this a map design program and a good 
 multiplayer mode and you're in business. The only downside is that you need to have a top of the 
 line rig to appreciate Crysis in all it's glory. But even if you don't, the gameplay is still worth 
 the buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcane_artist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  My previous runs through the game were on an old computer slowly choking to the death on a bunch 
 of 1s and 0s. Although it was a good all round gaming computer, it was no match for playing Crysis 
 without dumbing down its settings. Like I said before, the game was ok, not great, but ok. That 
 was on a mixed setting of low to high. 
  
  However! Recently I have just acquired a beast of a computer, running all settings on high. (I 
 know there's very high, but I'm guessing that's for 64bit memory) The game, is completely different. 
 The amount of mediocre KPA activity on previous plays through has been changed to moving more often 
 then you originally remember. Even the interactions with the environment are vastly improved, (ie, 
 running down a KPA doesn't just make them go through the car or stop the car completely) Not to 
 mention the graphics are mind numbingly impressive (which was kind of a given) . The difficulty 
 however, is a little bit more difficult, but still pretty easy for Delta.
  
  If your thinking just upgrading your graphics card will suffice for this game. You are not very 
 good with computers, and you should feel disappointed when you try and play and it still sucks. 
 Upgrading your RAM to a more then a standard 553mhz, is a good move. Upgrading, your CPU to a Core 
 Duo or Quad (quad, no really point unless you actually do stuff with your computer other then gaming) 
 that is above 2.5ghz. Getting a new mother board to handle it all. And lastly, upgrading your Graphics 
 card, 8800s should have no worrys at all running it, but as long as the other parts in your computer 
 are upped as well, and 8800 isn't completely necessary (especially when your budgeting) . Don't 
 just buy stuff cause you think they're good, check out there specs, and see the differences.
  
  Summary, Crysis is way better on a awesome computer, and way worse on a crap computer. And 
 if you think this game sucks, well... it's your own fault for running it on a crap computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drachmas
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  the things that were supposed to set this game apart from others were the graphics, physics, and 
 nano suit. really none of those 3 things stack up in this game to be revolutionary or new. graphics
 
  
  the graphics are great but very few people have a good enough cpu to run it good on even medium 
 settings. graphics for me were not that important. shocking i know for some who seem to play games 
 because they look pretty and not because they are fun. luckily this game is very scaleable and 
 i could get a good frame rate on low settings.
  
  physics
  
  the physics in this game are really no differant than half life 2s. you can pick up most things 
 and throw them around, hit people with them, or just trash things for your amusment. nothing new 
 and nothing revolutionary here.
  
  nano suit
  
  your nano suit basically gives you super human powers. ive seen this in the jedi knight games, 
 system shock, deus ex, and about 1000 other games.. only you have less powers than you do in those 
 games and more limited energy. the speed in the game is kind of useless because it drains the energy 
 so fast. but it can come in handy some times. the strength is pretty cool because you can pick 
 guys up and throw them or punch them for 1 hit kills and jump real high. its hard to do this on 
 hard setting (i played the game on hard) because you die so fast without your armour power or cloak 
 on. armor basically allows you take twice the amount of damage and which i think is the best skill 
 in the game. cloak is very good because you will need it to hide or sneak up on enemys. i think 
 they could have done more with the suit and made it better and more useable. but most the time 
 you simple hide behind something with your armour on and shoot people without using your other 
 powers that much other than cloak.
  
  having said all that the game was still very good. the single player has plenty of mission for 
 you to do and the multiplayer also gives you something to mess around with. but this game isnt 
 revolutinary and is nowhere near as good as people are saying it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerair
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The graphics and physics engine is beautiful.
  The graphics and physics engine will mock your CPU and GPU and kill framerates. I'm not saying 
 that the single player campaign is short, but It could have easily been longer. I REALLY don't 
 want to wait for two sequels to come out. I don't think any improvements to the graphics engine 
 will be needed.
  
  I'm nitpicking here but it bugged me how with some guns you can't carry enough extra ammo. The 
 chaingun will let you reload once and the gauss gun about 4 times.
  The Koreans were superhuman in their ability to stay alive. They are way too hard to kill. I mean, 
 come on, be realistic, ONE bullet from a pistol should be able to take them out. Much less 5 to 
 their torso/legs, but they still stay afoot.
  
  Overall, a great FPS, but if Crytek had crammed the whole storyline from the trilogy into this 
 one game and made a few minor improvements in the efficiency of the game engine, along with a few 
 other things, this game would have been near-perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumeiwan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  Crytek seriously has done it again. This new game with an old genre has showed what the gaming 
 world has to offer in the future. With the promised outstanding graphics and details, everyone 
 was pretty hyped by all the eye candies they have in stored for us.
  
  [Graphics ]
  
  The graphics were so outstanding that the demands were even too high for a high end computer. I've 
 played it on highest detail before, but there'll be lag at some areas even with the lowest detail 
 option. The forest, character and enviroment details are so good I couldn't stop my jaw from dropping.
 
  Though graphics are excellent, most people will have trouble playing if they don't have at least 
 a mid-end system.
  
  [Gameplay]
  
  Even though it's just like any other FPS you've ever touched. First person shooters will never 
 really bore anyone, as long as you have weapons and targets. However, crysis actually added abit 
 of zest to this old genre. By adding the nano suits to the gameplay, the player can do what no 
 normal soldiers can do.
  
  Another feature is the weapon modding. Although it's not original, but it really adds in more fun 
 to your regular type of FPS.
  
  Computer's AI was pretty realistic. I can't say it's good because half the time, they become dumb 
 when you go into stealth/cloak mode.
  
  Another thing that's pretty outstanding is the destroyable enviroments. Buildings and trees topple 
 either because ofcrossfire, explosions or super strength bashing makes the feel of the game a lot 
 more realistic.
  
  So, the single player mode is very fun to play. The multi player mode might be quite dissapointing, 
 most online players would expect team deathmatch. But it's the only thing that have been left out.
 
  
  [Sound]
  
  I can't say much about this since I don't have a 7.1 surround system or anything like that. But 
 I assure you that it won't be that bad even you have a 2.1 (or whatever they call it) .
  
  If you're going to skip this game, it'll probably be your lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  SUPERB SUPERB SUPERB SUPERB SUPERB SUPERB SUPERB SUPERB SUPERB SUPERB GAME WITH AWESOME GRAPHICS, 
 BUY A VGA IF YOU HAVE TO IT IS REALLY WORTH IT BELIEVE ME, * GAME PLAY IS EXCELLENT * AWESOME STORY 
 LINE, * GAME LENGTH IS JUST RIGHT
  
  * AUDIO AND SOUND TRACKS ARE REALLY COOL,. HOPE YOU HAVE A SURROUND KIT,., NIGHT VISION, GUNS, 
 NANO SUIT, WITH NANO POWERS, ALIEN, KORIYAN, AS WELL AS YOUR OWN GUYS
  
  THE ONLY DOWN PART IS THERE ARE MORE GUYS IN THE GAME WHO HAS THE NANO SUIT NOT JUST ONLY THE PLAYER 
 BUT ALSO TEAM MEMBERS .,.,., ., ., .,. ,., ., ., ., ., ., DON\'T WORRY YOU CAN EVEN PLAY THIS IN 
 SHADER 2, 128MB VGA BUT RECOMMEND A 512MB WITH SHADER 3 @ LEAST OF 1.5GB RAM ENJOY GUYS ONE OF 
 THE BEST SHOOTER GAMES EVER IT WILL NEVER BE THE SAME AFTER YOU PLAY THIS MASTER SHOOTER * * * 
 * * * * * * * * * * * * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjy117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth buying if you have the hardware to run it with. I have a 8800 gts 320 mb , AMD 
 Athlon 5600 Windsor, and 2gigs of ram. I first ran this game at 1440 x 900 with the setting on 
 medium and 2x anitliasing. When I got out of the Alien ship in the mountains it was not playable 
 at all. I had to lower my resolution down to 1024 x 768. Still I was dropping down to 10 frames 
 on the this scene. I believe the snow particles had something to do with it. As fas as the game 
 play goes its pretty decent. You can do some awesome things with the nanosuit. The cloaking ability 
 is the main feature with the suit in my opinion because it lets you go undetected until you get 
 in an enemy's face then immediately grab him. You can then toss the enemy onto other enemy's and 
 watch them splatter like bowling ball pins. Your armor feature will then be the second most used 
 item of the nanosuit. Once your armor is depleted you will have to run for cover because it then 
 only takes a few bullets and your done for. The vehicles in the game drive fairly decent. You can 
 simply hit a button and be in a different seat in the vehicle such as the turret gun that is mounted 
 on the jeep like hum v. The boats are fun to use and the turret gun on it is very useful for cleaning 
 out a shore of Koreans. The A. I. is great from what I seen. The enemy does a pretty good job at 
 attacking you. There is no difference on the harder difficulty except there is no grenade indicator 
 and the enemy speaks only Korean. I did see however a few glitches in the game. Like enemy's running 
 into a still barrel you threw on the road and they touch it and die. Also I have heard Koreans 
 speak only korean on easy difficulty. The weapon you start off with you won't keep because of the 
 lack off ammo for it. The most most effective weapon will be the rocket launcher. The story line 
 isn't that great. It kinda reminds me of Gears of War I suppose. The game is ahead of its time 
 but I think EA just wanted to put something advanced out first. However, when compared to Call 
 of Duty 4, in some scenes the graphics can be comparable. A lot of reviewers claim the games lack 
 of frames could have been resolved if it was just slightly tweaked with by the developers ( Dynamic 
 range) . I give this and 8.5 out of 10 because it is worth playing through. I have not played the 
 online version of the game but I have heard that it lacks in that department of content. The graphics 
 are great. The frames aren't. Story line is not great with a bad ending. The controls do work pretty 
 decent for the game. Don't buy this game unless you have at least a 7900 series or better in opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletsword
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Stop. Stop it. Stop it right now. Stop looking at how beautiful the graphics are and play the game.
 
  
  Most people would judge Crysis based on how advanced the graphics are. The ones that say that Crysis 
 looks bad are ignorant idiots. The ones that say Crysis looks brilliant are less idiotic, but still, 
 ignorant. More than anything, Crysis delivers some of the most intense and original shooting experiences 
 ever to be seen in the genre. And - wait for it - it looks amazing.
  
  Crysis's plot will sound cliche at first glance. Send in some guys to take out some soldiers, then 
 look. Aliens. Every other game has some of these. But at least here, the general idea of aliens 
 wanting to take over the world is made more original. The story kind of takes a back seat because 
 of how well done other aspects of the game are, but still manages to be a story capable of being 
 interesting enough to keep you going.
  
  In Crysis, you play as a soldier named Nomad. He's a soldier with this nanosuit which has some 
 different abilities. There's an armor mode which drains suit energy rather than health, there's 
 this speed mode which lets you move faster, and then there is a strength mode where you can jump 
 higher and deliver much, much more power with melee attacks. To top all that off, you get a cloak 
 mode as well. Throughout the entire game you will have these abilities and you can switch between 
 them at any moment all in real time. It's easy to fall in love with each of the modes, but it's 
 essential that you know when to use them.
  
  It won't take long for you to see the whole array of guns at your disposal because there is a rather 
 small selection of weapons. A pistol, shotgun, a few automatic weapons, rocket launcher, the essentials 
 you'd expect. Many of the weapons can be customized with silencers, sights, and other attachments. 
 These customization options are also rather small and limited like the weapon selection, but both 
 of these manage to be simple and comfortable without having the limitation have a negative impact.
 
  
  But one of the big things that make Crysis stand out from the crowd is that it offers a totally 
 different and unique level of immersion. While the game is far from free-roaming, it doesn't feel 
 very linear at all. The levels you play on are huge. Simply huge. Simply put, there's a lot of 
 room to run around in which offers a lot of different opportunities and strategies. Put this together 
 with the nanosuit and weapon selection/customization and this truly becomes one of the few games 
 that have ever gotten the concept of "do this however the hell you want" right.
  
  Want more? Throw in some vehicles, highly destructable environments, and terrific enemy AI. The 
 gaming experience is highly expanded and becomes much, much more flexable. Like how Oblivion got 
 the idea of "creating a new experience every time" with RPGs, Crysis just did this for the FPS 
 genre.
  
  In other words, great shooting mechanics and the rather open feel of the game is what makes Crysis 
 as good as it is for the most part. Each and every moment of intense combat is exciting. Every 
 fort that collapses from a grenade, every helicopter you shoot down, every time something that 
 just looks chaotic happens right before your eyes. A lot of thanks can go straight to the amazing 
 physics and the over-the-top graphics engine.
  
  To quickly get this out of the way, yes. Crysis's graphics are beautiful. Hands down. I play this 
 game at rather low settings, but even then this is a sight you must see. Try to do your best to 
 buy or steal a good computer. You can only imagine how good the chaos looks in higher quality.
 
  
  On top of that, the sound effects are almost as good as the game actually looks. Quality voice 
 acting with the intense noise of combat, only to go together with a soundtrack equally awesome. 
 But I really have to hand it off to some terrific voice acting. Characters are given some decent 
 personality and makes them feel that much more real. And the soundtrack could have been used for 
 an award-winning military film.
  
  As you progress with Crysis, you'll probably notice that the second half of the game loses a bit 
 of the immersion and flexibility you once had. You'll be confined to a smaller play area meaning 
 less room and ways to lead an attack. In short, things get more linear towards the end, making 
 it feel like you added a nanosuit to another recent high-profile FPS game. Despite this, Crysis 
 keeps the core shooting aspects in perfect play.
  
  Now, take a look at the main menu. See the tab that says "Multiplayer"? Go ahead. Click it. Imagine 
 yourself doing that about 10 more times before you finally stop.
  
  Multiplayer is one of Crysis's weakest points. A great concept gone wrong, or at least, more wrong 
 than it should be. There are two modes: your standard Deathmatch and this new mode called Power 
 Struggle.
  
  Power Struggle is a team-based game. Two teams must capture certain points on the map. These points 
 can be served as respawn points, bases to build vehicles, and to gather technology so you can build 
 some nukes and weapons of mass destruction. You'll constantly be going around this big map capturing 
 these points. Once your team manages to get some devastating weapons, all you have to do is blow 
 up the enemy team's home base.
  
  It's good to know that the nanosuit features and shooting mechanics all work in multiplayer. Given 
 that nearly each and every one of the multiplayer maps are pretty big themselves, it still has 
 a decent feel of immersion like the singleplayer game. But when comparing Crysis's multiplayer 
 to various other games, this is where it'll start to fall short.
  
  Power Struggle is a neat mode, but requires a lot of patience. Having to capture bases, building 
 these weapons, and trying to do all these things needs some time, but when half an hour goes by 
 and there's really no progress, it can drive certain people nuts. This concept works and works 
 well, though a game like Crysis probably wasn't made for a multiplayer mode like this.
  
  The deathmatch mode can be more appealing to others. Like I said, the core gameplay of Crysis works 
 well in multiplayer. But the whole multiplayer aspect of Crysis is lacking. A ranking system would 
 be nice or at least some stats. Maybe some unlocks or customization or something more that at least 
 tries to keep up with the multiplayer side of gaming these days. And even worse: very, very few 
 multiplayer options. There's no team deathmatch, either. Deathmatch and Power Struggle is all you 
 get. Nothing more. A genre-defining title should at least have much more bulk in the multiplayer. 
 Multiplayer is fun and all, but it's not long-lasting and it is very, very far from being the reason 
 you'd ever want Crysis. It feels much more like a bonus. To make a long story short, multiplayer's 
 a disappointment.
  
  Other than its multiplayer shortcomings, Crysis is one of the most cinematic and most unique games 
 you can find this year. It looks great, plays great, and sounds great. This is indeed a landmark 
 in FPS gaming, though I doubt that too many will ever remember Crysis for how it reaches out to 
 the community in its multiplayer (somehow I can't just really get over this. A game like this had 
 so much potential for a multiplayer experience) . The single player is worth revisiting several 
 times and with the inevitable chance of getting user-made content, this is an experience of a lifetime. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cogs1038
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  My friend has this game and it is really fun! I thought it was a complete waste of money until 
 i played it. It is not a wast of money!!! buy this game!!! The game has great audio and graphics. 
 Crysis is a Sci-Fi FPS game for the PC, where mankind must struggle to survive in the face of an 
 alien invasion.
  
  The North Korean Government quickly seals off the island chain, claiming the mysteries of the asteroid 
 for themselves. The United States responds by dispatching an elite team of Delta Force Operators 
 to recon the situation and report back to the Pentagon. Amid rising tensions between the US and 
 North Koreans, the asteroid suddenly bursts open, revealing a massive, 2km high alien ship. The 
 ship generates an immense force sphere, freezing a vast portion of the island and drastically altering 
 the global weather system. The invasion of Earth has begun.
  
  Features Include:
  
  # An immersive story that puts you the player in the pivotal role to repel an alien invasion and 
 save mankind.
  # A unique three-act structure that forces the player to use real-time armor and weapons customization 
 to adapt to an ever changing dynamic world.
  # Encounter a compelling, frightening and totally original alien species that uses its senses intelligently 
 and work in combination with each other to present players with the most challenging opponents 
 yet in an FPS.
  # Enemy and ally AI utilise real-world military tactics.
  # Take control of a wide variety of land, sea and air vehicles including trucks, tanks, boats and 
 helicopters.
  # Explore a living, dynamic world where earthquakes, breaking ice, landslides, and tornados pose 
 a real and an ever-present danger.
  # 32-player Multiplayer with real-time armour and weapons customization and an all new mode that 
 combines player modification and tactical objectives.
  # Emergent gameplay; actions taken in the game affect future outcomes giving each player a unique 
 experience.
  # Highly robust and easy to use mod toolset allow players to create their own expansive levels 
 with game modes for both multiplayer and single player.
  # The most realistic environments, spectacular special effects, physics game engine, lighting system 
 and enemy AI through CryENGINETM 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxwellsmarty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  I enjoy reading reviews on gamespot be that professional or user reviews. Occasionally though when 
 theres an almost perfect game and people give 4!!! out of 10 because of personal shortcomings or 
 anger... well what can i say... Cryteck team have done an amazing job and give us a game that all 
 of us should appeiciate. if you do not have the hardware whos fault is that???? most low ratings 
 come from gamers who says the game is amazing and great and then theres something in the game that 
 pisses them off so badly that they forget all great things about crysis. its almost like beating 
 the heck out of your kid because he or she did not eat his/her lunch.
  remeber fellow gamers the score you give for a game in this case Crysis
  is not for the meassure 
 of your anger or what you wanted the game to be exactly. its for the game itself... who can deny 
 that Crysis is revolutionary
  and one of the best game experience if not the best ever, so if you give 6 or 4!!!! out of 10 well 
 do not call yourself a shooting fan. Crysis= amazing graphics.. amazing gameplay... amazing physics..
 
  great replay value... i actually was frustrated when playing it the first time but once i knew 
 all second time i realized how good this game was made and i just was not good enough at first. 
 i really hate to say anything negative about this game...
  i tend to agree with reviewers that when the game comes to the alien part i feel it could have 
 been somewhat better or different in gameplay this does not mean it was not good! this is the only 
 reason i do not give 10!
  thank you for Crysis game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobalt1365
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  There is so much to say about Crysis that I'll try to keep it short. Crysis doesn't stray too much 
 from some established shooter formula elements such as boss battles, a linear story, and an epic 
 conclusion. What sets Crysis apart from every other shooter is execution. The story premise is 
 somewhat familiar to shooter fans: Aliens are invading the Earth, and your high-tech bad self is 
 all that stands between them and total World Dominiation. Crysis has a set story, but it's so well 
 written I had no trouble many times during the game imagining Crysis as a movie, it's that well-written 
 (My face was stuck in a permanent jaw-drop through the last two levels) .
  
  The levels are wide open, moreso in the beginning, but that's because the story is not as focused 
 yet, and when you get into the story, all you want to do is go along for the ride, not stop and 
 smell the roses. Your mission objectives in the beginning are basically go from point A to point 
 B, and how you get there is up to you. There are many different tactics you can choose, ranging 
 from snipe and infiltrate to systematically sweeping through a level to run-and-gun. Your nano-suit 
 gives you a complete well-balance toolkit to enable you to adapt you tactics according to the situation... 
 and adapt you must. The levels are nothing if not unpredictable, and being able to adjust my abilities 
 on the fly is what kept me alive (Although I did die probably more than my share of times) .
  
  Dispatching enemies is very satisfactory because of the multitude of ways I could go about 
 it. Most enemies could be taken out from long range with a sniper rifle, grenaded, bludgeoned, 
 choked, punched to death, tossed off a cliff, blown up, or get knocked over by various objects, 
 just to name a few. Nearly everything is destructible and/or interactive, namely trees and ramshackle 
 buildings, and they look very satisfactory when blown apart. The physics engine is superb, creating 
 very convincing collapsing buildings, falling objects, or Korean soldiers flying through the air. 
 It lends that extra layer of realism that too many games lack.
  
  Oh yeah, and it looks pretty cool too.
  Crysis is the first game to fully utilize the DirectX 
 10, and as such, it brings another level of visual reality unthought-of in modern games. Sun accurately 
 reflects off objects and is beautifully refracted by water, ice, glass, heat and cloaking effects. 
 Trees filter sunlight to create beautiful dapple effects on the forest floor, and the water is 
 beautifully rendered from the way it ripples in an ocean bay to how it drips off your visor. If 
 I could describe Crysis visually in one word, it would be: Beautiful.
  
  That being said, Crysis did fall prey on my computer to a few bugs, the most major of which being 
 an objective that did not update a few levels into the game. I was left with an empty level, passive 
 NPCs and nothing concrete to do. After a little forum trolling and reading the walkthrough here 
 on Gamespot, I was able to proceed, and the objectives continued to update. That and other minor 
 bugs such as a few pathing errors and non-rendering textures were the only thing keeping my rating 
 at a 9.5. I would have no problem giving Crysis a 10 once a patch is released.
  
  Go buy this game, and play it now. More than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RADOGMIJ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  You can go any where on the map. That is a totally new ability in FPS games. I can remember Delta 
 Force and GRAW and GRAW 2 even recently have set way points that one you cross the music changes 
 and you know something is up... Not in CRYSIS ... this seems to me that you can play the same mission 
 an infinate amount of different ways. I love that. Grabbing North Koreans by the throat is also 
 a kick ass ability in this game, I mean who does not want to do that in real life.
  
  Some little things that are personal preferences: I would have liked to be able to switch from 
 1st to 3rd person. Like in Lost Planet and Gears of War. When you are playing as a Kick ass Spec 
 Ops killer in a Nano-suit a person might want to see that kick ass person sometimes.
  
  I can't wait to go help Prophet kick some more alien ass, sphincter, cloaca or whatever those ice 
 loving organisms have!!!
  
  Also... High system requirements are not a down fall... IT IS A PLUS...
  
  IF YOU CANNOT PLAY 
 IT===&gt; YOUR COMPUTER NEEDS A NEW PAIR OF COMBAT BOOTS!!! -|-
  ----X-- X-- (o) -- X-- X---
  
  C130 MEDIC RADOGMIJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauro_rubens
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I am not the type indicated for indicating a game for any other, I'm even lazy for doing so, but 
 for some game it is like a sin for not doing so. Lately, there some really nice games out there 
 and Crysis stand out alone, in every aspect. When you look at its graphics, (I have some in game 
 pictures as desktop theme, so much I like them) I am still in awe the physics is as good as Oblivion 
 if not better. As for the game itself, is so darn good that I have been playing since I bought 
 it. It is good to see those vehicles or the houses being destroyed. Also, thou I don't play FPS 
 that much I've been enjoying this one too much to my safe, hehe, hehe. If you have a very good 
 equipment and like First Person Shooter you will love this game, but, even if you don't like FPS 
 you will enjoy this game very much. Crysis is the best game today, visually and playing, that is 
 it.
  
  Anderson.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBlueMonkey
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of Far Cry, PC and Xbox versions, I felt that Crysis was going to hold something special 
 and not just special for its graphics. However, having now played the game and finished it I was 
 left feeling thoroughly unsatisfied by a game that clearly has had way too much hype surround it, 
 and has relied on nothing but graphics to get noticed. I mean I can't review the game on its graphics 
 because (and I doubt i'm alone here) my PC just couldn't handle it, so I'm briefly reviewing the 
 game on certain other aspects. There are many features to Crysis that one may enjoy. Customising 
 your weaponry during play and the abilities of your suit are neat features. Unfortunately however, 
 there isn't enough variety of weaponry or original weaponry to make Crysis stand out on its own 
 in design. The abilities your suit has are indeed cool, and are what make Crysis stand out a bit 
 from the crowd, however with limited power on ALL the abilities you soon find yourself just using 
 the armour power and shooting everyone instead of being sneaky with the cloak as its power runs 
 out within seconds of selecting it! Crysis just doesn't come close to the variety of customisation 
 and abilities that Bioshock offers or even Deus Ex and on a side note Bioshock didn't take forever 
 to make either! Sorry but this is so average, and due to the story and ending of the game it really 
 doesn't deserve what many reviewers (who have obviously been payed) have been giving it. Average 
 through to average! Oh and don't make a sequel if you're going to make it like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkadiyk
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is created by a company called crytec utilising cryengine 2. 
  Crysis is a revulution to gaming because it is the most complex program there is till now (i said 
 program not only game) It is the most biggest game in terms of space. 
  Revulutionary to games:
  A) PHYSICS: trees are breakable at every point and can be picked up
 
  B) AI and fps interaction: It is the 1st time that one can come up to a AI charachter such as the 
 northkorean soldier or a alien bot and grab it buy the neck and see the facial expresion of the 
 AI change before your very eyes. 
  c) Graphics and visuals: this game under very high looks better then any game out there and in 
 the pipline. ( most ppl can set AA up to 8 ) so when hardware does catch up to this game and aa 
 will be maxed out to 16 aa this game will look even more amazing can it look more amazing? lol 
 by how much well real life lol. 
  d) The nano suit: 5 settings that we can set to based on the suits energy level; armor; speed; 
 strength; cloak; and the 5th one is custmised weaponing
  e) weapon customization: as a player customises by pressing c in game his weapon is brought in 
 front of him directly and windows allows us to use the mouse and cursor to select from customisable 
 scopes, lasers, silencers, bullets, granadelaunchers, etc..
  f) D X10 and dx9: pushed further and allows for future hardware benching
  g) Multiplayer: Crysis 
 defines what a next next gen multiplayer game should be straight up 
  h) gaming for adults: 
  I) nice story plot
  j) difficulty: Delta just right i loved it and 
 will play it again at least 5 time more 
  
  
  my list is longer i will add more to this list 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fpShorty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - 10 
  The graphics is this game is over the top. Faces look real, clouds are puffy, and the details are 
 amazing on every corner. This game can't fail on graphics. In a matter of fact, this game has the 
 best graphics I ever seen. But, do you have the rig to actually see the real graphics? I run this 
 on low on my ATI X1500 PCI (That's right!) and this kills the fun. The graphics are still nice, 
 but you low framerates most of the time. That's notfun. Unless, you have a rig that can run this 
 baby smoothly.
  
  Gameplay - 7
  The AI suck. Everything else is great though. BUT! If you are easily scared, don't buy this game. 
 On the first level, one of your Nano guys get dead and SHOWS A SCARY FACE AND YOU WILL TAKE A !@#$ 
 IN YOUR PANTS! On the other hand, the game is great. A lot of action and intensity. That's how 
 I like my games. Mmmmmm, toasty....
  
  Physics - 10
  Physics are awesome. Don't you think? Remember 9/11? That is an example of physics. But, I rather 
 not talk about it. The people who attacked athe towers are sissies. They rather hit buildings with 
 planes instead of going face to face with the United States Army. Anyways, did you know there are 
 TORNADOES? Yep. The tornadoes are awesome and you know what they do. The buildings are destructible 
 and the trees can fall if you shoot them.
  
  Multiplayer - 9
  Multiplayer is fun. There is a Deathmatch mode where each individuals fight each other. However, 
 if you love teams, that's a HUGE disappointment. Sorry, but no Team Deathmatch. There is a power 
 struggle mode though. Where to teams fight to control points on the map. You get to buy weapons 
 and vehicles. Then, you get to battle the other team. 2 teams: USA vs NK.
  
  
  Overall - 8.5
  Crysis is a great game, but it didn't live up to its hype. Try the game. See if 
 you like it, then buy it. Make sure you have a PC good enough to play it though. 
  
  Questions:
  
  Q) Did Crysis live up to its hype?
  A) No
  
  Q) Is Crysis fun?
  A) Yes, 
 but you should give it a try yourself.
  
  Q) Can I keep asking you questions?
  A) Maybe.
  
  Q) Why do you have a question section for?
  A) I did it cause I felt like it.
 
  
  Q) Where's my turkey sandwich?
  A) Did you look under your plate?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlisle20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Crysis, the most highly anticipated shooter of the year and also by me personally for the past 
 year and a half or so, I felt was a simply beautiful experience. 
  Visually of course, the game is second to none and this is what made the game for me. I felt 'within' 
 the game - the sheer scale of the maps, which therefore became fairly open-ended, the amazing lighting 
 and most of all the physics gave me a sense that I was in a real world in which I could so anything. 
 This also added to the 'epic' factor present in a generous number of the levels which again gave 
 that sense of war that I quite simply had not yet experienced. 
  Ultimately, however, the game was nothing new in the sense of story and raw game play. The nano 
 suit in my opinion didn't build too much on most games, but the different options certainly helped 
 remove the linear element of many FPS'. Personally, the cloak option did this for me, allowing 
 me to sneak up on whom I wanted and kill in a sadistic manner and the strength option I felt was 
 great when replaying as it allowed me to play around more with the amazing physics engine. 
  The AI was fairly bog standard and arguably worse than what we have previously seen in games such 
 as FEAR. The AI in a number of cases felt fairly unnatural. For example, they notice me far too 
 easily (In Delta mode - which is the only one worth playing) and they always seem to see my grenades 
 so I hardly ever get any kills with them. I also felt there was a lack of vareity of guns and I 
 never seemed to have any ammo for the SCAR which was a pain. On the fly customization was awesome, 
 however - this again allowed me to choose a more exciting way of taking down the enemy. I'm not 
 sure whether this is just me being bad at games, but I found myself shouting in anger [SEMI-SPOILER] 
 in the tank level and the level where you need to save the black guy from dying. He kept on dying 
 at it took me ages to formulate a method and I though I was going to explode.
  Anyway, the story-line was utter crap. Americans coming to investigate an alien crash which then 
 goes out of hand? NO.... Despite this the horribly unoriginal story was told better than I've ever 
 seen it told and I did find myself caring about the characters towards the end. 
  It's hard to come to a strong conclusion about Crysis, but essentially the game's fun factor lies 
 down to its visuals. Of course, these are very taxing on the computer - I found my self playing 
 usually at 15-25 fps. To put a long story short, play it if you have a decent computer - I wouldn't 
 bother at low settings.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilidili
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Crisis is a good game, but there should have been at least 3 more levels with the Koreans.
  
  But, to my opinion the nanosuited Koreans, with the minigun, are over the top.
  
  A lot 
 of gamers are not to pleased with the monsters in Far Cry, but the designers didn't take notice 
 of this.
  
  The 7th level called Core is giving the impressing that you are inside of a star wars womb and 
 it looks like it was made for another game.
  
  From that moment on, things get worse and you fall into that same pit again of aliens, monsters 
 and vampires, which is THE HYPE today.
  
  The flying with the VTOL level is also a total flop.
  
  If I ever want to fly with something, 
 I will buy a flight simulator game.
  
  Finally , you end up on top of a carrier, where you need to do some silly jobs and then you get 
 to the annoying BOSS FIGHTS.
  
  I always choose easy to play a new game, because it should be fun to play and not become annoying, 
 but then it still takes a lot of luck to momentary finish Crysis.
  
  
  A lot of the latest games, including this one, have a very short single player and it is clear 
 that more and more attention is given to the multi
  player.
  
  Bying a multi player game is like bying a lot of air.
  
  Another thing, games are business 
 (money) and like TV series (LOST - Yes I LOST the interest too) they also get divided up in parts, 
 which later become an expansion.
  
  If the expansions are just going to be full of more aliens, then I won't buy them.
  
  What 
 I like about Far Cry and Crysis are the sunny beaches, which are a total contrast with all the 
 other dark and gloomy games.
  
  It's like in the movies.
  
  The actors have become too expensive and the producers are saving on there electricity bill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luisviveiros
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  Yes it is right what i said above, i think guys at crytek were more concern about graphics than 
 for AI, as an example of a good AI it is COD4, where enemies search for you where you were suppose 
 to be not just fooling around .
  In some levels we see some nice AI, but with other like in ASSAULT before we go down to the escavations 
 and the mine, although it was the only part i found a litle dificult to pass (until now) , the AI 
 of the regular soldiers looks better than the ones with a nanosuit, that should be diferent, as 
 you have to be on top of quality of soldiers to earn a suit like that, and it looks the opposite, 
 the more stupid are the ones with nanosuits. The game should have come in the market a month before 
 COD4, so we could adapt from a top game to a top+ game like Call Of Duty 4 it is word by word.
 
  My rating from 0 to 10:
  Graphics - 9
  Story - 9
  Adaptability to older PCs - 8
  AI - 4
  playability - 7
  interaction with elements - 5
  Division of levels and sublevels 
 - 4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sachiboi
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Awesome game the performance was glitchy which betrays most PC users although maybe the Visuals 
 were awesome and often realisitic even with users with a high end pc will obviously suffer in performance 
 obvioulsy as in my case.
  
  The Game's core story plays out rather well except for some silly instances like in the Zero Gravity 
 environment inside the Alien Spaceship and also during the instance where u have to escort one 
 of your comrades through -200 degrees of temeperature.
  
  All in All superb game with awesome fun and some unique new elements into the game such as the 
 Nanosuit and some hi-tech weapons are quite enjoyable and cool @ the beginning but later on the 
 fun wears out due to constant usage, Killing enemies is relatively very simple except for maybe 
 the tiny fact that each enemy can take loads of bullets leaving u in many instances without the 
 proper ammuniton for the right time, The Aliens are nice addition although some elements in gameplay 
 lead to slow performance during firefights with them causing huge amounts of frustration n the 
 inability to enjoy the game to it's maximum potential
  
  Hopefully Crytek will release some patches concerning performance problems which seem to have destroyed 
 some of this marvelous game's fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baselerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, here is Crysis at last. It is one hell of a ride that deserves a play through, or many.
 
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, this game is top notch. The big feature that's being touted here is 
 the nanosuit, which actually works really well. It just adds one more layer to the already good 
 fps standards. Not only does it add this dynamic, but it also adds replayability. Also, most of 
 the levels (more on this later) are extremely open for a first person shooter. Probably, on average, 
 a little more open than even Far Cry. All of the weapons feel powerful and satisfying as well.
 
  
  The level design is really good as well. The first five or six levels pit you against the North 
 Koreans, and this is by far the best part of the game. In you super-suit, you can play around with 
 the, for the most part, exceptional AI. There are a few situations that the AI doesnt seem to react 
 well to, such as cloaking when you are in the water. But the AI is very tactical, and always try 
 to out-flank you. Almost always you will be up against hoards of enemies.
  
  The graphics, needless to say, are amazing. There has been tons of complaining over the hardware 
 requirements, and this is well earned. I don't think I would recommend this game for people who 
 don't have at least the recommended specs. I have an AMD X2 4200+ @ 2.61Ghz, 4GB RAM, Vista, and 
 an 8800GT. I played through the game on all high settings (0xAA, 1280x1024) , and for the most part 
 it was playable, with occasional stuttering. The snow levels later in the game really stress hardware, 
 and you will probably have to turn the settings down for these stages.
  
  People who say graphics don't mean good gameplay, for the most part I agree with them. But this 
 game is an exception. The level of immersion the graphics bring are unprecedented in any videogame 
 before this. I will not go on about this, since you can see screenshots and videos, but needless 
 to say, its pushing the fringes of computing technology.
  
  The Sound is great as well. All the guns have very powerful sounds, which is a very good thing. 
 Sometimes, a great game is ruined by weak sounds (Quake Wars?) . You will leap in glee as you dive 
 behind a rock, and hear the bushes and trees swaying in the wind, while you hear the distant crackle 
 of gunfire, and then bullets whizzing through the air, penetrating the dense foliage. Trust me, 
 it's an experience like no other. The music is great too.
  
  Multiplayer, however, is not as good as the rest of the game. Why is this? A number of things... 
 One, the multiplayer, in it's current form, is too laggy to be enjoyed thoroughly. Hopefully a 
 fix will be released soon, but it really is hard to play when people jump all over the place. There 
 aren't enough maps (only 5 for power struggle, and Instant Action doesn't have enough longevity 
 to it to really consider it as a strong multiplayer component.) There are also some glaring bugs 
 in multiplayer, such as the Anti-Air tanks exploding when fired from. However, if these issues 
 are ironed out, the multiplayer will be amazing. Power struggle is a very unique objective based 
 game mode similar to BF-style games.
  
  All in all, this game has an amazing single player campaign, and the multiplayer, in time, has 
 a potential of being great. I would reccomend this game to anyone who has a high end rig, I am 
 afraid anyone with anything less will be too frustrated by trying to get it to run and look good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvok
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  ok ok, here it is, this is one of the best games i have played all year if not over the past 5 
 years. it is definitly a hot one and everyone should own this game. The graphics are simply amazing, 
 the special effects are amazing, the whole thing is amazing. i love the realism factor for this 
 game (not the belivibility) how your gogals fog up, you can hear him breathing hard, the sound 
 of air moving when under water. Now back to the story line, it is still good as the game is set 
 in the future i think the year is 2020, so it is believable. The aliens, and the koreans are a 
 pain in the butt to kill but look incredable with my duel graphics cards, as well as the scenery. 
 Oh i also enjoyed the fact that you can get in jsut about every vehicle in the game and drive it, 
 it totally adds to the realism. plus you can easily interact with the environment by picking things 
 up and throwing them around. Another cool aspect of this game is the suit your charicter wears, 
 it enhances all physical atributes, from strength to armor. it also alows for you to clock yourself 
 by becoming invisable. Also in this game there is no need to look for health packs as your suit 
 recharges your heath and repairs your armor automatically. If you havnt gottin this game yet your 
 a fool especially if you love first person shooters. get for loved ones for christmas at least, 
 it is totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpuppy
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  If you liked FarCry you'll like this one... It's got bugs, it isn't well thought out. but hey... 
 the phrase "good enough" comes to mind. 
  
  The game starts out ok... you got this cool suit... then you find out that all the cool stuff about 
 it only lasts a second or 2. The weapons look ok... then you find out you can only carry a couple 
 of them at a time ... so choose wisely. 
  
  Once you get past that you start having some fun with the game... then it turns silly with a whole 
 alien thing... which would be ok if you weren't in their ship with no clue as to where to go in 
 some places. 
  
  So you get through the ship with a gun in your hand... Great .... you think... then you have to 
 defend a man who doesn't seem to want to follow you and freezes to death. Then you have to find 
 your way out of a bowl which you have to play a few times to trigger the event that lets you out. 
 More with the freezing guy. 
  
  Then the game gets good again for a bit.. Then they stick you into a VTOL plane with bad controls 
 and no waypoint markers to tell you how to get where you are going. fun fun fun. I could live with 
 the plane thing for a bit but it is just another pain in the @$$ that ruins what could have been 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkreign2424
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  I played a two day marathon of Crysis. Holy $#! t this game is Amazing!
  
  Just so I dont sound a fanboy, Crysis does not reinvent the FPS genre. Far from actually. Its not 
 cinematic like Call of Duty, its more a sandbox for you to play in. The only game it compares to 
 is FarCry, which by no surprise, was also created and developed by Crytek.
  
  FarCry was a sleeper in its day. A little known company with no real market advertising released 
 the most technologically beautiful game of its day to much fanfare. That game was FarCry. Tropical 
 island, mutants, AI... the works. With no real advertising, the game was made popular quickly by 
 word of mouth. Crytek developed a special engine exclusively for FarCry, they called it (real imaginative 
 here) CryEngine.
  
  Noticing a pattern with the names? yeah, me too....
  
  Anyway, immediately after FarCry was a commercial success, they started working on the second generation 
 engine (out on a limb with this one...... CryEngine2) . The first (and only game to date) to use 
 this engine is Crysis.
  
  Oh. My. God.
  
  First and foremost, if your system is anything less than a dual-core processor and a nvidia 8000 
 series GFX card (or Radeon equivalent) , dont bother buying the game. I remember when FarCry came 
 out and ALLLLLL the people complaining about how their rig couldnt run it, bla bla bla... at that 
 time, I wasnt running anything special yet it ran smooth.
  
  Now you hear ALLLLLLL the people complaining about Crysis, and at this point, they are completely 
 justified. This game... alone, will bring any system to its knees. The GFX companies like nvidia 
 and Radeon havent even released the hardware necessary to run this game at high rez with all the 
 bells and whistles turned on (obviously, if youre running a Quad Core and 4 8800 GTXs in SLi, this 
 may not be true, but youre a rich douche and no one likes you anyway) .
  
  I have never in my years of gaming, had to tweak every CVAR in the game to just get it run at 20 
 fps. And my system is no slouch either (Dual Core 3.0ghz, 4 GB of DDR2 RAM, 2 8800GTS in SLi) . 
 It still killed my system.
  
  I have a widescreen monitor so I automatically need every game to support widescreen formats (preferably 
 16:10) . Obviously, Crysis does..... but anything above 1024 x 768 seems to require turning and tuning 
 the bells and whistles off or down to run it anything nearing a normal framerate.
  
  Anyway, after much research and literally hundreds of different threads in multiple forums, I found 
 a nice configuration to run it with 20 fps, modest bells and whistles at 1600 x 1050 (dont quote 
 me, but its widescreen) . That took me 3 hours.
  
  Then, I started the game. Whew.... 
  
  Absolutely amazing. Worth every dead end and bout of frustration and then some. 
  
  You 
 play as American special forces equipped with the latest in military hardware and technology. The 
 greatest weapon in the game, bar none, is you.... and the suit you wear, the NanoSuit. Its gives 
 you a highly customizable experience in what way YOU want to play the game, not the way the devs 
 want players to play the game. 
  
  It has 4 different settings quickly accessed on a radial menu via the middle mouse button. The 
 suit has "X" amount of energy available to run the 4 settings and each uses the available energy 
 in different amounts at different rates. Below are the 4 different modes the NanoSuit can initiate;
 
  
  1) Armor - self explanatory. When hit by enemy fire, your suit acts as a shield, reducing the available 
 energy of the suit before reducing your health.
  2) Speed - increases base run speed at no energy cost, but the real sweetness is when you sprint. 
 You move super, super fast but at great expense to available NanoSuit energy.
  3) Strength - the most fun of the 4, though a bit unwieldy to use in combat in my experience. Gives 
 you super strength, allowing you to jump incredibly high, pickup and throw objects (and enemies) 
 incredibly far. Its superman lite.
  4) Cloak - self explanatory. Think Predator. This is the most useful of the 4, IMO. Moving in cloak 
 reduces the available energy. If you stand still, the energy drop is minimal. Crouch-walking reduces 
 energy slightly faster, but still manageable. Running reduces energy quickly. Sprinting while in 
 cloak will run you out of energy very quickly.
  
  Using the NanoSuit settings is essential. Crysis is not a corridor shooter. You are literally dropped 
 onto an Asian Pacific island in search of a lost research team. The research team found... something. 
 The North Koreans, by way of geographical convenience, are first on the scene and have locked the 
 island down. You are tasked to infiltrate and extract the research team.
  
  Things obviously go to hell pretty quickly. I'll leave the rest of the story for those who wish 
 to play it.
  
  If you like FarCry, you'll enjoy Crysis immensely. Its very free roaming. No battle plays the same 
 way twice. Some games say that and its not exactly true, or the difference between the 2 scenarios 
 is negligible at best. Not in Crysis. 
  
  It uses a checkpoint save system (although you can opt to save at anytime) and these checkpoints 
 appear to be area effective. 
  
  For example, this being only one of many examples I experienced in my 2-day marathon play session, 
 there was a Korean base in a bay of the island. The bay has a very high, steep cliff on one side, 
 and a rolling hill on the other. I just-so-happened to approach the base from the high side in 
 a Jeep. Being a hybrid runner-gunner type player, subtlety isnt my thing. So I jump out of the 
 jeep, shoot the gas tank on the back which means imminent destruction in 4 seconds. Jump in the 
 driver seat, hit the gas and turbo, start to leap off the side of the cliff and juuuuust as I get 
 airborne, I hit a checkpoint, it autosaves (screwing up my timing for jumping out slightly) . I 
 messed up and didnt jump out in time, but did happen to land on a giant propane tank which made 
 for a nice exit. 
  
  The game re-loads from the last save point, this one being in the midst of my best impression of 
 Evil Knievel Fails at the Grand Canyon. Only this time I jump out before impact, but still too 
 high to survive. The jeep hits the propane tank, blowing up the metal awning that covers it into 
 flakes of metal sheeting approaching bullet speeds. Needless to say, the surrounding troops who 
 werent killed by the explosion, were nailed by the debris. Even still, Im a man-pancake at this 
 point, so I have to reload. 
  
  Im in the air again, now waiting to jump at the last second... high enough to avoid the blast and 
 debris, but low enough to survive. I get 9 out of 10 for the landing. Jeep MISSES the propane tank 
 this time (wind speed or my inertia from jumping out, I guess) , but still manages to blow up because 
 I shot the gas tank... oh, and it fell about 400 ft. So, for posterity, I shoot the propane tank 
 because that beauty just cant stay intact after the BS I went thru. Only I didnt exactly find cover 
 from enemy fire, nor did I account for that damn debris again. Between getting shot and taking 
 a pole to the side of my head, I checked out. 
  
  Reload. Midair, I jump out in time again, the Jeep barely hits the propane tank setting off a beautiful 
 pyrotechnic display killing everything in the vicinity. I land with negligible damage only this 
 time I immediately switch to cloak. Stay still, wait for the reinforcements to arrive so I can 
 feed em a grenade or 3. Only they never arrive, must have gotten em all. Dead wrong. I killed everything 
 on the ground, this much is true. What I didnt account for was the snipers in the towers overlooking 
 the bay. They seen my "from the top rope" act and shot up signal flares. The reinforcements werent 
 troops, it was a helicopter... and I am out of rockets. Im big screwed. To make matters worse, my 
 Pornos for Pyros routine has leveled the entire area I landed in, so even if there were rockets 
 in one of the buildings, those buildings are currently rubble covered with other rubble. Im being 
 pursued by an attack helicopter with no rockets and no immediate cover in cloak which is making 
 me hard to find, but draining my already depleted energy supply. Im big screwed. Screw it, uncloak, 
 goto Armor, sprint for nearest cover and hope the gunner is drunk or cross eyed or both. Torn to 
 shreds before I got 10 feet. Maybe should have tried a speed dash, but Im pretty sure my energy 
 would have run out before I made it to cover. Oh well, reload. 
  
  3 more times, 3 completely different variations, sometimes a helicopter, sometimes not. Regardless, 
 I saved that particular game at that particular point (named it Knievel) just so I could play it 
 over and over again until I got it right. I did in fact make it a couple of times, but the fun 
 I was having didnt make me feel good about it. I wanted to die, I wanted to be overwhelmed just 
 to play it again and again. 
  
  Anyway, I ended up reloading from an earlier point before I jumped the cliff. This time I drove 
 the jeep to the brink of the edge, shot the gas tank, switched to Strength mode and knocked it 
 off the side of the cliff sans me being in the vehicle and used my binoculars to watch the destruction. 
 Oh, glory days. I then used my sniper rifle to pick off the other snipers before they could flare 
 for backup. I used a super-speed jump to clear the beach and land in the water from about a 400 
 ft fall, which the nanosuit absorbed with no problems. It wasnt as fun, but it conserved ammo, 
 looked awesome and cleared the area. So I went with it.
  
  Just one of many examples that Crysis offers. So many ways to approach the same situation, over 
 and over, with completely different results from the AI and physics engine. Hahaa... writing this 
 reminds me of my first "Oh SNAP!" moment in Crysis. I was busy bringing a helicopter down with 
 rockets, which is normal. But, I guess I didnt account for where the helicopter wreckage was going 
 to land. I was standing on the ground near a large, steep hill full of tall trees. The helicopter 
 was really high (i just jumped from the high hill, so the pilot hadnt lowered his altitude yet) . 
 I blew it up with satisfaction, to use a hockey phrase, I was "admiring my pass" when slowly I 
 realized that the mid-air wreckage had fallen in such a way that it skipped off the top of the 
 big trees and started to roll like a log down the side of the hill mowing down the little trees 
 reducing them to splinters. This was really cool to watch but my dumbass didnt see that the wreckage 
 was approaching a jutting rock. The helicopter wreck hit the rock, jumped AWAY from the hill about 
 30-50 feet and landed.... where? Right on my f-ing head. I wish I had that on video... I'd make it 
 my avatar. Too cool.
  
  If those explanations dont interest you, then dont bother with Crysis. The game is literally, unequivocally 
 FULL of moments like this. Where the world surprises you, where you cant expect things to be the 
 exact same, that "this guy" will run around "this side" of "that building" at "this time". It doesnt 
 work that way. Sure you can time patrols like that, but once the gun fire starts, all bets are 
 off.
  
  Notice I never mentioned the sci-fi aspect of Crysis? There is a reason. That part of the game 
 should be experienced, not portrayed. I'll say this much... many people in Hollywood have tried 
 to portray the "foreign" environment. None have pulled it off quite like Crytek did. Its mesmerizing, 
 yet confusing and disorientating at the same time. Which way is up, left, down, you have no idea. 
 Even when its over, you still dont quite understand where you were and how you got out. Its awesome.
 
  
  Buy the game if your rig can handle it. If your rig cant, wait until it can, then buy the f-ing 
 game. 
  
  Tonight, Crysis Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amulbocus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Crysis, we have been waiting for this game for a long time and its arrived. I have a Dell 9150 
 which is almost two years old with Pentium D 930, 3 GB RAM, X FI extreme and 8800 GTS 640 (originally 
 had 6800 vanilla!) .
  
  Now with these settings and the 163.75 nvidia driver, the game runs smoothly with MED/ HIGH settings 
 (textures in High) at 1024*768. So forget about people moaning about needing a top end system, 
 although a decent GPU is needed without question.
  
  from the moment you start the game, skydiving down to the island you feel totally immersed in the 
 island and its jungle environment. Keep playing and you experience daylight with a sunrise, and 
 its a sight to behold. the HDR is absolutly amazing from top to bottom, and the combat with its 
 cinematic effects are breathtaking (exploding grenades can really disorientate the player) .
  
  Then theres the Nano suit which is adds a whole new dimension to combat, choose to stalk NK 
 soldiers like the predator OR go full on with MAX power and jump on rooftops whilst gunning soldiers 
 down. There is also a real sandbox type element to approaching bases, with no real invisible walls 
 to block movement (or your imagination) .
  
  Crysis has easily rewritten the rules for FPS games now, and developers need to follow suit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uncle-adolph
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I have been waiting for Crysis for 2 years, looking forward to it finally arriving. Now 
 it is here at last, and was it worth the wait?
  
  Well, yes it was. From the moment you go in you are in this amazingly detailed jungle and it only 
 takes until the first attack on a korean camp for the real fun to start. You are faced with clearing 
 out a camp of korean soldiers, you can do it however you want. If you prefer, run in then use max. 
 strength onto a building and shoot everyone with your vantage point. Or, stay on a hill nearby 
 and snipe them all. Even better, use your cloak mode and pick them off one by one without being 
 caught. 
  
  That is what I love so much about Crysis, today I may feel really sneaky and want to come in and 
 pick them all of silently. I may, the next day, be really angry for some reason and all I want 
 to do is have some mega-fast-paced action. Charging in, grabbing a korean and using him as a shield. 
 
  
  However, there are a few problems I had. I did not enjoy the alien part. It was too linear, going 
 from this free-form playground to this highly scripted traverse through an alien ship was not fun. 
 The whole aspect of zero-gravity was great, the confusion of loss of bearings was great. But it 
 was too linear. 
  
  The other problem I had was obviously how it played in terms of FPS. I ran perfectly well medium/low 
 up until Paradise Lost. And then, OMG it was so stuttery. That may account to why I found the game 
 from thereon very frustrating, it juttered so much. I screamed out loud on many occasions as I 
 died from a huge stutter trying to rescue Prophet. 
  
  I may only be reviewing the Single Player aspect of the game, havn't been playing that many Multi 
 games, but it seems interesting. The suit certainly grows on you. I once could not understand in 
 a huge BF2142 battle why I couldn't switch on Strength mode to jump over this building. Or why 
 holding down middle-mouse didn't open up the mode selection screen, or why I couldn't press C to 
 customise my weapon. It took me a while before I realised. It really does grow on you. 
  
  With the promise of a patch to increase performance, it can only get better. Once I manage to upgrade 
 some hardware, I plan to replay the game on higher settings and see what I have been missing out 
 on.
  
  Nevertheless, an epic game let down for me slightly by a poor alien section. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamonddevils
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Quite simply the best PC game ever - and that's despite the fact I am running it at a low res to 
 make sure it is playable! Fantastic combat action, careful thinking and forward planning before 
 entering a hot zone keeps it realistic. Accurate weapon modelling and real-world physics and AI 
 makes this a tough challenge!
  
  The nanosuit is a great equaliser but the fact you are not invincible keeps you on your toes! If 
 you fancy reading about some similar military technology you should pick up a copy of Dale Brown's 
 'Tin Man' or 'Wings of Fire' books - both excellent reads that give you an idea of how similar 
 tech might work in the real world.
  
  All in all Crysis is superb - great music, terrific story, fab graphics and lots of NPCs to run 
 and gun! Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: il_moro
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I've got a Vista system that rates 5.8... the highest rating is 5.9. I'm overclocked by about 20% 
 and am sporting 3GB of RAM. It's simply ridiculous that EA & Crytek would create an app for the 
 consumer market that can't run properly on THAT! I really enjoy playing the game... until it cracks 
 open and spills across my desktop.
  
  Note to EA & Crytek: don't release games that no REAL computers can run.
  
  "Call to Duty 4: 
 Modern Combat" looks even better than Crysis and it runs smooth -- no glitching or problems of 
 any kind. There's a game I can enjoy. "Enemy Territory: Quake Wars", looks just fine and the gameplay 
 is a gas --- again with no issues. For what "Crysis" brings to the table, it's ain't worth the 
 hassle. A totally destructable environment? NOt all that they promise. And anyway, if I wanted 
 that I'd play "Hulk" or "Mechassault" on ye olde Xbox. At least they didn't break down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanw
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  First off there have been many great shooters this year... cod4, bioshock, orange box and unreal 
 tournament 3. 
  This game obviously stands out from the pack for it's high requirements and beutiful island scenery. 
 I am playing this on a laptop with 2gb ram and a geforce 8600m gt and it runs smoothly with everything 
 on low/med.
  Many users are upset because they feel "promised" content was left out. Well, all games go through 
 a stage where content is removed to polish up the game. That's the problem with having very early 
 hype. 
  I thought the game was outstanding nonetheless. The single player campaign will take about 10-15 
 hours depending on your skill. 
  I have experienced one bug in the main menu. Occasionally the options need to be reset to default 
 because the mouse will be off by a couple inches. 
  I don't really have to tell you much about the gameplay... there's over 300 other review to tell 
 you how great it is. I found multiplayer challenging and similar to counter strike.
  AND
  As a korean I took a little offense to the use of North Koreans in this game, but it is just a 
 game. 
  This is a game that any fps fan should give a try. It has it's moments.
  Overall 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antogall
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is one of those games that needs little in the way of a review at this point in time. Everyone 
 knows it's the best looking game ever made (provided you have the hardware) and will be for some 
 time. Unfortunately, this game suffered from a MASSIVE amount of pre-release hype, which ultimately 
 left many gamers disappointed. 
  
  For your sake, and since you've heard all the standard criticism from everyone else, I'll jump 
 right to my specific qualms.
  
  From the first chapter up to the evacuation chapter, Crysis could definitely be described as Far 
 Cry with better graphics. The gameplay was great and the graphics were integrated intuitively to 
 create an immersive, albeit derivative and at times boring. 
  
  However, the last section of the game was absolutely jam packed with exciting, varied sequences 
 and incredible use of Cryengine2. The level of immersion and intensity of scripted sequences is 
 unparalleled in the gaming world. Unfortunately for Crysis, these final portions of the game start 
 way too late. However, the game is practically worth the price just to experience the final levels, 
 especially if you are eager to push your machine to the limits. 
  
  One other criticism is that the ending felt ever so slightly truncated, and I think the developers 
 could have done a slightly better job stretching out the action and perhaps adding another level.
 
  
  Despite its unbalanced nature, Crysis is still a great game and succeeds in pushing the envelope 
 for future shooters to have better graphics, gameplay, and immersion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Geez, I dunno where to begin. I will review it on the single player basis so I suppose I could 
 start by saying that Crysis starts off on an immediate high plateau and eventually ends up in outer 
 space. This is the constant feeling you get across all the technological boards of a first person 
 shooter. What is absoloutely real about this game is the fact that even on medium settings, it 
 pretty much outweighs any current FPS on the market. But if you have comfortably realised that 
 no PC on the planet at this point in time will run this bitch on full quality, then you will humbly 
 accept a Direct X 9 approach at medium/high settings. Once you agree to this method of setup, then 
 you will also realise that there isn't much difference from Direct X 9 & 10. Now, just a bit of 
 a picking if I may.. The story is pretty simple. It is not much more of a mystery than any science 
 fiction action movie as of late that has anything to do with alien invasions. The choice of having 
 Korean villains is a pretty lame cheap shot considering it doesn't really give any reasons for 
 it - especially when the real villain is the supremacy of the aliens. In saying that, it still 
 has some of the best character modelling and voice acting that I believe I have ever seen in a 
 game too. Crysis is EPIC to say the least even though you will finish it in around 12 good hours. 
 But keep in mind that the 12 hours are going to be packed with constant spectacular surprises and 
 not the rubbish "Doom" repetetive crap that we've all seen in the past. If the writers of Half-Life 
 got onto writing the story in the game, then this would have been the greatest action game ever 
 made in this genre's history. Play it on Delta mode and prepare to die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultrazone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  As everyone may know, Crysis is a system hog. But having run it on a rig that could handle it on 
 hacked Very High settings on DX9, i'm gonna have to say, i looks amazing... but it feels like it 
 could have been better optimized. On high graphics settings, it would match the look of many newer 
 PC games, but, it still is a bit of a system hog. So, for a lot of people who haven't invested 
 in Processor and Graphics upgrades, you're not gonna fully appreciate what this game is. But it 
 isn't just killer graphics. The gameplay is wonderful. The nano-suit abilities are useful, and 
 give you a lot of flexibility on how you play the game along with the sandbox layout of the map. 
 The jungle setting once again really sets up for some interesting firefights and stealth elements. 
 Story is great, it's simple but, it's entertaining and you'll get pulled in easily enough. You're 
 left with a bit of a cliffhanger after the spectacular final boss battles (seriously, it feels 
 kind of epic for a shooter) . Vehicles drive great, except for the aircraft. The controls for them 
 are slow and clunky and it really needs fixed up. Multiplayer is really cool. Reminds me of Battlefield 
 series. Could have used some more game types though. Like Team Deathmatch and stuff. Worth playing 
 through several times, not just to experiment with the gameplay, but also to play it on Delta mode. 
 Makes the game very immersive. Your enemies speak Korean, and grenades and enemies aren't auto-highlighted. 
 Add the jungle to the mix, and its a real challenge, but one thats fun and overcomeable. This game 
 is worth checking out, even if you have to turn down the graphics, the gameplay itself is worth 
 checking out. It doesn't do much thats revolutionary, but it shows a great ammount of polish and 
 thought put into whats been done before. It shows how much the current shooter fomula can be improved 
 upon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmconstable
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  There is clearly no better looking game than Crysis. It is photrealistic and captivating with some 
 really WOW moments throughout the game. The guns look amazing and the enemy AI is pretty good. 
 The nanosuit is very cool and fighting against the enemies with them on is quite challenging. Having 
 said that it is hard not to think of this as Far Cry 1.5 on some levels because the game transpires 
 on an island, but aside from that the plot is different and not about one mad scientist.
  
  Technically speaking Crysis has some room to improve and that is saying something as my system 
 is a Quad-core, high RAM, GTX beast. I will blam Nvidia for part of this and M$ for part of it 
 as well. 64bit Vista may be a little to blame and poor drivers may also be to blame. Nvidia stated 
 their latest Beta is for Crysis specifically, but when installed it crashed almost immediately. 
 M$ had some November updates that when installed increased my FPS noticeably. Finally Crytek has 
 a forum and have stated publicly they are working on a patch. What is top on the list of fixes? 
 Optimization and performance. It has just become more and more obvious the further I play in the 
 game they have not optimized the game very well, especially in typically GPU intensive places where 
 lots of people are fighting and there are multiple enemies. My FPS sank so horrible I had a hard 
 time aiming even after dumbing down the graphics. 
  
  As a side note it is frustrating to me personally that the game automatically chooses very high 
 for my setting, but is not really playable at that setting. If you are going to have an autodetect 
 feature it should make the game play smoothly throughout. This is just my opinion.
  
  Still Farcry before this game had 4 or 5 patches and each made the game a little better so it will 
 play better 6 months from now than it does now on the same hardware and obviously better on newer 
 better hardware that is not yet made. I just wish Crytek would optimize the game for today's technology, 
 because contrary to their statements it is not optimized really well for DX-10.
  
  Would I get the game again? Yes, and I think the game is amazing and fun to play and breathtaking 
 and I really love it is only made for the PC, but I do not like having to think about how well 
 a game is playing on my computer. COD4 is a great example of a computer game that is perfectly 
 optimized as I don't ever have to change any settings. I know it is not as demanding as Crysis, 
 but I just want to set it and forget it and have fun playing from there on out. It would get a 
 9 or 9.5 if properly optimized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faustus01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Not that much for me to say on this one, the game play feels rather the same as most other modern 
 shooters.
  
  You run, shoot stuff, some things break and blow up (base environment still stays intact) and the 
 story is decent. The nice thing would be the ways that your suit settings can tweak the game play 
 slightly to do different stuff. 
  
  The strength and speed options feel a bit like a fragmenting of abilities rather than an all out 
 change and they frequently feel like you're just supposed to use them in response to a particular 
 situation which makes combat rather formulaic, but all in all not a bad game to play around with. 
 
  
  Of the time I have played it, I haven't found myself rushing to play it again, it's fun and all, 
 but doesn't quite stand out enough for me to really say it's amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggdog1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  I feel this game is way over hyped. It looks great on the right system, but nothing beyond the 
 graphx is revolutionary. That being said it is fun as hell and looks great while you're playing 
 it. There were times when I just stared at my screen with a smile, and there were times when I 
 was into the action, but I was never engaged to the point of lost time (time in the real world) . 
 There were some bugs that were annoying, don't save your game. Anytime I saved my own game without 
 the autosave feature I got all kinds of bugs. Anyone should play this game, it is fun, just don't 
 go into it expecting the best game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmansayyoudead1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  At first glance of Crysis a few years ago i was in shock at how good the game looked, and the revolution 
 that DX10 would bring to the table with such an astounding looking game. But also i wondered if 
 the game would actually have good gameplay or even look as good as it did when i first saw it. 
 Well i can safly say that the answer to both of those questions is yes!
  
  First and formost crysis is an amazing looking game but it will kick your computers ass at max 
 settings. That doesnt mean that the game isnt well optimized because it is extremly well optimized, 
 its just that this game is future proofed. Even at low to medium settings the game looks better 
 than anything else out there today but you loose alot of the eye candy that at the higher settings.
 
  
  As for game play it controls like most other shooters but this game is'nt on rails, which baicly 
 means that you can go anywhere and do anything you want the entire game is a sandbox. Also you 
 dont pick up your weapons just by walking over them you have to manually look at them, hit the 
 F key and it goes into a picking up motion which is nice, and same goes for ammo for the guns.
 
  
  Another amazing thing about the game is the AI, which there is basicly two types of, theres the 
 korean military AI, and then theres the alian AI. The korean AI is the best AI ive seen in a game, 
 they will flank you if your caught, hunt you down if you hide, and if you gat into a vehicle and 
 try to run away they will chase after you, but they also do stuff any normal soilder would do, 
 they take naps on the job, play around with their guns, even go to the bathroom! Now the alian 
 AI is basicly they dont think they just go for you, which makes sense because they are alians after 
 all.
  
  Now the physics in the game are really somthing that will blow you away, From being able to shoot 
 trees down, to punching the walls down of shacks that the enemy is hiding in, and later on in the 
 game you will even get to a level where you enter the alian space ship and everything is in 0-Gravity. 
 so basicly that entire level has you looking up, down, left, right, and behind for enemies and 
 it is easy to get confused or lost on this level but that what makes it so fun!
  
  The sound in this game is really somthing to brag about, the guns really sound authentic and explotions 
 are insane to hear, the games voiceovers are also dne very well. If you want the full sound experiance 
 I recomend having surround sound speakers because it really makes the game come to life.
  
  There are multiple types of guns you can use also, theres the /basic assault rifle called the scar, 
 then you have shotgun, a fancy type of AK, pistols which you gan duel wield, Sniper rifle, Rocket 
 launcher, Tac launcher (which fires a mini nuke) Mini gun, turrets, and also some from the alians 
 like one that shoots out Icicles at enemys like bulltets and has unlimited ammo. Another thing 
 about the guns is they really feel like guns like your actually doesing damage to the people. And 
 the neatest thing abotu the guns is that you can mod them on the fly real-time, so you can put 
 a sniper scope on a shot-gun or you can put a laser pointer and silencer on your pistols, whatever 
 you like.
  
  Which brings me to the coolest thing i think about the game which would be the Nano Suit! This 
 thing puts master chiefs sparten armor to shame. It basicly has four modes. Theres armor mode which 
 which makes you take less damage and regenerates your health faster, Speed mode which increase 
 your speed and your punch speed. Strength mode which makes your punches super powerful, makes you 
 jump a good bit higher, and reduces recoil o weapons and steadies your aim, and finally cloak mode, 
 which pretty much turns you invisible. Being able to swap through these weapons on the fly + the 
 physics of the game really make it a good gameplay expreiance.
  
  Now you wont be on foot this whole game, you can board many vehicles such as a Vetol (A flying plane 
 with guns pretty much) Helocopters, tanks, Jeeps, Trucks, Big rigs, boats and hover crafts. And 
 you also go to deifferent places than the jungle island "paradise" such as a frozen version of 
 the jungle, the alia space ship, and even an aircraft carrier.
  
  So ontop of the amazing single player theres also and awsome multiplayer aspect of the game as 
 well, theres your regular deathmatch mode, but the game seems to be missing a team deathmatch mode 
 which is odd. And then theres a power stuggle mode which is pretty much a mix of battlefield capture 
 and hold the controll points but then once you have enough resources from the controll points you 
 can buy a tac launcher and hurl a nuke at the enemies main spawn point (base) , first one to blow 
 the other teams base up first wins the match.
  
  So all in all crysis is a must buy game if you have the computer for it. And its definently one 
 of the best shooters ever made and game of the year for 2007 for me for sure.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pugnate
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  I think Crysis is the best action game to come out in years. I just completed it, and boy, the 
 last few hours are just non stop exhilaration. The action in the final segment is awe inspiring 
 and of the highest order. I am left drained, yet in partial withdrawal because I am left gasping 
 for more. But don't get me wrong, there is nothing wrong with the length. At the third highest 
 difficulty, I took 12-14 hours to finish this campaign, which is unheard of in today's shooters.
 
  
  I find it ridiculous that the same people, who claim to have gotten 12-15 hours out of the game, 
 are complaining about feeling shortchanged in length. I guess there is just no satisfying the masses. 
 
  
  I am just thinking back to how Call of Duty 4 gave me five hours, F. E. A. R gave me seven and Half-Life 
 2 gave me nine. Compared to those, the playtime in Crysis is refreshingly high. Yet while other 
 games can start to drag, the setting in Crysis changes so much that the time is sucked away like 
 an addictive drug. 
  
  The game is divided into three segments. The first is very sandboxy in nature, and just involves 
 you getting accustomed to life in the jungle. Because of a distress signal sent by an undercover 
 scientist, you find yourself landing with your team on an Island illegally occupied by the North 
 Koreans. The help message indicates that there something far more sinister on the Island, and you 
 discover this first hand almost immediately. 
  
  The initial missions involve intelligence gathering on the North Korean activity. It is only during 
 this period, that the game reminds you of Far Cry. However the similarities end with the setting, 
 as the actual gameplay is very different. 
  
  While the initial phase is about information gathering, it doesn't mean you are restricted to a 
 certain style of gameplay. You can tackle the North Koreans as you please. 
  
  The nanosuit is what gives you an advantage over your Korean enemies. As you run around the Island 
 accomplishing missions, you find that no encounter plays out the same way twice. This is the hallmark 
 of a great game. Deus Ex achieved it, by blending genres, and providing multiple paths to each 
 mission. F. E. A. R. too achieved it, by having amazingly realistic A. I., and thus having no firefight 
 play out the same way twice. 
  
  In Crysis it is the nanosuit that is the source of unpredictability. The phrase "emergent gameplay" 
 is thrown around a lot, but it stands very true for Crysis.
  
  Consider a typical Crysis scene, where you come across a Korean camp protected by sentry towers, 
 turrets and sandbags, and powered by machine gun installed Hummers. You could go in cloaked, sticking 
 C4 to all vulnerable objects, and then watch the fireworks from a safe distance, as you trigger 
 each C4 at the same time. Or you could move in and out of invisibility as you choke slam Korean 
 ala The Undertaker. If it is a check point with a small concentrated gathering, you could use the 
 invisibility to plant a well placed grenade in the middle. Or you could use their own Hummers to 
 crush them, or put their own turrets against them. You could use your super strength to topple 
 their towers and bases, or toss upon them massive objects etc. The possibilities are endless, and 
 with so much inadvertent environmental destruction, you are often rewarded with plenty of sinfully 
 delightful emergent gameplay.
  
  On paper, it might appear that the nanosuit is overpowering. That isn't the case as the developers 
 were clever enough to restrict you into using one special ability at a time. Also while motionless, 
 cloaking drains less energy, movement drains it much faster. When sneaking about in enemy territory, 
 you often have to time yourself to be suitably hidden when your energy levels are low. Firing a 
 weapon removes the cloaking ability instantly as well. Something like sprinting is also kept at 
 short bursts to keep everything balanced. 
  
  The enemy A. I., is where the game is inconsistent, as it can range from very good to disappointing. 
 Where it is outstanding is in the enemy reaction to your stealth. If the enemy is firing at you, 
 and you turn invisible, they will continue to fire in the direction, using the spray and pray method. 
 If you are unlucky, you will get hit and most likely killed. If not, you can regroup to increase 
 your cloak's energy level.
  
  The Koreans patrol realistically according to their level of alertness. For example if they are 
 unaware of your presence, they will be highly casual. Once they know you are around, they will 
 search for you more actively. If they see you point blank, regardless of your visibility, they 
 will fire. If you want to hide, but don't feel like cloaking, or just want a moment to raise your 
 suit's energy levels, you can hide behind vehicles and buildings, or in plain sight by going prone 
 in the thick grass. The A. I. in these situations is rewardingly realistic. Once it is alert to 
 the presence of an intruder, the safety of hiding in certain environment decreases rapidly. 
  
  Unfortunately they do at times behave unrealistically when the fight is on. Sometimes they 
 just won't react fast enough, even if you are firing at them in plain sight. 
  
  Eventually the sandbox portion of the first phase passes, and things develop into a small war. 
 The war with the Koreans is outstanding fun, with you being sent on special missions to accomplish 
 tasks that would be too difficult for normal soldiers. 
  
  All this culminates into the discovery of what is wrong with the Island, and you find yourself 
 in the heart of an Alien transport ship. This little phase, where you explore the vessel in the 
 state of zero gravity is quite fascinating. 
  
  While using aliens in a game might be a clich, the actual design of these creatures is fairly 
 unque. Their habitat is also a refreshing take on a recycled enemy. 
  
  Eventually you escape, and enter the final phase. Again it is all out war, but this time the enemy 
 is far more lethal. I found the last phase in particular to be quite amazing, and probably the 
 best of the game's three segments. 
  
  Overall I'd say the game deserves the scores it got from Gamespot, PC Gamer and IGN. I'd personally 
 score it somewhere near the mid nineties. I actually enjoyed Crysis more than F. E. A. R. or Half-Life 
 2. 
  
  The game's style is also a bit of a throwback. With games like Call of Duty 4, Rainbow Six Vegas, 
 Gears of War all employing somewhat of a similar approach, Crysis goes to show that the hardcore 
 lone man shooter style isn't dead. 
  
  I was running the game at a resolution of 1440x900, with all settings on high. I got between 28-35 
 frames per second, which I found fairly acceptable. Even at high, the game looked incredible, as 
 you can see.
  
  On very high (which can be unlocked with a workaround) , the graphics on XP look near photorealistic. 
 However on Vista, I have to say they looked even better. Unfortunately the frame rate on Vista 
 is just not good enough, and on the same settings in XP I was getting an average of five more frame. 
 In a game like this, you strive for every frame. 
  
  If you've got an 8800 series card, this game is definitely a must have. It is a truly awesome shooter, 
 which just snowballs as it goes. 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elbow2k
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Since it appears that the whole console wars thing isn't calming down at any moment, I've been 
 progressively stuck playing PC games; not saying that is a bad thing, but as one could imagine, 
 it is one of the few things, entertainment wise that I have been looking forwards. Right now would 
 seem to be the perfect time to be a PC gamer, as for the most part, massive title after another 
 seem to coming out. After my almost disappointing experience with Bioshock coupled with the feeling 
 off "That's it?" after savouring the Orange Box like a fat man savours his stake, I've been heavily 
 awaiting, day after day, the arrival of Crysis.
  
  Crysis is the ( insert second) brainchild of German baised developers Crytek; you know, the same 
 guys behind FarCry. Sporting a whole new engine, and the promise of a true sandbox experience, 
 Crysis offers itself to the fans as a whole new gaming experience. Although difficult to stay enthuthiastic 
 about it since it's less than impressive and more than "how the (explicit) am I going to run this 
 game (explicit) so it doesn't look like trash?" demo, Crysis is still a high anticipated game. 
 Not to mention it has that little logo on it saying "EA", which is a sign of impending doom that 
 will make you and your best friend run away from almost any title it lands upon.
  
  So whats new? Nothing much to be honest. However what is there has been polished to a mirror shine. 
 Crysis doesn't reinvent the genre, it doesn't make any forms of innovations that are going to scream 
 at you, what it does do is take what is already there and make it somewhat better. I say somewhat 
 because at times this game can leave you wondering what the (explicit) just happened? Even after 
 you sat back and cursed to death the North Koreans, you can actually enjoy the game and realize 
 that it is better than the sum of parts, because if that wasn't the case, Crysis would be a bad 
 game.
  
  Crysis falls into the category of the " (explicit) not again with this bull (explicit) ". Tell me 
 if you haven't heard this story: man discovers something that's alien, it then triggers somethings, 
 aliens come to life, they want to enslave and kill us all, rinse and repeat. This appears to be 
 the new fashionable thing to do now days, or maybe we aught to blame Valve and so forth. In one 
 aspect this is were Bioshock does shine, and it's incredably ingenius plot, and this is where Crysis 
 fails. You are part of an elite group of super soldiers (doesn't that one sound bloody familiar?) 
 that must go and rescue those so called humans who are trying to discover an "ancient race". Along 
 the way you get to blast away and choke North Koreans, that being the funner part of game.
  
  Even though Crysis is generic in terms of story, it successfully is able to almost make one 
 forget about it and focus on the tasks at hand. What the (explicit) right? Yeah I know, a story 
 is essential in all genres of gaming, but this one somehow seems to be able to squeek by without 
 one. Your focus isn't really progressing further into the story, it becomes more of a, and believe 
 me it does, "how am I gonna get pass all those fricking North Koreans?". I would dare to add stupid 
 in there if I was partially blind and in need of a brain transplant, because the AI in Crysis is 
 far from stupid. It is the most dominating, smartest, and overal bastard AI I have ever seen in 
 my life. The feeling of being shot from every direction is one of pure frustration; seriously, 
 getting whipped by a computer? 
  
  As difficult as that may seem, Crysis seems to suffer from an identity crisis of it's own - no 
 pun intended. The game has stealth elements and has run and gun elements. You will often find that 
 fighting in big open spaces, such as a forest for example, is the (explicit) pits. This is where 
 you need to use stealth at every corner to get an uper hand and keep it, because just like a pimp 
 slaps his hoe, the AI will slap you silly if you try and mess with it. This doesn't help that the 
 only "tool" you have for sneaking is the cloak function of your nifty nanosuit. Which last, oh 
 less than 15 seconds before it runs out and leaves you sitting in front of 5 angry North Koreans 
 screaming at you "Die you American Pig!"; it's kinda funny how all NK seem to think you are an 
 American Pig. The stealth elements are frustrating because there is nothing else aside of the cloaking 
 feature. There is no function that will slow you down or allow you creep up behind enemies and 
 take them out, not like that would help, but it would certainly give you a boost in terms of finding 
 the right position in which to assault the enemy.
  
  Difficult (trust me it is) and mundane as that might sound, it is incredably fun and exhilirating. 
 Your nanosuit can literally give the ability (if used properly) to completely overwhelm and overpower 
 your enemies. This course is supplimented by a true sandbox feel. The developers didn't lie when 
 they said this was a true sandbox game, because it is. There are a multitude of options for you 
 choose in terms of you will do everything. You could do whatever you want and be able to complete 
 the mission, although some things would be more adviseable than others. The game loses its charm 
 and feel during the last fourty or so percent of it, when you shift gear and face off against the 
 alien menace. Even though the contrast between tropical climate and frozen wasteland is something 
 to behold, you lose the sandbox feel, and you are pitted off against some of most annoying aliens 
 around.
  
  One can fault the developers for not being creative enough when it comes to those last few levels. 
 But it overall seems to help bring the idea that there is a plot back into the framework of things. 
 It's easy to lose yourself in the presentation of this game. Crytek has probably created the best 
 video game engine to date with the CryEngine 2. Fantistically well optimized, and has some great 
 elements that it make it just a darling to play and enjoy. It would be difficult for me not to 
 say that the first part of Crysis has easily become one of my favorite parts in all the games I 
 have ever played. It does FarCry one more and just seems to make you want for more.
  
  Even as good as some of it might be, there are some glaring issues about it. It doesn't seem to 
 have viable multiplayer; well no (explicit) , I mean having to compete with Call of Duty 4, Unreal 
 Tournament 3, Halo 3, and the Orange Box for a slice in the online gaming genre pie is no easy 
 task, only a madman, or developer feeling like they should at least make an attempt at it would 
 do. It's a decent multiplayer, but it doesn't seem to be able to take away from the luster of those 
 other ones. The obvious hardware requirements will make you (explicit) yourself, because they are 
 just insane. I have a top of the line computer, and was only able to play it at high settings with 
 a larger than normal resolution and mid range AA on. That being said though, that shouldn't be 
 deterrent if you are looking on getting this game.
  
  Personally, Crysis is a fantastic game if you aren't looking to find Jesus Christ bundled with 
 it. It has one of the best gameplays around because it has almost perfected the form of sandbox 
 gaming, and has made it so that you have total control over how you can do things. It is better 
 than the sum of parts because it helps to bring you an experience that has been fine tuned to the 
 best of anyone's abilities and if you are a PC first person shooter fan, this is a definate must 
 pick up. All the rage with the ending is just a load of bull (explicit) considering every single 
 Half Life 2 related game has had an equally or worse ending than Crysis, and the fact that it settles 
 the first act, and leads on to the second one seems give some form of closure. They should have 
 cut the time spent on the aliens and instead focused more on fighting the Koreans because that 
 was what Crysis was billed to be and should have had more focused placed upon it. But then again 
 this is personal opinion here, and shouldn't stop you from buying one of the best games of the 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  And finally, here comes to my PC the revered Crysis! Revered before someone even tried it... Was 
 it worth it? My answer - yes... more or less...
  
  I'll start with the most notable feature of Crysis - graphics. Everybody knows this game blows 
 brains but this is unbelievable! The jungle feels alive with trees and grass swinging with the 
 wind, crystal clear water, rare animals just running around, etc. There is even a day-night cycle 
 but I couldn't determine whether it is scripted or not. Still, it felt like it is not...
  
  There is one particular part which will leave even the most sceptic players speechless - the frozen 
 jungle is like nothing anyone has ever seen in a game, I am sure of that. I... try to think of 
 a way to describe it, but I can't. One really should see this ingame. Not even a screenshot would 
 do.
  
  However, the best part about this game (graphics) is its worst characteristic as well. As Gamespot 
 mentioned (I think it was them) , currently, a PC that can run the game smooth on highest is nonexistent. 
 No, rich boys - boast about your quad SLI, quad core systems with 12 GB RAM somewhere else! They 
 won't do either.
  
  I got a decent rig that has Gears of War and Call of Duty 4 flying at maximum, 1280X1024 and Crysis 
 recommended medium settings, WTF! I still set most of the settings to high and the game was still 
 playable with fps somewhere between 18 and 25 but when I came to the above mentioned frozen jungle, 
 I guess all the snow flakes dancing in the air and the wind blowing snow plus aliens coursing through 
 the sky was just too much for my one-year old PC and it gave up several frames dropping to 10-12. 
 I had to switch all to low in order to pass through this section.
  
  Apart from heavy graphics, the game also suffers from some choke-ups even when it is running smoothly. 
 It just freezes for a second then everything goes on normal. It even happens in cut-scenes and 
 it is most notable in the end on the carrier. It is particularly annoying during firefights.
  
  Still, if you have a computer that can squeeze out approximately 30 fps at high, then you are 
 in for one of the most decent action experiences on the PC scene for years! Because Crysis is not 
 just pretty graphics! It also features elaborate physics which combined with the very interactive 
 and destructible environment, often leaves you wandering "did I do that?" One just has to see how 
 a stray bullet, cutting through foliage, finally breaks a tree which falls and knocks out a building, 
 killing hostiles inside.
  
  There is also a great diversity in the gameplay of Crysis. At first, it feels just like Far Cry 
 with huge environments and scattered objectives and the player is free to do them in different 
 order as well as with a different approach. There is also a good deal of vehicles in that part 
 which are often needed to cover huge distances on the island. The player fights an intelligent 
 human enemy in this part who takes cover, calls for reinforcements, flanks and uses grenades. Then 
 comes the alien ship with zero gravity where you are practically flying around. Then the levels 
 become more straightforward. There is a great valley battle with tanks and even a portion which 
 reminds of an arcade flight simulator. The only flaw here is that aliens are practically harmless. 
 With Korean forces being much more threatening, I wonder what is so bad about this invasion???
 
  
  Combine all this with constant switching between suit powers and there is no space left for anything 
 else to ask from a shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neonsuperstar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Personally, whether or not gamespot gave it its 9.5 or a 1.5 i knew i'd be getting this game. In 
 fact, i actually upgraded my entire rig just to get it to run. From the hype, i expected the pinnacle 
 of gaming experience that any game could get me. But, in the end, it turned out to be, well, just 
 above average, which isnt a big letdown, but somewhat of a disappointment.
  
  Firstly, the graphics and sound are first-rate. There is no doubting that the developers spent 
 most of their efforts on creating a realistic and engaging game-world, and crysis certaintly delivers 
 on that count. However, alot of fanciful features sound better than they work in practice. For 
 example, while bringing down a wooden hut onto the head of its inhabitants may sound cool, in practice 
 it will take too long and too many bullets to be worth it.
  
  The gameplay disappointed me somewhat. Despite the added utility of the nanosuit, all i found was 
 it takes the place of, say, spells in a magic-themed game. There is nothing revolutionary about 
 its implementation, just a little work in creative thinking. Most of the time you will be using 
 stealth to sneak around, not only because of the difficulty of the game's set piece encounters, 
 but also because the rest of the suit powers are woefully inappropriate. Strength is only useful 
 for jumping, and speed is only useful for those opportune moments in rushing up to an enemy or 
 away from large groups of them.
  
  What kind of killed the "triple AAA" game feeling for me was the AI. I think FEAR had more intelligent 
 AI, because most of the time all they do is run around and fire potshots at you. There is some 
 good use of grenades and covering fire, but compared to the other elements of immersion like the 
 graphics, it is quite the deal-breaker.
  
  In short, once you get past the initial presentation, the gameplay becomes very rote and even occasionally, 
 boring. Adding in a fair number of bugs and gameplay inconsistencies, and crysis becomes "only" 
 above average. Nevertheless, i wouldn't stop anyone from buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gryphonblood
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 9, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is a HUGE disappointment to me. It is not nearly as fun as Far Cry was. The whole Alien 
 thing has been done a million times before. Why did Crytek have to go the whole Alien route anyway? 
 The Trigens and Mercenaries of Far Cry were cool. Frankly, the Aliens in Crysis seem to be a rehash 
 of several other video games. Can't anybody think of an Alien that looks like something other than 
 a squid or the Aliens in the movie "The Abyss"? Actually, the Aliens in Crysis look a lot like 
 the ones in Half Life 2; especially with the neon glow around the edges. Far Cry was fun because 
 it focused on human warfare. Far Cry seemed like you were playing with those little green soldiers 
 you got when you were a kid. Sure, the terrain and jungle is a LOT more complex in Crysis, and 
 that is about Crysis' only plus, but that doesn't make up for the lack of fun in the levels. The 
 level where you float around inside the Alien Mothership inside the mountain is COMPLETELY boring. 
 The levels where you are on the aircraft carrier are COMPLETELY boring. And what is with the Nano 
 Suit? That just makes the game too easy and too unrealistic. What's the challenge in going into 
 cloak mode and walking right up to a North Korean and blowing them away? There are a few levels 
 in Crysis where you are fighting the North Koreans and things START to get fun and I started to 
 think, "OK, this is picking up now..." and then you get stuck in some driving mission. And then 
 the North Koreans are gone and you are fighting Aliens in the snow. BORING! I'll even complain 
 about the COLOR of Crysis. In Far Cry everything was almost technicolor... it was meant to be campy 
 and cartoony. The mercenaries in Far Cry were all so buff and steroided out it was campy. That's 
 what made Far Cry fun. And finally the ending of Crysis.... I won't give it away, but THAT's IT?! 
 You've got to be kidding me. I really don't want to go back to this island and shoot any more of 
 those BORING aliens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  The apple, the saying goes, does not fall far from the tree. That's true with Crysis, which has 
 many similarities to the original Far Cry (PC version, not Instincts or Predator) . Crysis is set 
 on an island with plentiful plant life, mountains, and lots of water. Most of the other standard 
 Far Cry elements are there as well. 
  
  Vehicles are present, but not quite the variety or the usefulness as in Far Cry. Weapons are different 
 from Far Cry, and allow you to customize them with laser pointers, scopes, and silencers. But like 
 Far Cry you are limited in how many you can carry. This forces some decisions based on what you 
 think you might encounter ahead and the availability of ammo. 
  
  But Crysis stands out from Far Cry in two respects. First, it is a leap forward graphically. Part 
 of what this means is that unless you have a PC supercomputer, you will not be able to run the 
 game full out. I have a Quad core processor, 3 GB RAM, and a 640 MB 8800 GTS video card and on 
 high settings I saw some issues with performance.
  
  Second, the nano-suit adds some variety to the approach you may choose to take. Most of the time 
 it will likely be regenerating armor, but the stealth, speed, and strength modes allow some situations 
 to be approached in different ways. Stealth mode eats up the suits energy pretty quick, but with 
 some care allows you to sneak behind the enemy, either bypassing the fight or picking people off 
 one at a time. Speed mode means you will not miss the vehicle variety very often. Strength mode 
 allows you access to areas that otherwise would be out of reach by improving the height of your 
 jumps.
  
  The story is different from Far Cry, and is an interesting science fiction tale. There's nothing 
 complex about it though. It's not the star of the game, but it is good enough to keep you interested 
 in the outcome.
  
  Overall, if you liked Far Cry, you will probably like Crysis. If you didn't care for Far Cry, Crysis 
 is probably not different enough that it is going to be that interesting for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSYWarthog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  After 25 years or so of playing games - and during that time I've played many - this really does 
 feel like the one I was waiting for all that time... Not since Doom have I felt so immersed in 
 a game world or been so impressed by the technology used to create it. This is a fantastic game 
 and I'm already drooling at the thought of sequels, add-ons and other games licensing the same 
 engine.
  
  All the hype centred on the graphics, and after some intial disappointment that my new Quad Core 
 rig couldn't run it on Very High, I realised that the game, even on High settings, was GENUINELY 
 near photo-realistic at times. The sunlight coming through trees, HDR actually working for once 
 (HL2?) , great use of depth of field... it looks fantastic. Then add in the fact that the world 
 is the most vibant and dynamic yet, with trees swaying and animals running around - I've lost count 
 of the number of times I'd just stop and look around, it's that pretty. All other games are miles 
 off the graphical standards set by this one - they'll be playing catch up for some time to come.
 
  
  So what about the gameplay? Unbelievably, it's also great. The nano suit really is a game-changing 
 dynamic and is fantastic fun to use. The weapons feel right most of the time, and I love the modifications, 
 but there were times when it took me a couple of clips to take someone down and I don't think I 
 was missing. The sandbox levels really make you think about how to approach them, in a far more 
 genuine way than in Far Cry. Then it all changes and you get dropped into an alien nightmare. The 
 game changes, but it's still great, just different - if not quite as innovative as the earlier 
 levels.
  
  Then there's the polish that's been liberally rubbed into every facet of the game. Everything feels 
 righ - the voice acting, the plot (simple but hangs together as it should) , the fabulous pacing, 
 the brilliant score that helps to ratchet up the tension as the pace quickens. Crytek have made 
 the definitive FPS, if not the definitive game... here's to the next episode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kickus_assius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game, but don't expect too much due to all the hype or you might be dissapointed. 
 The gameplay and story are both great and it's a fairly lengthy game. However, Farcry is a better 
 game for it's time, so you won't really find a revolutionary game like farcry was. It's kind of 
 like goldeneye and perfect dark, they really just improved upon what they did in Farcry. It's really 
 enjoyable, but I would argue that Bioshock is the superior of the two games for the 2007 crown.
 
  
  Other than the hype, the only other problem with Crysis is that even with a top of the line computer 
 you still can't really run the game with the higher settings, even at lower resolutions. Probably 
 the best game graphically to date and surely a must play game. Once hardware comes out with enough 
 power to run the game as it was meant to be played, the game experience will be much more satisfying. 
 They have also left the game wide open for a sequel too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeXgoreXcore
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Damn!! Another punch in the face!
  
  Design - Well......... Bravo!! 20 out of 10 for graphics!! The environments look very real, the 
 characters are just Freakin' Awesome and the weapons are nicely designed and their modifying is 
 very good and to my surprise is also fun and useful. The sound is great, there are very nice melodies 
 now and then, the weapons sound pleasant for the ear and if you're playing on the highest difficulty 
 the Koreans actually speak Korean.
  
  Gameplay - This is where the game get disappointing. The actual shooting at stuff and Koreans is 
 boring........ at first...... because you're just adjusting to the suit functions but it is still 
 boring 'cause the story is so dumb that you just don't care and lose the motivation to play (literally 
 the "everything is destructible" kept me going" ) . And another thing that pissed me of is thet 
 to kill a dude you have to shoot a fuckload of bullets at him!!! Maybe his Korean but he is still 
 a HUMAN BEING!!!!
  
  Story - I don't know..... maybe because of the graphics they didn't have any money for writers.... maybe 
 they were just drunk but the story is stupid and boring.
  The one thing I liked regarding the story is the cutscenes because they show everything from a 
 first person perspective and it makes you feel like a part of the story. This sort of cutscenes 
 was made for all you people who run around and jump when characters talk to them, then miss important 
 stuff about the story and then bitch about a good game.
  
  Overall, nice FPS with great graphics that deserves attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Crysis its the best looking game ever, the graphics are amazing and looks almost photorealistic, 
 there is a good variety of scenarios and all of them are gorgeous to look at. Animations are great 
 as well and the game as some interesting characters. The game requires a PC that only a few people 
 can afford to have, even with a 8800 GTX the game would not run with impressive framerates, you'll 
 get a max of 40fps. In a high end card from an older generation like the 7900 GTX the game runs 
 ok on high specs if you have a good CPU. In the later levels the game just becomes slower, and 
 looks like there is no explanation for it, with a 8800 GTS you'll probably droping the resolution 
 to medium, the game will look cool in medium specs but its nothing compared to the high, very high 
 specs. The textures are the best and the explosions, characters and water are impressive, also 
 the game feels very natural, it reminds me Gothic 3, another game that looks impressive and feels 
 very natural but has problems with optimization as well.
  I will give a 9 on graphics because of the optimization as well as the bug in later levels, but 
 the graphics actualy look completely amazing with the latest GPU, CPU. Crysis its the best looking 
 game up to date.
  9.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  There is nothing really new on gameplay, the graphics are revolutionary but the gameplay isn't, 
 the gameplay its like an evolution of the Farcry gameplay. Its like playing farcry with a nano-suit. 
 The nano-suit its a pretty good addition because of its modes, you can use max strenght to jump 
 higher or project things far, max speed to run like hell, max armor to have a defense boost against 
 bullets, falls... and you can also use cloak to get invisible. Aside of the nano-suit dynamic gameplay 
 there is nothing more into crysis gameplay, everything else was already seen and done, the physics 
 are also amazing and offer some dynamic as well. Resuming Crysis as a solid gameplay with some 
 good ideas into it.
  9.
  
  Sound:
  
  There isn't much to say about Crysis sound, the soundtracks are cool and change a lot during the 
 game so you won't be saying "damn not this music again". Sometimes there is no music letting you 
 focus on battle, stealth etc.
  All the action like gun shots, explosions, tank firing all sounds great. But there is nothing that 
 we can say "OMG this is amazing, i never listened anything like this".
  8.
  
  Value:
  
  This is the weakness of Crysis. The Single player campaign can be finished very quickly and 
 there is not much replay value, you can get back with a higher dificulty setting but thats all. 
 The multiplayer its great and offers more than single player but I'm not a fan of multiplayer so 
 I have to skip this.
  8.
  
  Overall:
  
  Crysis its the best looking game out there, it has a good solid gameplay with some innovative elements 
 like the nano-suit, but unfortunetly thats all, Crysis its only revolutionary about its graphics 
 and the graphics don't make a game. If Crysis had a longer singleplayer campaign like Bioshock 
 had it would be much more interesting. Crysis its a great game while it lasts.
  8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve-Ooooo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  Simply the most epic shooter ever.... only downside is the non-ending ending, but since it is a 
 planned trilogy it is forgivable 
  
  People complain about the game requiring too much hardware, but that really is stupid, considering 
 that it looks great on non-max settings (play the game on on medium with physics on high and it's 
 all good)
  
  but anyways this game is a no brainier to play, should really be shoo in for best game of year
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  a a a a a aa a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a more words a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a aaa a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck182
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is an amazing game, but the thing that amazed me the most was the graphics. Technically 
 the graphics are unparalleled; everything from the shadows, to the particle effects. Everything 
 in the game is beautifully modelled and textured even better. Artistically Crysis is stunning, 
 the design of the alien craft, the layout of the different levels, the characters; they are all 
 works of art, nothing feels odd or out of place. If you can play this game on the higher graphical 
 settings (which is definitely worth upgrading for) , you will be constantly awed by this game, especially 
 in certain astonishing scenes, I don't want to spoil anything, but there are a few of these events/scenes 
 throughout the game, and I just couldn't get enough of them, each one easily rivalling anything 
 out of a top action or sci-fi movie. The physics in this game are very good, not the best I've 
 seen (Half-Life 2) , but they are believable and can be fun knocking buildings down with your fists, 
 or watching a plane crash into a house, with bits of wood and furniture flying around.
  The graphics are obviously Crysis' strongest point, but this is a good game for other reasons too. 
 The game-play is generally top-notch, most of the time it's incredibly fun and exciting, and the 
 nano-suit powers add that extra spark, some of them can be incredibly fun to use. My biggest problem 
 with the game-play is this: you, wearing this special suit seem to be so weak, after receiving 
 only a few shots you are almost dead, this can be very frustrating, especially when you're seriously 
 outnumbered, which you often are, at the same time you seem to be very inaccurate, you can use 
 the suits strength to help, but it runs out way too quickly; and then you have the enemy, the Koreans 
 aren't wearing any special suits, but seem to be able to take ten bullets plus, at times, this 
 usually happens when shooting for a distance (10 feet or more!) , and the enemy are all incredibly 
 accurate, never seeming to miss a shot. With all of this together, at times the game can seem hugely 
 unfair, almost as if it's cheating you, at times I've wasted nearly two clips on one man, only 
 to have him shoot me about twice and kill me, very annoying. The game features lots of weapons, 
 with lots of mods, each weapon feeling different, and everyone fun to use. There are also dozens 
 of vehicles you can drive/fly, all of them, with the exception of the VTOL, drive and feel realistic 
 and fun.
  The storyline is very good, not excellent, but it's interesting and has some basic twists and turns, 
 the characters involved are pretty good, everything follows along in a nice and realistic way. 
 The only major problem with the story was that it had a very abrupt ending, just as you were getting 
 ready to play the next level, the credits roll; the only explanation I can think of is that we 
 should probably be expecting a Crysis 2. The voice acting throughout is very good, and at the same 
 time the music and sound effects are brilliant.
  If you have a system that can run this game on higher settings, and you enjoy first-person shooters, 
 then this game is a must play, it's something you'll remember for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpontes
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  For me, it is everything Gamespot review has said.
  The only low point, however, is that the graphics engine is not scalable.
  
  In a high-end 
 PC I could play it with everything on MAX settings, and it was really good.
  
  On a mid-range PC, however, it is really bad! I had to play it with all settings in MEDIUM and 
 with 800x600 resolution. On this SAME system I play: Bioshock, Gears of War and Orange Box with 
 all settings maxed out, World in Conflict and Supreme Commander nearly maxed out.
  
  What looks better: Bioshock in 1400x900 with all MAX, or Crysis in 800x600 with all MEDIUM? I take 
 the first choice..... So, in the end of the day, this PC won't "see" Crysis as the best looking 
 game around.
  
  Crysis is definitely beautiful, but only for high-end PCs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Where to start?, This is one of the greatest games ever produced, from the story to the graphics 
 it's the best. The graphics are so awesome, evrething looks real, the game play its great you got 
 to go hiding and without being seen other great thing is that for example you shoot to a tree and 
 it breaks you can use four modes to beat your opponents its really great. The enemies look so real 
 and they act real too, they can hear you even when you are hidden.
  
  The great thing is that you can drive any vehicle you see, you can strangle your enemies, take 
 anything and throw to them, many places to hide, surprise attacks, you can customize your weapons, 
 different abilities for the battle suit, great story.
  
  The online game is very great too, good opponents and everything, two types of matches, instant 
 action and power struggle, the only two things i didn't liked were no team deathmatch and no bots 
 to play with, 'cause sometimes theres people too skillful and when you enter and is your first 
 time you enter to die, but i give it a 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raysta01
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  If its not the Koreans, then it will be the alien life forms that will be chewing on your back.
 
  
  Crysis in my opinion is one of the best shooters made so far, mainly because: 
  
  1. Its graphics are full of eye candy, graphics are still great to look at, even on your grandfathers 
 6800.
  
  2. Customizable weapons gives it a wide variety to many inputs into how to play the game.
  
 
  3. Large areas allow you to play the game your way, either go stealth, or guns blazing.
  
  But, with great games comes great disappointments: 
  
  1. You need a pretty high rig to get 
 this game to perform at its best.
  
  2. AI is very stupid at time, they sometimes literally drive over each other in their jeeps... not 
 very intelligent. 
  
  3. The game ends
  
  But all in all, its a must have and is a benchmark for even greater games.
  
  And remember, 
 Crysis is a trilogy, so dont give up hope on the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellman007
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I agree. Great graphics, cool idea with the suit, blah, blah, blah. 
  Here is 90% of the game: cloak, cover, shoot, cloak, cover, shoot, etc. The AI was just ok. There 
 were some very cool parts in the game, but I was expecting a step above Far Cry, which this game 
 is definitely not. The story line is nothing new either and really didn't keep me caring what happened 
 next. Oh look, the mountain is crumbling, I wonder what's going to happen?? Duh. The game just 
 presented individual oportunities one at a time to blast enemies. It's as linear as it gets in 
 the video game world without any unforseeable twists or turns. Don't get me wrong, I'm all about 
 blasting enemies, but I felt there was a lack of substance on at least a couple of different levels 
 that a game like this should've had. Hopefully Far Cry 2 will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josepsy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic graphics, enhancements of character are very exciting. No hesitation om recommending 
 it..... Great play...... hope they have an ad on in the future. So many different scenarios and sudden 
 changes on playing game. We can go on and on about the different on so many different (and difficulties) 
 from one mission to another. Why some people underscore this game is incomprehensible to me. One 
 of the best if not the greatest game ever to come as a solo shooter. I enjoyed going from human 
 characters to alien ones. You don't fine on other games the options and so many different ways 
 to complete a mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDogZoo
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was OK. The graphic are great but that not what is important in a game. Single player 
 had a OK story. I did love the fact the you can customzie your weapons. Also the fact that you 
 have the suits abilities. There was a very low weapons choice in both single and multplayer. Then 
 the wepons were a bit generic. MP was horible. All they have is Deathmatch and a mode called Power 
 Play. Deathmeatch is the usual. Power Play is related to the BattleField 2 style but it is horrible. 
 It usually ends up in one on one battles instead of a Massive battle that I expect. The feel of 
 the wepaons in MP is also just so wrong. I was really disapointed. All this game is is OK. Nothing 
 more Nothing Less. Wait till it gets in the Bargain Bin before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalgaiger
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  If you don't have this game, buy it now. If you're computer can't handle it, upgrade now. If you 
 don't have a computer, buy one now. If you don't have the money for a computer, go steal one NOW! 
 Then, go buy Crysis. I have been gaming since the days of Atari... I know what's good. This, my 
 friends, is no less than a masterpiece. My humble Go 7900 GS worked it's ass off to get through 
 this game with medium shaders and high everything else. I had to overclock the hell outta the GPU 
 to get medium shader quality. If my GPU bit the dust right now from overheating in this game, it 
 would've still be worth it. I can't even imagine what the game looks like with high or ultra high 
 shader quality. Well, enough of that, let's get to specifics. The graphics, as you may have assumed, 
 are phenomenal. On low shader quality, the game still looks decent, you just lose a lot of cool 
 effects, shadows, etc. Medium gives you much better looking shadows, etc. I turned it up to high 
 just to see what it looked like and it's amazing, it just ran a little too choppy on my GPU. The 
 lighting and effects on high and ultra high are unlike any game you've ever seen. The game effects 
 are almost too amazing. When a grenade goes off too close, you black out for a second and your 
 vision blurs. There are more subtle things like great looking motion blur, particle effects, dirt 
 or rain getting on your mask, etc. Now for sound. Basically, the sound couldn't be better. The 
 soundtrack is somthing you'd find in a summer blockbuster, not a videogame. As the action heats 
 up, so does the music. The weapons sound great. I love the sound of grenades in this game. I always 
 like when an enemy throws a grenade nearby and I narrowly escape with my suit in speed mode. Oh, 
 that's another thing. Your suit's voice is totally bad ass. You can use a chick voice, but it's 
 weak. The dude's voice is just ridiculously bad ass. I love when the suit says, "Maximum armor." 
 You'll see. What else, the story... couldn't ask for a better story in a FPS. Most FPS's lack a 
 good story, but this one is pretty damned good. Gameplay is amazing. Like Farcry, most of the levels 
 are huge open environments. You may have an objective to take out some AA guns, and there'll be 
 a million ways to do it. You could go in with a truck, guns blazing. You could sneak in with your 
 suit in cloak mode. There are a ton of different ways to go about completing the objectives in 
 this game. My personal favorite is to haul ass right into a bunch of enemies, jump out at the last 
 minute, and shoot the fuel tank on the back of the truck blowing it up and sending all the badguys 
 into chaos. I then cloak, hide, and start taking them out one by one predator style. You know, 
 I could talk for days about this game, just go get it if you don't have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loggens
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Crysis:
  The game fps makes more interesting the suit what the player wear... it has abilities to do something 
 what will give you a advantage in your opponents, the game have good graphics therefor he requires 
 good card to play iy smoodly, the story takes place in iland where a army have found a lost alien 
 place what is full of dangers... with your suite you can power up and kill opponents with one hit 
 and you can speed up and make yourself invisible... also theres a number of combination you can 
 equip your weapon to make it better to use ... the enviroment and special effects are awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  I can honestly say crysis made me a graphics whore, I played the game on low when the demo came 
 out and I had to change the settings, to medium to enjoy it more, it still wasn't enough! I had 
 to buy a new graphics card and could finally run it on somewhat very high...
  
  It pays off to run this game on very high, because in short, crysis is all about the eye candy, 
 it is the graphics that make crysis the game to buy...
  But...
  its not all graphics!
  
  Ill start with gameplay. First of all crysis is kind of a different type of game, you use a 
 Nano suit, it almost (key word "almost") makes you invincable, though you can still die easily, 
 the maximum strength makes you more powerful, the maximum speed makes you faster, maximum armour 
 makes... you get the picture, it basicly breaks the laws of war and makes you superhuman... 
  Ill skip the story, because really, its non-exsitant, besides the fact that your shooting north 
 koreans because they took over and island, and then out of no-where, aliens... its pretty simple, 
 nothing too over the top, but its how the game plays is where its at...
  The main factor is its free roaming... kind of, you get a sense of scale in this game, and its 
 amazing, you can sneak, run and gun, or just screw around and play with the almost over the top 
 physics (which lasted me a long time, because throwing chickens through walls never gets old) .
 
  The combat in crysis shines, its awesome! the fact that you can customize the guns to your liking 
 using various scopes, and other cool things make the game last, aiming and shooting the guns feel 
 pretty damn authentic too, its damn hard to hit anything, which is sort of realistic or my aim 
 is bad. 
  I like driving in the game too, its fun, running people over and such...
  which leaves me to point out that the physics are unbelievable, almost everything has weight, and 
 some sort of interactivity, if its not the trees being split apart piece by piece, its picking 
 stuff up and throwing it at people, or bushes being pushed away by your own body, which immerses 
 you and makes it fun too! The combat effects the physics too, after a huge gun fight, crap is broken 
 into peices, and blown apart, its quite awesome to see a huge tree fall through a building killing 
 all its occupents, theres so many things you can do in combat in this game, it makes it worth while 
 to play it again and again.
  
  Part of the game is kind of dissapointing, I won't go into detail, but soon as the snow part comes, 
 you will see, the game gets very linear after all that free roaming it kind of dissapoints... but 
 with the sandbox editor, you can fix that... 
  
  Now onto the obvious part, graphics...
  Everything is pretty in this game, everything, the water, the trees, the lighting, the textures! 
 its insane how pretty the graphics are, and they will probably get better as newer card are released.
 
  
  All in all, I can't say much else about the game, its a very good looking game, with awesome combat 
 that will having you grinning ear to ear after blowing up half a village just to kill a few enimies... 
 
  its a good game, I just hope to fix some performance issues, and mabye level out multiplayer a 
 little or mabye add some team deathmatch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt_xx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  A long long time ago, many many good games back, I started waiting for Crysis. And now, 2 years 
 later, it has come! Wrapped in a shiny box with the famed Nano-Suit on the cover, I haply purchased 
 this game the first day it jumped onto the shelves. 
  Well, now that I have it, have beaten it, twice... on the highest difficulty settings available, 
 I am finally confident that I can write a review for this long awaited game. First off, lets admit, 
 my system isnt the best, X1300 pro, I mean , come on, what is that 3 years old?! This turned 
 out to be my first surprise, the game ran on my pc! Quite well in fact, with some settings on high! 
 I was delighted to see how well this game ran considering my rig, although, it is not the most 
 optimized I have seen *cough; call of duty 4*, but is pretty well done for how much is being displayed 
 on the screen. 
  The game looks beautiful, and the developers have really recaptured the beauty of the Tropics (I 
 have a good idea what a tropical island should look like, as I have lived in Hawaii all my life) . 
 Everything from the ocean (3d wave technology) down to the grass and sand, look terrific! The world 
 feels real, well, as real as virtual worlds get. Effects on your characters mask, from water droplets, 
 to frost, are amazing, the sun beams, soft shadows (that I didnt run) , and explosions, everything 
 looks so realistic. 
  Crysis also has a wonderful array of sound/sound effects. The environment itself sounds great, 
 the enemies, gunfire, explosions, are all captured perfectly. Character voice acting is really 
 good too, although sometimes a little overdramatic or under dramatized which is common for games, 
 so no biggy. Many sound effects also make themselves appear ant, echos of gunshots in big 
 areas, the way all the sound slows down when you cloak (really really cool) , explosions dim your 
 hearing, while giving you this concussion feeling. Overall the game sounds amazing, perfect for 
 a 7.1 surround sound.
  About 10 minutes after you play Crysis, you notice that the Nano-Suit is going to 
 be one of the most fun and more important aspects of your gaming experience. Crytec really nailed 
 what they were trying to give to the player here, which is a sense of power over ones abilities 
 instantly, and to change the strategy of a situation with the click of a button. You are given 
 the power to give yourself more Strength, Armor, Speed and to Cloak yourself for a short period 
 of time. The abilities work off a rechargeable power source in your suit, so you never fully run 
 out, just give it a sec to charge back up. The only power I had a small problem with was the Cloak, 
 it was too hard for the AI to compensate for, and was easily exploitable. 
  Enemy AI.. hmm I think. Crytec tried to hard to create revolutionary AI and in the 
 process didnt finish it (which isnt helped by EA) . While it is good, the seemly endless 
 possibilities of what the player can do, and what can occur in this infinitely open world, often 
 is too much for the Enemies to handle. If they were placed in any other games, these would be the 
 smartest batch of Korean Special forces around, but in Crysis, well. NanoSuit   Korean Soldier. 
 Meanwhile, they act quite intelligent, they give orders, throw well placed grenades, drive vehicles, 
 group up in hunting parties, snipe, and some other interesting features which I will not discuss, 
 all wrap up to make a reasonably smart opponent. While there are plenty of ways to kill a man, 
 it eventually gets repetitive, which sadly happens in Crysis. At first, I couldnt get enough 
 of killing Korean after Korean but, you can only kill so many of them! 
  The games storyline is so-so, I wasnt particularly impressed. It was more a shallow game 
 trying to be deep, the alien invasion plot is kind of getting old, this one reminded me more of 
 War of the Worlds. Anyways, it is well paced, and well presented, just a little dry, nothing special 
 here.
  Overall, I believe Crysis has definitely lived up to the hype, it is undeniably a game to own. 
 While it does have some minor flaws, these are generally outshined by the games beautiful presentation, 
 and open-ended game play. Make sure you have a system that can play this game before purchasing, 
 because it is most certainly in the Next-Gen category.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The game is beautiful and the gameplay is fun, but there are too many bugs. I and, looking at the 
 official forums, many others are having problems where you complete your objectives, but you never 
 get the next objective. So, you're kinda stuck. The recommended fix is to restart the affected 
 level. I've done the same level a few times now, and it's still not working. The only other suggestion 
 I've seen is to use someone else's save file. There are other annoying bugs, but I haven't run 
 into any other game killers.
  
  Going to have to shelve this one until they finally release a patch.
  
  Updated review - a 
 few months and patches later, I tried again. There were a few minor isues with objectives, but 
 the game is more stable. When it came out, I played it about half way through before getting annoyed 
 with bugs and dropping it for a while. This time, I played it all the way through. Great game. 
 I'll buy the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaneyboy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The first game i've bothered to write a review for....
  I don't throw a perfect rating around, this is only the 5th game i've given a perfect rating for 
 and i believe this game really deserves it.
  First let me start by saying that I haven't rated this game just for its amazing graphics.
  I 
 ran the game on a 6600 GT (128 Mb of VRAM) , an AMD Athlon 64 3000+, and 1 Gb of DDR 1 ram, on Vista.
 
  Thats Wayy below the minimum requirements... and yes, there were times i had to wait a few seconds 
 for the next frame, but i still enjoyed the game like no other. Well, onto the review.
  
  Graphics : I don't have much to say about the graphics as i couldn't enjoy them myself, but as 
 you can see from the videos, the graphics are without a doubt, unrivaled.
  
  Sound : All the way from the immersive score, to the groundbreaking effects, the sound really does 
 its job to make you part of the game. Subtle effects like the muffling of sounds when you cloak 
 to the highly energetic explosions and the bullets whizzing around you when you're trying to swim 
 underwater to escape an annoying helicopter all come together to create a really believable world.
 
  
  Gameplay : 3 words here... Nanosuit, AI and Physics.
  Nanosuit : This one feature can turn crysis from a stealth game to an over the top action game. 
 Theres nothing like sneaking up to a 3 man patrol cloaked, turning on strength mode and throwing 
 one guy into the other 2. Or turning on speed and zipping past a bunch of bad guys to a turret 
 on the other end and finishing them off before they can react. Theres no doubt, the nanosuit really 
 sets crysis apart from other games by letting you change your strategy depending on the situation.
 
  AI : Yes, i know you've heard it before, but its worth repeating... the AI is one of the best 
 to date. Enemies take cover, flush you out with grenades, flank you, blind fire and converge onto 
 your last known position when you cloak. Later on the nanosuit enemies cloak, turn on armour when 
 fired upon, use strenght when they're gonna hit you with their rifle butt... Heck they do everything 
 you'd expect a real person to do.
  Physics (???) : Yes, the physics do play a large part in the gameplay. Now where else can you toss 
 a grenade into the dense jungle beside the jeep thats troubling you and watch the trees fall onto 
 it ? Or blow out the tires on a jeep to keep it from following you or watch it roll out of control?
 
  And tossing crates or other heavy junk like garbage bins, weapon cases or boat propellers onto 
 enemy soldiers does amp up the fun too.
  
  Story : The story is for the most part a typical sci-fi story with aliens and giant robotic spiders 
 thrown in for good measure. But don't get me wrong, its probably one of the most engaging and immersive 
 of stories lately, not because it does something new or revolutionary with the story, but because 
 it takes the existing formula and polishes it up till it shines.
  
  Overall : Crysis is a masterpiece that should not be missed and it sets the bar for future FPS 
 games. Its display of finesse in everything it does makes it as enjoyable as it is a work of art. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firehell2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  The next game from Crytek, and how does it fare? See below...
  
  Crysis is excellent eye candy, if your computer can handle it at above medium quality settings. 
 Frame rates can plummet when saving/loading and during several roleplay stages such as the carrier 
 combat parts especially at the beginning (2 fps anyone?) . Music is done well, and might induce 
 several of our more twitchy fingered compatriots to pull the trigger at the opening notes. Gameplay 
 can be varied depending on one's approach to FPS games, with place for both proponents of recon 
 by fire and the "sneakier" way of infiltration. Marginally disappointing is the bugs in this game 
 (Okay, so not just marginally) , it feels frustrating to have suddenly activated the "NPCs are invulnerable" 
 cheat and get your ass blown sky high after emptying your guns into just one KPA soldier. When 
 (if ever) patches come out, this game would be rather more fun to play. The amount of open endedness 
 of this game is nowhere near the standards of Oblivion, but still remains sufficient to ward off 
 boredom, with the addition of vehicles to the mix aiding in the alleviation of tediousness. 
  This game is one of the most, if not the most, visually stunning game I have seen so far, but certain 
 parts of it completely ruin the gameplay, namely the bugs and technical issues of OVER EXCESSIVE 
 REQUIREMENTS BEYOND THE REACH OF SANE PEOPLE (Caps intended) .
  
  P. S. Sniping is close to impossible, Nomad waves his gun around like an old lady with arthritis, 
 apparently he forgot his calcium intake. Delta pushover.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: afontanm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  ***THERE MAY BE SOME MINOR SPOILERS***
  
  Crysis is probably the game that created the longest threads in every forum before its release. 
 Now it is out, and it lives up to all it said it would be. Almost.
  
  First, the graphics. If you can run this thing, then you can run anything for the next 5 years. 
 It simply brings to a crawl anything you throw at him. That shouldn't be a problem, since the graphics 
 are pretty on the MEDIUM setting. Never play on LOW, though, it's plain ugly.
  You'll find yourself staring at landscapes, the sunrise over the ocean, a misty river valley, the 
 sun lighting between the leaves. And it's really impressive when an helicopter explodes in the 
 air, sending debris and smoke everywhere, just to fall on some trees and brake them, putting them 
 to the ground.
  
  On the sound part, the only cool thing that you'll notice are the sounds of the alien machines, 
 specially when they are far from your position. Other than that, everything is pretty average. 
 The voice acting is good on some characters, bad on others.
  
  The gameplay is where it is both thrilling and disappointing. The first part of the game sets you 
 in the jungle, trying to find some hostages. It is cool that you can, theoretically, approach every 
 situation the way you want. It's sort of like that, except you can approach every situation either 
 shooting or sneaking, or from two or three different angles. Or, sometimes, you can go around and 
 not face the enemy. That's it. Not much of a choice, if you ask me. If you play on Delta, it is 
 almost impossible to win by only shooting, and you'll eventually have to hide to recover.
  
  The first let down are the enemies. They can take a lot of bullets and, in a game that seems 
 to be so realistic, it's strange having to shoot guys for, five, six times before they fall, unless 
 you score a headshot. You'll get used to it, but it's not cool. 
  
  The weapons modifications is a nice touch, so is your armor. All the power and the combos are exciting. 
 But such armor is the second disappointment. It's strange for a special forces soldier to shine 
 bright with red light when jumping to a tall spot, or to become a speedy yellow spot. Specially 
 when it is the enemy using the armor. It's ridiculous spotting them at night turning all red right 
 in front of you, or blinking white everytime you score a hit.
  
  The second part of the game is fun. It's open war between your side and the KPA. Again, you don't 
 have much option, but you'll be able to go through one angle or another. It's cool to have fighters 
 and artillery all aorund you, but it's more a showcase for the eyes then anything else, and it 
 quickly cools down to base invading..
  
  The third part has you inside the alien ship. It's cool, just because you are moving in zero-gravity, 
 and the aliens and enviroment are beautifully crafted and designed. Other than that, it is a linear 
 shooter, which has you running from your enemies rather than facing them.
  
  After that, it's the frozen landscape. Not so beautiful anymore, and things don't quite react to 
 your shots as you'd expect from this game. Also, it's plainly linear and not much fun until you 
 get out of the sphere but, even there, it's just running and gunning.
  
  The last part is big just because it's made to be epic. Other than that, it's more average shooter 
 thrown at you with beautiful graphics. And you'll meet a character that has cliche written all 
 over him, with a plot twist that has clich written all over it. It's rather disappointg.
  
  All things considered, Crysis is a game that does not inovate that much, except for the graphics 
 side. IT's pretty common, with a plot you will learn to predict but that still draws you in. The 
 biggest drawback being that it does not end. So be prepared to expend that extra buck on the sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s-leya-s
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  For the first time, in last 10 years FPS , I see the successful combination of superb graphics 
 and playability and storyline. Farcry was close, but still I had the feeling something is missing.
 
  
  Graphics, physics, musics, soundics... all well done and balanced. Intelligence (of artificials) 
 is nice but sometimes sucks a bit, especially if you shot with silencer from long range. AIs go 
 for bullet hit spot, so drastically they are always turned with backs, not scanning the horizon.
 
  
  I like the concept "don't find the healthpack hidden in improbable places". First time I saw similar 
 thing in Halo, there it was limited to suit regeneration only, but adding health support in Crysis 
 was a nice idea.
  
  Co-operative mutliplayer seems to be gorgeous too, but I still have limited experience, so I want 
 to wait with final mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esba160
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is an amazing game and let's not deny that. It delivered everything that it was promising.. 
 From excellent graphics to a great engine that I am sure we will be seeing in many upcoming "new 
 gen" FPS. 
  
  The story not as involving as Far Cry but definitely good enough to get you going.
  Graphix are 
 of the chain really amazing! That is what makes your palms sweaty.. it looks real 
  
  AI is pretty good depending on the difficulty those bastards could be very deadly. Although do 
 not be surprised if you see a bog or two im sure minor bugs like that could be easily patched. 
 
  
  Environment is great.. 
  
  The weapons are really cool although through the whole game I stuck with AK and a shotty.. cool 
 customizations sometimes. But sometimes other weapons loose their purpose. (for example you could 
 use a sniper rifle and take an enemy down or stay with you AK switch to Max Power mode ad a scope 
 to AK and Boom headshot.
  
  Enemies are awesome both human and alien, I was really impressed by the alien design. I was glad 
 when I've seen nothing that looked human like really cool
  
  Levels are good and Crysis would switch up on you from outdoor to cave to alien shipto your ship 
 so you are never enoyed with the same environment
  
  It is a great game and I suggest everyone to play it.. if your pc could at least run it.. on Med 
 to High quality. Otherwise you should wait until you get a nicer PC.
  
  
  and stop crying...! 
  
  e
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyrulianpriest
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I've heard a lot of people complaining about crysis not being able to run on their PC. To be honest 
 i don't know what the fuss is about, my brother can run this on a sempron 300+, granted he has 
 to set it to low, but he doesn't get any lag and runs it at a respectable frame rate. i can run 
 this can on high and it is a very gorgeous game, mouth wateringly so, but it's not just about graphics, 
 it's about game play as well, and i think that crysis achieves on this level to.
  Nowi have to admit that i thought i couldn't originally run crysis at first and i did have to upgrade 
 my PC, i also though that all the Hype was about the graphics so the gameplay must be rubbish, 
 and i think that i also need to admit that i didn't really enjoy farcry (i'm sure a crime in many 
 peoples eyes) but crysis delivered on a level that farcry didn't. The story line was respectable, 
 yes somewhat predictable, but still enjoyable throughout, i didn't drop down Crysis and pick it 
 back up later due to having gotten bored from it. The character Ai was pretty good in my opinion 
 i loved clock and the shield was a great addition; even if it did somewhat make the game easier. 
 
  As someone who has been disappointed at the recent games market, i must say that i was thoroughly 
 impressed by crysis, yes, in some ways it was flowed, but in other it was a great and enjoyable 
 gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yudhistirs
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This is gonna sound shocking but i didnt like crysis , Been playing the game for sometime and have 
 reached seventh level but still didnt find anything awesome except the graphics of the game. The 
 game is all looks and no soul , Accepted the nanosuit powers are creative but they dont last long 
 and there is no upgrade system in affect , you cloak and hide and then if u want to run fast you 
 wait for sometime and given by the number of heavily armed enemies / turrets / helis / snipers 
 running after your ass you really dont have time , so the nanosuit powers end up being a waste. 
 So in order to survive you end up sneaking and shooting like a normal FPS , so nothing REVOLUTIONARY 
 as such which was quoted by gamespot reviewer. Next will be the weapons , Only Two types of machine 
 guns and one shotgun with a sniper rifle and a pistol which is useless is not really what you expect 
 in latest FPS games. Hell even Call of duty 2 or say Bioshock had more variety in the weapons. 
 The grenades are sort of useless as well since you throw one right besides a korean and he just 
 moves a bit and is saved. Games like Quake and had better weapons than this game and lets compare 
 this game with a similar game say far cry. Open ended world with several routes to your mission 
 and complete free form gamely is what far cry was and so was this game was supposed to be but with 
 the linear mission objectives the world around you is just for staring rather than exploring. The 
 mission objectives in themselves are uninteresting : Go from place A to B , Investigate this camp 
 , Clear the route , Follow the route , man i would have investigated atleast 5 camps till now. 
 So , to sum it all in one , crysis to me was a disappointment , its a regular and average FPS game 
 which does not even meets the standards that older FPS games have created so it does not does anything 
 new or REVOLUTIONARY as such. I'd say buy this game only for the looks and wait till the prices 
 go down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch-Vil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  OK , if you have a good PC , and when I say a good PC I mean an 8800 video card witha good CPU 
 and a 3-4 GB of RAM , you will love Crysis , because you'll be able to experience the next-gen 
 graphics !, and thats it ! . Crysis is all about graphics !! the gameplay is not that good , (it's 
 not bad but it's not great either) .
  but if you have a low-specs PC , well, you can't play a damn thing because of the hard lag ,specially 
 if alot is going on on your screen .
  I give this game 7.5 only because the story is good , and the good graphics , of course :-)
  
 and Crytek , next time don't make a game that 90% of the gamers can't run probably .
  
  Half Life 2 FOR EVER !!
  that's right , I'm a Half-Life fanboy ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  Firstly, go buy Crysis and play it, it's brilliant... but... it's not Far Cry, Crysis is too short, 
 the levels are too small, there is not enough freedom and it's missing the fun factor that Far 
 Cry had and that I hoped would be there. It was Far Cry's level design and attention to detail 
 that made it a better game in my opinion. Maybe Crysis was over hyped and took too long to be delivered 
 and maybe I was expecting too much from it. It is a very good game and shows how promising the 
 game engine is. The hinted at sequel might deliver what I am looking for, if not there is always 
 Far Cry 2 :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Shadoistic_
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Simply the best game ever. Right now nothing can match it. 
  Destructive weapons, realistic psychics engine, great A. I.
  Just perfect. Sounds are really nice 
 to the ear. Not like the other
  First Person Shooter games sound.
  Graphics are also very good. Everything in "Crysis" is smooth and clear.
  No more square edges 
 *Yay*. Besides everything only one word to describe "Crysis". PERFECT. The world's best First Person 
 Shooter Game in history.
  Like i said nothing can outmatch this piece of gaming revolution. 
  Everyone should try this 
 miracle. If there is a better game, than show me one. 
  Because I don't believe that there is a better game in the world right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BnryZombie
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  The best part of this game is in the beginning but as you get to the end of the game its not even 
 worth playing. The graphics are outstanding and the physics are as well but the aliens suck. suits 
 is awasome. The replay of the game is well less then its made out to be you have to work to unlock 
 things and its always 400 to 1 killing. plus you also get to shoot down trees. drive tanks, a transport 
 plain, and more. but like i said eairlier the game is grat up untill you get to the end it suck 
 because of the aliens. One more side note aircraft carriers have like 6 miniguns more then enough 
 to fight off the aliens that attack the carrier. since there is no long range attacks from the 
 aliens. not to mention to run this game at its max you have to have a computer thats not even made 
 yet. it might be a plus i don't know but i'm not going to pay 3-4 thousand dollars just to play 
 a new game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakie91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  First Thing First, The Game was good, Not saying it wasn't, but why did they have to make a game 
 that no one could play on Highest, or even high with a Decent Resolution, I played the whole game 
 on 800x600 just to see high, and my PC isn't bad. 
  AMD 6000+ 
  8800GTS 
  2gb Ram 
  And Yet I had to use that resolution.
  
  But When I did have the game on high the whole place 
 did light up. The Human Faces where good, look good and everything, also the clothes like t-shirt 
 and shirt had lump and everything it was good. Crysis was also the first game I played where you 
 move through a bush and it Moves "Snap" lol.
  The Tress moved with the wind, but I have to say some of the grass was pretty ugly.
  
  Anyway 
 to the gameplay, It is smart with having the nano suit and all, with very good customizing with 
 the guns, Being sneaky is fun. The AI is smart also, e. g. when you shoot someone when you have 
 cloak on, then just appear, the enemies they look around for awhile first instead of other normal 
 game where they know where you are straight away just shoot at you.
  
  The Mission isn't bad in its self, but I do find it weird why your other team mates are off doing 
 whatever their doing in other places of the island, you are left doing all the dirty work. Another 
 thing, is that just because you have this nano suit on, you have to do everything, even though 
 your team mates are right next to you. 
  
  Now to why I called this review, "For A Game That Took That Long To Make, Why Did they Take A Page 
 From Bungie Book?"
  Is because it finished way too soon. Plus it lead up to another game, "sigh"
  I don't want to 
 ruin it for other so I am not going to say where it stop, but look to the future for a Crysis II: 
 The Second Coming. "Not Real Name" lol.
  
  I Haven't Tried Crysis online yet, want faster net, plus a 9 Series nVidia Card First, (Coming 
 Out Q1 watch out for them) , and maybe AMD Quad.
  
  Anyway Later Hope this review covered everything.
  
  If Not I'll edit it later, Off to play 
 Call of Duty 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  Crysis is the best PC game ever made, I can't believe EA published this game, which they usually 
 rush something fast and ended up crappy game. This isn't, this game is just wonderful.
  
  People keep saying they got problem with this game... Maybe there is something wrong with their 
 own CPU. I was playing smoothly until I got a virus on my PC, I cleared it and the game played 
 as smooth as silk after that.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic. The map is open-ended gameplay, you can go stealth or rusher. The enemy 
 really react to the environments... There are lots of things to do in the game that won't let you 
 get bored.
  
  The sound is good too. The sound effect is very realistic.
  
  The graphics is the best I've seen in a PC game. Even though you run on low settings, the graphics 
 still surpass many other games graphic performances.
  
  Overall, this is the best game I've played so far, not only this year, but my whole life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rofri
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  Such as a lot of gamers around the world, I've been expecting the release day of Crysis. With my 
 brother's help, we bought an almost top scale computer just to play this promising game. As far 
 as I'm concerned, the game promised a lot, next generation graphics, physics, "storyline", gameplay, 
 etc...
  When i started playin' it i was thrilled! i could not believe what i was seeing...
  "They were right" - my first thought -, they brought us the next generation in games design!!!
 
  As long as the game was advancing, the plot was revealing itself. I was so... confused when i 
 discovered that the game was about a rebel north korean army and some sort of "ALIENS", WTF! What's 
 the link between those things??? at first you are playin as an antiterrorist force but then you 
 become a sigourney weaver busting aliens all over the place. As u can see, i didn't like it... 
 For such game, u need a strong plot holding it, that doesn't happen here. Crytek people... my thumbs 
 down for you, learn from your errors and dont do it again!!!
  I take the chance to glorify COD4, excellent game! great gamepay, graphics, good physics along 
 with even better animations, strong and well designed storyline. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer911
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  Can't complete the second mission in the game due to level bugs. Yes, I've tried reloading the 
 mission several times as has been suggested. Apparently this has been a fairly common problem. 
 Also running into a problem with the copy protection as well since I also have the clicking DVD 
 issue. EA/Crytek has promised a patch, but the initial release date was supposed to be a month 
 ago. Game has been out 6 weeks now, and nothing.
  
  
  
  What can I say? Nice game when it runs, but how it managed to get a "Game of the Year" award when 
 it's got these kinds of issues is beyond me.
  
  
  I'm giving it a 1.0 because I can't play it, I'm tired of waiting for the patch, and I'm tired 
 of patronizing responses. So sue me.
  
  =============================================================
  =============================================================
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zion_7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  C-creepily realistic
  R-rip-roaring action fun
  Y-yes those are the graphics!
  S-short, too short
  I- incredibly engaging characters
  S- summing it all up, MUST HAVE
  
 
  I just finished Crysis and my reaction is a WOW-AWWWHH-SHUCKS-HOLYJEEBUS amalgamation, the wows 
 and ahhs are self explanatory, but the shucks comes in because this heavyhouse seems to put away 
 the big guns too soon, just when this action packed joyride seems to heat up, this bad boy leaves 
 you at the climax, and now we have to wait... ohhh.... a jazillion years for the sequel! anyways, 
 like everyone else says the graphics are unrivaled, the sound is chilling, the characters are real 
 and believable, this game is one of the greatest production packages ever, yes, including film 
 and such. Its that good! So go buy this Crytacular funorama and enjoy a good 8 hours of game play, 
 and spend another 4 just looking at the water. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peralta775
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Before I get any further into my thoughts on this game, let me explain to you that I do not own 
 a gaming PC. My friend has one and I go there to play it. He has an expensive rig that can run 
 it straight up and believe me, I basically caught conjunctivitis from how sick the graphics are.. 
 I don't know how to explain this game. It just rocks. If I had caught some form of super AIDS from 
 a dancer called Echo and little time to live and if I were still even thinking about gaming at 
 this point, I would spend it playing this while my body slowly withers away.
  
  The story is ok, nothing out of the ordinary. We have all seen the same style of story played out 
 multiple times all the way back to DOOM. Basically as Maddox explains how a Tom Clancy story is 
 written, you can write the story yourself as a Mad Lib. Place verb here, place noun there. But 
 the story isn't what really sells the game. It's the gameplay that rocks so much about it.
  
  Most games when you turn it to hard just make the CPU opponents super shots that always know 
 where you are. On Delta, this game just strips some of the handicappes away from you. The enemy 
 can still miss and you can still keep yourself hidden from your enemies using the suit. For the 
 first time I actually had a sense of feeling that I was superior to the enemy, that I actually 
 posed a threat. Halo tried to make you feel like some super soldier, but basically you turn up 
 the difficulty to legendary and you are basically dead. About time someone got this right.
  
  The weapon customization is also a nice inclusion. Basically you are picking up parts from 
 camps and Korean soldiers to pimp out your gun. Add a laser pointer here, a grenade launcher there 
 and your set. I know other games allow you to do this also, but none that I know that allow you 
 to do it on the fly.
  
  I do have one grip though. Sometimes the AI does lack in this game. Multiple times have a drove 
 a bullet to someone's face to only find the enemy walk right by the corpse. I see it as a consequence 
 that just occurs on a game that relies on unscripted AI. You can also confuse the AI by throwing 
 a grenade and having it blow up. 9/10 times they will look toward where the grenade landed. But 
 other than that the AI is great. They do attempt to flank you and will call for reinforcements 
 using flares and what not.
  
  All in all i have to recommend this game. Its beautiful in every way and no stone was left untouched 
 in the making of this game. Everything uses high res textures it is just unbelievable. And when 
 computers are able to play it at 60 fps, it will be even more amazing. And besides, it is much 
 better than catching AIDS from a dancer called Echo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinguin_
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played Farcry? Bet you played, and tough it was awesome. A guy lost in the jungle 
 with guns and a lot of enemies and weird things. Yeah... Crysis is Farcry with a Invincible suit. 
 The same, guy in the jungle thing. Does Crytek just have programmers? Can't they hire someone to 
 write a history? Dude, this game is a benchmark.
  Ok, ok... it have awesome graphics, the best ever done. Call of duty 4 does to, have awesome graphics 
 (not so good, but they're awesome) and have a nice history, a lot of action and doens't requires 
 a Google Server to run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iknasir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  As far as i remember crysis is a game which made me wait for it for years & now when i installed 
 it a week ago & finished playing the game, i found so many amazing facts regarding the game, i 
 doubt if there is any system capable of running CrySis at Ultra High GFX, but no doubt the pressure 
 on GFX GPU and CPU is worth it. 10/10 for graphics, the game play was superv and the story too 
 but the only great drawback i found about this game was the shortest single player stages and story. 
 My god you can end this game in almost 2 to 3 hours ! and now this is what made me sad ! wait for 
 years and play for only 2 to 3 hours ??? i hope Crytek releases the next part soon as the story 
 points out there is still a huge war left against those aliens. So over all i would like to give 
 CRYSIS 8.5/10. No doubt its still worth being played [: D] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ric360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game. It has its issues with some of the scripting that is to easy to break 
 espically later in the game. I had a half hour spot where I was reloading every 10 seconds because 
 of a scripted game save and what was happening on the screen. It took alot of time and creativity 
 to get out of it but once that was done it was a blast. The game seems to end suddenly but there 
 is most defenatly a part 2. Over all I would give it a 9 and this is froma guy who is not a big 
 fan of the FPS games but it just looked to good to not buy it. 
  
  My biggest point for this game is that you can play it the way you want to for the most part. If 
 you want to sneek through it and shoot from long distance you can. You can play melee, I just wish 
 there were melee weapons!!, or you can just run and gun your way through the game. It was well 
 worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Takekaze50
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Well, don't get me wrong. It looks great, even on my almost 2 year old machine. Agreed, tweaking 
 took a while, but once that was done it ran fine. The problem I have is: looks aren't everything. 
 
  
  So, there I am beginning to play (I played the demo and liked it) . I fight myself through the Commies, 
 get to blow up tanks and a gas station (woohoo!) and then I'm supposed to meet Prophet. Fine. I 
 make my way there and... whoa... What's with that cave? Nothing, it just won't open. So, I run 
 back to the village and then back to Prophet. On my way back I suddenly have spawns I hadn't met 
 before. I suddenly found the body of the spy's comrade (wasn't there before) , and suddenly there 
 are more KPA soldiers. Did it open the cave? Of course not. So I spent a while searching for a 
 solution on the net (meanwhile I reloaded that part I don't know how often ,to no avail) . Well... 
 ultimately I had to mess around with the developer console to get the level done. What the hell? 
 Another "funny" thing I ran into right in the first level: instead of running UP a hill, I ran 
 INTO it, twice. Clipping errors. The only way to solve it was saving the game and reloading.
  
  It continues like this until I'm finally in the level Ascension. So yes, I crash and load from 
 the last save. Guess what happens? Nothing. Literally. The VTOLs move on and ramble over the radio, 
 but I can't move. No matter what I did (afterburner, altitude, etc) my VTOL just wouldn't move. 
 Reloaded, same thing. Reloaded, same thing. Reloaded... oh screw it. That was when I stopped playing. 
 It's uninstalled already. I'm going back to Half Life 2 and its mods.
  
  As for the gameplay itself. I would suggest renaming the "single player" campaign into "short player" 
 campaign. You start and suddenly it's over. The plot is hardly original. The enemy AI isn't really 
 great either. I remember in RTCW the German NPCs would throw a grenade back at you. Here they just 
 slow-walk for "cover" or just stand around waiting for it to blow them up. Not very smart. Every 
 grenade I've used so far was a kill, just because the AI is horribly dumb. The aliens aren't really 
 smarter, the only advantage they have is their speed, but that's it. I found the enemy AI in X-wing 
 vs TIE Fighter back in the days to be a lot more challenging. Once you know how to handle them 
 (and you should know that after the first outpost) they're easy to take.
  
  On the plus, I enjoyed stealing cars, that's the only reason why I've played it for more than 30 
 hours. Stealing the large trucks? Fun. "Oh sorry KPA grunt, didn't see you crossing the street!" 
 
  
  The tank level didn't really amaze me. CoD sends it's greetings (and it worked better there) . As 
 for the VTOL level, well, if it would actually work I might actually enjoy it... No, not really. 
 
  
  But yeah, as I said, the looks are great, but looks aren't everything. The playability is a pain, 
 it's full of bugs. I feel like I've wasted 50 bucks on this. I guess this happens when you publish 
 a title for 3 or 4 platforms right away. It just doesn't work and you get a faulty product. PC 
 Gaming is going down the sewer. I'm not happy with how bugged the latest releases always are. Meanwhile, 
 I'm playing HL 2 again and even dug out RTCW. Funny, how those two ran without problems in their 
 1.0 versions. Why can't anyone do this anymore? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  Everything said about Crysis is some what true with some minor issues. Crytek has shown with their 
 latest offering that Far Cry was not a fluke, They can really make a great game with astonishingly 
 beautiful graphical paradise, highly detailed textures, a very living breathing alien environment 
 with a powered nano suit, which gives the super human abilities.
  It is a very good experience, put up by Crytek , for which they should be hailed as one of the 
 best developers out there.
  Story of Crysis is bit shallow, and some times, you feel that the story is putting you up on some 
 linear tasks. Fire fights are not that much memorable as STALKER or HL2 latest incarnation, but 
 they are good enough to satisfy a lot of players.
  The only thing which keeps Crysis from becoming a run of the mill game, is the usage of Nano-Suit, 
 its very detailed and entertaining story with very solid characters.
  Sounds feel as it is recycled from Far Cry, but it stick to the pace of game.
  Boss fights are 
 bit frustrating but nothing which can't be mastered.
  Overall , Crysis is a very fine offering, which can't be missed by a FPS lover, and should be given 
 to any one ,w ho wants to venture forth in FPS territory.
  Do Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  First, I'd like to say that I am fairly ruthless when it comes to games. I tend to be overly critical 
 sometimes, and I have gotten a lot of entertainment out of this title.
  
  Crysis is a blast. 
  
  The gameplay isn't revolutionary because the first person shooter is 
 defined around our reality. That is, a human being wielding a gun in real life from the first person 
 view looks a certain way. In that sense, the genre is always going to have some repetition. Other 
 than that, that first person shooter stagnation ends there.
  
  It does have some striking similarities to Far Cry BUT I think it is much better. That's saying 
 a lot as when Far Cry came out, I thought it was an 
  exceptionally good game. I'll go so far as to say that I have not played a game this engrossing 
 and edge-of-your-seat enjoyable since Half Life 2 was released.
  
  If you enjoyed Half Life 2 and remember being scared sh*tl*ss when a zombie or creature launched 
 out from you in the dark, you'll recapture some of that here. It's no Half Life 2, but I think 
 it could be readily argued that it comes VERY close.
  
  It's got some interesting environmental settings and the visuals are amazing. The graphics are top 
 notch. They are better than Call of Duty 4, in my opinion, and I've seen nothing like it to date.
 
  
  Some of the fighting gets dumb at some points when you shoot a guy in the face 8 times and they 
 don't die. I did sniper headshots on a guy 6 times in a row and he didn't die for another few shots. 
 Regular Korean troopers have the most flipped body armor -- better than yours! That's kind of idiotic 
 since you're supposed to have some insane bad ass nanosuit. You've got to nail them in the head, 
 and if they're special troops (no spoilers, so I won't explain further) , forget about it.
  
  I want to warn you that if you try to play this on anything but a high end system you're not 
 going to get the same experience I did. I'm sure it will look like crap.
  
  I played on an 8800GTS 640 MB, quadcore cpu @3.1ghz, 4gigs of RAM and I ran it on maxed settings 
 without a single glitch, ever. 
  
  For those of you who are trying to run it on a GeForce 6 series on a single core CPU, it's not 
 the game maker's fault. If you're a gamer, and don't kid yourself -- you spend TONS OF TIME behind 
 that computer -- spring a 100 bucks for a new GPU! Oh, and here's a revolutionary idea -- drop 
 another 50 bucks for RAM! Stop blaming the game makers that you have a horrible B grade computer.
 
  
  I don't want to spoil anything, but I assure you that if you buy this one it's well worth it. Best 
 game ever? No. A 10? No. A solid 9? Yes, hands down, a grade A release.
  
  Lastly, a lot of games, like Call of Duty 4 are releasing single player content that lasts 3 hours, 
 if you're lucky. They're cheeseballing the buyer under the premise you'll do the multiplayer. I've 
 already gotten 10+ hours of single player on Crysis and I haven't even touched the multiplayer 
 yet. I've still got several chapters left on the game, too.
  
  I think a lot of these obnoxious (1.0 Abysmal - 5.0) ratings have to do with people either having 
 awful computers or being fan boys who worked themselves into a neurotic frenzy for a year about 
 this game. 
  
  WHAT IN THE WORLD *WERE* YOU EXPECTING? 
  Hahaha!
  
  Half of these people can barely spell and tear apart a geniusly executed game that took 1,000s 
 of hours of work to produce. What did they think next-gen fps meant? That they'd put on a virtual 
 reality suit and step into a Matrix-like world where they'd FINALLY lose their virginity?
  
  It's a very solid, very enjoyable Sci-Fi fps. Honestly, unless you wanted them to spend 10 
 years producing it, there's not a very long list of areas that could benefit from major improvement.
 
  
  Alright kids, have a winner and don't go on a game over. Get Crysis.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oniko0
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Every fight ends up using the same nanosuit ability, and the weapons are too ordinary. It feels 
 like like a visually updated version of Deus Ex (well, very very advanced update to achieve these 
 visuals!) , but essentially, Crysis doesn't add any new, creative ideas to the nanosuit, and ends 
 up having less special abilities than Deus Ex, released seven years ago.
  
  
  Still, the cinematics are stunning enough to be worth the play. The voice acting and animations 
 are so smooth and credible, certainly with the money. Unless, like me, you didn't already have 
 a high-end video card. I ended up having to upgrade my video card for ~$95CAD so I can't say the 
 game was totally worth the money.
  
  
  Still, the feel of the game alone might be tempting enough to get this game, and as a forefront 
 to ultra-realistic game engines, Crysis makes for a nice ride when you're bored at night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7st
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of my all time favor, so I had a very high expectation for this game. Don't give 
 me wrong, I still think this is a good game, but just not in the top range with Far Cry. There 
 are some parts that make Cycsis falls behind Far Cry.
  
  1. Cycsis has an ultra high requirement on game hardware, Far Cry didn't. My new game pc was recently 
 build based 8800GTS graphic card, and it can only run at mid graphic setting at 1650*1080 monitor 
 default resolution. The delay and slow frame rate definitely hurt my enjoyment of this game.
  
  2. Cycsis is not nearly as long as Far cry.
  
  3. The KPA/ alien setting is not as fun 
 as the Far Cry setting. I didn't have the "lost in the story" feeling I had before.
  
  4. Unlike Far Cry, the island part of the Cycsis feels identical, which is some what boring after 
 awhile. And the Alien ship/Aircraft battle group settings are just inconsistent with the early 
 parts of the game, which is like some break down in the advanture. Far Cry's all islands setting 
 is still the best at providing consistency for the game. At the same time each island feels little 
 different to keep the fresh feeling. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evklinken
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Alright, Crysis isn't a bad game. The start of this review is only because of the fact that the 
 graphics are just too good for the game's overall quality. That said, though, I have enjoyed playing 
 Crysis.
  
  The biggest setback of this game is that it played a bit too... I don't know, it just doesn't work 
 all that well. Sure, the graphics are great, but behind that, there is a quite dissapointing piece 
 of software. It's not that is isn't good, it's more that it feels like it's just another game with 
 new graphics.
  
  The interaction with the environment is probably the best part about Crysis. When you shoot at 
 a tree (and there are a lot of trees in this game) it can fall down, if it's a thin one. But if 
 you shoot at a very massive tree, one shot isn't enough. You got to take it down by using a more 
 heavy gun, or just by firing a lot of bullets at it. These nice little details makes Crysis a very 
 cool game to play for the first time.
  Crysis does new things, and I can admire that. There for, I can enjoy a title like this even more 
 than a game like Halo 3, which basically doesn't do a whole lot of new things.
  
  If you know someone who says he has the best PC on the market, you can check that by letting him 
 install Crysis. If his computer isn't sweating with all graphic options on MAX, it's a VERY strong 
 computer. Please Crytek, make a sequel of this game, but then with much better gameplay. Less straiving 
 can be a great modifier.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hjalonso
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Graphics ... 10
  Sound ... 10
  Playability ... 10
  Stuning, incredible, beautiful, amazing wow!
  
  Im spect this game for a long time, this developers 
 sorpresing me with Farcry and im not sure if crysis best, but now im sure that CRYSIS is not only 
 a better game that Farcry is too the Best game that i played im my entire life, with my SLI with 
 two BFG 8800GTX, my LCD 24" the game is a picture, is a real movie and im the star in this movie.
 
  
  All in this game is perfect, the sounds of the jungle, the sun on the sky, the inteligence of enemys, 
 the logic and dificult in the levels, thanks CRYTEK your are the best, please surprise me in the 
 future again!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spqr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  this is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this 
 is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this 
 is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this 
 is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this 
 is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this 
 is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla
  this 
 is just for filling the space - this is just for filling the space - bla-bla-bla-bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VXCOM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Haha.. Crysis.. its worth the wait... awesome to play in single and cant wait to play online... great 
 game to test my pc ;) .... quite hard to play at first ... but after 20 mins its just as easy as F. E. A. R.... fast 
 shooting and awesome types of weapon and machines at your disposal and almost the same inviroment 
 as Far Cry... i need more of urban fighting at least 40% of the game.... geez~...... Btw its n awesome 
 game to get your hands on..... ; ) [lame]
  i thinl after this i'll play Unreal Tournament 3...... maybe its get even more fun and more things 
 to do........ wahahhaaa
  
  quote
  the bad-
  The single-player story ends Will laugh at every CPU and GPU thrown at it No team deathmatch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MythPro1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Phenomenal is the only word which adequately describes this game. Crysis has exceeded many expectations 
 while pushing the FPS genre to the limit. This game is like no other, surpassing everything which 
 came before it.
  
  Set in 2020, you assume the role of Lieutenant Jake Dunn - codenamed "Nomad" - who is part of a 
 U. S Army Delta Force team sent to a tropical island to locate a team of archaeologists who were 
 taken captive by the North Korean military. Unlike the U. S military that fight alongside you later 
 in the game, you and your fellow teammates are donning new technology called nanosuits. These suits 
 aid Nomad and his team as they battle with the Korean military and eventually the aliens who inhabit 
 the island. All of this translates into one wild ride as you live, fight, and die while trying 
 to uncover the whereabouts of the captured archaeologists and the secrets of the island itself. 
 
  
  Crysis boasts stunning visuals, excellent sound quality, and realistic voice acting. Its visual 
 appeal is extremely tantalizing. Sunlight glistens beautifully off the water and the trees realistically 
 sway in the breeze. During pauses between battles I found myself mesmerized by the environments, 
 they are truly jaw-dropping. The overall quality is simply astounding. Similar to Far Cry, Crysis 
 also has open-range environments allowing the player to go anywhere they desire. You can follow 
 the road and go straight through enemy defenses, hike through the jungle to flank the enemy where 
 they are most vulnerable, or avoid them entirely. The choice is really up to you.
  
  The gameplay is no slouch either. Gun fights are loud, intense, and frequent. You'll find yourself 
 dodging grenades, evading vehicle fire and fighting Korean soldiers who possess impeccable AI as 
 you romp through the jungle. One core aspect of Crysis' gameplay is the nanosuits themselves. These 
 suits enable the wearer to augment certain characteristics of the suit including speed, armor, 
 strength, and even cloaking. With the push of a button you gain the ability to knock down buildings, 
 remain unseen, or jump from cover to cover with blinding speed. Similar to the Red Faction series, 
 Crysis also has destructible environments. Trees fall over when shot at and buildings will explode 
 in delicious mayhem when used in conjunction with explosives.
  
  Crysis also ships with full 32 person multiplayer support and two different game modes. One is 
 called "Instant Action" and is the deathmatch aspect of multiplayer. The other is called "Power 
 Struggle" which features territory control and the objective is to destroy the enemy headquarters. 
 In Power Struggle all players start with a pistol and a basic suit called the "prototype" suit 
 and must purchase weapons and suit upgrades similar to Counterstrike's buying scheme. Multiplayer 
 is fun, exciting and effectively supplements the action-packed singleplayer experience. 
  
  Despite Crysis' beautiful visuals and riveting action it does have several faults. First and foremost, 
 Crysis is a major system hog. You will need the most powerful computer on the market to run this 
 baby and even then it will still wince in pain. Also, while players have the ability to modify 
 their weapons in different ways, there does seem to be a shortage of weapon types. While playing, 
 the only weapons I really needed were an AK-47 and a sniper rifle. A little variety never hurt. 
 I guess they figured weapon customization more than made up for the lack of weaponry. I don't believe 
 it does. One other problem I have is that multiplayer does not have a global ranking system. Ranking 
 will only occur during the individual games themselves.
  
  Despite its minor flaws and I stress minor, Crysis is the best FPS this year and I would venture 
 to say it is one of the best ever. I recommend Crysis to anyone who is a fan of the FPS genre and 
 even to those who aren't. It truly is a rewarding experience. Crysis has raised the bar; it's time 
 for other games to meet the challenge.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  To start with GOOD side of the game ... Visual style ... absolutely outstanding visuals, using both 
 DX9 and DX10 with support for VistaX64. Hardware need ... hell yes, but considering what you will 
 get with certain upgrades on your PC you cant loose with Crysis. Gameplay speaks for itself, switching 
 your suit mods you can get stealth for your enemies, strenght for braking doors and jumping high 
 or speed up your movement ... Koreans, and later in the game ... Aliens, will spice this game even 
 more ... although, the part with aliens make 70% of the game ... shame for us "non alien likers".
 
  Sounds are simply beautiful and they fit perfectly in the atmosphere of certain moments in the 
 game.
  BAD side of the game comes with SHORT singleplayer campaign, and game seams to drop to some really 
 bad framerates, depends of the level you play (later in the game and end level) no matter what 
 system you use for playing. I tested this game on both 8800 gtx and 2900 xt with duo core proccessors 
 and 4 gb of ram and i can tell for sure ... this game CANT! be set to VERY HIGH (options) on higher 
 resolutions ... so, optimization of Crysis isnt made well, sadly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Crysis:
  Crysis is one of those weird games to review. The reason I say this is because with games that 
 are so heavily hyped before release, it's hard not to formulate an opinion on the game even before 
 you've played it. Developers Crytek have promised gamers the holy grail of gaming; their first 
 true taste of next generation gaming on the PC. They released hundreds of in game screen shots 
 and game play videos that have caused even the most outspoken critic to bat at least one eye lid 
 in amazement. The game has shown so much potential in the months leading to its release that it's 
 very hard not to get excited over it, but luckily, we have managed to lock our expectations away 
 and go through the game with a neutral eye.
  
  Crysis has you playing as Nomad, a member of Raptor squad, an elite US delta force squad tasked 
 with the investigation of a distress signal by a team of archaeologists on an island in the Philippine 
 Sea. The island has been taken over by the North Koreans, who have started to evacuate all civilians 
 and it's up to you and your squad to infiltrate the island and rescue the team. Unfortunately things 
 aren't as they seem and things quickly get out of control and this seemingly simple rescue mission 
 turns into a battle to save humanity. 
  
  As games go, Crysis is visually the most stunning game ever made. Bold words I know, but said with 
 confidence. The developers have produced a game that is the closest we have ever gotten to experiencing 
 video realism in games. The lighting effects are truly amazing, textures are sharp and the environments 
 you run around in are beautifully detailed and just add to the immersion. The game is littered 
 with jaw dropping scenes that truly take your breath away. I guess the question on everyone's mind 
 right now is does Crysis play as good as it looks. The answer in a word is "sometimes." 
  
  The first half of Crysis can only be described as amazing... sure it feels a bit like Far cry but 
 the new nanosuit the player wears really does change the way you play a first person shooter. The 
 suit allows you to change between four modes, namely armour, speed, strength and stealth. Changing 
 between these modes on the fly allows the player to adapt to any situation and each of these modes 
 comes into its own at some point in the game and prove to be very useful though the experience. 
 
  
  Armour mode is very useful in fire fights where gun play is the only way out, Speed allows you 
 to run short distances at great speed and comes in handy when retreating or trying to rush an enemy. 
 Strength allows you to pick up pretty much anything in the game or jump to great heights or even 
 hurl enemies tens of feet into the air. Finally stealth mode cloaks the player, predator style, 
 and allows you to sneak up on enemies undetected. The suit, paired with an open ended game world 
 results in a truly mouth watering experience. 
  
  The second half of the game on the other hand is a more linear and tense gaming experience. The 
 alien ship /Zero gravity level may be the most disorientating and novel gaming experience to date, 
 but to be fair it's far too linear. Also at this point the game rushes to its finale in record 
 time and it results in the experience feeling short lived. 
  
  Even though Crysis was designed as a trilogy, I can't believe it pulled off a Halo 2 at the end! 
 I thought at this point in the gaming evolution we were past the whole: "Let's just stop here for 
 fun of it" mentality but it seems that the guys at Crytek didn't get the message. You battle your 
 way through a horde of Koreans, past monsters from the great unknown and then some, just for a 
 "Finish the Fight" moment... tsk tsk indeed.
  
  Crysis does offer a rather interesting team based multiplayer experience called Power struggle, 
 which pits two teams against each other in a massive battle for survival. The aim is to capture 
 command points that generate resources for your team that allow you to buy better weapons and vehicles 
 to overcome your opponents base. Its works well and is truly a joy to play as long as you have 
 enough players on the map.
  
  If anything, Crysis is a great game that aimed too high. It offers the most amazing visuals ever 
 seen and for the most part, the most open ended game play experience ever, but suffers from very 
 poor performance on anything other than the highest end PC and a rather abrupt finale. Its multiplayer 
 is competent and offers a new twist to team death match but won't knock the likes of Battlefield 
 off the top spot. Overall, if you have a system that can handle Crysis, it is a must buy. On the 
 other hand, even though the game does scale down well, it's a less amazing experience on lower 
 speced machines. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  When Crysis was first shown during E3, the graphics wowed everybody with its DirectX10 graphics 
 and effects. It didn't matter to the audience that they might have pretty much FarCry 1.5, they 
 were too absorbed with the graphics. Today, the game is released. Did it fail or succeed? Read 
 on!
  
  The game starts off with a video showing off the suit in action. No doubt, they were playing on 
 easy while shooting it, because attempting that on any other settings will result in nano-shredding. 
 Already, the game has duped you into thinking that you will be getting some awsome action-packed 
 shooter. While the actual game definately is "awsome," it might not be for people who count on 
 "action-packed."
  
  After the video, you will be shown a cutscene where you are rudely awakened by one of your squadmates. 
 If you are playing on a respectable graphic setting (read: high or very high) then you will notice 
 how realistic the face looks. You will also notice how you can see your hands as you put on your 
 mask. Throughout the game, you will notice instances where the developers tried to make the game 
 more believable with such tricks such as showing your arm when you pick up a gun or picking up 
 a guy with your bare hands. This is definately different from the UT series or Quake series where 
 you walk up to a gun and you pick it up with nothing but air, and it will feel much more believable.
 
  
  After you fall into the water, you must move up the beach. You will encounter 3 North Koreans, 
 in which you must take them out. Unfortunately, if you value your nano-life, your best option will 
 always either be take them out from afar with a silenced weapon or cloak and take them out close 
 with a silenced weapon. There will rarely be times in which you can actually go Rambo-mode like 
 the video in the beginning without being killed. While there is nothing wrong with this approach, 
 this might turn away some Halo or Counter-Strike fans looking for those straight up run-n'-gun.
 
  
  Multiplayer is drastically different. Instead of a slow paced game relying more on thinking, you 
 have a fast paced game relying more on luck. Being that the game is suppose to be played in a different 
 more strategic way, multiplayer can sometimes be a mess. But there is no arguing that multiplayer 
 can sometimes break the monotony of killing Koreans and aliens and can prove fun in some situations.
 
  
  Graphic-wise, this game is a disappointment. DX9 looks the same as the DX10 with a config tweak 
 and the awsome graphic that were promised can only be achieved with some editing with the SandBox2 
 Editor. But it is no doubt that the graphics are still very good if you have a good rig. But graphics 
 being a big point of the game, having an ok rig will mean that you are missing out on a good portion 
 of the game. Nevertheless, graphics are still good.
  
  By now you've seen how Crysis can suck and be good at the same time. Unless you have a good computer, 
 I suggest waiting for a price drop. Nevertheless, this game is still a good game, and some people 
 might enjoy it with graphics that aren't the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BJonesUK
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Crysis looks great and plays well but loses all of it's wow factor when you need to fly and fight. 
 Appalling, slow, unresponsive controls that make the latter part of the game, albeit playable, 
 a miserable experience.
  That said, getting to that point was simply great. Fast moving run and gun, with the added bonus 
 of being able to jump buildings in a single leap! I have no doubt the nano suit, or something similar, 
 will appear in many other games (remember Max Payne and bullet time?) which should not get too 
 boring too quickly.
  So, will I wait and get Crysis 2, you bet ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoshoe
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  First of all, I've to remind you my english is not that good, so this review might have quite alot 
 grammar mistake. Well, Crysis is indeed not the best first person shooter, it did got quite alot 
 issues on it's own. I'm quite shock when I discover this as the game had been in development for 
 about two years. Let's begin this review, hopefully this won't be too long.
  
  Crysis, a game define by it's visually stunning graphic. The graphic is indeed very good, no matter 
 you view it from the gameplay video or screenshot. I wasn't too sure how is it look at very high 
 quality, as my laptop are only capable to run it on medium quality, but is good enough for me. 
 However, when the level Core started, the framerate drop significantly. I have to tweak it to low 
 quality to play it on smooth framerate. You can have stunning graphic but obviously you need the 
 8800 GTX monstrous graphic card to play it on smooth framerate.
  
  The game have such good graphic, so how bout it's gameplay. The game basically can seperate to 
 two part, first which you mostly fight against the KPA, second part you will fight against the 
 aliens. I found that similar things happen in Far Cry which later part you fought against those 
 mutant. The game become quite like run and gun type. I like the first part where you can play the 
 silent killer against those KPA soldiers. KPA soldiers are more clever compare to aliens, as they 
 would gang up at your position when they discover you, call for backup and retry. Aliens is very 
 fast, hard to hit opponent. The final level have many tense fighting, but quite fun.
  
  Basically, I think Crysis have better story than Far Cry. There is also a few suspense moment in 
 the later part, as I thought the flow would be enter the alien core and finish them off. Obviously 
 that doesn't happen. The game end in cliffhanger, I wasn't quite like it. I would rather they start 
 the second part of the story on another location and end this first part once and for all. Hopefully 
 the sequel will reveal soon.
  
  The sound is quite good, but the dialogue is a little plain, I don't heard many variety of dialogue 
 from the KPA, as they always shouted: "die you American Pig". Kinda boring after half way through 
 the game. The enemies doesn't have alot variety, but is ok since the enemies AI is quite good. 
 However, the game have quite alot issues. The KPA soldiers took too many bullets to kill. I fire 
 30 rounds at him but he is still standing, but a headshot will kill them certainly. There is some 
 weird bug as well, like some enemies or gun that get stuck on the wall or ground after being killed.
 
  
  The most noticed bug is on Recovery level, which you have no objective after destroying two tanks. 
 I face this bug as well, you need to follow the sequences to trigger all the events so that you 
 wouldn't get stuck there. It's kinda pain but shouldn't stop you from enjoying this game. There 
 is quite alot bug but nothing is serious causing you pain and disrupt the gameplay.
  
  Crysis is a good game, even it still got some bugs, I believe it should be easily fix by a patch 
 that release soon. If you like Far Cry, you should like this game as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fadli28
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest games ever till now, well i can run this game smoothly using my super power 
 Q6600, 8800GT, 2GB 800Mhz Ram. CPU overclocked to 2.52 GHz and RAM clocked to 840Mhz. I spend around 
 $1000 for this game. Buts it's worth it for sure. After test this game, i realize that gaming with 
 PC is more than just a hobby... it is a life to enjoy ourselves, feel the meaning of our life. If 
 anyone have a problem playing this game, i recommend using 2GB of DDR2 RAM and at least Geforce 
 8800GTS. After all, 8800GT is better than 8800GTS in term of performance and graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homebrew197516
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  The first part of the game is good with lost of possibilities as to how you can proceed e. g. shall 
 I creep past this camp in stealth mode or go in guns blazing to get my objective. The second half 
 of the game where you encounter the aliens is also very good, but not so much strategy is involved 
 in this part of the game. What the alien part lack in strategy it makes up for in the WOW factor. 
 I tell you the alien ship is huge and amazingly well drawn, it really feels like you are in another 
 world. The alien fights are really cool as there things are massive and intimidating. This game 
 is truly next gen in terms of graphics they are stunning with everything set to "High" at 1920x1200 
 on my high end system. My only real gripe with the game is the AI is can be very poor at times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raujamaa
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I love the beginning action and it just got better. Jump on the roof and they shoot up the building 
 and the roof come tumbling down. But then you get inside this never ending cave fighting aliens 
 with mediocre action. You actually forget what you are fighting for you just want to get out of 
 the cave. Once outside the cave, it just gets worst, it becomes a shoot it up game with no need 
 for strategy. Did 2 different teams write this game? And the ending was like the screen on the 
 Sopranos going blank, Is This It!?, Is that all?. If you can buy the first half of this game only 
 - 9.5, the second half - 3.
  
  Ronney 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfanning
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I have played many FPS games. I do tend to lean towards combat type games (BF2, Counter Strike 
 for example) . This one howvever, is so emersive, that I can not wait to start the next single player 
 campaign. 
  
  I have a Quad-Core with Duel SLI 8800 GTX Cards, so this review is with that context. I do think 
 that those without the big iron are not going to be as awestruck, which does impact my overall 
 review.
  
  The story line offers a very basic premise, but the enviroment sucks you right in.
  
  One of 
 the things I really love, is that getting through the missions allow alot of player creativity. 
 The suit mode, in combination of weapons and approaches, is fantastic. The AI adopts, and the fact 
 you can listen to the CPU players talk, can let you know when to do what. You can even set the 
 langauge to Korean too, just to make it that much harder (unless you speak Korean) .
  
  The multiplayer is pretty much like anyother, but the extra eye candy make is more addictive.
 
  
  Good Game play, with great AI, and a nice story makes this one of the BEST FPS I have played.
 
  
  NOTE: I have no banner ads that influence this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imigrant71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I remember two years ago, when I first heard of the game and saw the first tech demo showcasing 
 the so called "volumetric coulds"... (a. k. a. puffy clouds) . WOW, right there and then I'd set my 
 heart on the game... it was worth the wait. 
  
  I installed it on my DX10 system and had no problems running the game (by the way, I have 2 NVIDIA 
 BFG 8800 GTX video cards, looks awesome!) . I didn't have to tweak anything or install any special 
 patches... maybe luck, or maybe because I've built a great system, either way, Crysis rocked. I 
 just finished it and I'm walking away with a bug smile on my face.
  
  The weapons were just right (I didn't want 34879340 different types of guns if you know what I 
 mean?) , the environment looked so real that every once in a while I forgot I was playing a game 
 and the story is what I expected it to be and finally the Nano-suit, oh, let me tell you, the nano-suit 
 is what makes the games fun... I loved jumping up on roofs or over the enemies, or picking up objects 
 (like the explosive barrels of gas) and shot them in mid air (nearby the enemies) . This is were 
 the physics and AI of the game are cleary put to the test... and they worked great! Watching the 
 enemies being blasted away is really entertaining, not to mention the fire effects!
  
  Thank you Crytek for producing such an awesome game.
  
  BTW - I want that Nano-Suit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik1116
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is such an accomplishment. 
  This FPS is just so much fun to play. 
  I could play the single player campaign again.
  The only flaw to this game that i may say is 
 the multiplayer. 
  There's not many options and the power struggle wont keep you that hooked for that long. But the 
 campaign ends perfect. And Crytek has announced for the trilogy. 
  So bring on the sequel baby. 
  
  The graphics are outta this world. 
  And the gameplay is 
 Friggen Ridiculous. 
  So if your a fan of any type of shooter game. You have to buy this game. You will Love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtango103
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure, correct me if i'm wrong but ubisoft and crytek split up right, and the crytek division 
 of the old game makers of farcry developed this crysis game. The biggest downfall and the biggest 
 dissappointment you'll find about crysis is that it doesn't hold up very good with one of the TOP 
 gpu processors, I just recently got the geForce 8800 gtx with 768 gddr3, and i must say i'm dissappointed 
 with the frame per sec output. 
  
  I should have downloaded the demo before I purchased this game, now i feel like I have to wait 
 3 more generations of new GPU Video cards even to get a great frame rate out of this game. This 
 game is too slow with the best gpu.
  crysis is overrated. 
  
  simply put:
  you just can't play crysis comfortably, can't aim, can't shoot, can't jump properly. It's crysis 
 in slow mo, not crysis the game.
  
  Peeps, don't waste your time by buying this game until at least two more generations of GPUS come 
 out.
  
  Even when you leave out the graphics part of the game, the gameplay itself looks very different 
 than farcry, something very different. Farcry i gotta rate it 9 outta 10, it had everything you 
 could look for in that game, but crysis is more like a farcry wannabe. Folks Crysis is not even 
 close to FarCry. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultropetro
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  First off, let me mention that Crysis requires a SERIOUS computer. I have the latest gaming laptop 
 that was made about 5 months before this game came out and I still need to turn down all of the 
 settings as low as possible. Even then, there were still a few frame rate issues. My computer works 
 fine with games like Call of Duty 4, yet Crysis is a completely different story. For me, it was 
 still worth the money due to its amazing gameplay and interesting story. In most cases, if computer 
 wasn't made in the past year, no matter how advanced it was at the time, It probably wont be quite 
 the game you might expect, although you will still get a good experience. If your computer is much 
 older than that (say 2 years) it most likely will not be playable.
  
  Crysis starts you out as a US special forces soldier who is dropped at an island to find out what 
 a large force of Korean soldiers are doing on a mysterious island. You will fight your way through 
 many Koreans to get to the bottom of what is going on. A very interesting and original part of 
 the game is the armor that you wear. You are armed with a "nanosuit" which is a high-tech suit 
 of armor that has different abilities like cloaking, speed, which makes you run faster, and strength 
 which lets you jump very high and take out enemies with a single punch. 
  
  You eventually find out that the Koreans are trying to study some sort of seemingly dead alien 
 race that landed via a meteorite. As you might expect, these aliens are somehow alive and are planning 
 on some sort of invasion. You have to stop them. These aliens are very fun to fight and look amazing, 
 even at low resolutions. However, as soon as you start to really get into it, The game ends. Just 
 like this review.
  
  One more thing that NEEDS mentioning: 
  The credits at the end of the story scroll by over and over again until you press "escape". There 
 is no final cutscene at the end of the credits, because they never end. I was sitting in front 
 of my computer for nearly 20 minutes before I realized this. It was pretty frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BD3D
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  As far as Game-Play, until the performance of one's computer is improved enough, it is very difficult 
 to appreciate a great game such as Crysis because you can't just breeze threw it on Maximum settings 
 at the Highest Resolution (s) . The three keys to opening up the Masterpiece that Crysis is are the 
 following. First you have to have a computer that can play Crysis at Maximum settings and resolutions. 
 Second, you have to appreciate the evolution of resource intensive games the past several years. 
 And last but not least, you must realize that upgrading to an appropriate rig is just a goal to 
 set for now and is not yet possible. 
  
  To play Crysis at maximum settings you need a Video card that does not yet exist. Not just an NVidia 
 SLI 8800GT set up or the best ATI Crossfire rig will do the job. Nor would three or four cards 
 in SLI or Crossfire do the job because most likely it would not deliver enough performance and 
 therefore it would be a waste of money. Imagine playing BF2 on a Pentium III, 512MB RAM, and an 
 NVidia 6000 series Video Card. Well that's what the performance is like when you play Crysis on 
 the best system available now, at the Maximum settings in Vista (DX10) and only moderate resolutions. 
 
  
  Better yet, I did play Far Cry, Half Life-2, Doom 3, The Chronicles of Riddick EFBB and countless 
 other games on an AMD Athlon 1800, 512MB RAM, and an NVidi MX440 Video Card. And I never blamed 
 the Games when they lagged, locked up, Crashed, or outright BSDed my computer because I knew my 
 Hardware was at fault. After repeatedly playing resource intensive games on such a dismal system, 
 I upgraded my computer's Motherboard one time, the CPU twice, and my video card 7 times. And every 
 upgrade made a big difference. 
  
  I upgraded to an 8800GTX the day they came out. After starting to read an 8800GTX review, it only 
 took me 40 seconds to decide it was the card to buy. And as a result I've experienced flawless 
 gaming for 12 months. Alas, as of the release of Crysis, I'm back to wishing I had a Computer that 
 was ten times better than what I have now. But I'm glad! Because I successfully researched, purchased, 
 and built a dream of a machine after I discovered what a bad Rig for Gaming I had in 2004. And 
 I can play any game BUT Crysis, on all Maximum settings at 1680 X 1050 and 1950 X 1200 resolutions. 
 (Don't forget that Crysis has Very High settings in Vista and that DX10 is much more resource intensive 
 than DX9.)
  
  So for now, all I have left to do is conquer Crysis! And with the same patience and passion for 
 researching PC hardware as I have had the past several years- I WILL CONQUIRE CRYSIS! My Goal is 
 to play Crysis on the Maximum settings, at 1950 X 1200 and 2560 X 1600 resolutions with an average 
 FPS between 90 and 100. How long will it take? Approximately 6 to 18 months. And when the new system 
 is built, no game INCLUDING Crysis, will be capable of stressing it. W00t! (Thakx Crytek for another 
 wonderful game!)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chavalino
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  I have not played the entire game yet, I have reached the extraction point where the helicopter 
 is chasing you. But it is a excellent game, however I have something to say about the game so far. 
 It looks like the game cannot handle the fact that I shot down the helicopter, because when I reached 
 the extraction point in the cemetery, these nanosuit equipped Koreans never showed up as the game 
 guide at Gamespot said. I spent about 1 (one) hour waiting there and these guys never showed up. 
 So I have to reload the game further back and let the helicopter chase me. Another thing is, why 
 haven't Crytek done the same as in Call of Duty where you can use "Shift" to stabilize the gun 
 when you use the scope to shot the bad guys??? It is really annoying as this guy (the character) 
 is supposed to be an elite soldier. 
  But for me the game is excellent, I would have given it a 10, if it wasn't for the two things I 
 mentioned.
  The game runs very smooth at 1280 x 1024 and settings at Hig. I have a Asus P5K-E motherboard, 
 Intel Core 2 Duo E6850, 4 GB Kingston DDR2 800 HyperX memory and a Sapphire HD 3870 video card.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleWood
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  First, off, let me say that I haven't actually finished this game... because I can't get past a 
 bug very early in the game after I save the hostage in a small village! I have tried to play through 
 this a few different times and even reinstalled to see if that would help. Regardless of what happens, 
 I finish the section by destroying two tanks and freeing the hostage, but no objective appears 
 to tell me where to go next.
  
  Under Ubisoft, Crytek's Far Cry was a tremendous game with infnite replayability, and decent AI. 
 Now that Crytek has teamed up with Electronic Arts, the quality of Crysis has dropped to a level 
 that fits with other EA titles, buggy and bad. The AI is pathetic. I shot a soldier and the guy 
 standing directly beside him didn't even notice, in broad daylight!
  
  I will give this game one thing. The visuals are stunning. Fix the other problems and improve the 
 AI and my rating will go up accordingly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arathogorn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  Alright. After that long wait finally ends, I had a chance to play Crysis.
  
  What do I have to say? The game is just perfect.
  
  The Graphics are just amazing, the best 
 graphics so far, it's true that it asks for a really nice rig to play it at the "Very High" aka 
 Maximum Settings but even the "High" is just phenomenal. I runned the game in my X1900XT, not a 
 lot of people believe it, but I played it in High on 1024x768 with 20~30 fps ( 25 avg in the benchmark 
 ) very well, and smoothly.
  
  The scale of the engine is also something you got to comment on, makes the game playable on old 
 rigs with old components like Nvidia 6200, Ati 9800PRO, Athlon XP and shit...
  
  Now, finally, I will start the review
  
  The Storyline is amazing, at start you may think of 
 it as trashy but once you go to the third level, which is where the game "begins", you will start 
 to enjoy it, but it doesn't have an end, you gotta wait to Crysis 3, I think, to see the end of 
 this saga, and that just makes me mad, I hate to wait.
  
  The Dialogs are good and the voice-acting is perfect, it really seems that the characters are humans 
 because of the emotions and assents properly done.
  
  The Gameplay is basically like the other fps but.. completely DYNAMIC, You go by your own route 
 and play it your way, you can be a stealth kind of person or you can be Rambo-like, you can customize 
 your weapons also to fit your needs, and on the Sci-Fi Element ( The Core ) you may not like the 
 gameplay of it ( Kinda hard to control yourself with zero gravity ) , but you certainly will be 
 amazed.
  
  The A. I certainly did me impress me in some parts ( I played in Delta ) when the enemys were trying 
 to hide in the bushes, run or just hunt me , they know what they're doing, it's like someones controlling 
 them from another computer ( Theory of Conspiracy on :P )
  
  The Multiplayer is fun, although it could be better, Some new modes would be really nice, you only 
 have two modes, the Power Struggle, which is a Battlefield but more objective , and the deathmatch, 
 there could be much better things in multiplayer, that would make it amazing, but its fun already 
 so it's cool.
  
  The only bad-points of the game I've noticed are the performance and the lack of ragdoll on the 
 dead corpses that exploits when they're falling, other than that, the game is perfect.
  
  I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Str8Trance
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game since it came out and I cant put it down. SP (with a beefy system) 
 will blow you away. I am also completely addicted to the MP component as well, although the Power 
 Struggle does resemble ETQW a bit. Does it need a couple of patches? YES it does, but I don't think 
 CryTek will let us down either.
  
  I have also played all the MAJOR titles that have come out this year across all platforms and I 
 think this is definitely GOTY material. (Haven't beaten Mass Effect yet though.) All I can say 
 is I cant wait for the modding community. I think we are going to see some pretty neat stuff heading 
 our way utilizing this engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Let me put it plain and simple, look up awesome in the dictionary and you will find Crysis has 
 replaced it. The single player campaign is filled with more action than most people can handle. 
 The environments are vast and dynamic making every repeat through sp different, although it is 
 somewhat short [8 hours on easy] but it will have you replaying it over and over again. The story 
 is very well balanced and adds to this games great value. There is one down side however, the PC 
 requirements for this game will empty your wallet, you will need a great PC to play this on low 
 settings, but that's really the only thing wrong with the game. It is an extraordinary game, and 
 a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viciouslilmonst
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a game I've been looking out for for a long time. After watching the videos, looking 
 at the screenshots and reading up on it, I never expected to be able to play it. Until recently, 
 I bought myself a new rig and a copy of this game.
  I run an AMD Athlon 64 X2 6000+ Dual Core Processor and an 8600 GT,
  With Windows Vista. 
  
 
  This is an pretty good set up but can be improved MUCH more.
  With this rig, I can support Crysis with everything on medium and Anti-Aliasing at 2x. It works 
 very well with no lag, but you can tell I'm getting a slight big of choppyness.
  It's still very playable.
  
  The only reason one would not like this game is because they are 
 mad that their computer is not good enough, simply get money and buy a new one.
  
  The graphics in this game are intense ( obviously ) . The cinematics look like real life... In HD.
 
  There are many cool options such as upgrading your gun, using your Nano Suit abilities to have 
 a real advantage in a battle, etc.
  The story is not THAT bad, I don't see why people hate it so much.
  The gameplay itself is incomparable.
 
  
  There is nothing bad about this game. If you have the money and a good rig, go out and buy this 
 game immediatly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  Crysis is a game that those in the know have been keeping their eye on since day one. When a company 
 like Crytek start to make a new game and a new engine to boot, it is wise to sit up and take notice.
 
  
  As much as the game is "the next big thing" the engine is one of the major pulling factors with 
 the closest thing to "photo realistic" graphics as you could possibly get at this point in time. 
 The little visual perks go a long way in pulling the player in to the overall action packed and 
 breath taking experience of the game.
  
  To note, the game looks good on low settings, better on medium and amazing on high or ultra high, 
 but the changes of most people getting above medium are pretty slim. Even on a pretty high end 
 machine the medium settings will tend to chug from time to time, but don't let that stop you. Clearly 
 Crytek wanted to push the boundaries of graphics technology to the limits and they certainly did, 
 this engine will be around for a while so servers as an excellent bench mark as to what your new 
 rig should be capable of to be future proof for at least the next 3 years (which is the best you 
 can do with any new computer) Crytek uses all the latest graphics effects as well as ones never 
 done before, the totally destructible environment, the high level of physics from bodies to leaves 
 and the beautifully rendered dynamic lighting system and sea simulation system are all going to 
 be delighting gamers for years to come and hopefully with many different games on the platform.
 
  
  With such an undertaking as this engine was, it isn't surprising to find a lot of bugs as you play 
 the game. Enemy will die randomly, dead soilders (or their weapons) will get stuck in destructable 
 world geometry and create a very annoying trashing sound, you can die at any time if your head 
 touches the ceiling of a room while you stand on a box and their is a major pop-up problem with 
 static meshes just appearing in front of you on the lower graphics settings, but these things don't 
 happen all the time and doesn't really get in the way of the overall gameplay.
  
  The game itself is not amazingly revolutionary in terms of game play but is a lot of fun none the 
 less. Little features like shooting out tires of cars, grabbing guys by the neck or shooting the 
 petrol tank of a car to ignite it all make the game that much better. The suit will remind you 
 of playing as the predator in any of the AVP games as you can switch modes, cloak yourself and 
 freak out the enemy AI before flinging them to their death. As a whole the little features add 
 to the game and make it a worth while buy, but on their own they don't add anything overly impressive. 
 The suit features are really not all required and you'll find yourself using Maximum Armor and 
 Cloak in most battles. The game forces you to use Maximum Strength to get over high obstacles or 
 open doors from time to time, and you'll usually only use Speed a very limited amount as it saps 
 your suits energy and usually just leaves you vulnerable. 
  
  The suit does add more depth however to the multiplayer and players are still developing tactics 
 as to the best way to utilize the features to get more frags, however the gamplay of the multiplayer 
 again isn't anything too different that it stands out among the rest.
  
  In all the graphics engine of Crysis is amazing, the story is really well put together and makes 
 you feel like you are in a blockbuster Stephan Spielberg movie, the sound is very fitting intense 
 and the music is beautiful (esp. at the end of the game) , but as far as a "new game style" goes, 
 it doesn't try to push to far. This isn't a bad thing as they got a good formula just right and 
 added just enough little features to make this a really good buy. I really like the game, the engine 
 is incredible, but due to the bugs and the game not running as smooth as you'd like on the lower 
 settings, the game loses a little (just a little) in my eyes
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsammut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  well this game is a serious pc buster. no arguing that. i just bought my new rig and still i cant 
 play on max settings. just to give u guys an idea i have a quad core, 2gm ram, and 8800gts 320mb. 
 oh and vista OS. 
  so i havent tried mp yet cause i dont until i finish single player campaign.
  i play on everything 
 high so that graphics are still jaw dropping. sound in the game is pretty solid and the story looks 
 bloody interesting.
  the only fact that i didnt like is that crysis destroys your computer. cod4 has "similar" graphics 
 and it runs really really well. i know that crysis takes it to the next level but not everyone 
 can see that really since most of the gamers dont own that million dollar pc.
  
  Graphics - 9/10 ( -1 due to high demands )
  Sound - 8/10 ( -2 there are some sound bugs when 
 u destroy things they keep on crashing)
  gameplay - 8/10 ( -2 because most stages look in a same area i. e. jungle)
  longetivity - 9/10 
 ( -1 u wont play it forever, but it will take a whle to get off )
  multiplayer - 7/10 ( -3 no tdm : ( ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahularunmishra
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  I loved Far Cry when i was released... it was beautiful and i didnt have to play it like i played 
 doom... which was by basically shutting off my brain and simply shoot everything that moves.
  
  If anything... Crysis changes that a whole lot more. Dont even try to run and gun. (well dont 
 know if you will be able to complete the game if you do) You have to use the Nano suit and you 
 have to improvise. Thats what i like about this game.
  Also, when i die and the battle re-loads from the last save, the next encounter is different. While 
 the number of enemies might be the same, the reactions are not the same. The AI is that good!
 
  
  Okay, Graphically i don't know what the game looks like :) No Really! I played the game, but i 
 played it at everything set to low. My hardware is pretty low end so well... I was just surprised 
 it ran as well as it did (i have a geforce go 7400... playing it on a lappy... am i mad?)
  Neways... looking forward to building a desktop soon just to play this game. But that is what i 
 dislike about Crysis... you need next gen hardware to play it!
  
  Lets talk story. This is not Halo or Half Life 2... the story is boring and well, objectives tend 
 to be really dull. 
  The Characters sound good too... but what i don't get is why some of you buddy soldiers seem to 
 be asking their superiors direct questions and basically ranting about the mission. Looks like 
 in 2019... the army will no longer have much discipline.
  
  Sound? I didn't play attention much to that. 
  
  My game play experience was severely hampered 
 by the low end video card... and that is the reason for the low score. Crysis is a brilliant game... 
 hope it was a Far Cry Mod :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TorstenSorensen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for Crysis since it was first announced.. It looked amazing in all the previews, 
 but after completing the full game I can honestly say that it is very repetitive (Check 'Final 
 Thoughts' for more on that) , and that the parts of the game with aliens are the weakest by far. 
 
  
  -Gameplay
  Crysis may appear to be open-ended, but you always have a set path, and nothing more. You can't 
 explore much, since the whole game is broken up into smaller levels that appear to be bigger than 
 they are. For the first half of the game, you run around shooting stuff and collecting data from 
 a bunch of camps. Then you're thrown into the middle of a frozen wasteland, surrounded by flying 
 aliens.. It's pretty fun, even if it's the same thing over and over again..
  
  -Environments
  While the gameplay might not change much, everything around you does. You'll see 
 a lot of different things though the singleplayer game. It all follows the same basic theme... palm 
 trees and water... That probably doesn't sound like it changes much, but it's what else changes. 
 Since the levels generally are pretty big, they had to fit a lot of stuff in. All of the structures/camps 
 are different and each feel unique, and in some cases, real.. You'll never feel like you've seen 
 the same thing twice.
  
  Graphics-
  This is, by far, the best looking game EVER.. if your PC can make it look that good. What I've found 
 is that no matter what settings I run it on, I get poor performance. I can run it on Very High 
 and get around 12fps, and on Low I get around 22-30fps. Considering the difference between those 
 settings it like night and day, it doesn't make much sense that the framerate difference is so 
 minimal... The game is obviously not optimized well. I should be getting better performance on 
 an 8800GT OC2, Core 2 Quad 2.40GHz, 3GB RAM. Be warned..
  
  -Sound
  Amazing. Thats really all that needs to be said. The music is prefect, every little sound of things 
 colliding is perfect, the sound of wind through the leaves, walking through a bush, watching someone 
 fall 30 feet and hit the ground, it's all perfect.
  
  -Final Thoughts
  Even though it might be a bit repetitive after awhile, and that the last 20% of that game and the 
 ending are worthless, and that it doesn't even run well on some PCs that can max all other games, 
 etc., it is still worth getting. You'll have fun with the singleplayer for a while, and the multiplayer 
 is delightful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure that there isn't much else to say about this game besides that it is the best FPS game 
 that has ever been made. There wasn't too much about this game that didn't make me just sit with 
 my mouth hanging open. This, of course, includes what it did to my computer. It was the little 
 things about this game that made it so great. The first time I walked past a bush and the branch 
 actually moved out of my way as if I was brushing past it I almost peed myself. Then I just spent 
 some time moving through bushes to see it happen more. If the enemy is hiding in the bushes, just 
 shoot them, they will fall away and he will have to move for more cover. Things in Crysis are just 
 RIGHT. I never felt that I was being pushed in a direction, in fact I felt that there was always 
 a different way I could have gone about doing things, and I plan to go back and try again. This 
 is the game that makes PC users glad they have them.
  
  Unfortunately this game will also eat your computer alive. I have a reasonably powerful computer, 
 but even high settings were making my system flinch. I did have quite a few problems with graphics 
 drivers crashing my system, but I don't think I blame the game for that, but it is way beyond it's 
 time, which can be a bad thing sometimes. This game is just such a blast to play that I ignored 
 whatever small problems I had because I was just having so much fun. The nanosuit gives you so 
 many different possibilities of approaching a situation that there is never a RIGHT way to do anything. 
 Just stay alive. Enough of the talk, quit reading this and go play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkgto
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for a very long time, and I am very excited to say I have not 
 been let down. Well, not entirely. Crytek has done a phenomenal job with the game. The nanosuit 
 options are a lot of fun, and the ability to customize your weapon with a variety of attachments 
 ranging from recoil stocks to silencers, laser sights, and various scopes on the fly makes for 
 a very fun, very fast moving shooter experience. 
  
  The graphics are fantastic, if you have the machine to run it. Make no mistake, Crysis is a system 
 hog, and it is not nearly as well optimized as Cevat Yerli had initially told people. Problems 
 include lack of SLI and Crossfire support, and unfortunately at this time with computer technology 
 the way it is, I find this absolutely inexcusable. Furthermore, there is no support for Quad Core 
 chips at this time, so Crysis appears to take up between 60 to 90% of two of my cores, rather then 
 spreading it out to the other two, which sit idly by, processing nothing. If you are going to have 
 a splashscreen in the game that says optimized for Intel Core 2 Extreme, why does it not support 
 quad core out of the box? Fortunately, rumors abound that there are patches on the way to fix these 
 two issues. Not to mention word that this first patch will increase performance tremendously. It 
 is just not as well optimized as they said it would be. 
  
  The destructible environments are very cool, the postprocessing effects and shaders are very well 
 done. The sunbeams coming through the trees on very high settings really do add a lot of depth 
 to the experience, and the chop of the water in the bays looks very nice. The textures are fantastic, 
 the faces are wonderfully rendered, and the eyes of the korean soldiers actually tear up when you 
 grab them by the throat with the strength enhancement on. 
  
  The sound is amazing as well. Grenades cut loose with a thunderous roar. I was not expecting such 
 a good sound from them, and as such, when the first grenade of the game went off, it scared the 
 hell out of me. I thought something blew up outside my apartment building for a minute. The chatter 
 of the small arms fire from a distance sounds just like one would expect it to. 
  
  Gameplay is very well done. You can use the nanosuit to switch between many different options, 
 from a cloaking mode that turns you invisible, to a strength enhancement that lets you punch through 
 walls, throw soldiers through walls, ceilings, even occasionally floors and into trees, breaking 
 them in half. The speed enhancement is good too, though I do feel that it could last about a second 
 longer. Armor enhancements come in handy too. It enables you to take much more damage then normal, 
 and has saved my life numerous times.
  
  There have been a few complaints about the AI, and even a screenshot of a tank upside down firing. 
 I have not seen any of this and I am quite far into the game. I have not had the AI do anything 
 other then behave the way it should when reacting to my presence in one way or another. I have 
 only seen one clipping issue so far, and I am sure that will be fixed. There have been rumors that 
 certain areas hold bugs that can keep you from successfully progressing to the next level, but 
 as of yet I have not had a problem. 
  
  All in all, I think crysis is a good buy provided you can surpass the minimum system requirements. 
 It is well thought out, well put together, and with the map maker that comes with it, I think we 
 will find many good user made mods and maps on the horizon very soon. Multiplayer is a blast too, 
 but not enough people seem to be playing yet. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkgilli
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Crysis to me is a big disappointment. Yes, it may have good graphics, but who but the elite can 
 enjoy them? I have an 8800 GTS, and halfway thru the game had to turn everything to low in order 
 for the game to play anywhere near smoothly.
  
  Secondly, storyline is poor. Go to point A, shoot North Koreans, go to point B, shoot Koreans, 
 Go to Point C shoot aliens, shoot more aliens, ad nauseum.
  
  My own personal soapbox: Why do the people who write the background dialogue for these games feel 
 every other word has to be an obscenity. I know this doesn't bother alot of people, but those of 
 us with a modicum of upbringing find it exremely offensive and detracts from the story. Look at 
 Oblivion and Half Life 2, the best games out there, and they don't have to resort to puerile obscenities. 
 You can disagree with me, that's okay. But I suspect there are a larger percentage of people offended 
 by this than those who prefer it. 
  
  The good: The nano suit is great. One of the few original ideas in the game. The alien spaceship 
 was good. 
  
  To sum it up, don't buy this game unless you have the latest and greatest technology. I was blown 
 away by Far Cry, the first attempt for this company. Excellent graphics, good gameplay. Crytek 
 needs to get back to their roots. Pardon the pun, but this game is a "far cry" from what it could 
 and should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilfredin
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is immersive, entertaining. You are your own movie hero that kicks everyone's ass 
 and resists and adapts to every situation in the best way. 
  But still, the story is the same sci-fi fight against the evil invading aliens -and the moron humans 
 that don't let you get close to it so you can kill it by disabling it's defenses first- that we 
 have seen ... 100 times. 
  Wait, are we still talking about Crysis or are we watching "Independence Day" all over again?
 
  And, if you've played "Half-Life 2, HL2 Episode 1 and 2", you've already played this storyline! 
 Crysis even has its own Citadel, Alien Army, Human Army, etc. and you have to flee the city at the 
 end because it'll blow up... Just like Episode 1.
  Come on Crytek take some chances! Stop copying every Sci-Fi movie (The Alien Flying what-ever-they-are 
 look like Matrix's) and Award-Winning Game Stories! Make up your own...
  The only thing missing in the game is your female Side-Kick! Let's call her "AliK", she'll be seen 
 on the Expansion, right? Crysis Episode 1? Right...
  Still, it's a fun game, immersive and "realistic" gameplay and gets 7 points for:
  
  The Good:
 
  -Looks Amazing
  -Gameplay is immersive and fun.
  -You create your own mission times, tactics and paths.
  The Bad:
  -Your PC won't run it smoothly 
 unless you have E6600 or better, 2GBRAM & at least 8800GT/GTX
  -If you've played Half-Life 2 and Episode 1. You've seen it all.
  -CRYTEK plays Counter-Strike 
 Source: You shoot people in the head and they don't die. The most frustrating part of the game.
 
  -Multi-player sucks, no team-play. 
  -The suit is the center of the game... The Gameplay innovation of the decade, so, are there any 
 extra batteries for it?
  
  Watch this movies/Play this games and you'll see where they took their ideas for CRYSIS:
  1) 
 Half-Life 2 -  There's a Citadel that blows up, alien invasion for no reason and some humans against 
 you. And a suit with extra powers. The story is the same but there's no parallel universe. There's 
 also a HOT CHIK that never dies nomatter what. She's hot, why kill her ? xD
  2) PREDATOR MOVIE -  The Cloak delivers a great expirience for hunting down enemies.
  3) TERMINATOR 
 MOVIE -  MiniGun = Cool
  4) ANY MOVIE WITH THE ROCK -  You basically KICK ASS and you are faster, stronger and a better 
 fighter than everyone else. Like any other game, i know, but I just can't help comparing CryBoy 
 with The Rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  No seriously: Crysis does have in fact some negative aspects. Although the weapons sound great 
 and of course look fantastic they don't feel right because your enemies (and I'm talking about 
 the human ones) are taking way too much bullets before they go down. This circumstance makes the 
 the gunfights feel some kind of artificial and makes them really hard, too. Moreover the mission 
 where you're sitting in a high-flyer is a total letdown due to imprecise controls and too speedy 
 enemies (now I mean the alien ones) . But all of this doesn't mean a shit when you're playing through 
 this game!
  
  To be upfront with it: I belong to the lucky ones who can play Crysis with maximum DX 10-details 
 in 1440x900. Therefore it's useless to say that this game looks like nothing else which was ever 
 made for the PC. The textures and effects make the game look fotorealistic sometimes. To complete 
 the outstanding audiovisual presentation Crysis sounds perfect, too. Everything sounds absolutely 
 realistic, from the explosions to the voice acting. What's also really impressive is how the physics 
 are integrated into the game. The effects aren't as "obvious" as they were in Half Life 2 for example. 
 They're simply there and a huge part of the amazing overall experience this game delivers. I never 
 had that much fun throwing grenades because it's just plain fun to watch how they affect the environment.
 
  
  But beyond all this technical superiority Crysis also goes strong with a truly immersive game play 
 and design. The way this game combines 2 different ways of playing a FPS is remarkable. In the 
 first 5 hours you wander through huge jungle-levels where you have a great amount of options how 
 to encounter your enemies. Due to the innovative possibilities of the Nano Suit, the nearly completely 
 destroyable environment an the clever AI every battle is different and demanding. The second half 
 of Crysis is more linear but the amount of scripted action which is thrown at the player offers 
 unequaled opportunities.
  
  Concluding it is obvious that Crysis is the game a lot of people expected it to be. It sets standards 
 in nearly every part of a modern video game. Graphics, physics and sound are phenomenal. The atmosphere 
 and the way the whole game is staged are unique and the design of the single player campaign couldn't 
 be better. This game has to be played by everyone because it will be the non plus ultra for a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cptjames
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  hard core game 10 out of 10 really good 1 of the best ever mad well done ea very high graphic smooth 
 on my pc lov it Amazing game in every way. just because you dont have the hardware dont blame the 
 game Crysis is an amazing gaming experience that should not be misSpeed also allows you to run 
 at vehicle like speeds while sprinting but it drains suit power far to fast for it to be useful 
 in most situations. If all the suit powers did not provide enough variety for you, you can modify 
 your weapons at any time with scopes, silencers, laser pointers and grenade launchers! The weapon 
 add ons also affect game-play but I will spare you guys and not talk about them for fear of rambling 
 like I just did about the suit powers. :P
  
  Vehicles are also a fun part of Crysis and they are much easier to control this time around and 
 have good view options unlike Far Cry. There isn't a huge variety in the enemies you face but at 
 least they are usually competent and can provide a stiff challenge. North Koreans troops seem to 
 be able to take quite a beating especially if you are using silenced weapons from long distance 
 or when the are wearing body armor.
  
  These guys come equipped with a wide variety of weapons from lowly pistols, shotguns, submachine 
 guns, assault rifles, sniper rifles all the way up to rocket launchers and miniguns. A cool thing 
 to note is that on the hardest difficulty mode or if you edit the difficulty files in the config 
 folder the Koreans will speak Korean which really helps increase the immersion. These guys will 
 also use vehicles against you and in those cases explosives are the easiest way to deal with them. 
 
  
  You will also fight a few Alien foes and these guys are VERY different from the North Koreans. 
 Their lowliest troopers are extremelly tough and very fast and strong. They do not seem to be quite 
 as smart as the Koreans but those other attributes I mentioned keep them dangerous foes.
  
  If you actually read through this entire review I thank you and I can assure you that if you like 
 shooters you will probably love Crysis. Go try the demo now if you are still second guessing this 
 game. I played through the demo over a dozen times and I can assure you the whole game is worth 
 the money. sed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  We certainly have been waiting for Crysis for some time, and the early screen shots were incredible. 
 The game itself is still beautiful to look at; gorgeous visuals, lush jungles, incredible landscapes, 
 everything that made Fary Cry beautiful and then some.
  
  The experience was definitely a memorable one. The environments and situations change so much throughout 
 the game that each location you are met with new challenges and fun ways to use your suit powers. 
 Although I stuck with using the same suit powers 95% of the time, it was still very fun to play 
 through.
  
  The enemy AI was a tough adversary, but was sometimes wacky. Like I would shoot a guy and he would 
 spin around the face the opposite direction like he didn't know where the shot came from. And the 
 enemies are too tough, you pretty much HAVE to do head-shots the entire game in order to stay alive. 
 Anything else takes at least a half of a clip to kill. And only a few bullets can take down you 
 health and your multi-billion-dollar nano suit to zero. Still, Crysis takes you on for the ride 
 of your life and will leave you pissed off for more.
  
  Gameplay: The game took me about 9 hours to finish. I take my time, and I've seen most people finish 
 in 8 hours. With the nano suit powers you have plenty of options when it comes to any combat situation; 
 go in cloak and set explosives to detonate later, go in stealth style with cloak and attack from 
 the rooftops, or go in commando style taking out their heavy gunnery from a distance. Plenty of 
 options to approach each situation, but only if you stop to think about it. Multilayer is a load 
 of fun; you got your standard death match (and everyone has the suit powers LOL) , and you have 
 a UT-esque  game that is a lot of fun. Very large 
 maps with a CS style layout and weapon buy system. Pump in some alien technology and nuclear weapons, 
 and anything is possible.
  
  Sound: Awesome sound effects, explosions, grenades, helicopters, and enemies all sound excellent, 
 and some decent voice-overs add a nice touch to the story. I had some complaints though; when taking 
 down choppers, there was a large chance that the pieces would land and not stay still and would 
 end up clanking around really loud for a long time and got VERY irritating because it just would 
 not stop.
  
  Graphics: Definitely the best in the business. This game is the ultimate benchmark for any system 
 and will be for years to come. I ran on medium-high with an 8800gts (g80) and got 25-35 and sometimes 
 dipping into the teens during heavy action. Everything looks beautiful, even the environment is 
 dynamic. Missiles from a chopper can cut down trees, and bullets flying past you in the jungle 
 make all the vegetation jump. It's all really cinematic. DX10 has got nothing, I ran on DX9 and 
 it looked incredible.
  
  Bottom Line: It may be short, but it's unforgettable story and addicting multiplayer makes it worth 
 your investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_eeburgess
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  For this game I decided to use the optimal settings on the video options, it slected medium everything 
 and 1024x768 resolution. Games in this resolution look rubbish in my opinion so thats my first 
 real gripe. Apart from that, on medium settings this game doesn't actually look that good in my 
 opinion. There is lots of scenery pop up and items redraw at close range so you can see bushes, 
 rocks etc. change just in front of you.
  I'm not interested in slagging off the story, to be honest stories in games don't really interest 
 me, I just want a good looking game that runs well.
  As I see it, the DX9 mode of this game is just not as good as other recent DX9 games have been, 
 but I'm sure if I could play this in DX10 on high settings I would love it.
  So for me right now I don't rate this game that much, but perhaps my opinion will change when I 
 get round to building a new PC. I'll evaluate this review then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarusmk3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Crysis had everything that a Game of the Year should have: beautiful graphics, interesting story, 
 awesome multiplayer ideas, and unique sandbox elements. 
  
  However there are some quirks that really makes the game a bit less than what I had hoped. First 
 the outrageously high requirement specs might be a put off for some. Though I am lucky enough to 
 custom build my own computer and was able to run with fairly decent FPS on 1280x1024 high res, 
 I can understand full well that not everyone can afford such a system
  
  My Comp's Specs:
  E4300 (OCed to 3.2ghz)
  2GB OCZ DDR2 800mhz
  Asus P5N-E-SLI
  XFX 8800GT 
 512MB Alpha Dog
     FPS in Crysis: 30 - 70 (Fraps) [Needless to say, ouch?]
  
  My second quirk with Crysis is the totally unrealistic AI:
  They either go crazy when you shoot 
 at them from sniper's range (*when they couldn't find you) , or totally gang rape you like no tomorrow, 
 and thats ON EASY mode. To further aggravate the situation, the only real way to kill enemies (be 
 it Korean or Alien) is to go for that allusive headshot, something that is quite frankly difficult 
 to do when you are being butt fucked by 10 Koreans or sniping at like 400-500m away.
  
  Now with the "bad" side of the game out of the way the story and the extra content in the game 
 really fleshes out the game in a way that most North American made games don't (much like S. t. a. l. k. e. r., 
 but definitely with a heck of a lot more polish) . The graphics and physics engine is amazing and 
 at high resolution the game looks pretty darn close to life like. The fact that you can thoroughly 
 interact with the environment and do extensive terrain damage to buildings and foliage really helps 
 make the game seem a lot more intense and involving. The fact that you can die really easily by 
 running and gunning does help with the realism of the game, but again as stated earlier this could 
 also be seen as a down side. 
  
  The story while it isn't on the level of a full blown epic, is interesting and the way the game 
 is directed is like a high budget action flick. The soundtrack is amazingly well done and the musical 
 score really fits with the scenes.
  
  However the best thing about Crysis is the highly modifiable nature of the game, the included editor 
 is just amazing and allows for some really interesting maps for both single and multiplayer.
  
  So though Crysis does have some faults, it is a great game and is definitely worth your while. 
 Though I cannot bring it to myself to give it a 9.5 or a 10, it definitely deserves a 9.0 as it 
 really goes above and beyond what current conventional FPS like Quake 4 and Call of Duty 4 attempts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naitomea45
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  first of all i really love the graphics, the gameplay kinda boring when time passes by and the story 
 kinda sucks.. buy this game if you have a good pc or an fps fan XD hehe... i think call of duty 4 
 modern warfare is kinda better than this if only it has many destructive environments... This should 
 be elected at Game of the Year maybe in the top 5 but not no.1.. it really didn't impress me though... 
 not worth the wait ") well it's ok though if u really love carnage. YEP CARNAGE. this also stresses 
 ur pc like a piece of cake :X damn i dunnoo what to review more...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedJedi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Crysis could have been a very impressive game. I got it, believing the hype that it was both beautiful 
 and a dream to play. I hoped that my relatively new PC (running a GForce 7900) could handle this 
 bad boy on at least medium graphics. Boy was I in for a harsh reality check, right to the balls.
 
  
  I could care less how beautiful the graphics can potentially be in Crysis. As a game developer, 
 if you release a game that must be played on the lowest setting by any computer that is not brand 
 new and twinked out, you are an idiot. On my 3-month-old custom build PC that has handled every 
 game I've thrown at it with style, Crysis looked like crap. If I wanted to play with a smooth, 
 FPS-friendly frame rate, the graphics had to go all the way down, thus providing a visual experience 
 on par with the original Far Cry. In two years, when affordable technology has caught up, this 
 game will look wonderful for everyone. For now, only the computer elitists among us can enjoy Crysis' 
 graphical prowess.
  
  As for gameplay, I have a number of issues. Anyone else notice that you are the weakest person 
 on the island? The Koreans can take half a dozen bullets to the chest before death takes them, 
 whereas you, in your billion dollar super-suit, take one bullet to drop 'maximum shields' to nothing.
 
  
  Also, the interface is pathetically slow. There is no way to quick-key the suits four abilities. 
 Since each ability may only be used one at a time, it would be advantageous to switch between them 
 quickly. However, the only options to cycle through abilities is to push a single key 1-4 times, 
 depending on what power you want. In the heat of battle, pushing '4' three times for strength, 
 then twice for speed, then four times for shields is easy to screw up. And if you screw up, you're 
 dead. Of course, switching powers does not matter too much, since each one will drain your energy 
 bar very rapidly. The gameplay would be greatly improved if the energy bar was a good deal bigger, 
 allowing for more armor, and more potential to combine powers.
  
  Finally, Crysis is an FPS set in the future. Now, maybe it is just me, but I image that future 
 weaponry is relatively accurate. Apparently, though, even if you have your sights on an enemies 
 head, there is no guarantee you will hit them. I assume that you are crouched and stationary here, 
 because if you are running and gunning, you might as well throw rocks for all the good shooting 
 will do you. Weapons become so inaccurate that I unloaded two pistol clips into a single Korean 
 soldier while strafing around him at close range. He was fine. I died. Again.
  
  I have to grudgingly give the game points for style and presentation, which are done well. Also, 
 the joy of stealthing around enemies for a Predator-like kill is great fun. However, for the average 
 PC gamer, the graphics suck, the suit is less useful than Korean body armor, and accuracy is a 
 joke. If you have a super computer, enjoy next generation graphics. If you don't have $2000 to 
 throw at upgrades, wait a few year until technology catches up to this average shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadyre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  First my specs:
  
  AMD 64 4600+
  8800 GTS 320MB
  2 GB Corsair
  MSN2-SLI
  
  This game crawls at medium settings with my rig. I tested different settings to try and get some 
 eye candy and while I was impressed I had to dial it back just to play the game at 20-30 FPS. 
 
  
  I liked the game but it only lasted about 7 hours of game play. I expected at least the length 
 of FAR CRY from these guys. It's more of a demo for high end systems than a game in my opinion. 
 I really enjoyed the wide open areas but the details were just not there like in other Crytek games. 
 The same tired old beach area with the same huts with the same garbage inside. I mean how many 
 of the same boat motors can you find littering the landscape. The keyboard configuration had helicopter 
 as a control scheme and I did not fly one helicopter.
  
  The bugs are also abundant. From graphical glitches to weapons disappearing. I had a rocket launcher 
 that was out of ammo and the game kept telling me I already had enough ammo when I would try and 
 pick up more. The grenade launcher on the rifle never worked also. There's a mission where you 
 have to clear an LZ. One of the enemy got stuck half inside a train car and I couldn't get to him 
 to make the kill so I had to start the level over again. When someone gets killed and they drop 
 their rifle it wil sometimes get stuck on the floor and bounce around like it's possessed.
  
  I didn't grab any enemy soldiers once by the throat as is shown in the trailer and video review. 
 I just never got close enough to care to do it. I was really hoping that this would be a long fun 
 ride but it was a short choppy fun ride that I will make again in a couple years when the technology 
 has caught up.
  
  I was hoping that since Bioshock, Lost Planet and Stalker all work great with my system that this 
 would at run on medium decent but it was not meant to be. 
  
  I would buy it again. It is a novelty after all. Maybe I'm expecting too much nowadays. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necollix
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Looking over the reviews I see tonnes of 10's surrounded by "This game sucks". Sounds a lot like 
 Halo controversy. But seriously, I feel like I've learned a lot from playing Crysis. On what makes 
 or breaks a game, and why or why not I may have liked or disliked games in the past. Crysis isn't 
 a bad game, but it suffers from enough annoyances to cause serious grief. (Be Warned: This might 
 be a long and negative review)
  
  First and foremost. To those who are terrified they NEED a State-of-the-art rig. You don't. And 
 anyone telling you otherwise needs to learn what their card can handle and what settings effect 
 performance the most. My PC I built just for this is a paperweight at the moment, but after waiting 
 so long, I decided to play it on my single core Pentium 4 (3Ghz) with 1 stick of 1GB Memory, and 
 a Sapphire ATI x1650. (Which is a very affordable card) With all settings on high, with the exception 
 of Shadows and physics and with AA off. I easily achieved 50FPS through 98% of the game. End Battle 
 = Slide show though.
  
  Obviously the graphics in Crysis are great, especially considering the large environments. (there 
 are plenty of screen shots, so we'll leave this alone and move on to the rest of my gaming experience)
 
  
  I was psyched. I hit Start Game and entered the world of Crysis. But soon I couldn't help but wonder 
 why I wasn't getting into the game. (Was it the intro that was made up of in-game footage and bits 
 of E3 trailers of you kicking the crap out of Koreans, instead of something beneficial to the storyline?)
 
  
  Or was it the cut-scenes? The character will move for you, remaining in FP but you can't look around 
 where you choose. Minor annoyance. The voice acting was over dramatized and a lot of pausing before 
 responses. (Original Silent Hill for PS style) 
  
  The Characters were static. They also don't interact with you outside of pre-set cutscenes. Sure 
 they'd talk, but they don't move their hands or walk. In fact, if you walk behind them they spin 
 around as if on an axis without moving their legs. And as part of the storyline, do unfathomably 
 stupid actions that will only make you wonder why.
  
  Characters will say phrases such as, "Flush him out" (with no grenade ensuing) or "Where are you?" 
 (when they're looking right at you shooting you) . Escort missions are perhaps the worst. In one 
 scene your teammate is going to freeze, so you need to run from heat source to heat source before 
 his suit reaches zero. But he'll consistently yell, "We have to get going already!" when he's got 
 30% suit power and is warming up at a fire, or "I need to get to a heat source NOW!" taking two 
 steps away from fulling recharging himself.
  
  You almost always fight alone. When you are with another person very rarely are there even enemies, 
 and if they are they probably won't shoot, despite taking up a sniper position and shouting, "I 
 got your back." Another thing that started to make me twitch was that you're always being told, 
 "We can't advance until you clear the entire area of enemies." And the odds against you are insane. 
 Crytek said they were going to try and avoid "the Farcry" problem. But they really didn't. This 
 becomes evident when you meet the Korean Nanosuit dudes.
  
  It was dark and I thought they were Koreans with different outfits. So I cloak, sneak around the 
 corner, take my silenced automatic and BAM, in your fa- the next thing I know I'm unloading a full 
 clip into this guys head and he's standing there shooting me, meanwhile my health is exceeding 
 dangerous levels, - quickly retreat and cloak. He becomes confused and searches, I sneak around 
 again, and start unloading another clip in his face, Another clip and a half later he finally falls. 
 Only for me to notice three more who all cloak. The game only gets worse from there. Ranging from 
 You verses an army of tanks, the Korean leader (although easily cheesable do to crap AI) who takes 
 20 precision rifle shots to the head AND 400 SMG bullets or against 30 koreans with 5 Nanosuit 
 soldiers with gatling guns. 3 Rocket launcher missiles will usually kill one of them.
  
  There are also a lot of bugs. Ranging from Koreans floating 30 feet in the air, to getting crushed 
 walking through open doors only to load your game to be spawned halfway through the floor or guns 
 floating and shooting, at no one, by no one. (Although the game never crashed once)
  
  The story would work well if you even remotely thought the rest of the world and your own military 
 were helping. But the Dialog is just terrible and I usually wished my character would just shut 
 up. Sneaking is pointless since your mission objective usually ends with "Eliminate all resistance 
 in area". In which case every solider in range will come looking for you. Choppers will always 
 hover over you regardless of whether or not they see you.
  
  This is getting pretty long so I'll cut it short. Crytek really wanted to make this HUGE world 
 with fancy graphics and (Really cool) aliens, but in doing so it skipped a lot of elements that 
 make the game feel "natural". "Why is that girl giving CPR to that guy who is obviously breathing?", 
 "Why isn't my squad shooting the Koreans firing at me?" "Why does my Nanosuit indefinitely suck 
 compared to the Koreans?" and "Why doesn't my aim steady when I fire using the iron-sights instead 
 of from my hip?"
  
  It's not that "it's been done before". It's a shooter. All shooters play the same. But Crytek tried 
 to 'move ahead' without retaining key things that have come to be expected. And after a dissapointing 
 climax it all just feels flawed.
  
  - M. T. Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LarryGM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I knew that this game would require a power to play as mentioned in many articles prior to its 
 release. I have a 3 year old Dell Dimension 8300 (2.8 GHz) which in stock form is not adequate. 
 I increased RAM to 2 GB, installed a VisionTek 2400 OC video card ($119) - added a Creative Hi-Fi 
 Audio card (to offload my CPU, somewhat) . 
  
  I could play decently at medium level quality but encountered severe bog-down in spots (maybe 6 
 times) where there should have not been a problem. The storyline is very weak so just enjoy the 
 graphics which varied from good to excellent. My nephew has a quad core CPU , latest 8800GTX card 
 and 3 GB RAM etc. His rig could not escape those bog-down points.
  
  I am hoping for a sequel that is less demanding and restores more interest mystery and storyline 
 (plot) . I would advise you to play the demo before purchasing this product to see how you will 
 fare. 
  
  Summary: Good game to have and play. Treat it lightly in terms of your expectations. It is similar 
 to Halo but harder to run. Hellgate London was not as sophistcated nor demanding on hardware but 
 was more entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hugom_99
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  In this review I will just try to explain why some players rated crysis low.
  These are direct parts from other players bad reviews and my comment about it:
  
  "Since the 
 first doom on pc, FPS stories are all the same: killing aliens, soldiers, demons... Killing them 
 with super weapons, super magic forces, or super suits..."
  --  What else could it be? By definition, a "First Person SHOOTER" means you shoot at other things. 
 There aren't much stories left, so people who can't see anymore of this kind of game should play 
 RTS or something else.
  
  "Why score that game 2? because in a few months, another game with the exact storyline will come 
 out with better graphics. So compared to that upcoming game, this one deserves a 2."
  --  It's always the same: after someone has done/created something incredible, in this case, the 
 stunning graphics, it's easy to say "anyone can do it". The game is revolutionary because it's 
 the first to do it.
  
  "as i think some else already said in a review the only way to get past this is to cloak, shoot, 
 run , cloak repeat until everyone is dead"
  --  This gameplay style isn't much fun, as this player noted. There are different ways of playing, 
 try not to fall in this one.
  
  "I run a dual core rig with plenty of ram and an 8800 GTS. And unless I dial down the anti-aliasing 
 and set most of the settings to medium, I get a frame rate of 8-12 FPS if anything is going on."
 
  -- Lie. Whoever want's to see how the game handles in your rig, try searching in Gamespot for 
 Crysis Hardware performace guide. I have the same system specs of this player and I get 23 average 
 fps with everything but AA turned to maximum. And remember, the recommended specs for the game 
 DON'T mean that it will handle it at it's maximum graphics.
  
  
  "thirdly, the single player campaign is way to short, if its true there making a trilogy then they 
 could of put it in the one game, if the first games length is anything to go by, i finished it 
 with 8 hours"
  --  8 hours is a lot of gameplay, believe me. Players looking for more should look after a RPG 
 game.
  
  "It's clearly wriiten on the box this game will run on a 6800GT and I have a 6800GT. I'm getting 
 13-23 FPS. To slow to spin around quick enough to shoot the enemy."
  --  The game doesn't lie, it runs in this player's machine. It just doesn't run as smooth as if 
 he had a better machine.
  
  "Sometimes u shoot someone in the head and they just keep on shooting back at you! Basically the 
 game is overrated everywhere, there is people other there that bought the best computer to run this 
 game on high with all settings on max just to find out how poor is its gameplay. After u find out 
 that the gameplay sucks u will find out why the graphics are so good. To compensate a poor gameplay"
 
  -- again , someone was using a "not so fun" way to play.
  
  
  Other comments of players are just dumb, like: "This game sucks","Play COD4 instead", etc.
  I 
 won't spend time writing about the gameplay and the game itself, there are plenty of good reviews 
 around here doing it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomailx
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Well, it is of course hard to detect the lack of creativity and originality in this game, since 
 it stuns anyone by its advanced graphic technology.
  
  There is no need to review this game looking at its performance, since the sounds, voice actings, 
 the engine, the graphics, are all excellent...
  
  but it is disapointing to realize that game makers don't invest much in the storyline of games, 
 or the gameplay.
  
  Since the first doom on pc, FPS stories are all the same: killing aliens, soldiers, demons... Killing 
 them with super weapons, super magic forces, or super suits...
  
  Of course hiding under a "genre" like FPS is easy to lack the story and gameplay of the game. But 
 its too easy. Specially when there are great examples like the Metal Gear Solid series which offer 
 the players a brand new gameplay through out the game, to avoid a "one line" button smashing experience.
 
  
  Why score that game 2? because in a few months, another game with the exact storyline will come 
 out with better graphics. So compared to that upcoming game, this one deserves a 2. 
  
  Want an example?
  What score would you give to the first "doom" on pc, regarding crysis?
  
 
  But with a good gameplay, creativity and originality, games never get old...
  Another example?
  
  Final Fantasy 7, A game which would still score more than the last one 
 on the market
  
  ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magumbeejr
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  first off, the gfx are amazing, but you wont be able to play them on full unless you have a beast 
 of a computer,
  
  i tried playing the game on vista with full gfx but the frame rate was so bad the game was unplayable, 
 so i edited the config to play dx10 on xp and that seemed to do the trick was gettin much better 
 fps, apart from the last level were i had to tune it down a bit,
  
  the performance was slightly dissapointing as games like cod 4 look amazing still and my rig can 
 handle them with no problems what so ever 
  
  secondly the enemy AI needs tweaking, they can see you behind a tree from the other side of the 
 map, where as you will be endlessly squinting at the screen to try and find them, and this is on 
 easiest
  
  as i think some else already said in a review the only way to get past this is to cloak, shoot, 
 run , cloak repeat untill everyone is dead
  
  i would say this game is made for pro gamers but once you get passed the koreans and have to face 
 the aliens, things get a lot easier, the aliens just charge straight at you and will die before 
 they get a chance to hurt you and facing a squad of koreans is alot harder than the end boss, 
 
  
  thirdly, the single player campaign is way to short, if its true there making a trilogy then they 
 could of put it in the one game, if the first games length is anything to go by, i finished it 
 with 8 hours,
  
  its not like theres a variation in gameplay either, the first half of the game is fighting through 
 endless jungles, you then move into the alien ship, which is a very dull part of the game, just 
 corridors that all look the same and its more luck than skill that you make it out,
  
  there are few moments that will actually make you think 'wow iv never seen that before', 
  
 
  to sum things up, its like far cry with updated gfx and the mutant monkeys being replaced by aliens, 
 shame really i was looking forward to this game but it turned out to be a fairly average game
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxH4CK3RB01xX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited when i saw crysis for the first time. I thought it looked awesome and I was going 
 to be the first on to pick it up. I sort of regret that buy now. Graphics i give it a 10, no other 
 game matches the level of detail crytek put into this game (Good work Crytek!) . What it lacks however 
 is gameplay. I played this on hard the first time I tried it and it was ridiculously hard. So I 
 thought I would tone it down to easy, and i hardly noticed a difference. Staying back and sniping 
 your enemies will be a difficult task and will often leave you gazing up at a flare in the sky 
 and watching floods of enemies fly towards your position. The only thing that would even come close 
 to being sniping material, besides a sniper rifle, would be the tranquilizer darts, which were 
 a really nice touch. but even then, your enemies buddies will come running out of the woodwork 
 and start looking for you.
  
  What also upset me was the all important value of teamwork and camaraderie. It seems that in this 
 game, your all by yourself ALL THE TIME. You partners are a bunch of sissies who only serve the 
 purpose of being you own personal meat shield. I know your a super soldier and all, but how about 
 some backup once in a while?
  
  Gun choices: Not much. For a good portion of the game your going to be stuck with the enemies weapons 
 which seem to be the assault rifle, shotgun, and the occasional UZI or missile launcher once in 
 a while. Ammo gets used up very quickly and you find yourself running around a lot trying to find 
 ammo.
  
  I'm not saying Crysis was a complete failure, it did have aspects which i liked which were the 
 destructible environment and the vehicles (which were a blast to be in) . All in all, it's a pretty 
 fun game to play if you got time on your hands, don't expect to blast through the game in 2 hours 
 or go through the game without dieing (you'll be doing plenty of that) . If you like the "Lone Warrior" 
 sort of FPS, this is your game. If you want something with a little less graphic and a little more 
 game play, Call of duty 4 is a game i highly recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Crysis
  Now I had been waiting for this game to come out as soon as I first heard about it and was still 
 skeptical about how the game would actually be.. I know there are alot of things about the hardware 
 requirements and all of that.. The game does require a really great computer to run it properly 
 but my computer seemed to run it very well most of the time with minor settings changed.. This 
 is without a doubt one of the top 5 best FPS games ever made or maybe even one of the best games 
 ever made.. First of all the graphics are absolutely beautiful from the enviroments to the character 
 models, the first time you rescue the asian hostage woman it looks almost real.. The weather effects 
 like the sunshine and the frost that appears on your gun and on the screen when you are in the 
 alien sphere is amazing.. Inside the alien ship area of the game I think it is one of the best 
 portrayals of a alien ship done in a game.. Its very surreal inside of it.. The sound effects and 
 music are awesome as well, that song gets me pumped whenever it starts playing the dunnn dunnaaa 
 dunnaaa dun dunnanana lol.. Your Nanosuit you have has different settings SPEED, STRENGTH, STEALTH, 
 ARMOR.. The strength one lets you punch with alot more force, jump higher, and control the weapons 
 aim better.. The stealth cloaks you with invisibilty but depending how you move will drain the 
 power from it, or if fire a weapon will uncloak you.. Speed gives you super speed but isnt all 
 that useful since the running time is so short, armor is default and gives you a armor bar above 
 health.. You can configure your guns to with different attachments, like flashlights, laser pointers, 
 different ammos, and different types of scopes.. The alien robots and aliens are alot of fun to 
 fight as well as the North korean soldiers who make up the beginning portion of the game.. At first 
 on normal difficulty with your suit powers it almost feels like you are toying with the human soldiers, 
 the way you can activate a cloak then sneak behind the truck they are all on and fire a round into 
 the gas tank causeing the truck to explode, or stealthily sneak behind one and grab them by the 
 neck and toss them into the other guys.. A technique I found useful is once you have the grenade 
 attachment for the rifle is to toss a grenade into a group of enemies then immediately fire the 
 grenade from the gun.. Buildings can be completely destroyed, at least small buildings, palm trees 
 will crack in half and fall with realistic physics on whatevers below them.. There is a ton of 
 strategy to the fights as well and problary even more fun on the higher difficulties.. You can pick 
 up almost everything even live animals, like chickens and turtles and throw them around.. The story 
 of this game is done very well also and is really enjoyable and keeps you interested in what will 
 happen next.. Overall this game is just total kick ass if you can get it to run right, in a few 
 years when technology catches up to this game so it can be played on very high detail it will be 
 even better.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beaux
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  The only reason why people gave this game a low score at all is because their system wasnt half 
 as good as what you need to run it. How can you play a game and get a feel or see the amazing visuals, 
 and most of all submit a review if you cant even see the game on your screen because your hardware 
 is too old. The bad thing about this is that even if you get a great picture of what it looks like 
 you still cant play with good framerate. If you want to give a review make sure you have the right 
 hardware to review with. That's all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bah-Humbug
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I swear things change all the time, I was not a big fan of Crytek's previous game Far Cry (FC) 
 so I did not have high hopes for Crysis. To my pleasant surprise Crytek fixed everything that I 
 did not like about FC (no quick saves, cheap enemies and poor vehicle control) and made one of 
 my favorite games I have ever had the pleasure to play. 
  
  I won't talk about performance and graphics because I am confident other people have brought these 
 things up in their reviews so instead I will focus on game-play. Like Far Cry, Crysis is set on 
 a beautiful tropical island that seems to stretch on for miles. Most levels are huge, literally 
 miles long and quite wide which offers the player multiple routes through them.
  
  There are many ways that you can approach a situation and the nanosuit that you wear really raises 
 the possibilities. The default mode you start the game in and what switches when you run out of 
 power while using cloak is armor. As the name suggests your suit power is used to absorb damage 
 be it attacks or simply falling. You do not move to quickly in this mode but its added protection 
 and faster health and power regeneration make up for this setback.
  
  Do not expect to be able to go Rambo and survive only using this power though you are heavily outnumbered 
 and get killed quickly if you do not fight smartly. The next major ability you have and that you 
 should use is stealth. Stealth allows you to cloak Predator style allow you to sneak up on enemies 
 or to run from them when you get into trouble. Stealth uses suit power all the time and its speed 
 depends on how fast you are moving.
  
  If you decide to fire your weapon while cloaked you lose all of your suit power and become visible 
 immediately which can be suicide in the middle of a group of enemies. There is a work around though 
 by choosing to de-cloak and firing while you are becoming visible then quickly cloaking again. 
 Chances are that an enemy will notice you then spray the general area but this is better then having 
 no suit power and he/it usually stops after after a few shots. 
  
  Next in the modes that you can use at any time is Strength. This power makes your normally weak 
 melee attacks very deadly, being able to kill most human enemies in one got hit. You also through 
 objects and enemies with more deadly force. Another nice benefit of Strength is that is cuts your 
 weapon sway in half while zooming and also increases your accuracy and movement speed when using 
 heavy weapons. 
  
  The last perk of Strength mode is that it allows you to jump at the very least twice as high as 
 in other modes which allows you to hop up on shacks or up hills at the cost of suit power as with 
 the other power. Speed is the last power you have at your disposal. It speeds up your running speed 
 to be as fast as while sprinting in other modes and makes your weapon reloading and melee attacks 
 quicker.
  
  Speed also allows you to run at vehicle like speeds while sprinting but it drains suit power far 
 to fast for it to be useful in most situations. If all the suit powers did not provide enough variety 
 for you, you can modify your weapons at any time with scopes, silencers, laser pointers and grenade 
 launchers! The weapon add ons also affect game-play but I will spare you guys and not talk about 
 them for fear of rambling like I just did about the suit powers. :P
  
  Vehicles are also a fun part of Crysis and they are much easier to control this time around and 
 have good view options unlike Far Cry. There isn't a huge variety in the enemies you face but at 
 least they are usually competent and can provide a stiff challenge. North Koreans troops seem to 
 be able to take quite a beating especially if you are using silenced weapons from long distance 
 or when the are wearing body armor.
  
  These guys come equipped with a wide variety of weapons from lowly pistols, shotguns, submachine 
 guns, assault rifles, sniper rifles all the way up to rocket launchers and miniguns. A cool thing 
 to note is that on the hardest difficulty mode or if you edit the difficulty files in the config 
 folder the Koreans will speak Korean which really helps increase the immersion. These guys will 
 also use vehicles against you and in those cases explosives are the easiest way to deal with them. 
 
  
  You will also fight a few Alien foes and these guys are VERY different from the North Koreans. 
 Their lowliest troopers are extremelly tough and very fast and strong. They do not seem to be quite 
 as smart as the Koreans but those other attributes I mentioned keep them dangerous foes.
  
  If you actually read through this entire review I thank you and I can assure you that if you like 
 shooters you will probably love Crysis. Go try the demo now if you are still second guessing this 
 game. I played through the demo over a dozen times and I can assure you the whole game is worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThornFalconeye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  look great: you've heard it before, I run a Q6600 and a radeon HD2900XT, and i can play with everything 
 on high at 1680x1050, with decent framerate and a bit of lag, and it looks amazing.
  
  What makes this game so great is the combat; it really is very different depending on play style, 
 at least the first half of the game. After my first real battle against more than 6 enemies in 
 a small town in the second level, I knew that this was the most fun I've had in a campaign since 
 COD 2's stalingrad level. Almost every fight around buildings in this game becomes a frenzied dash 
 for cover and enemies popping around corners while you reload, very action packed and crazy fun. 
 The first time through, I played using stealth suit a lot, silenced gun, like most people probably 
 did. This really brings out the one problem with crysis: you can shoot across a room to an enemy, 
 and half the time he will either look around and stand there, or cower on the ground. Every AI 
 problem is based on this, because on my second time through the game, after realizing that putting 
 a silencer on rifles practically cuts damage in half (realistic or not, its a great balance tool) , 
 I replayed relying more on cover and speed. Completely new game. No crazy AI glitches: they usually 
 put down covering fire and tried to flank, I spent more time in awe-inspiring firefights on top 
 of buildings, and felt as though it was a new campaign.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Power Struggle: [capture points and buy things with Prestige]
  Quite cool, but if your team is 
 losing, you will die in your spawn point as you buy your weapons, and Helicopters are overpowered, 
 as they can take 3 hits from an AT rocket: (which costs 200 bucks for 3, while the helicopter itself 
 costs 600) . Lag is a big problem, as sometimes people who have bad graphics cards go on the DX10 
 servers, with bad fps. Money, tanks, damage are all done well; you can set traps on roads, blow 
 out vehicle tires to stop or kill enemies. *one thing that they could do is increase the cost of 
 sniper rifles and scopes, as a sniper rifle is 200, a smg is 75, and the scopes are 75, which means 
 most people in the game can afford to buy these after about 3 minutes.
  
  The other multiplayer mode, a free for all, is surprisingly fun. It is closest to FEAR or UT, but 
 feels fresh even after a few hours of play. You'd think with 32 people on these tiny maps, there 
 would be issues, but as grenades are not given freely, spawnkilling is not a problem.
  
  People talk about overusing certain modes, and never touching strength mode, for favor of the invisibility. 
 I feel that the only mode i seldom use is speed, as in single player it takes about 2 seconds to 
 go through all of your suit's energy. Strength is the most fun to use, once you know how to use 
 it. I use it to throw boxes at enemies, get on top of buildings, punch holes in walls to attack 
 people on the other side, and just these actions come out way more fun than using stealth to exploit 
 the AI. Despite negative reviews wailing on crysis for its insane hardware requirements or lack 
 of fun, I say buy this if you can handle it, as crysis is a shooter, and if you do not get a decent 
 framerate, you feel as though the game moves too slow, as I felt about playing GRAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onekay
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knew that Crysis would have a plot that would embarrass a direct-to-video B movie. But 
 the graphics and physics were supposed to be just amazing -- a great leap forward, better than 
 anything you've seen before. Truth is, you have to dial down the settings so much to make it playable 
 that it really isn't anything that special. I run a dual core rig with plenty of ram and an 8800 
 GTS. And unless I dial down the anti-aliasing and set most of the settings to medium, I get a frame 
 rate of 8-12 FPS if anything is going on. 
  
  Perhaps Crysis will come out with a big fix in the near future. Unless that happens, there is nothing 
 at all amazing about the graphics. The only reason they claim the best graphics is that they tuned 
 it for machines that won't be released and affordable for 12-24 months. Cheap trick -- anyone could 
 do that. As it stands today, Bioshock and HL2: Episode 2 look a ton better.
  
  And after the supposedly good graphics, this game doesn't have much to recommend it. They must 
 have bought a ton of banner ads from Gamespot, because no other game I've ever seen gets away with 
 such incredible performance problems, and gets excused with a "oh well, maybe it will look good 
 a year from now." Save your cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: velocity99
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Now i know many of you are going to hate me for this, but Crysis is NOT a perfect 10, not now, 
 not ever. You may think i'm half-insane but i'm just a PC gamer that expects more out of today's 
 high profile games. This game should be classified as whatever doom 3 is, a game engine with a 
 very small side order of game built around it.
  
  I'm an avid gamer. And like many of you, i just couldn't miss out on the supposed wonder that was 
 supposed to be Crysis. I had played the demo and it had left some great impressions on me, so i 
 thought i was going into some revolutionary game that would keep me busy for months. Much to my 
 dismay, Crysis fails to live up to any standard but a graphical one. 
  
  Graphics are pretty much the only thing this game has going for it, if you play games solely for 
 their visual appeal, then by all means, don't let me stop you from buying Crysis. For the rest 
 of you, i ask that you please listen and look before you leap.
  
  As i was saying, the graphics are so polished and detailed, it might give you a seizure from turning 
 the game on. With that said, the graphics are not nearly as spectacular as you would expect to 
 run like crap on even the highest end PC's. This game gets an average of 30 to 35 framerates on 
 high/ultra high with a decent resolution. There is simply no excuse for such horrid performance 
 on a 600$ video card.
  
  Now for the really bad parts. some may question the relevance of this first flaw, but for me, it's 
 set in stone. As many of you are aware, this game ends with an awful cliffhanger. The story itself 
 is full of mystery and unanswered questions, and i honestly though this was going to be a full 
 featured game (along the lines of Half-Life 2) and that all my questions would be answered. Is 
 it too much to ask for a full length story in games these days? The answer is yes. It barely clocks 
 in at 7 hours, and the multiplayer is a joke, but i'll get to that later.
  
  Another fault is that the easy difficulty isn't really that easy. I played it for fun to see if 
 i could whip out the strength mode and strike my enemies much like the hulk. The funny thing is, 
 you can never do that with more that 3 enemies shooting at you. You will be mowed down faster than 
 you can say "Why is a high tech super soldier with a Nano-tech suit so slow and vulnerable in a 
 mode that should make you tougher and faster, as well as stronger?". This is my personal little 
 squabble, but i don't see a point in strength mode if you can't ever use it effectively. I can 
 see anything but armor mode become completely useless in the higher difficulties.
  
  Now for the Multiplayer, the ridiculously sub-par Multiplayer. As i said before, it is much like 
 Doom 3 in that the Multiplayer is very simple, so simple that i see no point in playing it whatsoever. 
 Multiplayer matches amount to nothing more than jumping around wildly and shooting. Certainly not 
 worth of a game with a 9.5 score is it? The Multiplayer is an obvious after-though that was tacked 
 on in an attempt to keep people busy.
  
  In conclusion, Crysis is too short, requires too much hardware and has too simple Multiplayer. 
 The only reason i give it an 8 is because there is an original storyline under all those shader 
 effects, it was just repressed. Crysis is a fun game at times, but changes it's playstyle way too 
 often and the later part of the game seems to be over in a flash, like it was rushed.
  
  Crysis is going the way of Doom 3, just a showcase for a brand new engine. As for what talented 
 people can do with a good looking engine like this, that remains to be seen. I can tell you one 
 thing though, Crysis is definitely not that game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkaiton
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I was very quick to dismiss Crysis as yet another first-person shooter with pretty graphics. Then 
 I played it. With an 8800 GT. On very high settings. Whoa momma. Still in denial, folks. Try to 
 bear with me. Let's pretend Crysis isn't the hottest-looking, most physically realistic title ever 
 projectile-birthed into the realm of gaming. Does it hold up in the gameplay department? By relative 
 comparison, absolutely. The time-tested mouse/keyboard controls are rich and creamy. The physics 
 are smooth and dreamy. The nanosuit is a gimmick and a very effective, fun gimmick at that. You 
 don't have a pulse if "Maximum Strength" doesn't give you that jolt of giddiness a true gamer longs 
 for. The plot is a bajillion years old, but at least they adopted the Half-Life method of storytelling 
 for the most part (in game storytelling as opposed to long cut scenes) . All in all, Crysis is a 
 romp. What can be more amusing than silencing a hapless North Korean soldier who screams "I kill 
 you!" Maybe a chainsaw bayonet, but that's it! If only I could grab a dude by his commie throat, 
 hurl him into the air, and fill him full of lead before he even hits the ground. Oh, snap! I can! 
 U. S. A.! Play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navyseal2101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Still a fun game, needs a bit better optimization though. The guns are balanced and the nano suit 
 gives alot of variety to gameplay. The game is worth waiting on for a cheaper price as it didnt 
 quite live up to the hype, but dont discard it as it is worth playing.
  
  My PC:
  AMD X2 3800+ @ 2.4GHz
  1GB DDR2 800 RAM
  2x250GB Hard Drives
  Nvidia 7900gto overclocked 
 600/1500
  
  Playing Med/High with frame rate drops and frequent choppiness. My computer is 100% defragged and 
 registry is cleaned hourly. No other game gives me a bit of trouble in performance regard, however 
 performance dosen't make the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakishi1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game through the first time, i loved it till the very end. The game play is 
 similar to farcry, being the open environment and different choices to make to get to your destination 
 or target. Though in crysis they threw in a nano suit and your strategies exploded with various 
 strategies. Giving it replay value as how you want to approach the situation. Alot of people complain 
 about the alien section was that great, but overall it wasnt bad at all, i enjoyed it just as much 
 as fighting the Koreans. The AI isnt perfect, though its one of the best AI ive seen in todays 
 games. Overall if you have a system that can run it, its a must buy. My set up is a c2d @1.83ghz, 
 2gigs, x1900gt. running everything at mid, 1490x900rez. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micahk
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The developers must have some serious talent if they pull of two aces in a row. Crysis is an amazing 
 game with stunning visuals and amazing gameplay. This game will truly satisfy your taste as this 
 is an amazing fps. The only thing that bothered me was the fact that the system requirements are 
 extremely high. Other than that I highly reccommmend getting this game. Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samme_da_kol43
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The game crysis witch people seem to have different views on, just to tell them this game is EXCELLENT! 
 If you just bought it for the graphics and the stunning good looks you will be surprised at what 
 else is packed into this game. I played it on a weak machine and the graphics on low and it is 
 still amazing it doesn't need great graphics to be good, it is just a good game in itself. So whatever 
 other people wright that this game is rubbish, they are wrong, buy it!!!! Or if you don't have 
 a good enough computer, buy a new one it is worth it trust me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Crysis, EA's new first person shooter based on the Crytek engine, has spurred up a lot of attention. 
 After I have played the game myself, now I finally realized what the hypes were all about. I played 
 about 3 hours straight right after I got the game, and I was amazed at the game play. It is a bit 
 hard to get used to customizing yourself and your weapons quick enough when your enemies are still 
 firing at you, but after playing about an hour, I found myself getting used to the control reasonably 
 well enough.
  
  Having said that, I was quite surprised with fellow gamers who gave such a low score for this game, 
 and after I read their review, now I can understand why. I played this game at "High" with 1024 
 by 768 resolution getting above 30FPS all the time. But I do own GeForce 8800 GTS 640MB, Core 2 
 Duo 3.0GHz (E6850) , 2GB of Mushkin DDR2 800MHz RAM, and my 1TB HDD set up to be in RAID 1 mode. 
 So if you are reading my specification and if you find your PC being nowhere near my PC specification, 
 you may need to expect that you will have to play the game at very low graphics settings. After 
 all, Crysis isn't as attractive as it is if you exclude that stunning visuals.
  
  Now excluding those with low-end PC gamers (I apologize but I need to review the game =) ) , anyone 
 with PC gamers who own something similar to GeForce 8800 GT, Core 2 Duo 2.2GHz, and 2GB of RAM 
 should be able to enjoy this game with reasonably high visual setting.
  
  The game play itself is quite amazing. The game will make you to think of FPS in a whole new way. 
 You can't play this game as you normally would in BF2 or Counter Strike. Even when you think you 
 are safe from your enemies bullets, your enemies are smart enough to shoot at the nearby trees 
 or the building you are using as cover to collapse them on top of your head. As I just mentioned 
 here, AI knows how to use the nearby environment surrounding them to their own advantages. This 
 forces you to stay on top of your game all the time which is quite intensive but also very exciting. 
 I sometimes found myself getting critically injured even though I was only playing at the normal 
 difficulty setting. I do believe it was also partially because of my lack of experience with customizing 
 myself quick enough, but even if you are used to the customization, your enemies will hurt you 
 badly if you don't act fast enough.
  
  Of course, if you have a good enough PC, the stunning visuals this game offers doesn't even need 
 any explanation. It will make you to believe what you see is what you would see in the real world.
 
  
  Crysis offers the gamers with stunning visuals, exciting game play, and whole new world for gamers 
 to explore. It was the game that could've easily been 10 out of 10. but because the lack of features 
 for the low-end PC gamers, I would give 9.5 out of 10. For any of you who think your PC can handle 
 this game reasonably well, this is the game you must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heybraza
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  So like almost every gamer, I waited for Crysis like a hungry dog waits to be fed.
  I must say that at first, before the game hit the shelves, I did not got excited about the plot. 
 I was excited, like the majority, by the stunning graphics... and a possibility:
  
  I am a huge fan of the Battlefield series and I thought, "Man, what if battlefield 2 looked that 
 good?" - So, I bought the game.
  
  Reading the reviews from other gamespot members, I noticed that a lot of people got disappointed... 
 Some of this is about the system performance... Let's be honest, Crysis is not a game that you 
 paid 50 bucks... You paid much more actually. If I ask how many people upgraded and spent some 
 money on a better rig just waiting for crysis... well I'll got a lot of hands up.
  Mainly, if you spent some cash on a bigger monitor, You are surely pissed off, because Crysis will 
 run like a crippled tortoise on higher resolutions.
  I myself got a Quad-Core @ 3.8, a 8800 Ultra and 4GB RAM... this is not cheap. I can use Very Hight 
 detail in Crysis and play fairly well... at 1024x768...
  
  Yet, I have to give Crytek the merits... this is the first game that I played the multiplayer and 
 had to stop to see the sunset on a beach... until I got fragged.
  Yes... I just forgot about the action and compromised the whole mission (Yeah, sure, like I was 
 a really essential player on the multiplayer game...) just to stare astonished the sunset at that 
 beach (I don't remember what map was) .
  
  The single player pleased me. But It was way too short and way too easy... It felt like the same 
 way after you play Half-Life Episode I. I know Crysis is a trilogy but, again, making a comparison 
 to HL2, it do not got you wanting more at the same time that it delivered a good amount of gameplay 
 time, like HL2... You felt hungry for more, but you could wait as you had enough fun (ok, they 
 screwed that later by the awfully short expansions... did you hear Valve? Portal will not relieve 
 you from the punches I'll trow at your kidneys for making me wait.) .
  
  For the multiplayer, well... as I said above, I am a Battlefield fan... so, Power Struggle got 
 me... I do not fully understand it yet as I haven't played a lot, but seems fun. I don't know about 
 everyone using the fancy-sado-maso suits... maybe a more realistic approach would please me more... 
 but that's my personal taste.
  
  *UPDATE*
  
  I got the opportunity to play a little more of the multiplayer part of this game...
  Well, the 
 Deathmatch like style is, as all the Deathmatches are, mindless fun... plus you can go stealth, 
 super strong or super fast, what gives you the feeling that you are a big fat prankster... hiding, 
 running and punching enemies ear from the back is SO much fun... it will work in a schematic of 
 1 frag = 1 laugh. And believe me, You will laugh a lot.
  I'm not a fan of deathmatch, but Crysis Deathmatch will be one of my weekend's fast stupid mindless 
 and zero-intellectual fun... along with smashing beer cans on my head, eating dozens potatoes for 
 the sake of puking them and trying to break bricks with my jaw-bone.
  
  Yet I have the feeling that I'll got bored soon enough, for one thing that gets me on multiplayer 
 is TEAMPLAY... strong, competitive and smart.
  Well I haven't felt even a little dose of teamplay in Power Struggle. They got Battlefield, mixed 
 up with Quake Wars and put a little Counter Strike on it.
  It does not sound that bad but giving everyone a fancy suit spoils all.
  "Hey, look at me, I 
 can be invisible, run like hell and take a brawl with Hulk, make toasts, wash your hair and guess 
 what: I have a integrated GPS. Why do I need anybody else??" - This behavior on multiplayer games 
 is not unusual, but nanosuit just maxed it up. 
  Also there is the "evolutionary factor"... Battlefield Series came with rewards for playing well, 
 upgrading weapons and etecetera, but in Power Struggle it seems unbalanced. "Let me see... now 
 I can buy ahhh.. double pistols? Maybe it will do... let's go: AWEWWR, man where this guy got this 
  Gun?" or "FINALLY I can buy a Precision Rifle!!! Yes!!!!! 
 ARRRGH... man now I spent all my money and will respawn with enough to buy ahhh... double pistols..."
 
  I don't know... maybe I just suck in Power Struggle.
  There is also the objectives... in Quake Wars they are crystal clear. I may be dumb (I like breaking 
 briks with my jaw-bone, remember?) , but what are this radioactive red markers? these coming? and 
 this flash icon is for.. ahhh.. OHH now i got. its... WHAT... thy won? how?... ohhh ok, lets start 
 again... what I can buy, let's see... ahhh double pistols?
  
  Please EA, do a Battlefield 3 with CryEngine 2.. I don't know if anybody else wants this but, at 
 least you will please me.
  
  So, putting in topics:
  
  - I would say that they did a great engine and graphics... the best I've ever seen.
  - BUT, doing 
 a game that clearly will not run at its full capacity in any computer in the world, making we start 
 saving money (again) just to upgrade is a shame.
  - the plot is not awful as I tough it was.
  - being short and making you think that You will 
 have to wait AND spend another 50 bucks just to finish this off ... TWICE for its a trilogy (in 
 the worst case scenario you will have to upgrade AGAIN) is not a nice thing.
  - The animation was insane as well as the models...
  - Deathmatch ROCKS.
  - Power Struggle 
 SUCKS.
  - OR I suck at Power Strugle... both will fit well.
  - I'm waiting for a PATCH and for mods... then we can talk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevinWarlight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  It was an amazing play through, but its not without its share of problems. 
  
  Everything looks great provided you have a good machine to run it, however even on the medium settings 
 it was still not a bad sight. I was able to play through the majority on the high settings with 
 my machine, but near the end I turned everything down. 
  
  Everything up to and including the alien spaceship is good, however the vehicle battles could have 
 been improved. However after the alien ship, things kinda start to go down hill. Specifically the 
 VTOL battle, and the very last level. To have a game the pushes the boundaries for realism, and 
 then has such a lame ending battle. I won't say anymore as I don't want to spoil much. 
  
  I also found that after playing the game for a long period of time, I had to restart it. Specifically 
 during the end when i was playing for around 4 hours (Some days I have no life) I was getting a 
 number of glitches. Mainly they were clipping issues, falling through the floor, and having wreckage 
 and the likes not provide cover. Like it was there and yet not there.
  
  Great start but they couldn't quite keep it going all the way to the finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristjanp07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  u need to get this one right now. this game is revolutionary, the graphics are awesome, gameplay 
 is awesome, and you dont need a super high end computer to play it. The game does maybe seem kinda 
 short, but it aint (that) short. the editor is the coolest ever. u can easily make your own map 
 in no time at all. Though the ending sucks u get a real pleasant experience from the game. The 
 AI maybe aint that good, but the enemy doesent exactly run into a brick wall head on also. U can 
 have lots of fun with this game. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2d2c3p0
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  Ask yourself, if I went out and bought a car that goes 200 MPH, got it home and found out it only 
 goes 100 MPH would you be upset? The sales guy said it would do 200 no problem, You've paid your 
 money.
  It's clearly wriiten on the box this game will run on a 6800GT and I have a 6800GT. I'm getting 
 13-23 FPS. To slow to spin around quick enough to shoot the enemy.
  
  What would you say if you paid full price to see a movie only to find out it's 45 minutes long? 
 Forum after forun, review after review complains about the lenght of this game.
  
  If you bought a MP3 player only to find out a bug cut off the end of any song over 3 minutes could 
 you justify giving it rave reviews? Again the forums are full of requests for patches SP and Multi.
 
  
  Do you like Superhero's? Personally I do. Problem with Superhero's is that they need Super Enemies. 
 I think it throws the balance off in this game. When your enemy can take incredible damage from 
 2 feet away and still return fire. When the enemy can shoot a ZIT off your face from 1000 yards 
 yet you can empty a magazine at him from 50 feet and he lives. I got a huge problem with that one 
 -- sorry.
  
  How long can you repeat  before it becomes mundaine?
  
  Review 
 after Review after Review has give this game fantastic reviews. I have to admit there are parts 
 of this game including the graphics that are great. Still this game is broken I believe that these 
 over the top ratings do the gaming community little good.
  
  
 
  
  Update Jan/08 -- Patch 1.1 has made a huge differance to my framerate and the game runs much smoother.
 
  
  I'm still keeping my 3 rating because I just find the gameplay un-interesting. Substituting cloaking 
 for stealth doesn't work for me when your enemies can see you from 10000 feet away once the cloak 
 runs out. The nano-suit seems good on paper but becomes boring after the first few uses.
  
  I'd rather play FarCry again. 
  
  
 
  
  Update Oct/08
  
  Got a 9800GTX. Graphics are amazing everthing on high. Understand now Crytek has no intention of 
 fixing the issues with this game. Going to drop my rating to a 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_lim81x
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  When i DL the demo for this game title, i was wondering what kind of engine did they use to make 
 up this game? The ANS? I would say it's for the next hot gen console babe. So far as i knew that 
 most powerful pc would not handle this solid GE= (Graphic engine) for a while. There's two option 
 out there which you could try: 
  
  (1) try OC = overclocking your engine & polish up your os or other system which you have running 
 .
  
  (2) If you are the (never say die) folk, you can try pumping more $$ into your system and Crysis 
 will LOL & COL on your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ardshael
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  As far as first person shooters go, this one definitely fits with the tops of all time. 
  
  The graphics are gorgeous (even at some of the lower settings) and the gameplay was quite enjoyable. 
 Playing on the hard (2nd highest) setting gave a great gaming experience. It definitely makes your 
 computer earn it's money though. Running 8800 GTS SLI, 4 GB RAM, and a quad-core processor worked 
 great for most of the game at high but at some points I needed to crank some of the options down 
 a notch. I'd love to see this game at Very High settings but this $2000 (recently purchased) rig 
 just didn't cut it. 
  
  Music and sound effects were also great. I found everything to fit together quite well in this 
 field too. I don't recall music changes at all in this game and that's saying something to me. 
 I did notice the music and I felt it fit nicely and sounded good. 
  
  Gameplay didn't vary a whole lot from the tried and true methods of first person shooters but that's 
 not a bad thing. One nice touch was the various weapon attachments that you could get. For the 
 most part, it meant that the same weapons at the beginning of the game still worked for the end. 
 Another nice touch was the nanosuit. The ability to change the settings quickly using the middle 
 mouse button and the radial menu made changing in the heat of the moment nearly painless. I found 
 it very easy to uncloak, fire a quick head shot and recloak in short time and with relative ease. 
 I did, however, find that the speed boost wasn't needed for the vast majority of the game. I can't 
 forget to mention one of my favourite parts of the game... the ability to grab your enemies. I 
 can't think of a more satisfying way to kill an enemy then stealthy (cloaked) creeping up to a 
 guy, grabbing him by the neck and throwing him against a wall. Not to mention that it's great for 
 saving ammo. Which I might add could be found in the perfect amount throughout the game, in my 
 opinion.
  
  As much as I enjoyed Crysis, it wasn't perfect. I found the AI to be rather disappointing. This 
 is the only major issue I had with the game. The AI, at times, would be easily close enough that 
 they should see me but instead they ignored me. Then there are other times that they were trying 
 to pick me off from locations that I had troubles seeing. Also, I found that so many times I would 
 be cloaked and the enemy would be searching for me. They couldn't see me but it was like I had 
 a gravitational pull. They would be pulled to my position regardless of whether I was in a spot 
 that I had just fired from or not. Then they would proceed to stand arms length away from my cloaked 
 form and just stand there. Sometimes they would see me while I was cloaked and sometimes they wouldn't. 
 Aside from the AI, the rest was pretty good. The only other thing that I noticed is that the voice 
 overs weren't always in-sync with the characters lips. I could make a case about how I didn't like 
 the ending of the game. It seemed like I was JUST getting into the story when it ended... I suppose 
 that means that I'm gonna have to get the next one so I can finish it.
  
  I haven't tried the multiplayer so I can't comment but since the only real problem that I had with 
 the game was the AI, I can't see how it would be anything short of great.
  
  I definitely recommend this game to anyone looking for a good first person shooter. A congrats 
 to Cytek for a job well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danodge
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Just like a great book I could not put it down until it was finished. I took a sleep/go to class 
 break, and then jumped back into the game. With a powerful graphics card and computer system, this 
 game is beautiful right down to the turtles and strange birds wandering the isles. The programmers 
 masterfully fit all special features of the game into the plot, and the game never ceased to force 
 adaptation to situations. 
  
  On the down side, I found a bunch of weird glitches with the mouse, freezing and clipping, but 
 the freezing and the mouse error might not be the game's fault.
  
  Overall I thought the game was challenging, fun, innovative, but a great shooter genre game as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc924
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm afraid, even though I have huge respect for the Crytek Team, this game has been over-hyped. 
 Yes the graphics are impressive, but other than that it suffers by comparison with their original 
 game, Far Cry. 
  Reasons:
  1) The Single Player game is too short.
  2) The levels are nowhere near as extensive and open as some of the levels in far Cry. In fact 
 the sense of being "on a rail" (a la Call of Duty) struck me more than once, and attempts to try 
 a really different approach to a problem quickly revealed the fact that the levels are pretty limited 
 (again, compared only to Far Cry)
  3) There were a few areas that seemed to produce cloned KPA's or aliens - no matter how many I 
 killed, they kept appearing, until I advanced to a selected point. (I really don't like that style 
 of programming - again, a la Call of Duty) .
  4) The Cloaking feature of the Nano suit makes you absolutely unbeatable, and therefore makes the 
 game much too easy to be enjoyable. I went through it on Normal, and then started over on the next 
 level of difficulty, only to find it still way too easy. I then started again, but fore-bore to 
 use the Cloaking except for a few seconds in one of the really difficult areas. That turned out 
 to be a much more enjoyable challenge.
  5) The KPA's lack the personalities that the Far Cry Merc's had. Part of the fun in that game was 
 listening in on some of the bizarre idle conversations they would have. Moreover, the KPA's all 
 seemed to have pretty much the same approach to trying to kill you. In Far Cry I always felt that 
 while most Mercs were aggressive, a few were sneaky, and some were chicken.
  So - all in all, I gave it an 8.5. Very good, but not the Excellent I expected 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zythyl
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  While Crytek as done more than delivering a "next-gen" FPS with Dx10 capabilties and breathtaking 
 visuals, the system requirements are, for a lack of a better term, shocking.
  
  While us gamers see almost on-par visuals while playing Half-Life 2, Bioshock, and Lost Planet; 
 Crysis adopts all these visual traits and turns them into something more demandaing... something 
 close to godlike. 
  
  Simply put: if God had a computer, he'd have to upgrade to play Crysis at full. Crysis laughs at 
 any CPU and GPU you try to throw at it, but what you do get it retaliation is a finely tuned game 
 with an intruiging storyline, next generation physics, and mind blowing special effects. 
  
  The joy of placing a pack of C4 underneath a KPA tank or the thrill of excitement you receive 
 when jumping out of a stolen vehicle, plunging towards its untimely demise, towards another enemy 
 controlled vehicle - the essence of adrenaline running stuff.
  
  However, this game is not for everyone. It is not for those Pentium II users with 0.5G of RAM, 
 not for 800x600 resoltuion. While it was built to support these speculations, it won't show its 
 true coloiurs until you whip out a 8800GTS 640Mb+ at a resolution of at least 1280x1024.
  
  The game is graphically superior to any other on the market, and certainly has set a new benchmark 
 for what has become the new generation of FPS games. If you're God's techy, pick up this game. 
 If you're not but have a beast of a machine, pick it up anyway. 
  
  It loses 2 where system optimisation lets down us Vista 8800 users, and the fact it is part of, 
 indeed, a "trilogy" scares me; simply because delayed patches are someting to go by when judging 
 a companies performance in the entertainment industry. I myself am in the industry and I am let 
 down by Crytek - they promise a visually superior game (and they deliver) but as well as a performing 
 "black horse" (they don't) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebitoma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This is breath taking ... really really breath taking!!! I have no other way to describe it. Too 
 bad it kills my machine ... but it is worth it :) . AMAZING!!! It feels like a freakin' movie ... 
 amazingly realistic. Crytek did a great job, AGAIN!!! BUT, on the down side ... aliens? I think 
 they should have put some Russians or, I don't know, Chinese in there instead of aliens just to 
 keep the game flow (I would rather keep shooting at "people" instead of "little monster that came 
 to conquer our world) . But that is only my own opinion. Again, GREAT game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  first off, my computer is just barely on the minimum specs. I have a ht 3.0 p4, a geforece 7600GT 
 and 2 gigs of ram. I have to play the game on low, except i can turn up physics and textures to 
 medium. To that end, i cant really make a fair assesment of whether this game is the best looking 
 game of all time. That being said, there is a lot going on on the screen, lots of fawna and flora 
 through out. I said it, the bushes have tropical flowers growing on them in 3d.
  
  Now lets talk about the important part, game play. I have been playing shooters since the beginning. 
 I am a huge fan of fps and 3ps, and have played all the greats since day one. So the big question 
 of reader of this post would want answered IMHO is, is this game one of the greats? Yes, it really 
 is. Does is domolish our idea of shooters? No. Does it change the direction shooters are going? 
 No more then far cry did. But let us not forget what makes a great shooter a great shooter, IS 
 IT FUN TO KILL THE BADDIES? YES, YES IT IS. I am having more fun taking down large groups that 
 i find myself saving and replaying battles over and over and trying to smite them in different 
 ways. I havent done that since HL was first released. This game will suck you in and keep you interested 
 till the end. I think sums it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mscerri1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Very good graphics and physics. However it's quite a disadvantage that you need to have a very 
 good computer to see the full strength and graphics of the game. Overall it's quite a challenging 
 game (quite difficult in some parts) . The multi player is exceptional. Overall good game play, 
 I really like the fact that you can change profile sort of, from fast movement to strength, stealth, 
 armor etc... 
  The weapons are really cool, and sophisticated. The fact that you can modify you weapon like put 
 a silencer on, or a scope, a flash light or even grenade launchers in some cases makes the game 
 more dynamic and makes the player feel more independent. In my opinion it is the best PC game to 
 date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezhowe1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Solid gameplay followed up by a good story line. The best graphics on a computer to date... granted 
 your computer can handle this video card eating monster of a game. If you played Far Cry then, 
 you can look forward to the great open ended format gamplay. You decide everything from weaponloadout, 
 style of attack, hitting objectives from any path you choose. Lots replay vaule in this game. The 
 down side is that its not nearly as long as Far Cry, for me I want the 25 level game with 50 hours 
 of play nothing less.
  Gadets are cool but spend most timed cloaked, and strength is only good for shooting and jumping. 
 Multi player is good is your computer and connection speed can handle the load. Long Long Long 
 war like maps that take forvever to do anything, team work is a must, microphone a must.
  And theres deathmatch... its ok ......... but no team death match is lame. 
  Cant wait for epansion 
 pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  So, finally the long wait was over... I have been a massive  
 of person, and downloaded the demo just as soon as it came out. It was obvious from the beginning 
 that the developer wanted to create something fresh, but not something completely new - because 
 the knew what we liked and wanted to make those parts of gaming more enjoyable.
  
  I have a high-end computer, so I tried the game both on my Vista system and my XP, and although 
 you could set the game on Very High on Vista, I did not notice that big of a difference when playing. 
 When you are in the game however, you notice all those millions of details, and there will be moments 
 when your jaw will just drop, and you are wondering is this a animated movie or is it a game...
 
  
  The nano-suit has some great gadgets, some that you will use more than others. The environments 
 are nice, but it has to be said that some players will be angry at some of the features, and there 
 are moments in the game where you wonder where the story is going. Did they just put this in the 
 game to fill space or? All valid questions because as a gamer, this is what is important to you...
 
  
  I will give no spoilers, but will of course recommend Crysis to any gamer. You have to try and 
 buy it to see and understand that this is the best that can be made at this point in FPS gaming... 
 I first gave it a 9,5 but had to change because it didn't turn out just as I wanted, that said, 
 it is still a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplinterCellSC2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  I know I am probably not saying anything new about this game. It is more than what I expected. 
 I purposely did not play the demo, so I would be surprised when the full version came out and I 
 was blown away!
  Granted, on my system this game looks incredible and plays flawlessly, so some of you may not be 
 able to understand the scope of what I say when I use the term "photo-realistic." This game happens 
 to be one of the best representations on the market for photo-realistic game play. I am a graphics 
 junkie, so by nature I am going to be drawn to games that look incredible and have the freedom 
 of flawless movement and action within those environments with no lag. This is the game I was hoping 
 it would be and more.
  Don't get me wrong, it is not without a couple bugs. For example, there were a couple times in 
 the game where the "ceiling/sky" was criss/cross thatched with "wire frame" that caused a few of 
 the textures to pull up in front of me blocking my view but I would just reposition myself while 
 "cloaked" to get to a spot where the anomaly was not present. Also, there was a point where I picked 
 up a frog and tossed it into the air. It floated about 4 feet off the ground and never came down 
 but flew out away from me in a straight line. It would have kept going, had I not punched it dead 
 then it landed on the ground at my feet in a bloody heap.
  As for the game "story," I have read a lot of people are disappointed with the whole alien thing. 
 I have to say, I agree with them, in that that idea is somewhat exhausted but the angle at which 
 Crysis takes it, is refreshing and fun to play. I have just completed the level where you exit 
 the alien craft for the first time and meet back up with Profit. His suit is failing and you have 
 to get him to a heat source and I can't make it because the aliens are too difficult to kill... Sheesh! 
 Gonna be at this a while... LOL!
  Anyway, I love the game and as with anything great, you can nitpick and always dig something up 
 about it to give it a less than perfect score but I felt that any little issues I can come up with, 
 are outweighed by the over all technological leaps and bounds this game has achieved. This is truly 
 a future game trend setter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yannyibs1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  As you all know Crysis is the next generation in first person shooters. The graphical details from 
 the sky right down to the rocks on the floor were immaculate. You do have to have a very powerful 
 system to appreciate it. With my setup I was able to have most of the settings on high and a few 
 on medium to balance out frame rate and graphics.
  
  Sound in the game was immense, don't think I can say anything bad about it really. Good sound creates 
 great atmosphere and that sucks you in, Crysis certainly does that.
  
  The Nano suit was a very nice strategic feature. At first i wasn't sure on whether this would work 
 but it actually worked to perfection. All of the abilities have their advantages and disadvantages 
 and they were nicely balanced so that you would not abuse them e. g. Stealth mode will drain your 
 suits power fast when you are walking and after you have fired a shot so you could not just run 
 through and shoot everyone unawares.
  
  Story was great too, not excellent but enough to satisfy the majority. 
  
  The levels were 
 fantastic, ones that stick to my mind are:
  Onslaught - you get to cruise around in a tank
  Core - zero gravity level, can be tedious but was a nice change in the game
  Paradise Lost - 
 Everything is frozen over. If you stand still for long enough you start to freeze up, my personal 
 fave.
  
  Overall a fantastic game, will not disappoint.
  
  I gave it a nine only because the system requirements are too steep, I thought i had a high end 
 pc until I played this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalAzz666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  I don't like hyped games, and tend to jump for joy when they bomb (Hellgate: London anyone?) . Therefore, 
 I was anxious to see the uber-hyped Crysis in action and blow it of the socket that countless fanboys 
 placed it on. The bomb got diffused though, since when I played Crysis I found it to be an excellent 
 FPS.
  
  The story behind Crysis is a simple one. You are the token good guy, an American who has to foil 
 the plans of the North Korean Army (NKA) . If Kim Jong-Il's bad boys weren't enough for you, later 
 in the game you also have to stop some aliens from conquering earth. Standard stuff really, but 
 shooting NKA soldiers has never been more fun!
  
  The graphics are absolutely great! Since the system that can max out Crysis still has to be invented, 
 I'm playing on medium settings. But even at medium the game looks better than the FPS competition 
 (Half-Life 2: Episode 2 for instance) . I never experienced slow-downs, except when I go back to 
 the main menu to save or change the controls. Sound is also pretty solid. The Islands actually 
 sound like an island, with the occasionel alien groans thrown in. When it comes to presentation, 
 his game delivers.
  
  Gameplay is good. Controls are standard FPS (WASD moves, mouse shoots, space jumps etc) and the 
 guy on the screen obeys your orders perfectly. The enemy acts quit smart. Often after you attack 
 they start chasing and flanking you, whilst throwing in heavy machine gun fire and grenades. You 
 have to think fast to survive, although the nano-suit gives you an edge (healing capacity, shields, 
 invisibility) . This might seem unrealistic, but it works rather well. And it's not like the over-used 
 medkit is such a realistic thing is it? The nano-suit is very limited though, and you'll be mostly 
 using the stealth and shield options. The other options (strength and speed) are seldom of real 
 use, but are not really in the way either.
  
  So all in all Crysis sounds like a perfect game. It is however JUST a FPS, which means that replay 
 value is pretty limited. In the first part of the game the maps are very open. You can attack an 
 NKA base from almost every angle and 'solve' various encounters with the enemy in various ways 
 like stealthy, full boar or even with vehicles like boats and tanks! However, after the aliens 
 kick in, the game becomes much harder and even worse, linear. Battling the aliens isn't half as 
 much fun as battling the NKA. And since the NKA part of the game only takes about 5 hours to complete, 
 there's not really that much more. You van probably squeeze something more out of the game when 
 playing online, but that has never been my thing and it doesn't really seem as if Crysis is multiplayer 
 oriented.
  
  I wouldn't say that this game re-defines the FPS genre, especially not compared to the impact of 
 games like Half-Life and Half-Life 2. What it does is show us that it is still possible to make 
 good looking games with tons of gameplay that don't crash every 10 seconds.
  
  8,5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: digiesc
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, FPS is a genre that has been done many times over, and due to the certain level 
 of expectations most gamers have, few will truly shine as being original. Crysis changes that, 
 delivering a wonderful game play experience, while exploring certain aspect of an FPS too many 
 developers oversee. Crysis isn't without its flaws however, but they do not prevent it from being 
 a truly, awesome experience. 
  First and foremost, Crysis is graphically, nearly unequalled. The developer promised us a rich, 
 beautiful and realistic environment early on and they delivered on that promise. The texture, lightning, 
 details and atmosphere of the terrain and natural environment is breathtaking, and realistic to 
 the point of being eerie. The downside is that it requires one heck of a machine to play at that 
 level of detail, and even then, your frame rate will suffer. The only problem I encountered however 
 is regardless of how beautiful the graphics are the environment is a bit monotonous. Sure the game 
 provide us with the feeling we are actually crawling through this thick, wild jungle, but that 
 is almost all there is to see. 
  The developers were smart enough to try to vary the experience as much as possible, by utilizing 
 different terrain, guarded settlements, several different types of vehicles, topped with remarkable 
 effects such as explosions and the transition from day to night. One more detail that is of note 
 is the fact that you can interact with nearly every object rendered in this engine. 
  Another innovative aspect of Crysis is the game play. Rather than sending you into an hostile environment 
 with the traditional plethora of weapons and a bad attitude, you also have multiple options given 
 by your nanosuit. In essence, your suit allows you to either be faster, stronger or nearly invisible 
 to suit whatever dire situation you manage to get yourself into. On top of that, you also have 
 the ability to customize the weapon you currently use with attachments and gadgets as you find 
 them along the way. Two simple elements that help add spice to an otherwise monotonous game play. 
 
  The plot is a mix of international conflict involving political tensions that ends into total war 
 against the unknown, clashing a very realistic menace with a touch of sci-fi that helps keep the 
 players on their toes, but more importantly interested throughout the whole game. The voice acting 
 is a bit formulated and sounds forced in some parts, but overall, it does a good job at expressing 
 the necessary feelings and plot elements without seeming too scripted. 
  In a nutshell, Crysis is a great experience on many level, providing several hours of interesting 
 game play and interesting plot development. It is the kind of game you will go through once, and 
 will be happy to dust out again once you have a computer powerful enough to run it flawlessly later 
 on. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glh4711155
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  I dont have dx10 but It looks good and plays good on vista 64. It's vista 64 that has problems. I 
 guess I will dual boot XP and try it on xp.
  I'am only to level core you need alot of ammo. I happen to be out I guess
  I will have start this 
 level over. Game play is good and very re-playable.
  Graphics on my machine look good. When I built it I was hoping My graphis
  card would run DX10 (wrong) 
 Iplan to order a new card but will wait for DX10.1 and not make another Mistake.
  If you like Farcry you will like Crysis. I thought Farcry was great and I think
  Crysis is better. I 
 only play single player games I do not like online play. so
  I can't comment on it. The cryteck engine is still the best.
  Level Normal
  Vista ulitmate
 
  AMD 64 X2
  EVGA 7900GTX
  2GB Ram
  Water Cooled
  Not Overclocked (Yet) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shceontrty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  The reason for marking my score as high is because of the interaction of the environment. My biggest 
 problem with FPS is that the world is usually just there. It does not react to anything. In most 
 FPS games, when a tank hits a small building, the tank takes a lot of damage. In Crysis, when you 
 run into a building with a truck or tank, the building comes down. When you throw grenades into 
 a bunch of trees, the trees move or come down. When you shoot leaves of trees or bushes, the bushes 
 move. The environment reacts to you and those around you. The best thing was that you no longer 
 have to shot a truck 20 or 30 times for it to explode. Just target the gas tank. Using a rifle, 
 it might take 1 to 3 shots. Using sniper rifle will take just one great shot. Then you get to sit 
 back and watch the fireworks.
  
  Yes the story was a lot like Fry Cry. There are some bad guys with hints of something more sinister 
 going on. Then you meet the very bad thing that is going on around the island. Where they differ 
 is that the monkeys in Fry Cry were more laughable than scary. Once you get into the major dig 
 site, it gets creepy.
  
  There are not a lot of weapons, but that is ok. Most of the weapons are real and act like their 
 real counterparts. And you can outfit your weapons with laser sight, a sleeping dart and my favorite, 
 a grenade launcher. Changing the rifle sights makes a big difference depending on your situation. 
 Using the sniper sight is great for long distance fighting, but up close is a real pain. The reflex 
 sight was great for medium distance ranges.
  
  Yes, graphics are great. Long distant viewing is finally here. The long distant background is not 
 a just painting, but a moving part of the environment. The mountain that is in the background as 
 you get closer to the dig site was a great effect. My system is not the best, but it is no the 
 worst. I was able to run at all High settings running at 1200x800 with pretty good frame rate.
 
  
  Play the Delta setting for difficulty. It just makes it more real when the Koreans are speaking 
 Korean.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Pros: ultra polished gameplay; evolutive mechanics; flawless transitions between tropical and alien 
 settings; both Korean and alien AIs offer a decent challenge; weapon management; fantastic graphics 
 and animation well above the competition at the release; truly HD special effects.
  Cons: will crush any machine up until late 2008; impossible to play at a very high resolution + 
 anti aliasing; overall audio a bit tamed down.
  
  As one of the most anticipated games of 2007, Crysis certainly had a very high bar to jump in order 
 to fulfill the ludicrous expectations from the community. Well, Crytek has done an incredible job 
 to meet them outright after three years of thorough development, both gameplay wise and visually. 
 Though it doesn't reinvent the whole wheel, Crysis brings enough gameplay variants along the solid 
 single player campaign, from ''tropical paradise'' to ''paradise lost''.........
  
  The year is 2020. You play as a Lieutenant code named Nomad within a very special op team embedded 
 with nano suits. The intro cut scene displays the arrival 30 000 feet above an island north of 
 the Philippines whereas a team of scientists just disappeared under... you know what now. The team 
 leader, a Major called Prophet ( and check the incredible facial animation ) , work out prep details 
 as you're about to make the halo jump towards seven beautiful tropical levels against North Korean 
 forces, and around four levels against alien baddies. Don't worry if you're not a sci-fi jerk: 
 the gameplay is so ''tactically intense'', you'll strangely feel at ease tackling at them with 
 your weapons as if they were realistic.
  
  The game has a shorter campaign mode than its spiritual predecessor, Far Cry : here about 8-9 hours 
 instead of the 20+ from the latter. However after completing it, you'll feel totally enthralled 
 by the mission variety, use of weapons and some destructible environments like trees, dazzling 
 particle effects ( grenades feel like.... real grenades at last ) , and an excellent transitional 
 thing leading to the overused semi-clich of blending past sci-fi blockbusters, albeit professionally 
 put: here a strong influence of Independence Day and Matrix. The draw distance strikes amazingly 
 when using any scoped rifle: CryEngine 2 enhances a tri dimensional experience that even some didn't 
 thought possible on a 2D screen. The game's engine is that convincing.
  
  The little gameplay tweaks aren't slouch either. Weapons have all ballistic physics attached to. 
 Just feel the Gauss effects upon firing. The grenade trajectories. The portable missile launcher. 
 Conversely, your nano suit comes with an easy to navigate menu of special powers you'll most likely 
 use constantly. The default is a super armor that never drain any energy, whilst the others have 
 each a timed drain set in seconds: invisibility, speed, and maximum strength. Virtually any weapon 
 in the game has a specific set of tactical attachments too: for example, if you equip a silencer, 
 you may enter enemy encampments unnoticed but your bullets will be much less damageable. Now the 
 trick under the sleeves of any veteran gamer playing Crysis both online and offline always resides 
 at skillfully use said powers when the combat situation requires to, and to rapidly become discreet 
 when regenerating. It's called an immersive tactical carnage. During the fifth level, Onslaught, 
 you have to drive tanks between obligatory foot stages to destroy some AA batteries. The overall 
 mechanics to use leave enough room to the player to decide how and when to do so on larger maps, 
 though the later parts of the campaign become more linear yet very climactic. A note about the 
 cliffhanger ending: it may remain totally unrewarding to the eyes of many, but considering the 
 gobal trend of art cuts plaguing the ending of 98% of the games, the episodic ending just lead 
 to the obligatory sequels. It's official: the Crysis saga will be a trilogy.
  
  Since the technical beauty of the graphical engine has been already mentioned here and widely discussed 
 elsewhere, just one thing: no other game has ever been so dependant on resolution and anti aliasing 
 scaling. At the release, no high end machine, so geeky beefed it is, can play smoothly everything 
 maxed at 1920x1200 8x+ AA. Still, the game looks unparalleled at high settings+medium resolutions. 
 In late 2007, Crysis alone shall be remembered as THE main software having boosted significantly 
 high end video cards sales.
  
  It may be irrelevant to complain about the audio coding now whilst the other compounds of the game 
 add so much value to an already exceptional product. The music in this game is easily forgettable 
 nonetheless. A louder orchestra  la Gears of War gracing drop ship sequences could have amped 
 the atmospherics onto something truly memorable here, alas none to be heard. Weapon sounds and 
 explosions are OK, perhaps without the wider frequency range experienced in some of the best games. 
 The same can be said about the voice overs, which sometimes become muted.
  
  Taking those little technical nitpicks aside, Crysis remains easily one of the top five action 
 games on the PC in 2007 - and without a doubt the most advanced visually. Since the difficulty 
 settings are well balanced, and large levels boast quite a replay value, that one's a beacon no 
 action fan owning a high end machine should miss. Remember it only constitutes no more than a third 
 of the whole saga. We can't wait.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiiWiiataus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  I like this game! It's amazing! The graphics i ve never see any games like this one! Absolutely 
 worth of value! The only thing i gave lower than ten is as sometimes the sound is too little. But 
 its not a big deal! Crysis is worth of waiting for a long time. EA has done a really good job. 
 Perfect graphics gave me a lot of excitng and im totally empressed. The AI is perfect too. It is 
 easy to know how to play and how to be successed of the missions. 
  
  In general, Crysis is the best EA game in this year and it's amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Can a game be any better than this one? Probably, But untill now i can't think of a game that's 
 better than Crysis in any way.
  Afcourse this game has it's flaws and it's bugs.
  But when comparing the good vs the bad , the bad seems like a rock in a mountain ( or whatever 
 ) .
  They even thought of the smallest things like diving into the deep sea, sharks won't attack you. 
 But when you swim on the surface like a wounded animal (just likein RL) The shark approaches you. 
 Afcourse you can swim away. But when you run out of air the shark inmediatly attacks you.
  It's the smalles things like that that makes this game so great.
  Another example. When kill 
 an enemy from distance with a loud sniper rifle, they will spot you. But when using a silencer 
 they don't.
  I just can't help to say that this is the best game untill now, on every area :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SentientGames
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Rather then provide a long, drawn out article detailing each aspect of the game, I'll just provide 
 the pro's and con's of Crytek's latest endeavor. 
  
  The Good:
  - Absolutely amazing graphics had me in utter awe from beginning to end.
  - Visual quality second 
 to none, on par with pre-rendered CGI.
  - Interesting setting that feels familiar yet fresh.
  - Outstanding special effects like explosions 
 and breakable environments.
  - The nano-suit is a fun gameplay gimmick that is easy to use.
  - Some amazing action scenes 
 kept me on the edge of my seat.
  - Enemy AI is often extremely intelligent.
  - Sweet zero-gravity areas.
  - Alien creatures are original and neat looking.
  
  The Bad:
 
  - A little short, but not too bad.
  - Cliff-hanger ending offers no conclusion to the story.
  - Enemy soldiers seem to eat too many 
 bullets before going down.
  
  Needless to say, Crysis just shoved the bar forward for future games in regards to cinematic-quality, 
 special effects, and graphics. As far as gameplay is concerned, it's not the absolute cream-of-the-crop, 
 but it's fun enough to give adequate substance to a game that many believe is just a graphics demo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutra15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  The Gameplay was of course the thing that hooked me the most. graphics are a nice bonus but gameplay 
 makes or breaks games... The Gameplay was excellent the Nano suit is awesome perfect for every 
 situation. Speed to get the hell outa there. Strength for Hitting harder, Throwing Farther, Aiming 
 Steadier. Cloak for the silent kills. and Armor for the run and gun moments. The weapon customization 
 worked well in conjunction with the nano suit. Silencer, Reflex Sight, Assault Scope, Sniper Scope, 
 Laser Pointer, Grenade Launcher, Tactical Tranquilizers, Incendiary Ammo. it all works so well 
 and in real time. Many people complain about the lack of an auto aim... I thought this was a welcome 
 addition to the game to create realism, Guns do no always hit when pointed at a Target do to weapon 
 inertia and Recoil. you almost always have to use the sights on your weapon instead of shooting 
 from the hip. Its a difficult thing to adjust to after playing games such as Halo where every round 
 hits a target when pointed at it but Kills are definitely more rewarding. Vehicles handle smoothly 
 but take damage easily you vehicles have a damage meter rather than relying on your own armor to 
 try to survive shots. There are few types of weapons but each weapon feels balanced. (SCAR, FY71, 
 SOCOM, SHOTGUN, DSG, MPX8, GAUSS RIFLE, MOAR, MOAC, LAW, TAC CANNON, MINI GUN) Overall The gameplay 
 is superb and lifted any doubts I had of weather or not the graphics would match the gameplay.
 
  
  The sound in Crysis is immersive and feels right for the situations you become involved in. Explosions 
 are LOUD. The Forest has a very realistic Ambiance. the guns are loud (unless suppressed) . everything 
 just feels right. The Music is amazing as well and really comes in at the right time making the 
 overall game feel much more Epic.
  
  The Physics add a whole new way to have fun. after clearing out villages you can break EVERYTHING 
 and shoot down trees in segments. the enemies have very satisfying death patterns. A guy who is 
 shot running trips over himself and face plants into the ground, a guy who is thrown looses all 
 control of his body and becomes a deadly projectile. enemies who are gunned down by light weaponry 
 fall over gracefully, vehicle's explode and become flaming wreckage, or you can shoot the tires 
 out which actually effects the vehicles performance, even shoot the engine to stall it, shoot the 
 gas tank to catch on fire. You can collapse houses on your enemies. Place C4 on bridges and hide 
 and wait in the forest for cover for enemy convoys to come, blow the C4, the bridge falls with 
 the first vehicles, the others steering out of control to avoid the bridge, then you snipe the 
 drivers in the back of the convoy, you have a perfect ambush. It all adds a new level on interactivity 
 with the environment giving you unique ways to take out your enemy.
  
  
  This is the game !!!!!! PERFECT !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ov3rD0s3
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  i was looking forward to play this game. i installed it, and i was suprised how good game runs 
 on my "not very up to time" pc. played for couple of hours, but the i stopped. why? beacuse this 
 is far cry with a suit?! what do you see in this game i ask myself!? it's same shit as far cry, 
 same island, oky better graphics of course, but the rest? same shooting, same crawling around the 
 jungle, just with a little help of suit. wich is the only thing that this game did good. i really 
 don't understand how does gamespot rate the games? how did half life get so high score, well it's 
 awesome game of course, but in comperison with this? this should get a score around 8, no more. 
 it's worth playing, but not worth thinking of it before sleep. hail to the king, hail to hl episodes! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiben
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  Crysis is developed by Crytek, the same guys who did Farcry. Quite a good number of people will 
 tell you that Crysis is farcry with make over. However, that is simply not the case. Yeah well, 
 there's a tropical island with forest etc., but then thats the only similarity (even Contra NES 
 had a similar setting, lol) . So don't be confused and it is not simply a good-looking game.
  
  Graphics: Crysis has nex-gen graphics and no other game matches its visuals, period! The 'Very 
 High' settings are not playable on 8800GTX. I have played it on a Nvidia Quadro 5600 (which is 
 a 8800GTX equivalent) and Crysis is the only game making that card weep. The "Very high" settings 
 is highly recommended to play, it features revolutionary pixel based volumetric lighting effects. 
 Other than that they have used fantastic ideas for killer visuals (I have been reading their GDC 
 presentations, the nerd that I am) . Half of the time you will be gawking at the graphics.
  
  Gameplay: Keeping graphics aside, Crysis gameplay involves the player's 'Suit' special abilities 
 which include 'Speed' 'melee strength' and 'invisibility'. The fun with these powers is elevated 
 with fantastic level design. There are many paths you can take to reach your objectives. You can 
 choose to ride a vehicle or you can proceed hiding in the trees. You can take the straight route 
 or you can go around swimming etc. You can choose to flank the enemies or face them from the front. 
 You can complete objectives without even hinting the enemies, if you are good at stealth.
  
  The levels' gameplay will change a lot over the course of the game. The non repetitiveness 
 will keep you sitting playing it for a long time.
  
  Presentation: The game simply shows the beginning of an alien invasion which tons of other games 
 do as well. BUT somehow this game's presentation makes the sense very strong. You will actually 
 feel the chill that - OMG Aliens! When you will be fighting you will feel scared that you are fighting 
 extra-terrestrial things, Its exhilarating. I cannot give the reason behind this... It has to be 
 their graphics and realistic way of building up of events.
  
  Character Animation: After Half Life 2, this is the first game I have seen in which characters 
 have fantastic facial expressions. The voice acting according to me is a little odd at some moments, 
 but overall the characters seem very real.
  
  If you are planing to buy new card, keep a lookout if Crysis is coming packed with the card. Eg. 
 Asus is packing it with 8800GT, EVGA also is packing it with all their 8800 cards.
  
  Overall: Though the innovation in the gameplay is only incremental upon what is done before, but 
 its presentation & level design & graphics will make this game always remembered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The FPS genre is by far overcrowded, and to be able to bring anything new at all has become a huge 
 challenge. Even small improvements has become pretty far between. Then Crysis comes along and manages 
 the unthinkable, to push the genre into the next generation.
  
  The game is far more than just the next generation of eye candy though, and introduces several 
 new important game elements. The nano-suit is the most radical one.
  
  Before I played the game I did not like the idea of a nano-suit too much. I thought it would give 
 you an unfair advantage, and make you into a god-like warrior who just need to run and gun everyone 
 to oblivion with ease, without considering tactics to survive. I prefer realistic war simulation 
 to the kind of Rambo-like shoot them up games.
  
  However, I was surprised to see the nano suit in fact adds more strategy elements to the game, 
 not less. It certainly does not give you too much power as it runs out of energy in an instant, 
 so you have to time the usage perfectly for the maximum effect. When turning on cloaking for example, 
 you will use a lot of suit energy when you move around so you can only stay invisible for short 
 time. However, you can stay still at the same point cloaked for very long. This ensures you cannot 
 just run around invisible killing everyone. You have to find cover quickly again after a stealth 
 kill, and recharge your suit. Using your suits power also puts you at risk, as by default the power 
 is used for generating your shield. So, running around invisible will make you more vulnerable 
 if you were to be detected and shot.
  
  It all balances up very well, and you'll find yourself having to use the suit intelligently to 
 survive.
  
  The nano-suit is cool and all, but its obviously the graphics that's the biggest attraction to 
 the game. It scales well, but I cannot see why anyone would want to play Crysis on anything than 
 the max level of details. Although the game has a lot to offer as a pure game, the graphics IS 
 Crysis. Unfortunately, if you have an old system, you may very well find that other games looks 
 better than Crysis on your rig after you turn off all details necessary to run it at a decent framerate. 
 So although everyone talks about how great the game looks in their reviews, as professional game 
 reviewers they most likely have a much more hardcore computer than you. When rating the graphics 
 in Crysis, you basically rate your computers power.
  
  The game also has negative aspects. I'm not impressed by the AI for example. The biggest screwup 
 I found was during the final boss battle, the enemy got stuck in the final boss' structure and 
 finished some of the mission goals for me by shooting it. Also some missions were broken. In a 
 mission piloting an aircraft I was unable to complete the current mission as I left some enemies 
 behind from the last, and had to restart the whole level. I also experienced a few game-crashes, 
 and at times inconsistent framerates. The final boss battle gave me half the framerate as normal 
 for example, making it nearly impossible to finish without adjusting the detail level.
  
  I also feel the designers tried to do too much. They want to make the gameplay varied, but parts 
 of the game is in fact just too weird and not very enjoyable at all. For example the zero-g level, 
 where you are inside the alien ship with no gravity. Basically it feels like an underwater level, 
 with no water. Interesting in a way for the sake of diversity, but the level is long and tedious, 
 forcing you to spend forever trying to find your way out through a maze of alien structures. Also, 
 the section fo the game where you pilot hte aircraft just feels out of place, and not well balanced. 
 I'm not sure if I like the introduction of aliens in the first place either, I enjoyed the first 
 part of the game fighting real human soldiers much more. It's a winning formula, and I wish they 
 would stick to it the whole way.
  
  But in the end, I just wished the game would not end. It's not short, but leaves you wanting more. 
 Which is a good sign... But, the ending in the game definitively opens up for a sequel, so lets 
 hope its not too far away.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: polarpedro365
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The idea is great, the graphics are good too but the gameplay its simply horrible! Sometimes u shoot 
 someone in the head and they just keep on shooting back at you! Basically the game is overrated 
 everywhere, there is people other there that bought the best computer to run this game on high with 
 all settings on max just to find out how poor is its gameplay. After u find out that the gameplay 
 sucks u will find out why the graphics are so good. To compensate a poor gameplay! Dont buy this 
 game, it is horrible.
  There is people there saying that this is the game of the century but its like Good look, bad gameplay. Basically 
 this game success is built exclusively on its graphics. Half-Life is a lot better then this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEAMMAGA
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  There is a tremendous pressure on hardware manufacturers to meet the standard of requirements defined 
 by CRYENGINE2 and the wonderful people at CRYSOFT. Thank the world for people with the technical 
 expertise and creative ability to make such wonderful alternatives to television - and even reality 
 itself...
  My only bother with it all is that I shall have to convince my wife of the imminent danger of not 
 having the absolute best of all high end graphics cards. However, some things are just worth the 
 wait. This is definitely one of them...
  The water, sound, physics, mapping, texture and general gameplay are unimaginable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  The Good: Awesome graphics and lots of options to configure them. Story is good, keeps you interested 
 in the game's outcome. Game-play is good and entertaining.
  
  The Bad: You wish you had spent more time in the frozen wastelands and wanted to fight more aliens. 
 Didn't like that in some levels of the game you need a vehicle or a plane to pass it. Perhaps a 
 few more levels with the aliens would've been nicer. Weapon diversity is poor, not too many choices 
 and the game ends in a cliffhanger.
  
  
  OVERALL:
  I definitely recommend this game to anyone who is a FPS fan. Although its a regular FPS and people 
 have been rating this game solely on the graphics and thus overrating it. Its very hard for a game 
 to get a 10 out of 10 and this one as cool as it looks and as advance as the graphics are to say 
 10 out of 10 is to lie. The game is definitely good to play and worth the wait, so 8.5 sounds good 
 and right to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBird228
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Crysis is the s*it. Not even talking about the marvelous graphics, the game has so many exciting 
 and engaging features that this may be the pinncle of computer gaming. 
  
  The main thing that entices me is the customizability of all items in Crysis. Your "suit" has four 
 different settings, including: strength, speed, armor, and cloak. Of all of this, cloak is the 
 obvious favorite, who doesn't like to go sneaking around past enemies undetected. Strenght enables 
 huge leaps and is very useful in melee combat. Armor makes you almost impenetrable to bullets. 
 Speed alows for faster travel, or you can suprise your enemies at lighting speeds. 
  
  There are also many weapons in Crysis, each which can be customized to fit you situation. You can 
 add a silencer, flashlight, etc. Your default rifle also has a scope mode, and because of the great 
 graphics and visibility, it is very fun to snipe out your enemies. 
  
  There are also many vehicles, which have onboard guns, which can used to mow down enemies.
  
 
  If you notice, I have not talked spcifically about the graphics yet. This is because the game 
 would have gotten at least a 9.0 by itself without revolutionary graphics. The graphics however 
 are way ahead of their time. This can be both a curse and a blessing. You need a lot of computing 
 power to run the game at higher detail levels and resolutions. If your CPU is too slow the fps's 
 will drop significantly. Luckily the graphics can be turn down. It is important for you to fiddle 
 around with them to get the maximum detail, while maintaining good fps. 
  
  Overall, this is a sick game which you should definetly get if you have a PC. One of the strongest 
 competitors for best of '07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean972
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong. Crysis is an amazing game. But perfect nor really good it is not. Crysis has 
 the best graphics to date, but to view those graphics u need TOP OF THE LINE (no exceptions) hardware 
 to run this at the highest detail settings at a playable framerate. My self I had physics on high 
 (because i like to break trees and punch through the roof of a shack to kill someone) and shaders 
 on meduim and post processing on high and EVERYTHING ELSE TURNED ON LOW with a resolution of 1440*900. 
 
  my specs:
  amd 5200+ rev. 2 (fastest x2 revision)
  1950pro 256 no oc
  2gb ddr2 800mhz patriol llk ram @ 743mhz (due to amd cpu) @ 4-4-4-12
  x-fi xtreme gamer 
  vista 
 32-bit 
  
  Granted I can see why crysis requires top of the line hardware when i look at the graphics at the 
 highest settings. Ouch, new pc already (phenom and hd3870, only a 450$ upgrade for 3x the combined 
 performance)
  
  Also weres the 64-bit performance increases? Benchmarks so NO performance increase whats so ever. 
 I was going to install 64-bit for this game but good thing I checked the benchies first. 
  
  So the graphics are good, but the story. I dont like the story to be frank. Its short (took 
 a little over a day to beat on delta) , its not in depth, its cheaply portrayed. All if this can 
 be hidden from everyone through insanley good graphics but it sticks out to me. 
  
  Also the replay value is low. I can even chose to load a certian level after I have beaten the 
 game, I have to scroll through my previous saves and reload, then the game autosaves some more 
 over my previous saves while I am replaying levels. You unlock nothing after the game is beaten, 
 the Only other thing to do is online, which I have not been able to get connected to a server for 
 some reason. Only game out of 30 some games that I have for my pc that has this problem. 
  
  One other thing, CANT WAIT FOR A PATCH. o wait I have already beaten the game in 1 and a half 
 days and theres nothing else to do, trash
  
  I didnt use spell check because it is going to slow, and I did not go back and fix typos sorry 
 ( () ===DO: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russian_takeout
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  graphic wise, this game rocks!!!!! also it has the best phisics and game map.
  but i wouldn't say that game play and AI is that good. for me this game seems to be to arcade. 
 AI way to predictable. not enough weapons. and aliens are not needed in this type of game.
  i played most of the popular titles and enjoyed much beter games in the past 6 mnts. this game 
 i couldnt play for to long. for example, call of duty 4 i finished in one shot, no breaks what 
 so ever:) great story, game play, lots of action. same with kane and lynch... simple game play, 
 but interesting story. Crysis is all about the graphics... 
  
  when i watched stage demo a few mnts ago, i couldnt believe how amazing and interesting this game 
 looks... but after playing a few hrs, sinply got bored.
  
  i still give this game a high score... lots of good ideas. it just not for me.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mypcpros
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Recently it seems like when I spend $50 on a game I have been disappointed by the entertainment 
 value it provides. This game has made up for all those times. I was drawn into the story even though 
 I'm not a huge sci-fi fan, and kept finding myself saying, "just a few more minutes..." late into 
 the night. It's been a while since I've done that! 
  One of the things I like about this is that at the end of the game - it's nearly impossible to 
 die. That may sound funny but throughout the game it's not like that, however at the end I was 
 so interested to see what was going to happen that I wasn't wanting to fight/play as much as I 
 wanted to find out how it ends. It seems like they did that on purpose, which is great. There still 
 is a lot of action at the end but it's not so much worrying about killing or being killed.
  Another thing I liked is that the controls are really intuitive. If you've played any first person 
 shooter then you're set. I downloaded the game and therefore the manual was in .pdf format so obviously 
 I didn't read it. Luckily you don't have to.
  There is a time at the end where you get a new type of weapon and you can't use it when you think 
 you should be able to (cannot lock onto anything) but as you progress you'll get a chance to use 
 it. That was the only part I found myself searching for a control (which there is no need to as 
 you soon find out) . 
  The suit you use throughout the game is really fun to use. I found myself cloaked through much 
 of the game and I don't see how you could get around that even if you wanted to - so you'll learn 
 how to use it. 
  I could see this turning into an episode-type game the way they ended it. Seems that this would 
 be a better direction to go for them as they could build smaller pieces of the game and release 
 them faster.
  I haven't played the multi-player portion of the game yet but it seems that it would be as fun 
 as the single-player portion.
  
  PROS: 
  Great graphics; great story; good voice-overs; fun tools to use (like your suit functions) ; smarter 
 than average AI; lots of action; just right amount of difficulty.
  
  CONS:
  Game unstable at times (crashed probably 20 times from start to end of story) but definitely playable 
 due to constant saving (F5) ;
  AI, while very good, could have been better; not long enough; flying sequence of game is the only 
 really frustrating part of the game (not intuitive and out of sync with rest of game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiohazardV
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  The game is very cool by my opinion, the only thing i hate about it, is that its kind of short. Crysis 
 features great graphics which will put your GPU to a heat stress. with such impressive physic and 
 enviromental realism it makes the game very illusive and fun to play. The best thing about the 
 game is the nanosuit abilities, which makes this game a very differrent and much extreme FPS experience. 
 Weapon modifacation, variety of vehicles to drive and great hours of online multiplayer battles 
 and such great and simple alien concept made the game a new level of FPS experience to play. For 
 a hardcore gamer, and a FPS fan this is a game which you must play. But make sure you have an extreme 
 machine to play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s00kah
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  The gam has amazing graphics, but not only that, it has a very good storyline and gameplay. I was 
 able to enjoy the game at his most since i have a computer that can run the game at high settings. 
 You have to play the whole game to actually say if you like it or not, since at the beginning it 
 is just like in the demo, killing coreans and stuff, but when you go deeper in the game the story 
 and gameplay gets more and more exiting, with new options on the guns, witch i liked a lot, and 
 more and more action, plus news enemies, such as alien robots. Being in a snowing jungle got me 
 amazed, very good concept. The last thing is the ending, personnely i am disapointed, the boss 
 is not hard to kill at all and when your character is on the plan and says that he is going back 
 down there, you are very exiting to think it is not over, but guess what that is how it ends. I 
 hope they will come up with an expansion, such as Half LIfe 2: episode 1 and 2, rapidely to give 
 us more of this game, i might just be dreaming there but what ever. One last thing, the game should 
 be longer, just a little bit. I will finish by saying it is a very good game, you shall play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  There is no shortage of First Person Shooters in the world and they all kind of feel alike after 
 a while. 
  
  Overall, I feel that Crysis is a really good game. Why? 
  
  Because you have a nanosuit. That's pretty much what sells this game. The suit is a lot of fun. 
 You can jump higher, live longer, run really fast and turn invisible. It makes you feel like a 
 god in battle, although you are vulnerable if you aren't careful. 
  
  The graphics are good. I usually don't get too excited over screenshots of xyz filtering or resolutions 
 or VISA vs. XP or the texture detail on a tree. 
  
  I ran the game at the next highest settings and the game ran fine. I have a good rig, but maybe 
 I am just used to good graphics. 
  
  Gameplay is really fun. Lots of vehicles to ride around in, lots of guns to use...
  
  The plot 
 is OK. Honestly, I liked Far Cry better. It felt more immersive to me. 
  
  Alien ship level is pretty cool. 
  
  Overall, this game did not dissapoint me, but it didn't 
 blow my sox off, either. Check it out if you like shooter and have a good system, but don't expect 
 the greatest game ever made or any other such nonsense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwhite
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  System: Dell XPS 410
  Duel Core E6600
  2gb RAM
  Nvidia 640 mb 8800 GTS 
  
  I was actually somewhat disappointed in this game, I hate to say. I looked forward to this for 
 over a year.
  
  First the good. Graphics are very good. Even with the low to medium settings I was required to 
 use because of my system, the picture quality and graphics were very good. Audio, for the most 
 part, was excellent. AI was a slight step up from other games in the genre, but not as much as 
 I had expected. The game-play was engaging  at least for most of the game. 
  
  The only negative aspect in the graphics and sound department was the tremendous amount of computer 
 power that must be needed to run higher settings. Although I have a mid to high computer system, 
 I was required to run the game at a low resolution with advanced settings set to either low or 
 medium. I couldn't come anywhere close to my monitor's native resolution of 1920 x 1200, even with 
 all settings on the lowest setting.
  
  What was odd is that if I let the game detect and set "optimal" settings, it would select a a medium 
 resolution and high advanced settings. But playing at that, I could only get maybe 12-15 fps. So, 
 the detection system was useless. I had to tweak manually to get the framerate to acceptable levels.
 
  
  I finally was able to get the framerate at an average of 35-40 fps  which is very acceptable, 
 however, every few minutes, I would hit a "bump" and I would get a static sound and I would freeze-up 
 for a few seconds. The framerate would briefly drop to 0 and then bounce back up to the 35-40. 
 Because this was happening so often, I had to take another step back in the graphics department 
 and play on DX9 mode instead of DX10.
  
  It was disappointing to have upgraded my computer to a duel core, 2gb or RAM and a 640mb Nvidia 
 8800 GTS DX10 graphics card only to run a game on DX9 with low settings and a low resolution. And 
 this was after reading tweak guides, turning off background programs, downloading the latest drivers 
 from Nvidia, etc. Very odd, and I suspect Crysis was rushed out and not optimized correctly.
  
  The story and the characterization were weak in my opinion  characterization more so than 
 the story. This is a fairly straightforward FPS with not a lot happening with character development. 
 
  
  Levels early in the game were much more interesting with more openness and options. As the game 
 progressed, it became more and more lineal  to the point of being very limiting. 
  
  There were a lot of glitches in the game  items floating around, things spinning. There was a 
 lot of clipping. Some problems became quite a nuisance. For example, getting an objective to clear 
 an area and after doing so just standing there for additional directions. None came and I spent 
 the next ten minutes searching around until I found a hostile in a boxcar just spinning around. 
 He wouldn't die by gunshot, so I had to grab him and throw him to the side. Once he died, it triggered 
 the next script and I got an updated objective.
  
  The last few levels were excruciatingly glitchy. On the ship, I kept falling through the floor 
 to the point that it was extremely hard to complete the objectives. The boss battles were lame. 
 It appeared to me that the game was rushed toward the end and they just threw some things together. 
 The ending was a let down. And the thing is, the game itself was very short  maybe 9 hours or 
 so, I would guess. You'd think they could develop something a little better in a few year's time. 
 
  
  I enjoyed the game, but it just wasn't as good as I had expected. High expectation can do that. 
 On a scale of 1 to 100, I would give Crysis a solid 80. If it were optimized to run better with 
 the glitches (which could be possible with some patches in the future) I would up that score to 
 85. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: csenftleben
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Whether or not you think good bad or indifferent thoughts about Crytek, and Cevat Yerli's banging 
 on about how great Crysis is and was going to be while hiding behind his pair of Cray super-computers, 
 one thing was for certain: Crysis was going to change the gaming world; for better or worse it 
 didn't matter, just the mere existence of something as phenomenal as this game can move mountains, 
 even before it was released. 
  
  Crytek are good, we all know that. Apart from Valve, next to no other company has pulled off a 
 debut game so well (and don't say Bungie, because Halo wasn't their first game. GNOP was) .
  Crysis is one of those games that can be summed up in one word: Masterpiece. Crytek have done it 
 yet again. 
  
  Crysis has all the cheese of a B-Grade Hollywood storyline (E. g. Independence Day, or The War of 
 The Worlds) - yet it manages to pull off a fantastic retelling of old junk in the best possible 
 way - , coupled with amazing graphical output (E. g. Crysis, because nothing else you've ever seen 
 looks this good so you can't compare it to anything else except itself) , tactical gameplay (E. g. 
 GRAW, minus the controllable squad) , and wonderful water (E. g. The Incredibles, because Pixar's 
 water is amazing) , and combines it in a way that isn't completely overbearing, doesn't take you 
 away from the fact that you're playing an extremely well balanced shooter (except when you're drooling 
 over the wonderful sunrises) , and pits you against some of the best AI you've ever played. 
  
  Now, there are some people that will bash Crysis' AI, and say that it is stupid, and doesn't 
 take cover when fired upon with a silenced weapon, rather it seeks you out, and goes on patrol. 
 
  Trust me, if they were any smarter, you wouldn't have a fighting chance. 
  
  This is coming from a man who has never played Crysis on anything lower than Delta (hence me giving 
 it a Hard difficulty rating) . The AI is good, the gameplay is tight, and the cutscenes hold off 
 on the cheese long enough for you to believe that they are actually contributing to the storyline. 
 It all works. 
  
  If there are a few gripes I have with the game though, they are:
  
  - Maddeningly Bad Framerates in heavy combat sequences
  
  - The Ice-Sphere Sequence is too 
 linear (something I hope Crytek will address in the inevitable sequel, with some free roam gameplay 
 of the frozen dystopia) , and far too short
  
  - There are no team command controls, although this is rather minor, because of the fact that the 
 only other squad member you could control is Psycho, owing to Aztec and Jester being killed in 
 "Contact", the first level, and Prophet (your CO) being kidnapped not to far after that. Still, 
 there is the chance that Psycho may outrank Nomad, therefore Nomad ordering him across the battlefield 
 might be a little out of place. 
  
  - This is a personal problem: THE CLOAK DOESN'T LAST LONG ENOUGH!
  But then again, I'm probably 
 not the only one who thinks that when I suddenly materialise in front of a North Korean Patrol.
 
  
  All in all, Crysis seems to be the real deal. A game that lives up to all the hype that was put 
 out there by Crytek and EA. No matter what problems you have with the game, there will always be 
 something that distracts you from your issues with it, and keep you moving quickly, which you will 
 have to do, or else you will get shot. 
  
  Crysis is the motherload of what gaming SHOULD be; a kind of benchmark, on which other game developers 
 should base their ideas. 
  And now, all we have to do is wait for Crytek to blow us all away with the sequel to this amazing 
 piece of architecture and majesty. 
  
  Enjoy it. Again. And Again. And Again. Never play a sequence the same way twice (and you never 
 will, unless you have a photographic memory of where you walked the first time) , and try not to 
 get lost (the levels really are that big) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dollomite704
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Would be a 10 if it would run like my Call Of Duty 4 - nice and smooth. I have a quad core with 
 8800ULTRA and it still has slow a__ frame rate. What's the point of making it like that? So what 
 if it runs good 2 years from now when comps are 'upgraded' enough. Make it run like COD4 and I'll 
 rate it higher.
  
  Otherwise... game is great - very fun and great imagination. Just hate the jittery slowdown of adding 
 the graphics it takes to make it realistic. Sometimes the AI is stupid, even though I have heard 
 nothing but great things about it, sometimes they just stand there while I pound them with munition. 
 Crytek - I need a patch. Tweakguides. com helps out a lot. Follow their walkthrough to adjust settings 
 for optimal performance. Peace.
  
  Dollomite704
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I wrote a review a while ago, well not really a review, more of an angry rant. while, here is my 
 real review. I just beat the game about literally 2 minutes ago, and i am speechless. luckily i 
 can still type. From what i have seen, the main complaint about this game is how you need a monster 
 rig to run it. while, i am here to disprove this theory. i'm puttering along on a reliable old 
 dell 4700, (P4 2.8 Ghz, 1.5 gigram, upgraded to 8600gt, all on stock power supply.) and i found, 
 that i could get the game to look great and run great at these settings. shader detail high, all 
 else on low except for water detail, physics, object detail, and post proccessin on medium at 1024 
 x768 with 2x AA. The only reason this game doesn't get a perfect 10 is because there were a few 
 places that lagged uncotrollably, even when i dropped the settings all down to low. I managed to 
 get though these areas frame by frame, it was challengin to say the least. I, unlike most, loved 
 the plot, and loved the ending. I cant bloody wait for a sequal. I must say, the facial animations 
 blew me away in this game. They were so lifelike and full of expression. i didn't like farcry, 
 but i really like this game. The voice acting was also very good. i actually connected with the 
 characters, which not many games do these days. I think that last game that did that to me was 
 probably Oblivion. Overall, this game is like sex, and i'd reccomend it to anyone, even those with 
 rigs that arent top of the line. the gameplay is worth it alone, the great graphics are just a 
 bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I'll mention the parts most fresh in my mind now that I've just finished playing Crysis: The alien 
 levels are completely unbalanced compared to the north korean levels. Perhaps it's the AI, I don't 
 exactly know. All I do know is that I barely died in the korean levels on Hard and died over and 
 over and over on the alien levels when set to easy (primarily the last two boss levels) . the problem 
 seems to be if you wait in one spot just a hair too long, one of the alien mega weapons hits you 
 and kills you. Yet if you rush around a lot, you open yourself up to all the floaters plus the 
 mega weapons plus the boss creatures other weapons. Sigh.
  
  Plus there are some bugs especially later in the game: aliens that don't disappear or explode when 
 dead so that the marines continue to fire at them and you can never transition out of the level, 
 the tac canon disappeared from my inventory on the aircraft carrier, aircraft carrier cut-sceens 
 stuttering, etc. All these required several restarts from saved games to get past. 
  
  I found the portion of the game inside the alien ship boring: it was an interesting and beautiful 
 place to be but there was no action for long stretches and of all the apparent corridors, there 
 really was only one path.
  
  The game does start out brilliantly and seems to be a super Far Cry except for the suit which really 
 does expand the ability to play many different styles and provides endless fun: jump your way up 
 cliffs, leap into the air, cloak on the way down, grab a guy, fling him into his buddies, cloak 
 again and watch them run around like mad fools. Mwahahaaha.
  
  So the game is beautiful, sound is fantastic, first third is what Crytek does best. The aliens 
 let the game down by 1: being boring in their mothership, being too hard on the air craft carrier 
 deck (boss levels) and glitching too much.
  
  Vehicles are fun especially the open tank battles, just don't stop: for some out of this world, 
 the north koreans were expecting a massive armoured brigade to attack them on a remote pacific 
 island and every soldier in the interior has a rocket launcher on him. Why? 
  
  Overall though I'm glad I got it. Quad core machine with 512 MB of video ram and only able to play 
 on medium but it is still the best looking game out their.
  
  not sure what to score the game since the farther past 1/2 way I got, the more frustrated I got. 
 So I have mixed reactions but think it's worth playing. The game met all my expectations for cutting 
 edge visuals and design, but had a major game play imbalance in the last 1/3. So no 10 score here, 
 and I was gong with a 9.7-9.8 but I think I'll have to go with a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leisears
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This is my second review to this game. I did my previous one about two days ago. At that time I 
 have actually not finished the whole single player story yet.
  
  If I don't remember wrong, the biggest bug happens in the beginning of the second last chapter. 
 You will defend a little base with a couple of your fellow soldiers. When a flying alien is shot 
 down, but still hang in the sky about 3 feet off the ground, your lovely fellow mates will keep 
 shooting at the alien body forever and the game flow will stuck there without progression. Even 
 I tried to shoot tons of machine gun bullets, or even rocket shell to the body, it just kept hang 
 in there and didn't drop to the ground. I need to restart the chapter and make sure that the aliens 
 are end up dead on the ground to allow the game keep flowing. 
  
  I don't believe this is my hardware problem because first, the game basically runs flawless, second, 
 I have a relatively high end rig with AMD X2 6000+, 8800 GTS 649m video card and two g of ram. 
 
  
  If you find the same bug, please post it again then Crytek may have a new patch very soon to deal 
 with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thuch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  To begin with I didn't think this game would be very good only look really awsome since I have 
 a good enough computer to play it on high. But once I started playing the game it hit me that this 
 game was actually not only a great looking game. Its not revolutionary but it really really great. 
 The nanosuit is really cool to use but at the end it can get a litle frustrating but thats probably 
 because I don't normaly play FPS games.
  
  One of the greatest things in the game is the way it plays out its very much like a movie throughout 
 the game espessially at the end when you face the aliens. Off cource the best thing about the game 
 is its graphics. It is the best looking PC game to date.
  The story is good and so is the voice acting and the game plays out smooth and its just all and 
 all a very good game. It doesn't do very much to the genre but its probably the best FPS to date 
 in my opinion. This game could be fun for everyone because you very much choose the way you want 
 to play either as a stealth game or as a fast paced crazy shooter.
  The multiplayer is a good asset its like a blend of cs and battlefield with big maps and a economi 
 system.
  
  Just to let you all know that I played through this game is a good thing for the game itself its 
 one of few FPS games I have wanted to finish and that must be a good thing for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteboard91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 167359/10
  
  If you have a high-end rig then i would recommend this game to you 100% simply because as soon 
 as you stick shaders on high you're guaranteed to orgasm. Having said that, the graphics are pretty 
 much nothing if the shaders aren't on high as the game seems to lack atmosphere and the graphics 
 wont seem that great. As soon as shaders are up to full though, the game comes alive and a great 
 experience. A few important things i have noticed to do with framerates are that, on my computer, 
 switching all settings from low to high (excluding shaders and shadows, staying on low) only reduces 
 the framerates by about 1 or 2 fps. However, upping shaders to high reduced the framerate by at 
 least 6 or 7 and considering when they're on low i'm running it at about 12 - 20 fps thats a big 
 difference. That's not to say, though, that the graphics suck without high shaders because its 
 still a great experience. The one thing that stands out miles above everything else in this section 
 is the character models. They are ridiculously life-like - you could quite easily be watching a 
 film.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Great sound effects to go with the visuals and superb voice acting, but nothing *really* special 
 to stand out in this department. Nothing to detract from the overall experience either as the sound 
 is a solid element throughout the game. In my opinion, it probably could have done with a bit more 
 eerie background music just to add some more atmosphere.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 SPOILER FOR HL2: EP2 if for some incredible reason you haven't played it through.
 
  
  Awesome gameplay; you combine many different tactics in different situations and weigh out the 
 best way to approach. It does get a little bit linear though as after a while you'll learn that 
 the easiest way to approach it is to cloak-shoot-cloak-shoot etc. although you can run into open 
 gunfights at your peril if you so wish. In the scheme of things it is definitely satisfying to 
 play as it offers something very different to the other shooters out there; for example half life 
 2 has the gravity gun as its defining element and crysis has the nanosuit. Its nice to see something 
 different in a shooter like this. A slight criticism as for the level design is how they seem to 
 have cut corners a little bit. By saying this i mean that they have a whole jungle island out there 
 for you to explore but it is made linear by a few conveniently placed cliffs to keep you on track. 
 It would've been nice to be able to roam free in a slightly larger environment on each level. As 
 for the length of the game, i was initially hoping for a half life 2/ deus ex 1 length game, i. e. 
 nice and long. As it turns out, the game took me about 6 or 7 days to complete on hard which i 
 would say is about 16ish hours of gameplay (thats a wild guess) . Another thing lacking i thought 
 was the bonding between characters. When in the game do you *really* feel emotionally attached 
 to any of the characters so that when they're lost you feel you have to do something about it?? 
 Where were those emotional challenges that really put you into the game like the death of alyx's 
 dad in hl2: ep2?
  
  Value: 7/10
  
  I wouldn't pay 30 for this as in the end it doesn't quite cut it for me... yes it's a fantastic 
 shooter but it's too short and for me it wasn't as deep or challenging as games like bioshock. 
 Sure though if you really fancy it then buy it because you are guaranteed a LOT of fun from this 
 title and its great fun to play again even if you know what's coming.
  
  Overall: 8.5
  
  Awesome game, but the only real "WOW" factor to make it stand out from the rest is the graphics. 
 For gs to give it 9.5 i think is overdoing it a little but it is definitely very easy to get carried 
 away with the hype, and for some reviewers to give it 4 or 5 is certainly underrating it as it 
 falls a long way above the "poor" and "mediocre" categories. This is perhaps worth between "great" 
 and "superb", but definitely not "perfect". And lets think, what made half life 2 arguably the 
 best shooter ever made? The gravity gun alone? No, it was the full package, plus the gravity gun. 
 So surely you can't say crysis is one of the best ever since it just doesn't quite have that full 
 package. Its gravity gun is the nanosuit but it just needs a cutting edge to it.
  
  Yeahhh, that's right, there's my crappy reasoning! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainbowWarrior0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  It was about two hours into Crysis when I began to realise just how good it might be. The first 
 couple of hours had been fairly unremarkable - there were some predictable first-person cut-scenes, 
 a linear intro level, some spooky goings-on, US military deployment, you know the sort of thing. 
 I had watched the sun come up across the island and seen the kind of tropical Far-Cry-revisited 
 scenes that we'd all been expecting. I had even barrelled through the first of the villages and 
 used some of the suit-powers (which your buffed up future marine has at his disposal from the start) 
 to kill off some enemies. But it wasn't until a little later that I sat back and actually looked 
 at it.
  
  Crysis is much more than a highly accomplished graphics engine, to be sure, but let me just get 
 this across to you for a moment. Playing on a high-end PC (for Crysis runs best on a Quad Core 
 beast with a DirectX 10 card) it was so good that I had almost failed to notice the sheer immensity 
 of visual information it was delivering. The Crysis environments are so naturalistic, so close 
 to realism, that you find yourself thinking: "of course, because that's how things are supposed 
 to look." It takes a few moments to step back and really look. I was in a stretch of a forested 
 valley. The sun was shining down on the rocks across the valley, reflecting light with that certain 
 stony gleam that long-polished rocks have about them. Those same sunbeams were filtering through 
 the trees and casting dappled shadows across the exquisitely detailed forest floor. This is that 
 HDR stuff deployed as it was meant to be - with a slight haze that jungles have about them, with 
 the yellow sun dropping beams of light through the waving branches overhead. The jungle was alive. 
 Ahead of me vegetation flicked and moved: enemies approached.
  
  And that's pretty much where my eyebrows went up and I muttered mild obscenities: I was playing 
 a game where (at least some) vegetation moved as people passed through it. The fronds of a palm 
 tree bent and flicked well before I could see the soldier who approached along the path. In the 
 firefight that followed I levelled a great swathe of greenery as the bullets flew and grenades 
 detonated. Branches fell from trees and saplings collapsed into the undergrowth: it was my own 
 little re-enactment of the minigun scene from Predator. But it got better - thanks to the capacity 
 of the nano-suit to give me a temporary cloaking field - I stopped being Arnie [surely Bill Duke 
 - Predator Ed] and became the Predator in the space of about ten seconds. I reached out and grabbed 
 a soldier by the throat. I took a few moments to examine his horrified, dying face in all its incredible 
 detail before hurling him backwards into the undergrowth.
  
  I just need to say something about Crysis's fiction and functions at this point. You're a super-soldier 
 sent to a Pacific island to investigate dodgy business perpetrated by the apparently invigorated 
 North Korean army. You're equipped with a suit of hi-tech armour that can be configured into various 
 modes, and you rely on it for almost all situations. Even if you run out of ammo, the suit can 
 get you past the enemies. The nanosuit has a constantly recharging reservoir of energy, which means 
 that you can use any of the powers for a brief period before you'll need to rest up for a few seconds. 
 The default is armour mode, which allows you to soak damage and also rapidly heals you. That's 
 the the mode the suit will revert to if you decloak. Then there's strength mode, which reduces 
 your defence but allows you to punch people to death, to punch Humvees to death (although I never 
 managed that car-flip thing from the trailer) , and to leap on top of buildings like a superhero. 
 Speed seems to to be the least useful mode, allowing you to dash a short distance at a stupendous 
 rate. Best of all though, is the cloak itself. This allows you to move a short distance invisibly, 
 and allows you to effectively disappear from pursuing enemies for a few seconds, or to close in 
 on them for sudden, close-quarters violence. It's not the first time we've seen this kind of thing 
 - Halo 2 did it - but the implementation in Crysis is impossibly entertaining.
  
  Anyway, back to the wooded valley. As the first stage of the firefight subsided, I realised there 
 was a second enemy patrol closing in. They were wading across the nearby river towards me. I crouched 
 and killed a couple of them at range - headshots are a boon - but I was soon out of rifle ammo. 
 I would need to scavenge more. Crysis' group AI kicked in and the soldiers fanned out through the 
 jungle to try and surround me. I cloaked again and headed further into the jungle along the valley. 
 I'd seen some snipers hiding in rock formations on the far side of the valley, and I wanted to 
 get behind them rather than face the main patrol up-close. Using the strength-mode jump I bounced 
 across the rocky waterfall at the far end of the river valley and then, after hiding to briefly 
 recoup energy, I cloaked and closed in on the snipers. I finished them off with a couple of close-range 
 shotgun blasts, before taking their weapons to attack the patrol on the far side of the valley. 
 Unfortunately, because I hadn't taken the time to watch the valley a little more carefully, I was 
 jumped by a second group. They hit me hard at close range. Killing one, I backed up and cloaked 
 as I passed behind a rock, losing them for a moment. I lobbed a grenade into where I thought they'd 
 go, before closing in to kill two more by the water's edge - grabbing the first by the throat, 
 I threw him into his buddy, killing them both and sending the bodies sprawling across rocks and 
 into the water.
  
  I took a moment to watch their bodies bob and then gently float away in the current, pushing aside 
 reed-like water plants as they went. Reflective mood past, I closed in on the final, retreating 
 soldier. He splashed across the river, trying to get to cover. A few freshly scavenged rounds from 
 my rifle saw him tumble and take his last splash. Serenity returned to the wooded valley and I 
 spent a while staring at the light in the trees, before I bounced away up the hillside towards 
 the next objective. 
  
  Crysis is filled with these kind of periodic zones of action. Some of them, such as the harbour 
 level, are huge, and you'll find yourself juggling tasks, stealing vehicles to get about, while 
 simultaneously gawping at the huge conflict that occasionally unfolds around you. I played through 
 each of the major areas several times, on a range of difficulty levels. I had a totally different 
 experience each time. Just by taking a slightly different route you'll end up in a fight you hadn't 
 anticipated. Bump the game up to hard and suddenly you're thinking about whether enemy bullets 
 are going to go through the fence you're about to dive behind, or whether you really can rely on 
 grenades to put that machine-gun nest down. Gung-ho action is default on the easier settings, but 
 as the enemy damage output increases with difficulty, you begin to be a little more cautious. 
 
  
  Advertisement
  Playing around the with suit's powers, or simply trying to set up the sneakiest, most intricate 
 assaults is awesomely satisfying. Rather like Half-Life 2's sudden expansion of interactive possibilities 
 with the gravity gun, Crysis' suit turns most of the island into a violent playground. You'll find 
 yourself playfully lobbing chickens at enemies one moment, and then savagely hunting them down 
 like some half-invisible monster the next. Hearing your soldier buddy radio in and say "go quietly 
 on this next objective" as you're halfway through the process of driving a Humvee through the roof 
 of a tin shack (just to watch it collapse realistically) has a kind of perverse glory to it. Crysis 
 is bombastic and bold, but caters just as much to stealth and surprise.
  
  I'm fairly confident that people will feel slightly uncomfortable with the screeching caricatures 
 that constitute most of the Korean soldiers that you end up butchering, but at least the main sidekick 
 characters aren't annoying. In fact, if I had to give a word to the overall single-player campaign, 
 I would be patchy. There are great highs, such as landing on a ridge at night, under fire from 
 artillery, but also occasional muddles where the pace just cannot maintain and you end up rooting 
 about in sheds looking for ammo, or simply feeling a bit lost, in spite of the green arrow that 
 urges you ever onward.
  
  That said, the overall story is far more sprawling and complex than I had expected - with loads 
 of variation in the challenges laid out for you and a bunch of stages of development beyond what 
 I had expected. Even the strictly linear bits don't seem overly predictable, although the flying-squid 
 shooting gallery stuff at the end is (as so many people had speculated) rather less interesting 
 than fighting gangs of human enemies in the first two thirds of the game. The pace and sense of 
 danger at the end of the game is nevertheless commendable - you do feel as if an unstoppable alien 
 menace is stirring. It's almost a shame that they didn't make a little more of the frozen jungle 
 environments that we had seen talked about so enthusiastically in the previews of this game. 
 
  
  There's also a gnawing sense that much of the larger world is lost to you. These huge geographies 
 sometimes seem wasted, since you just end bombing through them, or simply stumbling onwards without 
 finding secondary objectives to pursue. One particular night-time section had me running for ten 
 minutes to get through it - being pursued by a helicopter that I didn't have the firepower (or, 
 more accurately, the inclination) to deal with. Thanks to the ever-replenishing energy reserves 
 of the suit I could basically run for cover and bodge it until I reached the next waypoint.
  
  Naturally there's multiplayer too, with all participants gifted with the hi-tech powers of 
 the nanosuit. This comes in the form of standard deathmatch, and the rather less standard Powerstruggle 
 mode. This mode provides a Battlefield-styled large scale combat in which two teams battling for 
 control of a number of large military facilities. These provide power to central vehicle-production 
 centres which will, eventually, allow either side to create a game-ending vehicle that can be used 
 to destroy the opposing base. Nukes go off pretty much routinely. Crysis' multiplayer is extremely 
 robust and provides a huge, open palette for organised teamwork to create some really interesting 
 tactics - the versatility of the nanosuit sees to that. However, I can't see this multiplayer offering 
 making too much of an impact on the general PC scene. It's too clinical to compete with the heavy-duty 
 franchise-empowered design monsters like Enemy Territory, and too complex to appeal to the rest 
 of PC gaming... (they'll be knee-deep in TF2) .
  
  So Crysis is imperfect in a number of ways, but it's nevertheless a stupendously solid game for 
 the PC. It's an FPS that exhibits some of the technological tricks we've been promised over the 
 last few years while still offer a cogent, often thunderous, action-shooter experience. Its incredible 
 looks are perhaps only let down by some of the art direction. It gives us a lavish world, but it's 
 perhaps not applied imaginatively enough. The aliens are a worthy challenge at times, and provide 
 a suitably pumped-up dramatic conclusion, but they never really surprise or inspire the kind of 
 awe that they're presumably intended to. The level design might have been just a little tighter 
 too. I found myself feeling like huge sections of the game had been wasted, and really I just wanted 
 go back and play through the harbour again, or that wooded valley. Perhaps even more significantly, 
 I wanted to see what the complex physics model and destructible scenery might be able to do in 
 a more urban environment. The island wasn't quite enough for me. It needed a proper town, or at 
 least some kind of island resort.
  
  This is a game that feels supremely engineered, like a precision machine, or a German automobile. 
 It makes Half-Life 2 seem old and frail, but by the same token it does nothing to diminish the 
 imaginative achievements of that series. Crysis is impressive, but not imaginatively bold. Nor 
 does it engage us like some other great shooters - such as BioShock - have done with their world 
 and their personality. It's far better than Far Cry, and it's clearly going to create a rabid army 
 of fans, many of whom I hope will plug themselves into the absurdly easy-to-us level editor and 
 create us more single-player campaigns. Personally I'd like to see where this astounding world-forging 
 technology will take us. And I can't wait to see what Crytek will do next.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arspr
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  As a lot of people is saying, Cryengine 2 is by years-light far, the greatest engine you've seen. 
 Maybe the only week point is AI. It's not THAT good. It's more or less like FarCry and, sometimes, 
 there are quite obvious glitches (enemies that don't react specially when you are right near them) .
 
  
  I'm not going to say anything about visuals and physics because I think everything has already 
 told. I just want to point out one side note. As official review says, the game will laugh at every 
 nowadays machine you throw at it. With my Core 2 Quad 2.4 GHz + 8800 GTX, I get 24,8 fps in the 
 benchmark demo with a tweaked High to Very High setting. But it doesn't matter, the game feels 
 like running at much more higher frame rates. In any other game I've used before, playing bellow 
 30 fps is nearly impossible. Don't ask me how they've done it, but, when Crysis is just over 20 
 fps, it seems REALLY REALLY SMOOTH (yes in capital letters) .
  
  As I've said, (and a lot of people has said) , game play is really funny because of the combination 
 of stealth and open environments. But I feel that something is missing here.
  
  I mean, I've recently played BIoShock which really seems to me one of the best games ever done 
 because of the whole pack (good fps, extremely good looking, the amount of things you can do with 
 yourself and your weapons, SUPERB story ...) . Maybe you can find better games in each single aspect, 
 like Crysis visuals, but the whole pack is nearly unbeatable.
  
  With Crysis, it goes the opposite way. You feel that it could be the greatest game ever made but 
 a lot of buts:
  + You've seen this story one thousand times and it's pretty short (Crytek wants to earn much more 
 money selling Crysis 2 & 3) .
  + Nanosuit abilities are not fully used. Strength and speed are nearly useless but in some occasional 
 jumps. (But in the scripted places, I've never used speed and I've only used strength to sneak 
 over fences) .
  + You cannot drop, (just throw) , objects. This stupid addition would have enabled the ability to 
 add a lot of puzzles in a HL2 way. Example: pick a heavy machine, (strength needed) , and drop, 
 (not throw) , over some enemies on a lower floor which are not looking at you.
  + You can destroy nearly everything, but it's useless for the game play. A good scriptwriter could 
 have found a lot of uses. Example: cut a tree to make a bridge over a deep stream.
  + Weapon customization is quite useless. When you get the add-ons, you just enable them and that's 
 all, (why am I going to turn off the laser pointer?) . Only silencer is really switched on/off during 
 the game. (OTOH why do I need flashlight if I have built-in night vision?)
  + And more and more and more ...
  
  So, in overall, you feel that Crytek is really short in 
 scriptwriters, (the game misses a lot of possibilities) , and that they LOVE gamers money, (the 
 game is really short because they want to sell Crysis 2 & 3 the sooner the better) .
  
  Over a 10 points mark:
  + CryEngine 2: 12 (you've never seen anything like this before)
  + 
 Game-play experience: 8
  + Story development: 2
  + Value for money: 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  Evolved FarCry.
  
  This game combines tactical shooter and headless Quake-a-like FPS. You might get it done with just 
 running forth with your modern suit, but the game gives you more if you crawl with the suit's invisibility 
 cloak activated and use all of the suit's options to get a rid of all the hostiles.
  
  The more you play this game forth the more you will enjoy it. There's just so many things you can 
 use to play this through, like building something useful things from all the obstacles avaible 
 (like in HL2, you know what I mean) , driving your car through enemy base and so on. 
  
  One thing that especially was negative in this game, was that, when you were in the bushes hiding, 
 it felt like the enemy could see you, but you couldn't spot the enemy. !CLOAKED!. The storyline 
 seemed good enough to this kind of game, except the last few chapters when the yankee admiral wants 
 to nuke everything and you got to nuke everything, IT WAS SO PREDICTABLE! And you knew that the 
 thing will absorb the nuke and spread, BLEH, well gotta go with the flow...
  
  Overall good game indeed. Sure I wanted to save the prophet from the island at the end, but I think 
 that'll be another story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfl707
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  I so enjoyed this game to the max. I was able to incorporate everything the designers intended 
 me to from stalking my victoms like preditor to all out battle royal. It was very challenging but 
 not in an annoying way, I was always comming back for more it basically ruined my familys thanksgiving.
 
  
  The ending cought me by surprise (all though be it a good one) but looking back at how long I had 
 actually worked on the game for and how open the game is to an expantion I am content.
  
  There is nothing like sneaking up on a patrol of three, grabbing the one guy by the neck, with 
 my free gun hand blasting the guy on the right and switching to strength and hurling my hostage 
 into the left one killing them both and dissapearing back into the jungle not alerting the rest 
 of their squad
  
  Game ran better then expected on my laptop too
  
  Well done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drew1333
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  my set up
  athlon x2 4600 dual core 2.4GHz
  2 gb ocz dual channel ram
  2 x1950 pro's crossfired (512 PCIe)
  3DMark06 score 8295
  
  Ok i'm just a gamer and this is 
 my first review and i can't spell so bear with me. I just finished COD4 on high settings at 1280x1024 
 and it ran great so i figured i could play crysis at at least med settings. HAHAHA not even!! no 
 FSAA all on med i was getting 15-25 fps. so i set all to low at 1280x1024 and got 30-40 fps, that 
 i can live with. But with all the eye candy gone this is "just another shooter" as gamespot likes 
 to say.
  I'm a aim down the barrel kind of guy an when i put 15 to a whole clip of rounds into a dudes chest 
 and his buddy kills me with a pistol.... on med difficulty... please. AI is ok but it could be a lot 
 better (if you have played you know what i mean) . this game doesn't play well on ATI cards (you think 
 they would put that on the box) I guess when they tested this game they only used $500 nvidia cards. oh 
 well i stopped playing and went to half-life 2 episode 2 (max settings,16x anastropic ,4x FSAA,60-120 
 fps.
  i guess to sum up my rant : i got tired of screwing with the settings trying to get it to run smooth 
 .OH ya auto detect set my rig at 800x600 med settings and i still only got 20-25 fps changing the 
 screen res doesn't seem to help the fps.
  thank you for reading this.
  good gaming!!!!
  P. S. do you notice everybody who gives this a 9 or 10 only talk about how good it looks.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iranian_Guy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  I agree that this game looks amazing sounds amazing and offers lot of fun. but an artist should 
 not use every kind of trick to make his work attractive. artist should not use the tensions between 
 countries to make money and get a fish from muddy water. this looks like a hollywood movies trying 
 to tell that how good the americans are and how bad the others are as always there is one stupid 
 dictator that mistreats women and kills innocents to achieve his targets (general Kyong in this 
 game) and his minions who dont mind what they are doing and will obey blindly to their boss (korean 
 soldiers) . and on the other side there are americans that respect women rescue civilians and have 
 a holy cause to fight for (same crap as always) . i think creators of this game is racist and has 
 an anti asian feeling or at least this game shows this. koreans in this game are dirty weak people 
 who"do not understand what they dealin with" and the americans are as always kind to ladies charming 
 and hero. don't you feel that racism when the nomad grabs poor koreans' throats? as long as everyone 
 remembers USA invaded everywhere not north koreans. and USA dropped nukes on civilians.
  anyway the game it self is fun if you don't get offended by this ... I don't know what to call it 
 but any fair person knows the true sinner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Ever since we've seen those incredible screenshots, everyone has wanted to get their hands on Crysis. 
 Developer Crytek has mastered what is easily now the greatest visuals in any game to date. As important 
 as these graphics are to this genre, its never the most important part of the package. We all know 
 that Crysis more than exceeded in the graphics department, but how would the combat stack up?
 
  
  Just like it's half-brother Far Cry, Crysis is an immerse "sandbox" world where you are dropped 
 right in the middle of a lush environment (this time in North Korean territory) , with absolute 
 freedom to do your stuff as you please. It's a unique take on the First-Person-Shooter genre, which 
 is almost always completely linear, for example what you see in Half-Life 2. Here however, you 
 can go in at whatever angle you wish. The physics of the game is excellent; shooting out a humvee's 
 tire while it rides toward you can cause the vehicle to over turn and explode. Nice. Also you can 
 virtually pick up anything you would think you can and use it as a weapon, or to clear your path.
 
  
  The game's story has you, as an important member of an elite squad of units that sport these incredible 
 nanosuits. These suits allow you to enhance your body in specific ways: you can travel at great 
 speeds, harness great strength as you hurl foes at each other, increase your armor, or even become 
 almost completely invisible (think the alien hunter from Arnold's movie "The Predator") . These 
 abilities are the greatest part of the gameplay, and are a lot of fun. You can forcefully blow 
 through a patrol grabbing foes by the neck and shielding yourself from bullets and shells, or you 
 can sneak by unnoticed. Both ways are a lot of fun. 
  
  To combat your enemies, you will be using standard weapons, assault rifles, shotgun's, pistols, 
 etc. One cool feature is being able to customize your weapons to fit your play style. Silencers, 
 grenade launchers, reflex scopes are just a few to name. 
  
  It's hard not to praise the game's obvious qualities, but it also has its share of faults. The 
 story, althought great in quality for the first six missions becomes redundant when you finally 
 fight with the aliens. These missions look very good visually, but you get the feeling you are 
 searching for ways out more than attacking your extraterrestrial friends. To worsen matters, the 
 Koreans are a better A. I. than their alien counterparts, and are incredible bullet sponges. The 
 only fights that feel real are the encounters of the "wannabe nanosuit" soldiers, which share your 
 suits skills. The actual shooting of the guns is realistic however, as trying to hit a longer distance 
 target is hard, as it would be in real life. 
  
  Another great feature in the game is being able to get into any vehicle you come across. Tank's 
 are the best, and although the battles are not as intense as they are in Battlefield 2 for example, 
 they are still a great deal of fun. Although its not the main focus of the game, the multi player 
 is the brightest part of the package thanks to the mixed successes of the single player. Fights 
 and scraps are appropriately brutal and fast paced.
  With Crysis, we have all seen the greatest potential (at this time) of the computers we have today. 
 Sadly, the game's graphics comes its greatest down-fall. A disturbingly high powered CPU and GPU 
 are required to make the game run well. If you have a lower-end computer, or even midrange, the 
 game will still run, but you will miss what the higher end users get to see in pure eye candy. 
 Also, you will suffer some serious slow downs in loading areas. 
  
  In the end, Crysis is only a real worthwhile purchase to those lucky enough to own God-like computers, 
 and for these players Crysis offers a unique sandbox style of gameplay, and some drop dead gorgeous 
 visuals, more than enough reason to add Crysis to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Crytek, you may remember them as the German company that brought us Far Cry for the PC back in 
 2004 (the Xbox version, Far Cry Instincts, is nothing alike) . Far Cry used a revolutionary gaming 
 engine called Cry Engine, which was able to render highly detailed jungle environments. And now 
 comes Crysis (hmm... noticing a trend revolving around the word "cry?") , where every single detail 
 in the gaming environment has more technology than the entirety of Far Cry. Through the use of 
 Crytek's Cry Engine 2, Crysis is able to render jungle environments that are not only highly detailed, 
 but ultra-realistic, as well. Crysis is as real as it gets in gaming.
  
  In the game, you play as an Elite US Special Forces operative in the year 2020, codenamed Nomad, 
 sent to investigate a meteor that crashlanded on an unnamed island controlled by the North Koreans 
 (damn commies) , who have kidnapped a handful of VIPs. The game opens with a spectacular single-shot 
 dive out of an airplane, where you are able to admire the enormity of the island from afar. Oh, 
 and yes, as a Special Op, you are also equipped with a Nanosuit, a highly sophisticated uniform 
 with the ability to become invisible (cloak) , stronger, and faster. And trust me, in this game 
 you're going to need it.
  
  The game is basically divided into three parts. The first half is not unlike the PC version of 
 Far Cry, where you are immersed in a lush island with multiple ways of completing an objective. 
 Like Far Cry, Crysis has a great deal of strategy for your typical first-person shooter, requiring 
 considerably more imagination to complete tasks. Running and gunning, though, will get you killed.
 
  
  After discovering a third-party presence, in this case, an alien culture left over from the meteor, 
 the game becomes a fight between you and both the North Koreans and the extraterrestrials. After 
 the first act in the jungle, the game changes, where you become immersed in the alien spaceship, 
 which is totally zero-gravity. After leaving the spaceship, the game becomes about survival. The 
 aliens have run amok on the island, and it's your job to defend the planet from being taken over.
 
  
  The AI of the game is nothing short of amazing. Both the Koreans and aliens detect your presence 
 with great accuracy, but not too much, as was the problem with Far Cry.
  
  Environments are highly interactive; the physics are what make this game fun. You can pick up and 
 throw just about everything, everything from small decorations to choking and throwing both the 
 North Koreans and, yes, even the gigantic tentacled aliens -- I felt that last one was a bit comical, 
 but it worked just fine. The island is littered with huts and housing quarters, all of which are 
 realistically breakable.
  
  The game is littered with admirable attention to detail, including bubbles when falling in the 
 water to schools of fish swimming in the ocean. One time, the game even went as far as creating 
 a distortion one gets from touching an LCD monitor -- I thought that was a nice touch.
  
  As you may expect, the game is a systems hog, although it actually looks eons better than Far Cry 
 at low settings with 800x600 resolution. Still, you will be missing many of the finer details. 
 But I wouldn't worry that much, as no system today can run this game at maximum capacity. The only 
 settings available right now are Low, Medium, High, and Very High -- the last of which is reserved 
 for DirectX 10, which will theoretically only run on Windows Vista, but there are certain hacks 
 that say otherwise.
  
  The game is not without problems. As great as the graphics are, there are certain uncomfortable 
 glitches such as flashing textures. But for a game that looks this good, it's surprisingly well-optimized. 
 On my midrange ATI 2600XT video card and AMD 6000+ X2 dual core CPU with 2 GB DDR2-800 RAM, Crysis 
 performs better on my system than F. E. A. R. ever did on either this system or my old system. The 
 bottom line, however, is that Crysis is the first true next-generation game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is a superb game; the first three levels feature some of the best gameplay I've had the 
 pleasure to play. They push the first person shooter genre in directions it should be heading towards. 
 The whole experience is intelligent and dynamic, the suit plays a roll in this by letting you engage 
 enemies on your terms. You might decide to take out a camp in stealth moving from cover to cover 
 with cloak on. Or simply run full speed up to an enemy smashing him on the head with a branch. 
 Then there is always the option of just knocking down some huts with your fists while enemies take 
 cover within. It's important to note that these powers just enhance some of the options we saw 
 in Far Cry. 
  
  There were quite a few moments were my jaw was open in awe just from the sheer amazement of the 
 AI or a sequence of events, not from the amazing graphics. Whether it was how they reacted or how 
 they moved forward as a team. There has been some very hard work put into the AI acting "smart". 
 By smart I mean by not cheating, using clues from the world and searching areas carefully. All 
 this even after the insane amount of hype it generated is quite an accomplishment. Sure the AI 
 isn't flawless and occasionally drops to sea slug intelligence, but it's a minor issue. The one 
 problem with Crysis is that it fails to maintain this high level of gameplay to the finish. It's 
 hard to pinpoint the exact place things go downhill as it's rather a fuzzy decline and dependent 
 on your preference for open gameplay.
  
  The reason it didn't maintain the brilliance shown initially is because your options become restricted, 
 there is a lot less natural stealth gameplay elements and there are far more enemies than necessary. 
 So the game itself becomes a lot like many other shooters, linear, but with the nanosuit powers. 
 The "Alien" ship was linear and enjoyable, it actually felt rather unique, and for a sci-fi game 
 this can be difficult. But other sections were restrictive for no real reason other than following 
 other first person shooters. Whatever the reason it was all completely unnecessary to change when 
 you have such tremendously enjoyable gameplay to start with. On top of this it seems they spent 
 quite a bit of time working on the various cutscenes too, which were probably the only linear things 
 needed to tell the story well. It's unclear how future sequels/expansions will play out based on 
 how the game ends; I just hope most of it turns out just like how Crysis started.
  
  Crysis started by giving you a huge vista of gameplay choices. From the first shot fired on enemies 
 crawling through a dense jungle to destroying a sniper nest with an exploding barrel from 50m that 
 was launched spinning into the air with your bare hands. It presented you with small pockets of 
 resistance occupied by tricky enemies who flank you and behave intelligently as a group. Watching 
 the cover around you crumble to the ground after a soldier lobs a grenade through a doorway leaving 
 you exposed to machine gun fire from all sides before you dart off into the jungle in speed mode 
 to recover. Letting you swim under a patrol boat and speed jump out of the water shooting the driver 
 mid air. Hiding under the bushes as an insanely persistent helicopter hovers above waiting for 
 you to expose yourself, with you bearing rockets as gifts. Jumping over huge obstacles to see shocked 
 enemies on the other side then grabbing one and throwing him into a group of attacking foes and 
 watching as one gets up dazed just before you silently place a single bullet in their head. This 
 is what made Crysis so fantastic, if only all of the game was like this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheeda_blade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Crysis no doubt and hands down was the most eagerly awaited game of the year. It was not only ambitious 
 it was also being developed after a game that was so highly rated that to simply do it a notch 
 better from it should have gotten it wide praise and acclaim. And I am glad to say that not only 
 does Crysis live up to its name but also does it two notches better. 
  
  The Premise of the Crysis is much like Farcry the game that won Crytek wide spread acclaim. But 
 the story is beautifully told and in a befitting manner this game more then makes up for a traditional 
 storyline by realizing it in graphic detail. You start as a five man special forces team sent in 
 to retrieve missing people which escalates into an all out conflict.
  
  The graphics are beautiful if you bought an 8 series card then you will have your money worth it. 
 Even if you don't have a high spec machine the game would still run. May be you won't enjoy the 
 spectacular graphics but you will definitely enjoy the open endedness provided by your nano suit 
 you will be able to accomplish the same objectives in a variety of manner going all out sneaking 
 past people or may be using the different suit configurations to out maneuver them.
  
  The sounds are dead on providing a haunting track where and when needed. When there's a need for 
 adrenaline it gets quicker and sounds of the machine gun and jungle are also dead on.
  
  The controls are fairly simple and easy to master the game takes you through the paces and in the 
 end changing nano suit configurations seems like second nature to you. Various guns and weapons 
 handle and feel different as well. The nano suit also effects the way your weapons handle e. g Strength 
 will provide lesser recoil and greater accuracy. You can use speed to quickly come in to take someone 
 out using the shot gun or you can use strength to jump on to a ledge use sniper to take people 
 out. The possibilities are limitless and for you imagine.
  
  In the end the game is amazing there are few multiplayer issues but they are only minor compared 
 to the overall scheme of things I haven't given it full marks so that something comes along always 
 to up the ante but this is a very very very good game if not a perfect one I will let you decide 
 a must have who read this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorCream
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  
  This is one of those rare titles that comes so highly anticipated as the image of the next generation, 
 that it puts any capability to fairly review it at odds with itself. After all, how can you possibly 
 find fault with something that simply looks and reportedly plays this good...
  
  I like many wanted this to be the game of the year. The next bar in the evolution of our gameplay 
 pleasure. The title that hit so hard, that it created a literal paradigm that subsequently caused 
 all game makers to reevaluate their concept of value and reaffirm their committment to quality 
 control.
  
  And who conditioned me to this way of thinking? Likely the game's development team and CEO who 
 for a year now has pounded his chest with proclamations of pre-launch gaming victory. (Note to 
 CEO: if you are going to push this beast as the poster child for SLI configurations, you might 
 want to make sure it actually WORKS in one prior to releasing it...) .
  
  
  There is a certain spark though, a certain element of magic that makes a legendary title what it 
 is. In my gaming history, Thief had it. Command and Conquer had it. The original Zelda in all it's 
 wall-bombing glory had it. The beta years of Ultima Online as the game creators worked out lessons 
 of human pscyhology and interaction for the first time. Certainly Call of Duty has had it, leading 
 the industry in terms of gameplay, story immersion, and cutting edge graphics - all within a shell 
 of humble but admirable coding capabilities and optimization that personally I feel still leads 
 the industry.
  
  Overall - I felt that Crysis as a game designed to completely change our view of gameplay and what 
 to expect for the future was bland, left with a few major concept issues that reduced the enjoyment 
 of the game (that and the fact that as soon as it finally starts to "heat up" - the game is effectively 
 over) .
  
  The "sandbox" strategy as an example does not work particularly well. Personally, I for one find 
 a degree of warmth and comfort in a linear format for an FPS, especially when left in the hands 
 of master craftsmen who knows how to weave an interactive story that you truly feel part of. It 
 is the compromise that gives some games the edge because without the linear structure, it would 
 be nearly impossible to deliver the maximum gaming enjoyment only felt through complete game immersion.
 
  
  And that is just it: Crysis for all it's graphical triumphs, failed to ever really live up to the 
 hype of putting you in the story.
  
  Maybe it has to do with the fact that playing on hardened, you are left up against incredible odds 
 whereby stealth and avoiding combat sometimes leaves you living longer than a full frontal assault. 
 Most of the missions until the end anyway seem to be designed around this concept.
  
  I'm still confused as to why some guns unloaded at 30 yards have little to no effect on clothing-clad 
 Koreans. My nano-suit's armor most of the time seemed to add up to very little - as 1-2 shots effectively 
 received at any range instantaneously removed the suit's benefit without compromise.
  
  Many other concepts just were not pulled off. I found no real use for the tactical attachments 
 - even the flashlight (completely useless) , which could have been this game's saving grace had 
 it been used for more than twenty seconds at the start of the game. Plus I felt I was swapping 
 out weapons based on what was available so quickly that you never really get to develop an affinity 
 for any specific gun (the game is over way too quickly for that) .
  
  
  Overall rating - 8.0, taking in consideration the game's arrogance and the very rating system they 
 wanted us to adopt through expectation.
  
  In achieving what could be very well classified as the "perfect realness", Crysis manages to alienate 
 (no pun intended!) the player and remove the extraordinary excitement that should have accompanied 
 the game. I didn't want a combat training system though, I wanted the Game of the Year. Or if they 
 wanted to make it Oblivion - then it needs to have some level of lasting gameplay and value.
  
  Give me the Crysis engine, pitch black environments, and more use of the flashlight to heighten 
 the true fear factor, and I'll show you the best game ever made. The one we got unfortunately fell 
 short....
  
  
  - Doctor Cream
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AD-00
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  hi i am a. d.00 and i am a shooter lover i played a lot of shooters in my life 
  and i have great memory's with greart times of this games but i think crysis is something diffrent 
 before crysis i thought HL series are the best in any cases about the games but know my opinion 
 is a little diffrent also after comparison between crysis & ep2 crysis offers you a great graphic 
 with hard gameplay thats very elastic and you can play it in too many ways you can run & gun with 
 some difficulty's or play it like sam fisher but i suggest you to play in a way you make yes there 
 are too many styles that you can make them and enjoy the game .
  about presntation of the game crysis offers you agreat sound and graphic i am not here to talk 
 about technical achivments of the game but every thing is perfect sth like soft shadows and hdr 
 lighting are the best you ever seen 
  BUT MY FEELINGS ABOUT CRYSIS IS ONE OF THE BEST FPS EVER MADE LIKE HL2-UT3-QUAKE3-F. E. A. R ETC.
 
  I ADVICE YOU PLAY THAT EXELENT GAME WITH NO TALKING IT'S THE BEST GAME OF THE YEAR .
  MY MARK IS 20 OUT OF TEN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLoffin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Crysis has been on everyone's radar for quite a while on it's graphics, but with it finally in 
 gamers hands does it deliver on the promise. I think the answer is a yes, but it's not without 
 some technical hitches.
  
  First off you have to start off talking about the graphics. It is simply the best game I have seen, 
 period. A times you can really forget you're playing a video game and not watching a movie. Crytek 
 has really outdone themselves on this one, but this was expected.
  
  The rest of the presentation, sounds, story, etc, is very solid for a FPS. It's not exactly going 
 to win any prizes but I think it stands up there with the likes of Halo and serves it's purpose 
 perfectly without getting in the way.
  
  Gameplay wise, it has been said by many, but this is mostly a sandbox approach to a shooter, and 
 it's such a pleasant change of pace from the increasingly linear stuff pumped out by the competition. 
 You can go stealthy, sniper, rambo, or devious as your heart suits for most of the game. For a 
 good portion of the game, this makes each area fairly unique each time through as the various encounters, 
 and your approach to each, varies each time. A strong AI, and the nanosuit add wonderfully to the 
 mix, and the regenerating health (stolen no doubt from the popular Halo series) keeps you in the 
 action very nicely.
  
  However, there are certainly problems. Deserving mention is the requirements. I don't doc mark 
 for games this impressive and this bleeding edge having high requirements, but this will be an 
 issue with many people with older rigs. No, you're not going to max this sucker out. It will bring 
 even the best of computers to their knees a fair bit before they get to the absolute best it can 
 put out.
  
  Now, while the requirements are steep, they are justified. What however starts hitting it is the 
 bugs. If you've been tracking the forums, there is quite a few posts on them, and they certainly 
 do exist. My experience has been largely major bug free, but I still occasionally run into physics 
 issue gone awry or various other hiccup. They stand out enough that they do hurt the score some. 
 I'll probably come back and look at this again once the patches start coming out and see how quickly 
 they clean this stuff up, but as of right now, the box version could have used some more debugging.
 
  
  Where the other half mark goes bye bye is just a collection of minor game stuff. While about 70% 
 or so of the game is awesome sandbox fights, and great set piece battles, the latter game turns 
 more linear and is a bit of a let down. It is sort of a true statement to how wonderful the early 
 play is that when it turns into a more typical FPS formula, it actually feels out of place and 
 weak. It's not really awful or anything, you just find yourself wishing they had stuck to the formula 
 used in the early level more.
  
  Other minor issues includes some suspect AI under certain conditions, the alien complex levels 
 often leaving you guessing as to how to proceed (thankfully this is only a short portion of the 
 game) , and difficulty level not scaling all that well (although at default it is good, it just 
 doesn't move far from the default in either direction) .
  
  All in all, while it doesn't do anything particularly new, it takes everything up that notch and 
 I think will be long remembered as a new step in the genera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksp12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I spent a hell of a lot of time playing Farcry but still i couldnt get enough the graphics and 
 gameplay were just stunning but still as a customary unreal- fan
  i thought it wasnt that big a deal considering ut 2004 coming out some time previously. Anyway 
 with gears of war, bioshock and ut 3 coming for the PC, in my opinion i thought this was the wrong 
 time for the game to go on the shelves and crytek would end up crying. On the right machine this 
 is THE game. The graphics are truly the best and the involvement in the story and the game as a 
 whole was very addictive. 
  The shift frm the koreans to the aliens is pretty smooth backed up with top end animation. The gunfights 
 and the nano suits are inch perfect. All said and all done for all you FPS players this is a must 
 have!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wavelength121
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Crysis trims off lots of the excess fat from Far Cry's gameplay, that being relatively aimless 
 wandering and sneaking around to complete some simple objective, making the rest of the map feel 
 kind of wasted. Here the maps are still giant but have multiple objectives that might require backtracking 
 and lots of subtle scripted events and even more bad guys to kill.
  
  Crysis also has a better sense of purpose and less campy characters like mercenaries and mutants. 
 You're fighting a trained army that is coordinated and determined. The weapons are so much fun 
 to play with, and can be customized with different kinds of scopes and attachments to better suit 
 the various situations you'll be thrown into. You can only carry two at a time (plus some pistols 
 and a rocket launcher) so choose wisely. My favorite combination by far was the SCAR and Precision 
 (sniper) rifle, very powerful and accurate, so naturally the ammunition is very rare.
  
  The game sounds as convincing as is necessary, the music is a little underwhelming. There is a 
 creepy "alien" tune that was out of place and I really appreciated. The characters are better modeled 
 and skinned than even Half-Life 2 and I even feel they were written better; the scripted cinematic 
 sequences are full of movie-level acting and have a sense of urgency that the latest HL2 expansion 
 lacked.
  
  Downsides... you can't "nudge" boats back into the water like in Far Cry, wtf. Sometimes badguys 
 would try to mount a machinegun nest and instead would fly up into the sky, until I shot them down. 
 Grenades need labels so you know what the hell you're throwing. The alien spaceship level is boring 
 as hell and not very scary at all compared to other alien environments in video games. It's too 
 dark to see anything, any way. And the last level of the game is veeeeery slooooow, too much story 
 intervention, not enough combant, then suddenly two very difficult and unfair boss fights in a 
 row. 
  
  Oh, and there is no ending.
  
  I guess I should say something about the graphics; I had to run it with everything on low, no anti-aliasing 
 to speak of, just to get a decent frame-rate, and it still looked pretty good. I was having too 
 much fun to notice all the graphical glitches after a while.
  
  Awesome game. It's sooooooooooooo fun to sneak around and hunt guys and find new ways to kill them. 
 Your suit powers let you turn invisible and increase speed/strength etc. on the fly so you feel 
 like a real badass. The story progression is a little confusing but very cool, with one great gameplay 
 moment after another, so the game is even better the second time through because at each loading 
 screen you can pause and say "sweet, this level is awesome."
  
  One of the funnest shooters and best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caminante27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  What truly makes this game amazing besides it's top of the line graphics is it's replay value. 
 The game could be played in some many ways, stealth or more conventional etc. The possibilities 
 are endless, I don't think anyone could get tired of it so easily. and then there is MP!
  
  Regarding the graphics and system specs it is all true, you do indeed need a monster computer to 
 run it as its HIGHEST, but even at medium settings the game looks awesome. What truly makes the 
 different in image quality in my opinion are the shaders.
  
  You'd love the bending vegetation as you walk by it and all the breakable threes, not to mention 
 the destructible building as well.
  
  The only one thing that keeps me from giving this game a 10 are a couple of the levels. One is 
 when you go into alien ship, although the zero g feels cool and seems like such of good idea. However, 
 finding your way around was most annoying and difficult , I really hate it . Another level that 
 I dislike and felt that it was unnecessary, was one you took off to the skies. Basically, you just 
 can't go anywhere you're left battling flying aliens in a confine space, what it seems to be a 
 canyon.
  
  As for the rest of the levels there were all good, the tank battle mentioned on gamespot's review 
 felt refreshing and the final battle was just fine. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The game has a lot to offer that most FPS games don't have. The nano suit and weapon modifications 
 allow to kill enemies in a variety of ways and also use your surroundings to blend in or make traps 
 of the bad guys. Given how long crytek has been working on this game I'm surprised that the story 
 mode wasn't as long as I thought it was going to be. However, crytek has said that this will be 
 the first of three games so I'll being hanging on the edge of my seat until the next one comes 
 out. Which should be around the same time that Nvidia makes the Geforce 10000GTX just so you can 
 play the game on medium specs. lol! This game should keep you entertained for quite a while, given 
 the open-ended gameplay which will allow you to beat the game anyway you want. I recommend this 
 as game to buy. Definetly worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Wow the game is amazing in every single way
  
  - BEST GRAPHICS FOR 2007 (in High \ Very High settings)
  - Great gameplay (Smart AI , extra powers, 
 non-linear play, interesting weapons, Use of vehicles, very destructible environment etc)
  - Accurate sounds, voices and high quality music that match the game atmosphere 
  - Story was 
 pretty good with interesting objectives even if it was nothing new and cliche (with tje typical 
 bad Aliens etc )
  
  I have just finished it and i am really expecting to see the second part of the Crysis trilogy 
 as the Crytek staff promised
  
  Only problem is that Great graphics come to a cost...
  Even with my 8800 Ultra the game performance was a bit slow in populated areas with many effects 
 at Very high graphics setting : (
  
  Crytek promised that the they will optimize the game engine with their next patches and also the 
 sequel of the game will run much smoother 
  
  Anyway definitely deserves a 95%... This is the best FPS for 2007
  
  Congratulations to the 
 German company Crytek 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtakuRay
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Crysis is simple and easily one of the best titles of action in first person of all the times. 
 Taking the best things of its FarCry predecessor and giving it a brutal gear turn, the new launching 
 of CryTek hit the genre of the FPS like no one did it before. A game that any shooters lover can't 
 lose under no concept.
  
  With just one title in their files, the Germans of CryTek already counted with a curriculum more 
 impressive than any companies with decades of work in their backs; and, sure, with these antecedents 
 it was complicated that this did not rise expectancy.
  
  But when Crysis really began to construct the gigantic monument to hype which it has become, was 
 when their first images came out. A video with a combat in a photorealistic forest where the plants 
 separated to our steps, and where the vegetation fell under fire of our shoots made the rest. Then, 
 November of 2007 arrived - probably the best year of the history of videogames -, the new game 
 of CryTek confirms all the expectations. It is not only an authentic graphical chocolate, but also 
 one of the more delicious and addictive gameplay from the last ten years.
  
  It is so simple that Crysis can be elbowed with masterpieces of the genre without being in ridiculous 
 situation. It is to the height of the first delivery of Half Life, of Doom or of the first Halo. 
 A round game in all the senses, with insurmountable combats, the best graphics seen until now and 
 without a "but" to add. With Crysis the new generation of shooters really begins.
  
  The best thing than can be said of Crysis is that it has not disappointed to us absolutely. We 
 already counted on the brilliance of its graphical and technological sections that, in fact, are 
 able to leave with the opened mouth to anyone; but the gameplay is equally spectacular. The total 
 freedom to carry out the missions, a powerful and challenging artificial intelligence, and totally 
 destructible surroundings, obtain in their combination a hardly goodable cocktail. We stand before 
 one of best shooters of all the times without no sort of doubt, and before a perfect opportunity 
 to vindicate the PC like the best game platform.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razvan_ol
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  First of all excuse my bad english if I make any mistakes writing...
  
  OK. I'm not going to talk a lot about "the usual stuff". You can read that in other reviews...
 
  
  One of the things that amaze me are all the complaints about the high system specs required. People 
 having a dual/quad core PC, 2-4Gb of DDR2 and a 8800gtx say that the game is unplayable. This makes 
 me laugh so much :) ) !
  
  I have a Barton 2500+ oc to 3200+, 1Gb DDR 3200 and a GF 6600 GT Top Edition (520/1100mhz) ON AGP 
 8x :) ) . I can run the game at 1024*800 and low to medium details. A friend has a quad core, 2gb 
 ram and 8600gt and i played the game on his rig at max detail and 1280*1024 resolution. It ran 
 perfectly !! (now ths is Dx9 on XP SP2) .....
  So my point...... Don't listen to the fools telling you "there ain't a pc that can run this game" 
 ;) .
  
  Now for the game itself. Before playing it, I finished CV Jericho and Bioshock ( excelent game, 
 ran smoothly even on my pc at med/high detail :) ) . Can't think of newer and better games out right 
 now.. maybe COD 4 and Gears of war but I can't play them (talk about people saying those games require 
 less of a pc than Crysis ...) .
  Compared to these ones Crysis is a lot better thrust me !
  
  The game could have been perfect if not for some fatal flaws:
  The catch phrase of the day 
 is TO LITTLE ( of everything) .
  -To be more precise, in the pre-release gameplay videos we saw a lot of intense firefights using 
 the suit. In reality the suit has TO LITTLE energy to be useful. Before playing the game I ACTUALLY 
 THOUGHT that you could combine the power :| and use them for long periods of time. Not true...
 
  -Let's continue. The Destructible vehicles... not much there.... you blow the gas tank or kill the 
 driver to steal it . That's it ! And yes , there is TO LITTLE variety. Only the stuff we saw in 
 Far Cry and a VTol ( it sucks and u use it once ! ) .
  -Weapons.... TO LITTLE variety and TO LITTLE damage. It's almost stupid having to unload a clip 
 in an enemy :|.
  They tried to make up for this with the customizing aspect. That's just dumb. Think about reality. 
 Ok , maybe you could put a scope on a particular weapon... but not mix everything as u please. Also 
 think about it, you pick up a weapon with a laser site, and you can put the laser site on 3 different 
 weapons :) ) . If u used it on one it would have been logical (maybe) ...
  -Enemy's ... TO LITTLE VARIETY. Now I'm not complaining about the AI and aspects like that. The 
 aliens are really cool, the N Koreans act realisticly but there are only 4-5 types of enemy ( 3 
 if you think about it) .
  
  NOW some of my personal favorite and logically incorect flaws :
  Weapons should be more precise 
 ( a rifle can actually be precise up to 300m in reality) .
  Cloak should stay on when you shoot. Think about the physics of it. Suit coated with special materials 
 that bend light... bla bla .... There is no reason why it would turn off when you shoot. The bullet 
 wouldn't be "invisible" ( that would be ubsurd) but the cloak would remain .
  Armour mode shot make you almost invincible....
  You don't have a freeze ray :D. They talked 
 about it endlessly in the interviews ( it's in the multiplayer but doesn't count...) . 
  MOST OF ALL ... THE GAME IS TO SHORT . When I reached the end level I thought it was 1/4 of the 
 game maybe. You never go into the Sphere like in the videos. You just get out of it :|. 
  The game really isn't fun. It needed a lot more enemy's to kill :D. Going back into the sphere 
 from the carier with "a bunch of nono suit wearing friends" and blasting a small army of enemy's.... that 
 would have been great :D ( and different enemy's not the flyer type) .
  At to end it... the final "boss-es".... so lame :|. Shoot shoot shoot, run around on a 60 by 30 m 
 aircraft carier deck :|. Actually 30 by 30 because where the amo is placed !
  
  I still game the game a 7.5. Why ? Well it's 3 times weeker that Far Cry ( and I played that game 
 15 times) , but it's packed with some nice features you don't see in other games, super graphics 
 and a lot more. Also I have a great respect for Crytek. It's not as bad as enemy's spotting you 
 from 50m even cloaked (some say that, not true) ...
  It; s not that fun. And that's a big no no. Games are meant to be fun !! Just that... But it will 
 apeal to some people. You can play they stealthy sniper role ;) , run and gun role.... heck, if you 
 don't want to use the "CLOAK SHOOT" strategy that everyone talks about. Just don't use it unless 
 you simply have to ( like I did) . The game will be A GREAT CHALLENGE :) ( in the good sence) . 
 
  
  
  I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT THE GAME GOOD RISE UP TO A 9.5 ( gamespot's exagerated score) WITH A SIMPLE 
 PATCH ! That's all it needs, a patch:
  
  50-60% more energy for the suit. maybe 100% more on easy because the game is kinda difficult on 
 all settings.
  cloak stays on after you shoot. and that's it :D. 
  Perfect game...
  OR....10-20% suit energy and weeker enemy ( like they should be) and more of them ( for the FUN 
 factor) . 
  
  Maybe Crytek will think about this and really come up with something as simple as my idea. For 
 a more elaborate one , the above ideas, and some new weapons, new enemy and 1-2 more levels ;) . 
 It would be crazy for them to scrap the end boss ( but it's dumb any way) and make the game longer 
 ... but I wish they din it !
  
  People...... thx for reading this and have a nice day. And don't forget, Far Cry 2 is coming. I 
 have a feeling it will be what we expected form Crysis. My gut is 100% sure ;)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlostkgame
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I won't discuss the technical parts: graphics, game play, etc... as it is obvious. Put it simply, 
 if you liked Far Cry, you'll love the first half of Crysis. It is everything Far Cry was but better.
 
  
  The second part, fighting with the aliens is quite disappointing. It is too difficult (I actually 
 lowered the difficult level to easy... and it is still impossible) . It doesn't seem like a FPS. 
 The whole level is just a nonstop brainless shooting at the fast moving aliens; which are difficult 
 to aim and require too many hits to kill.
  
  Remove the first part of Crysis, ship the game with the alien level only, and this game would be 
 a complete disaster.
  
  I rate 10 to the first part and 3 to the second half (alien level) . Although the average is 6.5. 
 I rate it 8 to overweight the first part, which is truly amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: octop8
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  Intense and absorbing experience, with immersive gameplay. The weapons feel very good and AI is 
 one of the best. This is not merely a game, it's an experience, it's a mind-blowing trip. The last 
 few chapters are so intense, I still see them in my dreams immediately after playing it. The gravity-free 
 level is as much a psychedelic brain-trip as it is infuriating.
  
  However, there are still some bugs, and even with a quad-core 8800GTX SLI system, my computer struggles 
 to play this at the highest settings and 1680x1050 resolution. Had to turn down some settings to 
 get acceptable framerates. Nevertheless this is a game from the future and if it weren't for the 
 simplistic storyline, you could call this a watershed for the world of gaming. This is a game that 
 will be remembered for its technological advancement. Long live the FPS, and long may it live. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexabx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Just get it now . physics awesome, graphics awesome, JUST SIMPLY AWESOME . I recommend it to everyone 
 this is an instant classic! the online play is great and its very realistic, there are many different 
 ways you can enterpret the problems you have to face in the game. also water is really realistic 
 and the explosions are amazing. all im saying is if you dont have this game get it so you can enjoy 
 this experience. so just get off your pc walk to your car drive and buy this game now now now now 
 now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnitaly
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game has and will continue to revolutionize the gaming industry. It has a look and feel that 
 nothing compares to! It has all the eye candy that a next generation gamer could want. There is 
 plenty of substance behind the story which has a lot of character and originality to it. It is 
 extremely demanding on a system; which if you've looked for a video card lately I'm sure that you 
 found that it is all but impossible to get a 8800 Ultra. This is a must have for any and all gamers! 
 Try the demo if nothing else and you're bound to be hooked. This game deserves the high marks that 
 everyone is giving it. By far THE best game that I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  I couldn't belive my eyes when I started the Multiplayer beta of Crysis! It was amazing, it was 
 poorly optimised but amazing! Then I have played the Single Player Demo-I was so impressed I do 
 not remember how many times I have played the demo! There so many different ways to get the job 
 done I connot even belive it! I love this game! The graphics, the sound effects, the gameplay! Everything 
 is perfect! 
  The things that I didn't like are that sometimes during the single player you are just stuck somewhere 
 because of the bugs in the game! You have everything that you were suppose to and you cannot continue 
 just because the next hing that is suppose to happen never does! It is kind of annoying sometimes! 
 The other thing is why the hell these guys did not include team deathmatch?! That's kind of stupid! 
 It would have been a lot of fun to have that in here! 
  But anyway the game is amazing as it is! It is revolutionary in graphics and gameplay! I recommend 
 this title to every FPS fan! It is the best ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geminidevine
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Crysis is the best game of the year from EA hands down. I plan on getting this game for my PC i 
 like the eye candy graphics & physics no doubt. All i need is a 512MB graphics card and i will 
 be on my way. My issue is that why so many PC gamers get there PC's souped up for just one game 
 or even a few games for that matter. Oh, i must go out and but a brand new PC in most cases it's 
 (Recommended) but upgrade the graphics to suit just that one game. Should there be most that just 
 a handful of games to support that high end graphics card? What i am saying is that is you have 
 the money to put into your PC to make it high end to play a game like Crysis is fine. There are 
 also PC gamers that are budget aware like myself and i think that Crysis is a beautiful game 9.5 
 rating, i will give it a 10. I have seen video clips of the game in action all i did was smile 
 because video games have came so far as graphic power. But i will not break the bank just to play 
 only one game. Game requirements are starting to get chaotic for PC gaming next tihing you know 
 games are going to require 4 gigs of RAM and 1 gig graphics cards & a quad core processor just 
 to compete with frame rates and benchmarks. Crysis is one of the many game that is going to put 
 your PC to the test but there will be other games that is going to surpass Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escacarlos
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  I will begin describing my system:
  
  AMD Athlon 64 3500+, 2x1024 DDR 400 Kingston Ram, MSI K8NGM2 Motherboard, 80 GB Hard Drive, WinXP 
 x64 edition, Geforce 7900GT @ 500Core, 1530Memory with the 93.71 driver. 
  
  In the nvidia driver activate Coolbits=3 via registry and then:
  Direct 3D
  Max frame per render 
 a head=1 instead of 3 that come by default
  
  My in game settings: Res: 800x600
  Texture: Medium
  Object: Low
  Physics: Medium
  Shaders: High; r_sunshaft=1, r_colorgrading=1
 
  Volumetric and Game effects: Low
  Postprocesing: High
  Particles: Low
  Water: Medium
  Sound: Medium
  
  The game looks fantastic and plays at more than 20 FPS, with these config 
 and can see almost all the effects the game have to offer, which make it more funny. You really 
 will enjoy to navigate though the crysis world because of the realistic graphics it has.
  
  The game play is great and is very complete for a first person shooter game, you can use vehicles, 
 trucks, tanks, helicopters, boats, planes, all very easy to drives making every part of the game 
 enjoyable. Plus the nanosuit with you a lot of possibilities for engage the enemy.
  
  The sound is great, the shoot sounds very realistic and the music is inmersive.
  
  The value: 
 Ill simply say, I cant stop playing this game once and again.
  
  And for those that say that the game requires a super pc for be playable, thats completely false, 
 look to my specs, I don't even have a dual core processors, and the game looks amazing and is very 
 playable, just take your time for tweak a little bit. A fast video card is the most important part, 
 my 7900GT is even faster than a 8600GT, so take this at count when you buy hardware, if you buy 
 great dual or quad core, 4GB of ram, but you save in a slow video card, you wont have any chance. 
 8800GT, GTS, GTX, etc are the betters video cards for this game. For those that have 7900-7950GT, 
 7900GTX, 7950GX2, this game will run very good for you too.
  
  Returning to crysis, the game is a classics, I don't remember far cry at all (I didn't like this 
 game) but this crysis is one that I will never forget, It's a must buy, Don't miss it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  I was prepared to give this game a 10, fighting the North Koreans in the nanosuit was very pleasing, 
 an almost superhero like feel to it. So many gamers love cheats to give them an advantage, I for 
 one loathe using cheats in a game and only do so when absolutely stuck. The beauty of Crysis is 
 the cheat is built in, it is part of the game. It is very satisfying using various suit modes, 
 speed to get out of sticky situations, cloak for stealthy moments when it is smarter to sneak than 
 fight, strength for grabbing enemies by the neck and throwing them, or jumping those high areas 
 you just can not get to in normal FPS's, armor is armor and I find more of a nuisance at times 
 than anything seeing that if you get hit with it on your energy drains which leaves you not able 
 to speed away. I can not say enough about the suit gameplay, it IS Crysis, without the suit it 
 would be just another FPS. It allows you to play the game in different ways using tactics rather 
 than mindless run and gun.
  
  So all of this is great right? It ends. It ends right when you meet the aliens. At this point in 
 the game you are thrusted from a innovative tactical shooter to a generic sci-fi FPS game fighting 
 aliens. Boring aliens. Yea they look cool and all, very Matrix-like, but they are boring, and they 
 are tough, and they are not at all fun to fight in my opinion. Sure the Core level in zero gravity 
 was cool and new, but it felt more like being underwater than it did zero gravity, and at a point 
 I was looking for my way out of the level asap. I feel this game went downhill with the aliens, 
 mainly because in my opinion it made the suit insignificant. If you can manage to live long enough 
 at close range you can grab the aliens for a quick death, but usually the quick death is yours.
 
  
  The game runs great on my Opteron 185, 2gigs DDR, Vista, and a 8800GTX (latest beta drivers) . I 
 run it all at Very high with shaders on High, no AA at 1440x900 rez. Smooth as silk and looks great. 
 I had to update my X-FI drivers due to crackling with the sound, but worked great after. Not one 
 lock up or crash. 
  
  Despite my disappointment with the alien levels, every FPS fan should play this game, even if for 
 the other levels only it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  This game looks the dogs and probably plays great. Only if you have the rig for it.
  
  I have an E6750 Dual Core CPU, 2gb ram and 8500GT 512mb card (this is where my system fails) and 
 the game is unplayable at high setting and 800 x 600. 
  
  Only buy this game if you have an 8800 series card and a minimum dual core CPU. 
  
  Whilst 
 I could drop the settings down to low and play the game, but that defeats the point of this game. 
 It is the ultimate graphically and physically. Shooting trees is great fun, but on my rig watching 
 them fall in slow mo is crap.
  
  I have put this game on the shelf and will not play it until I get an 8800gt or gtx card, thats 
 at least 180 I have to invest FOR A GAME. That's one hell of an investment just to play one game. 
 
  
  After playing Gears of War on PC and COD 4, I am stunned at how badly my system runs this game. 
 The other 2 run superbly with all the details turned up. So I thought I would able to play Crysis, 
 but nope it truely is UNPLAYABLE.
  
  So how do I rate this game? Well it's tough. There are minimum specs that tell me what I need to 
 run it so why did I buy it? Dunno, 
  
  If my rig was good enough I would give it a 9+, but I can't play it so I have to give a begrudging 
 7. The developers clearly have a great game, but one that is unplayable for the (current 22/11/07) 
 majority of PC gamers.
  
  So my advice is, unless you have a minimum 8800 series graphics a dual core and I would go for 
 quad core, then don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabolicalX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Crysis revolutionises the FPS genre, much in the same way Far Cry did way back when. It's graphics 
 are solid and splendid, and the facial structure on other characters is very realistic. The gameplay 
 (like in Far Cry) begins in a sandbox form, your given a huge island to run amock on. As the game 
 progresses things do get a bit more linear, but it still doesn't lose it's sense of freedom. The 
 gameplay is simply amazing, and incredibly addictive. Though it may seem fairly common, its anything 
 but, the gameplay is rock solid, and the innovations of in the field mods and nanosuit abilities 
 really adds to the pleasure. You can be Predator and go cloak, kill some KPA and send the rest 
 into a mad panic while slowly picking them off, trust me this is deeply satisfying to break cloak 
 and blast a Korean with a shotgun (the shotgun has MASS IMPACT) , or you can be the tank, rush in 
 all guns blazing throwing grenades, switching from speed to strength to armour and just shooting 
 stuff (this is the harder of the two) , this is also great fun. The A. I. is FEAR standard and then 
 some, the KPA will actively seek out cover, call for re-enforcements and regroup and coordinate 
 their attacks, when your in cloak they will also search for you. The main characters are very well 
 done, they have very diverse but realistic personalities (my favourite being PSYCHO) . The guns 
 are all really standard FPS guns, with a few exceptions (alien mini-gun for example) , the ability 
 to customise them though is really handy, silecers, different scopes, G-launchers, it's all good 
 stuff. Everything in Crysis is as perfect as any FPS has ever come, the only problem I had was 
 that the Aliens were introduced far to early, but this just means you get to blast them to bits 
 sooner (or get ripped to shreds by them if your careless) . All in all a Perfect game for a great 
 year of gaming, I would be surprised if this doesn't win game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are Nomad. A special U. S. Raptor force sent to investigate the North Korean presence 
 on a desolate island. Then something unexpected happens...
  
  Graphics: More than pretty. Jaw dropping.
  
  Audio: Good. Especially enemy voice acting (can 
 be in English/Korean depending on difficulty)
  
  Missions: Mainly survive, some recon, some search and destroy.
  
  Controls: Flow and fit well. 
 Nanosuit features easy to change on the fly.
  
  Features: Nanosuit (Cloak, Super Strength, Speed, Extra Armor) , open environment, explorable areas, 
 lots of free-world choices on how to tackle situations.
  
  A. I.: Very smart and act accordingly but sometimes it is obvious they know where you are (like 
 when cloaked but they walk past WHILE STILL LOOKING AT YOU)
  
  Loading Times: Each level, Quick. 12 Missions in all.
  
  Multiplayer: Can be rather slow paced, 
 takes many hours when you get into a match. Not for everyone.
  
  Requirements: To run it, lower. To run it AND look pretty Medium High to High.
  
  Weapons: 
 Not too many but just enough to get the job done. Customizable. Very Nice.
  
  The Good: Graphics, Custom Weapons, Open Tactics, Features, Choices.
  
  The Bad: A. I. can be 
 redundant, Story isn't the most original.
  
  The Ugly: The way you get rid of evidence when your fellow nanosuit comrades die.
  
  Replay 
 Ability: Medium to High.
  
  The Bottom Line: Have a good PC? Like shooters? Buy Crysis.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z0D1Ak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  OK... I loved FarCry, I loved it so much I made it breakfast every morning (well, not quite) . So 
 naturally, the day after Crysis shipped I promptly forfeited my hard earned $60 for a copy of this 
 game - which Gamespot seems to proudly portray as God's gift to FPS gamers.
  
  Now this is the first review I've ever written, and I'm NOT doing it to brush up on my grammar 
 skills. So here it is.... in my humble opinion.. a select FEW reasons why I think Crysis didn't 
 deliver:
  1. When I play a game I'm not doing it for the 30 seconds cut-scenes, or the voice acting (those 
 are bells and whistles) .... I do it 1st for the game-play and 2nd for the story.
  If the content in Crysis was anywhere as good as the acting in its cut scenes.... S#it this game 
 would of rocked.
  2. For a billion dollar nano-suit, u'd expect it to take more than 5 AK bullets in armor mode before 
 taking damage... or that its speed mode not be as useful as a bag of urin, or that in its strength 
 mode is able to take out more than 2 pesky N-Koreans.
  3. The AI seems pretty dim. For one... they haven't heard of flanking, or even charging u. However, 
 they do take cover, shout insults at u, and throw the occasional grenade. In a nutshell, don't 
 expect anything close to what FEAR had, the AI in Crysis is slightly more intelligent and it's 
 FarCry counterpart. That alone wouldn't be all that bad (since of course, all that matters in a 
 game is its graphics) , but them N-Koreans seem to b true men of steel since they can take in excess 
 of 6-7 to the chest and still gun u down while shouting profanities. Also put one of them North 
 Koreans on a .40 cal mounted on a boat and they can pump 100 rounds in u'r left nut from like 150 
 meters away. 
  4. Lastly when u have a story that's pure f@%! ng awesomeness, don't stop halfway.... tell the rest, 
 u'r fans will love u more, even if u have to take it a little easier on the voice acting and cut 
 scenes, or at least push it back a little till when u've created enough content to make u'r fans 
 happy for giving u their $60. I say this cause lets face it.... 8hrs is not and acceptable length 
 for a PC FPS, and after this game ended, I felt slightly more rewarded than if say... I was drunk 
 and accidentally pissed in the wrong direction.
  
  Now I don't think this game's demise lies solely in Crytech's ability to make a good game, but 
 in EA's divine skill at ruining one with great potential.
  
  And finally, at Gamespot, I base my decision on whether to buy a game or not very heavily on YOUR 
 reviews. 9.5 my A$$. This one reads more like a fanboy with low standards rather than an informed 
 review.
  
  That's my 2 cents, and if u've read this far, I think w0rmy, and matt13091309 also provide some 
 insightful reviews. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: akafresh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best PC first person shooter i have ever played. The graphics are amazing! 
 Physics unbelievable! You can shoot a tree straight up its trunk and it will break into like 20 
 pieces, and if thats not cool enough you can go up to each piece, pick it up, and throw it at the 
 enemy! Buildings are also fully destructible. The first time I played I threw a grenade into a 
 building, and the roof blow off the top! Not to mention the walls, and everything inside the building! 
 Also the lighting and water are incredible. The only bad thing I can say is that you need at least 
 a $1000 computer to play this game as I did. If you don't have a computer like this it is recommended 
 that you build one. If your not entirely sure your computer can play this game download the demo 
 and try it. A picture is worth 1000 words. Is Crysis worth 1000 dollars? You decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrownShirt228
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  3 words... OMG !!! I played the demo for the first time last night. I'm 36 & no video game EVER 
 made me feel this good realistic-wise! Every piece of environment is useable: walk through thick 
 jungle foliage, swim under water, drive realistic-feeling vehicles, drive boats too practically 
 any type of movement that an elite soldier does in real combat can be done in Crysis. The soldiers 
 combat suits are way cool. Everything about the game just simply blew my mind!
  
  Note to Crytek: if the game doesn't already have it, PLEASE include a patch or expansion where 
 we can rappel down the sides of buildings crashing through the windows gun-blazing at the enemy 
 (ok it'll be copying Rainbow Six: Vegas but who cares; Crytek can do it better) , & beach insertions 
 on a Zodiac in the cold dead of night, & roping down from a Blackhawk helicopter onto a big ship 
 at night during a rainstorm (ok that's copying the Wetwork map in CoD4: MW, but who cares; Crytek 
 can do it better too) .
  
  Crytek, you have just bought yourself a loyal longstanding fan! Hoorah! I salute you!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evev12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The SP is a 10, plain and simple, no if ands or buts about it. And don't listen to the "it will 
 eat your system alive" posts. The game is actually VERY well optimized, considering all of the 
 visuals and such. 
  
  The MP still needs a lot of tuning however, it just feels WAY too unbalanced. At this time, I can 
 only generously give it a 7. Weapons are not accurate, the damage model is bad (at best) , servers 
 fail out of nowehere and it just has a very Quake-ish feel to it. With all of that said, I will 
 also say that it's nothing that a solid patch/mod can't fix. I just hope that we receive that patch.
 
  
  This game is just so good that even the bad MP can't sway my overall opinion, out of 10, crysis 
 gets an 11. I gave it an extra point because even my girlfriend can understand why she hasn't seen 
 me in 2 weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hansohasashi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Ahead of its time, pushing DX9 to its limit, it is clearly the most graphically advanced fps, if 
 not game, out right now. Marvelous cinematic looks and gameplay. The first half of the game is 
 great. Its a Far Cry experience with the next generation graphics. Using the nano-suit, customizing 
 weapons, and fighting in an open environment brings much joy and diversity to the player. Unfortunately, 
 the gameplay took a turn for the worse at the ladder half of the game. I am not fond of the games 
 to where you're forced into a vehicle or if one of your objectives is to protect someone. Both 
 are present for the second half of the game. There also should have been at least one more level 
 fighting the aliens on foot in the frozen paradise. I couldn't even look at the frozen wasteland 
 that much because I had to protect my commanding officer for crying out loud. Levels became shorter 
 and I couldn't take my time. The story just summed itself up, and then it ends on a cliffhanger. 
 (Long review) And did all of the Koreans get killed or did they just leave? I would have liked 
 having a few more skirmishes against them. I expected so much from this game. Multi-player is good 
 however, and I'm sure I'll play it here and there, but it will get repetitive. It is a lot like 
 Counter- Strike... blah. Anyway, single-player started out as a free-for-all, Far Cry experience, 
 then sank into a linear, "come on, just die already!" type of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt13091309
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  I view this game bit like a movie that relies too heavily on special effects for it's thrills, 
 short changing it's audience when it come to content. Having played Farcry in it's entirety, Crysis 
 plales in comaparion. In Farcry you felt as though you were really in charge, didctataing you own 
 actions and fghting on your own terms. Crysis makes you feel that your constsnty running around 
 doing someone else's bidding, and I found having orders constsntly barked at me really annoying. 
 The storyline in Farcry was actually engrossing, and you were constantly wondering what was coming 
 next and being confronted by increasingly tough enemies. In Cryssis all you seem to be confroted 
 with is seemingly endless waves of Koreans. The AI is also far worse in Crysis, and on one occasion 
 I actully walked up to a guard at a machine gun emplacemnet and shot him point blank. On the plus 
 side, the game is the most photorealistic I have ever played, and the phyics model and directX 
 10 features are simply stunning. But it seems that Cryatek have sacrificed too much for the sake 
 of eyecandy, and left out what made Farcry so specal. Remeber that great james bond-like ending 
 in Farcry, you'll find nothing like that here.
  To summarise, in Farcry you felt like a rogue agent, dictating your own actions and free do to 
 as you pleased at your own pace. In Crysis you feel that your just a small cog in the army's machine. 
 Compared to the Farcry this pales in comparison, and paying full price for a game shorter than 
 most expansions is verging on the criminal in my opinion.
  
  Content 5/10
  Cryatek2 Engine 10/10
  Value 3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azkotek
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Crysis is one of those games that make you wish you had the most powerful rig in the world.
  
  The appeal of the game really lies everywhere: gameplay, sound, graphics, physics.... everywhere. 
 
  
  The gameplay, although not entirely fresh and innovative, is one of the best you'll experience 
 in a crouded FPS genre. Why? Well, it's a kinda of a mix between Far Cry, Half-life2 and call of 
 duty. Far Cry for the environment (but much prettier, mind you!) , half-life for the alien infestation 
 thing and call of duty for the fact that you're not always fighting alone all the time. The fights 
 get really intense on a lot of occasions where you have everything blowing around you with bad 
 guys appearing everywhere! The weapons are awesome and you'll want to try them all. Plus you can 
 customize them at your liking: silencer, laser pointer, scope, ACOG, grenade luncher, torchlight, 
 etc. And you can of course select your firing mode like automatic or single shot. One of the highlights 
 of the game is your armor suit which allows you to cloak, jump higher, run faster... depending 
 on which function you select. Although I found it most useful at times, the fact that the energy 
 depletes quite fast does not make it and essential use most of the time and if you shoot, the cloaking 
 turns automatically off, switching to Armor, which is the setting you'll want to leave it on since 
 it's what absorbs damage and bullets before depleting your health (health and suit energy recharges 
 automatically) . All in all, it's a nice addition to the game and let you choose the way you want 
 to do things... stealthily or with a bang! At times you will drive vehicules like tanks, jeeps, 
 boats and even a VTOL!! There's lotsa things to experience in the game and one paragraph is not 
 enough to explain all the fun you can have with that masterpiece of a game!!
  
  The graphics and environments are superb! The most beautiful game I've played so far. I mean you 
 almost feel like you're playing an interactive movie! This comes with a drawback: You'll need a 
 freakin' fast PC to run that. I have an Intel Q6600 quad cpu, 2GB of ram, a Radeon HD 2900XT 512MB 
 video card and, at default High settings (there's low, medium, high and Very High) the framerate 
 was crawling at times. It was still playable and I did not mind too much for the framerate drops. 
 But most noticably, and that really annoyed me, the HDD memory swapping because 2GB of ram is not 
 sufficient!! It's important to say here that I'm running with Windows Vista and it's one of the 
 reasons why. But on rare occasions it would memory swap for like as much as 5 or even 10 seconds. 
 Often, it would stop for 1 or 2 seconds. So if you're planning on upgrading your PC to play this 
 game... have at least 4GB even with XP.
  
  Some may say that to pay 2,000 dollars for a rig just to play games is crazy... then I'm proud 
 to say that I am because this game blows Halo 3 anytime! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaz-420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Many people have said it, this is Far Cry with killer graphics. Which is not a bad thing. Far Cry 
 kicked ass, and so does this game!!! It is a little dis-heartening when your high dollar PC has 
 trouble, but that is to be expected. in PC gaming I was wondering when a game was going to come 
 out that finally put my hardware to the task. I am running dual-core @ 3.8ghz with 2 8800GTX's 
 in SLI and I still run at 1024x768 with settings on high and aa on 4X. I have had my rig for a 
 year (video cards and MB anyway) , and there is finally a game that gives it trouble. It doesn't 
 chop, but I barely get 30fps. Still, it looks beautiful, and is one of the most addictive, graphically 
 enhanced games that I have played in a long time. It is so fun shooting the NPC in the head!!! 
 And what is with the explosion when blowing up the helicopters.... WOW that is friggin bad ass!!!
 
  
  There are some crashes and freezes, but nothing like other recently release games (Hellgate, GOW (PC) !!!) .
 
  
  Once you start playing, strap yourself in and get ready for a fun and addictive ride. Thank you 
 Crytek!! Worth the wait, and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChromeBallz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Crysis has been hyped up ever since the first screenshots were released by Crytek, at the E3 2006 
 (i believe) . It looked amazing, almost photorealistic on some shots, which is a great feat in itself. 
 However, that was then, and we're in the now, as you would say.
  
  The single player game starts off with an ominous scene of some door opening, while someone is 
 talking about Koreans and evacuating the island... The context is unclear, unless you have been 
 following the game since last year. A strange door opens, and the scene jumps to the sky, where 
 you're in a plane above the clouds, being introduced to your teammates - Prophet, the stoic leader, 
 Jester and Aztec, whom are basically cannonfodder, and Psycho, a strange combination of a Brit 
 and an Australian. The short briefing lets you know you're flying to this island to find and rescue 
 some scientists, the premise for the entire game.
  
  This short intro serves to show off the games facial and body animation, which are flatout amazing. 
 Not even Half-Life 2 can match this, but to be fair - That game is 3 years old now. Still, it pulls 
 you right into the game, and makes you excited about what's up next....
  
  From there on it's a rollercoaster, going from one amazing scene to the next, getting more explosive 
 right up untill the end (literally) . It starts out from some really well done Predator-like scenes 
 at the very beginning, huge, gunfire lit night battles in a harbor, tank battles in a ridiculously 
 large and beautiful valley to an outright insane fight on an aircraft carrier. And that's just 
 the highlights. The game has been incredibly well-crafted as far as indivual singleplayer scenes 
 are concerned, and defines the term 'cinematic gaming'. I can't really go into more detail without 
 spoiling the plot - And however cheesy it may be, spoilers are bad, mmkay?
  
  The graphics are actually integral to the entire gameplay experience. As a game, it doesn't really 
 do anything new for the shooter genre, despite the well-done nanosuit and weapon costumization. 
 The nanosuit lets you choose from 4 mods: Armor, where the suit energy acts like extra hitpoints, 
 Strength, where you can almost pick up tanks and jump incredibly high, Speed, where you can run 
 at ridiculous speeds, and Cloak, which is basically Predator-mode. Of all 4, you will spend most 
 of the time in either Armor or Cloak mode, since both Speed and Strength are, in functional use, 
 limited to only a couple of scenes. They should have seen some better use, but still round out 
 your possibilities nicely. I think the tweakguides. com editor said it: Every time i play another 
 shooter, i really miss the nanosuit.
  
  The Cloak mode is almost overpowered. It makes the highest difficulty setting, Delta, almost a 
 breeze, as you can walk right up to the NPC's noses and still come out alive. However, that doesn't 
 make it less satisfying, as it makes for some very funny and exciting moments, especially in the 
 middle of the game.
  
  The weapon costumization is also quite easy - Simply pick up the mods, and put them on your weapon. 
 If you want, you can also put a sniper scope on your shotgun. Not that it helps, but it's possible... 
 The customization can be done on the fly, even in the middle of a heated firefight. The real use 
 of it is only limited to using a silencer or not, though. One does more damage, the other makes 
 you more difficult to find. Everything else you can do is simply a matter of personal preference 
 in how you want to use your weapon, and is probably a weak element in the game.
  
  It's the same thing with the vehicles. There are some in the game, ranging from pickups to tanks, 
 but except for two levels you won't actually need them, or even want to use them at all. They are 
 for the most part completely optional, and the parts where you can use them are actually more difficult 
 if you do, especially because you have the option to simply sneak in cloaked. The NPC's are a lot 
 more adept at using the vehicles though, especially those driving the hummers and boats with mounted 
 guns. They somehow manage to see you through a mile of foilage, while cloaked, and pinpoint you 
 with a heavy mounted machine gun with the accuracy of an L115A1 sniper rifle. The same with the 
 helicopters, which can find you under the same situation i described earlier, which can make some 
 parts incredibly frustrating - Especially if you don't have any means to take them down.
  
  
  The levels in general are of a high quality, barring the issues i already mentioned. There's 
 always "another way in", and except for two levels there is never a timer you have to watch, and 
 those 2 sequences are relatively short. The level that really stands out is a huge night-fight 
 in a harbor area, one incredibly large and long level that will keep you on your toes the entire 
 time. You'll have jets crashing down almost literally right next to your ears, and the vista of 
 jets screaming through the air, bombing anti-air installations, and ground battles right next to 
 you or far of, all showing those distinctive gun tracers, is just awesome to behold. It may sound 
 childish, but i think it's one of the greatest moments in a game, ever. I may be an idiot though.
 
  
  As i said, the entire game is riddled with these kind of great moments. You really have to see 
 some of them to believe them. They do have some strange glitches though, or rather, oversights. 
 In the multiplayer, you have the Korean and US teams, both using nanosuits. In the singleplayer 
 game, at least in the beginning, the Koreans are being mentioned as not having that technology. 
 When it's revealed that they do, it's only mentioned once, their nanosuit guys are only seen in 
 action once, and it's never mentioned again. It felt like a cheap method to at least have the Korean 
 nanosuits in the singleplayer game, and was somewhat dissapointing. There are instances where they 
 show up later in the game, but they might aswell have been heavily armored normal Koreans, as they 
 don't actually use their nanosuits there.
  
  In another sequence, you have a bossfight with someone in a nanosuit, who is not wearing the headpiece 
 and is not actually using any of the nanosuit functions. The level goal is to kill him, but it 
 has been artificially made too long, since the guy can take 20 sniper shots to an unprotected head.... 
 I guess they wanted to make a heated bossfight there, but it just feels wrong and totally out of 
 place. A simple, anti-climactic scene where you kill him after a short nanosuit fight has been 
 replaced with an old-school 'wear down his 1 million hitpoints' fight, and is, as far as i am concerned, 
 the low point in the game...
  
  ... Except for the ending. Which is simply wrong, artificial and badly placed. You get the feeling 
 that they have been pressured to a deadline, and simply ditched the rest of the story to meet it. 
 It ends so strangely and abruptly, you don't even know that it ended untill you're thrown into 
 the credits. Despite this, the singleplayer is incredible, and has a certain replay value to it 
 aswell. It also still amounts to about 10-12 hours, more if you take your time. It can't compare 
 to the length of some RPG's, but for a modern shooter it's just about right. And there's the consolation 
 that it does, indeed, continue in some form or another - Expansions of true sequels, they'll be 
 worth it.
  
  A quick note about the sound, before i forget: It's perfect. No need to say anything else, except 
 for the strange absence of animal sounds in some places.... Or animals, for that matter. For some 
 reason they decided that the island you play on only has turtles and crabs at the beaches, and 
 nothing else.
  
  
  But, on to the multiplayer.
  
  There's Instant Action, basically deathmatch. Nothing really worth talking about, despite nanosuit 
 options - Cloaking for example is not nearly as useful in deathmatch as it is in Power Struggle 
 or Singleplayer.
  
  Then there's the mentioned Power Struggle. At first, it feels like a rip-off of Battlefield, but 
 after a while you see how wrong that assumption is. There are different kinds of controlpoints 
 you can capture, all with their own purpose, and all require a different amount of time to capture.
 
  
  There's bunkers, where you spawn. They can be captured relatively quickly, but only if no enemy 
 is near. They also act as spawnpoints. Capturing a bunker is quick, but intense at times, since 
 the enemy can spawn before you can completely capture it. This makes it that it's not made *too* 
 easy to capture a bunker.
  
  Energy sites power the Prototype facility. Nothing else to say about them, but they are important.
 
  
  War factories are places where you an buy mundane vehicles, such as tanks, jeeps, and a truck that 
 functions as a mobile respawn point.
  
  The Prototype facility is the foundation of this mode. In order to win a map, you need to destroy 
 the enemy base, but this can only be done with nuclear weapons. In order to obtain a nuclear weapon, 
 you need the Prototype facility, and you need it to be powered to 100% - For which you need the 
 energy sites. Here it becomes clear why Crysis is not like Battlefield. You can never wear your 
 opponent down. You can never win simply by timing out, unless you have damaged the enemy base more 
 than your opponent did. It all revolves around destroying the base, making the game much mroe focused 
 than other games of this type, while still allowing for a relatively large freedom in how to achieve 
 it - Since there is a diminishing return on how many people you need to capture a control point. 
 It doesn't go all that much faster with 5 people than it does with only 2. This makes that you 
 can spread out while still staying focused on a main goal, making teamwork quite important. Sadly, 
 this is a little known fact on the current public servers, as people seem to think that nukes are 
 exclusively for killing other people in style.
  
  And, to be honest, style it is... The huge flash, the expanding ring of dust going over the map, 
 the huge mushroom cloud, it's all there, and immensely satisfying, especially if several people 
 get the idea to fire one at the same time.
  
  The nanosuit also comes into play in this mode a lot more than it did in Instant Action. Cloaking 
 in some specific places helps you achieve some objectives, or just to be a bastard camper (!) , 
 strength mode kills in 1 or 2 blows, making it very useful in tight spots, and speed ges you to 
 places if you don't have a vehicle near. Tactical use is also recommended, as using strength at 
 range means that you don't have any armor - Only your health. Same with speed and cloak, so you 
 have to switch to armor for direct firefights, for example. The right use of your suit will make 
 sure that you will rack up the prestige to buy new stuff in the map.
  
  You gain ranks by getting points - Although ranks only last for 1 round, there is no global system. 
 A higher rank means that you spawn with a higher amount of minimum prestige, or money for all intents 
 and purposes. You gain prestige for killing players, enemy installations and capturing control 
 points, and can spend it on weapons, customizations, special ammo or vehicles. You will need quite 
 a lot to buy the nukes required to win the map, although if you play well you'll have more than 
 enough to buy several nuclear weapons or tanks anyway. The only downside to prestige is that the 
 buy menu is rather cumbersome, although you can buy stuff while waiting to respawn (respawning 
 is on a 20-second global timer) .
  
  I can see this multiplayer mode to become a new professional league of it's own, it's very well-balanced, 
 although it does need rather large teams to work properly (6-8 people or more on each team) . It 
 still needs some bugs fixed, and the first few weeks to months will see a lot of hacking going 
 on, but overall it's simply a well-done multiplayer mode, that isn't some kind of CTF or DM.
  
  
  Overall, Crysis is a solid win for Crytek. It looks amazing, plays amazing, and is overall 
 an amazing experience. Simply playing the game is satisfying, no matter how good you are at it. 
 The graphics and gameplay come together to an experience you'd otherwise only have in a huge theater, 
 watching a high profile action movie. I think Crysis really puts cinematic gaming on the map, games 
 have evolved from being simple tests of skills or wit to an experience, a blend with the movie 
 industry to provide a form of entertainment that is really new. You might not notice it though, 
 since it has come very gradually.
  
  If you can only buy one game this year, Crysis is a solid candidate to consider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdcluv73
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Specs 2.8cpu pentium 4 prescott 478 overclocked runing at 3.025MHZ8%
  ATI RAdeon X700 overclocked 8%GPU clock 457Memory clock466
  Runs smoth on all medium setting 
 s except shadows and shaders which are on low. Crysis is Spectacular a masterpiece the weapon customization 
 is superb the nanosuit excellent everything u would expect in a first person shooter and more the 
 fire fights are spectacular and nothing youve ever played before even comes close. Will build my 
 next system soon so I can experience it in direct x10 sli GPUS. Forget Carver this game will have 
 u hooked for countless hours your wife and kids might disown you. So good it blew up my ATI Radeon 
 X700 (my fault cause of overclocking nividia is best for overclocking not ATI cards) . Ordered a new 
 card from Tigerdirect Visionteks radeon 1950 pro runs like a dream. Stuck with red cause forums 
 say that when u switch to green or vice versa u allmost every time have compatability problems 
 and conflicts with other hardware in your system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poisongage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  When I downloaded and played the demo, I was really shocked by how high the system requirements 
 were. I had just gotten my new pc (Quad core, nVidia 8800gts graphics) , and I had already played 
 CoD4 on it without any glitches. But when I bought Crysis it really put my hardware to the test, 
 and it pushed the boundaries of my machine! And even though I could only run the game in medium 
 quality and 1024x768px, I still think the graphics were stunning. However, the graphics in this 
 game are far overrated when it is compared to its game play - I mean who doesn't dream of being 
 a ninja-style high tech soldier in a nanosuit that either gives you the speed of a bullet, the 
 armor of a tank or the strength of an elephant? The first levels of game play are really fun to 
 play, but I must admit that the whole alien aspect of this game gets worn really thin, really fast! 
 The storyline is from the bottom up intriguing and makes you want to play more and more. But when 
 you start battling with the aliens, I think that Crysis loses some of its qualities because Crytek 
 takes the story too far out of "reality". I know this game is a Sci-fi shooter, but they could 
 have kept their feet planted on the ground, or so to speak, when writing the storyline for the 
 game. Another thing that really bugged me was the instability of the game, no matter how high or 
 low the resolution is. During the 15-22 hours that I spent completing the game, it crashed 5 times, 
 and froze up on me several times. I think this is because the game is simply too advanced for any 
 present day computer (that any of us mortal people would own) and for me this really pulls the 
 overall quality of the game down. Considering that I had loads of fun playing CoD4 on full throttle, 
 without any glitches, I think that Crytek could have lowered their hardware-killing specs just 
 a little bit without ruining the game play nor the graphics. But everything aside, I loved playing 
 the game and it was nice to try something different and innovative! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snichols77
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  First, let's deal with the hardware requirements and a lot of the complaints I've read thus far.
 
  
  I'm running an Intel e6600 overclocked to 3.0ghz with an 8800 GTS video card, a Walstreet Quartet 
 977x motherboard (ASUS P5W64 WS Professional) , 2 gigs of Corsair XMS2 and most of my money spent 
 on my hard drive speed, monitor and computer chair and this game runs phenomenal..... at least in 
 a mix of high/ultra settings on Vista in DX10 @ 1280x1024. Havent even tried my 22" monitor's native 
 resolution yet. Who cares? The people that are running this in native 24" flatpanel mode and expecting 
 to run it at Ultra are just asking too much! Anyone with a 17-19" LCD and a ~200$ video card or 
 basically a $500 dell PC can push this game just fine. Hell, I can run this on my older Dell XPS 
 Gen 2 laptop in medium settings and it has a 6800 GO Ultra mobile 256 video card.
  
  I get a solid 35fps in basically every area of the game, no matter what's going on, and the graphics 
 quality makes my Xbox 360 running on a 42" LCD out in the living room look like a Nintendo 64. 
 Assassins creed and COD4 graphics compared to Crysis on the PC are a joke! Gears of war? HAHAHAA.... 
 omg, Crysis is the must-have for graphics and gameplay. The mix of all the best games basically, 
 with its flexible world where shooting it out doesnt always cut-it, and stealth or sneaking becomes 
 your best bet to survive in a lot of situations. 
  
  The enemy AI is decent. You get superpowers (limited) and in response, the game's "normal" difficulty 
 is pretty damn hard if you choose to simply shoot it out with the enemy the majority of the way 
 through. My only complaint is that the enemy can really take a beating sometimes, and not the ones 
 that have suits like you either. The basic koreans are insanely accurate with their weapons and 
 unless you get a couple of heashots on them (sometimes their helmets pop off and you require another 
 headshot to take them down) and their body armor is a bit extreme, sometime taking an entire magazine 
 to the chest to drop one guy. Ammunition runs very short in normal mode many times, which seems 
 to tell me they are promoting gameplay to be a slower-pace stealth/assassin style and possibly 
 ease up on the hardware needs in rendering the environments so fast. Unfortunately, that doesnt 
 work most of the time and many times you are discovered (when you really shouldnt be spotted in 
 most cases) and have to frantically shoot it out. Personally though, I feel none of the enemy AI 
 or battles were at all as challenging as FarCry, and overall the style of the enemies and battles 
 just doesnt compare. I still love FarCry with the updated HDR patch and graphics maxxed out. It's 
 still plenty fun.
  
  While not setting the standard for flexible, non-totally-linear next-gen shooters (like FarCry 
 for example) , this game does meet the bar. You do have plenty of options and not every area is 
 totally straightforward. As good as FarCry? No way, but adequate. Now all we need is a slightly 
 dummied down version for the 360. Too bad the 360 can't handle physics and destructible environments 
 + everything else like a PC can, because this game has it all.
  
  As far as the eye-candy goes, the only thing I can equate it to is like playing the most advanced 
 3d rendering you can possibly make with every fancy DX10 effect in existence. The depth of field 
 and scaling in this game are of a quality simply never before seen. It's at times as if you are 
 playing a perfect digital video stream, especially in the forested areas with the lighting and 
 particle system showing itself off.
  
  
  I give it a 9 because of their ambition, their ability to capture it via the gameplay and graphics, 
 and the fact that you'll still be squeezing more out of this game later in many ways - both in 
 gameplay (multiplayer, some replay value and the modding system which is incredible) and hardware 
 (to unlock more visual power) . But, the gameplay and enemy AI is a step back from FarCry. 
  
  This is an instant classic that will last for years to come, because I feel it is a building 
 block for the company as well as the next level of FPS gaming and graphics for the PC.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VFinwe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  It's impossible to describe how amazing this game is, it's impossible not to hope for Crytek find 
 a way to continue this story and make a sequel of this game. It's impossible not to be completely 
 stunned when you see the sun rising, and the F-15s bombing, the tanks exploding...
  
  There are so many things happening in this game that it's also impossible to number the most interesting 
 scenes. You don't even need to mention the eye-catching scenerey to explain the magnitude of details, 
 you can simply talk about the KPA sleeping on the beach, or working around the village to show 
 how much work was spent on the details.
  
  Crysis is so fantastic in every aspect that it could run with the earlier Far cry graphics and 
 it would still be, by far, the best FPS ever. Ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kengi_ikazuchi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  UBI owned the rights to Far Cry, the original Cryengine, and so was the early stages of Crysis, 
 but EA saw that Crysis would easily become an instant hit and bought the distribution rights. Smart 
 thinking!
  
  This game, 3-4 years in the making, is a dream come true to most FPS fans I would say. It has got 
 everything in which I wish previous FPS would have. HL2 was close, but the replay value wasn't 
 as great. Once you beat it, you beat it, but as for Crysis, once you beat it, you'd probably want 
 to replay and try a few alternative approach to get the most out of the game. The nano-suit options 
 really add a lot more to the game play, and has a very cool predator-like effect when the KPAs 
 bust out their nano-suit. 
  
  One thing I am really greatful for is that when you punch a dead body it doesn't go flying in meat 
 chunks. Don't you hate that in other FPS games?? Anyway, this game is a must for those who have 
 lost hope in FPS games, and for those who love FPS games :) 
  
  *I have yet to get my hands on the minigun and do a little lawnmowing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bsan89
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  -Crysis = $49.99 USD
  -Computer Total = $2,250 w/2x 8800GT SLI (XFX Alpha Dog)
  -Experience = "I've dream of a dream, now that dream is here..."
  
  The Good:
  -Better than 
 life Texture! Beautiful Game!
  -Decent Storyline 
  -A new way to play FPS
  -Love the real time custom
  
  
  The Bad: 
  -Few Bugs (Take a turtle in the water in your 
 hand and you die)
  -Enemies can take more damage than you sometimes
  -Enemies need to speak Korean than playing in very hard setting
  -Extreme high spec requirement 
 to enjoy this game
  -You can't hide/move dead bodies
  
  Other Thought: 
  
  -It pull a Halo 2 in the end.
  -A few balance need to be put in order
  -Bugs need to be tweak 
 out
  -Acting is Okay, Half Life 2 series has the best acting ever! So my standard is pretty high!
 
  -If you can run this game. YOU WILL ENJOY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  Well first of all I am not a great fan o FPS and I didnt play an FPS since half life... I dont 
 really like to play that genre casue it is usually based on fast aiming and clicking lacking any 
 kind of good stroyline or freedom...
  
  But this game just pinned me to my PC cause it contains all the aspects of an awesome game... I 
 would like to add as a Turk I am proud to see a Turk has produced this outstanding game :) ...
 
  
  The game is considered as an FPS but it is way deeper than that, the storyline is great which I 
 will not detail it here you have to see it for yourself, but a few words must be said for the gear 
 you wear...
  
  The nanosuit is a little hard to master first (At least for me hehe) but when you get used to it 
 it really serves its purpose the stealh ability the strength ability is pure fun to use and it 
 is needed... You cant only rely on your aiming ability cause you will end up like swiss cheese 
 :) 
  
  the areas are massive! Really massive and you need a vehicle to go one place to another and you 
 can use many vehicles from pick up trucks to hummer jeeps tanks AAA's and even a plane! the controls 
 are easy and just like GTA so you dont really suffer from mixed controls or anything...
  
  The enemies are a little hard to defeat (At least for me :) ) one head shot may not be enough but 
 they dont drop down like flies so it makes the game challenging and fun...
  
  I hope you guys at least take a look at its demo or something to see what Crysis is like even if 
 you are not a fan of FPS and enjoy a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codename_47i
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Firstly awesome graphics Nice effects. But various question has been raised in my mind after playing 
 the game I think crytek will release expansion. Only problem i think with the graphics is the objects 
 keep on appearing when u r running for e. g there is no rock 10mts ahead and suddenly when u move 
 the rock appears this feels no good and the textures too keep on changing. Very short campaign 
 i completed it in 2 sittings. The guys playing it on very high setting would be feeling real and 
 being part of the game the seastorm at the end looks frightening the rain has never felt so real 
 in a game keep up the good work crytek but please have some mercy on poor gamers like me We cant 
 upgrade our PC every quarter. In India Crysis is not very popular because of steep requirements 
 here most of the people have onboard graphics or a 6200. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruskiodoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea why some people seem to be bitching about this games shortcomings! Obviously it 
 is not possible to make a game with no flaws or glitches what so ever, and to make a game that 
 will please everybody but this is pretty much the best attempt at achieving that that i have played! 
 The main gripe that reviewers who scored it low seem to be about performance issues and the like. 
 Whilst i can appreciate that if you experience these problems then it can be frustrating to say 
 the least, giving the game a low score because of this seems pretty harsh to me. 
  
  Firstly if the technical difficulties experienced meant that the game wouldn't boot, or was unplayable 
 then how can the individual give a review of the game considering that they actually haven't played 
 it! More often that not these difficulties arise due to the users pc being in serious need of upgrading, 
 or from them running ridiculous resolutions and settings which cripple the framerate!
  
  In my opinion Crysis represents the future of fps and show's the others the direction that they 
 need to all go in! It does virtually everything incredibly well from the AI, graphics, story, sound, 
 you name it, it pretty much raises the bar at ever level! An absolute must buy, i would recommend 
 this to everyone! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: analgrin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow, If you liked farcry then you'll love this.
  
  This game is fantastic from start to finish. I was worried that i would only like the first half 
 of the game as reports of no gravity levels fighting aliens didn't sound too good to me. Luckily 
 no gravity only lasted about 1 hour and was exciting thru-out and ended long before it became a 
 chore.
  
  The physics in the game are very good although i did still notice some minor bugs (occasionally 
 pieces of debris wouldn't stop making a noise as they just failed to settle into place on the floor- 
 this was rare though and normally caused by clashing with some other object) the physics really 
 come into their own during close up firefights. If the enemy run and take cover in house or shack 
 then lob a grenade in with them, if the blast doesnt kill them it may just knock out a few walls 
 exposing them or the roof could come donw and flatten them. Its just amazing to watch, and listen 
 to for that matter.
  
  The sound effects are cool too, guns sound great, grenades go off with a very satisfying punchy 
 boom that sounds great yet different from most shooters
  
  Gameplay is very good, Switching between different nano suit powers is quite easy to do and when 
 u master combinations of powers to full effect then no-one can stop you :) it took me until the 
 halfway mark of the game to fully appreciate just what is possible with the suit. In the end taking 
 on a small gang of koreans is a piece of cake, i especially enjoy creeping up on someone while 
 cloaked then grabing him by the throat, switch to strength mode and hurl him either into his collegues 
 for a game of skittles or just throw him high into the air and let him fall to his death, ideally 
 onto a building so u can see him crash through the roof :)
  
  The graphics are mind blowing, i had the all the gfx settings on medium with the exception of shaders 
 which i turned up to high- which seems to switch on HDR and makes everything look just that littl 
 bit more natural (options allow very high on all settings- when a pc comes along that can handle 
 it)
  
  The only gripe about this game is the kind of system thats needed to get the most out of it. As 
 i mentioned i only ran it with most settings down to medium and thats on my 8800gtx, AMD Dual-core 
 4600+, with 2GB ram!!
  But it has to be said that even on these settings it still looked much better than even call of 
 duty 4 maxed out!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heart5678
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This review only talks about the Single Player version of the game.
  
  First all, the graphics are really about the best that I've ever seen for any kind of game anywhere 
 on any system. It even looks the best when you can only run the settings on High (vs. "Very High") 
 at 1024x768.
  
  The game play is very good as well. It almost feels like a modern version of Bioshock except you 
 trade off weapon/attack options for more environment attack options. The various ways you can use 
 your nano suit with the environment is like using plasmids. There are also many ways you can customize 
 the weapons your carrying, which are limited to your choice of a few at any given time.
  
  They did an excellent job of changing the environments during the course of the game which always 
 refreshing. Too many games make you play the whole thing throw in one type of environment and it 
 gets old eventually.
  
  The only thing it lacks to make it more immersing would be a more-involving story. Currently you 
 spend 5% of the time dealing/interacting with the story, and the rest is finding unique ways to 
 gun people down and complete objectives. But then again, maybe the genre it was designed for doesn't 
 want that. Maybe I'm just an 'has-been' FPS player who's getting older and wants 'a little less 
 action and a lot more talk' lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryPalms
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Irritating quirks ruin the whole picture. 
  
  Like crouching - no toggle, only hold-key-to-crouch, which completely sucks if you want to take 
 cover for a little while. The game is obviously geared towards a rushing style gameplay, not much 
 of picking out unsuspecting enemies from a distance.
  
  For instance: the bad guys can take more damage than you, even though you're outfitted in a sci-fi 
 body armor designed to withstand rifle rounds. You need to constantly work for those head shots 
 to effectively kill enemies. Which is such an enormous pain in the behind, when we all know it 
 doesn't take a lot of 7.62 rounds to take anybody down - body armor or not. In this game you'll 
 need to almost unload that Chinese AK to achieve casualty.
  
  Precision over 30-50 meters is non-existent. In real life, it's not that damn hard to hit a target 
 over 100 meters. In Crysis you can forget about it. The few hits you do get in will be absorbed 
 by the Koreans' magic body armor.
  
  Another weird thing that really gets me is the hardest level setting which is the only setting 
 playable since the bad guys don't speak English and where the cross hairs and grenade indicators 
 are disabled (cross hairs are for console games, imo) .
  
  And there's just a lot of little things that gets on your nerves as you go along. Crysis plays 
 like a shooter a few generations back. It's an old case of been there, done that.
  
  But more importantly the direction of the story is a major pain to sit through. It's stop and go 
 between the cutscenes, which aren't very hot to begin with, voice acting is standardly dull and 
 the whole immersion is pretty much down the drain.
  
  Great looks are not enough to distract from the abysmal gameplay and irritating little quirks that 
 ruins the whole picture. No matter how many DX10 effects they poured into this cup of old-school 
 shooter doesnt sweeten the taste.
  
  If you want a cool free-roaming shooter set in a jungle, go get Farcry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediLord
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I have not played a game so well made, so full of details, so polished, well seemingly sooooooooo 
 much time put into it by the developer. I played many many many games, yes, Hafl-Life 2 single 
 player was wonderful, but it was Nothing compare to Crysis. If you don't believe me, fine, play 
 it !
  I am not even talking about the graphics, the graphics of this game will blow your mind away. 
 
  The gameplay itself have to be the best of the best. I don't want to go into detail to spoil to 
 plot (yes there is an awesome plot, full of twists, surprises keep you guessing what comes next) , 
 it is that this game is sooo full of details. You can see how much time the developers have put 
 into every inch of the areas. And yes there are many games with well made areas, but Crysis is 
 HUGE, there are so many areas, so many levels, and they are Never repeatitive. It just mindblowing 
 that you see the game can be so long and yet each levels are so well-made and polished. If you 
 like FPS/advanture or even RPG, this is the dream comes true.
  There are SOOOOOOOO many things you can do in crysis. it is a shooter but yet it is so much more...
 
  The graphics is just astonishing, better yet it runs really well. I am playing with Mac Book Pro 
 using the laptop Geforce 8600 graphic card under windows xp and it runs smoothly with all high 
 settings (cant go very high unless you using vista) 
  It is very surprising it was published by EA, which is a company often publish half-baked games 
 but the quality of this game is just phenomenal. Don't think even games published by blizzard is 
 this well-done/polished.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I didn't got out and spend thousands of dollars on a super rig to play this game. I am running 
 a 2.8 Ghz AMD X2 5200+ duel core processor with 2 GB of G-Skill RAM and a GeForce 7600GT 256MB 
 running on Vista. I do have plans to get a 8600GT so I can use DX10 later. I spent maybe $900 putting 
 my rig together so you don't need to buy a super rig to run this game. Now I have noticed that 
 people like to play games at a supper high resolution and wonder why their 8800GTS can't keep up 
 with this game. JUST TURN DOWN YOUR RESOLUTION!!! I play this game with a resolution of 1400X900 
 or less on my 19" wide screen and have most settings turned on high. I have no problem running 
 this game and it looks awesome. 
  
  Now about the game...
  
  If you have played Far Cry before, then this game looks very familiar. In fact almost this same 
 in some aspects. But things do change so the Far Cry fell at the beginning tends to go away. 
 
  
  Overall I gave this game a 9. I may not be worth buying it right now if your not sure about it 
 but it is a must have in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Pays homage to nearly every science fiction and military blockbuster ever made - The Terminator 
 and Apocalypse Now are huge examples; Multiple paths to objectives; Technically impressive visual 
 design
  
  The Bad:
  That same formula has been used a million times before in every book, movie, and game known to 
 man; Game lacks weapon variety; Level design, while relatively open, seems very restrictive during 
 subsequent replays; Level design feels skewed towards only a few of the nanosuit's functions.
 
  
  Story
  
  What you've got here is your pretty typical epic science fiction faire. From the outset, Crysis 
 makes it a point to tell you that it pulls its creativity from pretty much every military and science 
 fiction film known to man, and by the end of the story you'll get the distinct idea that the game 
 really doesn't care that that's what it does. The jist of it is that you're the outspoken member 
 of an elite American special forces team sent to a small island in the Korean Sea to make sure 
 that the North Koreans don't get their hands on some pretty nasty alien technology. Somewhere along 
 the way, the aliens decide they don't want the North Koreans touching their stuff either and they 
 proceed to not only try and blow the North Koreans off the face of the map, but you as well. In 
 keeping with the summer blockbuster template, the story in Crysis takes very little risks in going 
 deep - what's here is here to keep you in the game. It's all flash and no substance. There's big 
 bad Korean generals, hunky special forces guys who can take a beating from a tank, and slick aliens 
 who zoom around firing ice shards at you like they were rounds from a gatling gun. All of the characters 
 are generally uninteresting and follow your typical blockbuster steretypes. The good guy is the 
 outspoken, wide-eyed spec ops guy turned savior; there's the hot lead female who goes from being 
 damsel in distress to kick butt queen, and so on and so on.
  
  Unfortunately, just like most summer blockbusters - espeically the ones designed as trilogies so 
 that the studio can milk the franchise for all it's worth, Crysis ends just like that. And I mean, 
 "That." The largest chunk of the story comes in the last twenty minutes or so before the final 
 boss fight and once that's over, the story pretty drops off the face of the planet itself in lieu 
 of the fireworks. If you're quick on your toes or playing on one of the first two difficulty settings, 
 the story can take you as little as six hours to shove through.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Like Far Cry before it, Crysis is all about giving the player freedom. Each of the levels in the 
 game is pretty open - with the exception of one or two here or there that are simply Point A to 
 Point B story mission - which gives you a lot of room to do what you need to do... kind of. The 
 game seems to push you towards a few of the nanosuit's different functions. See, in Crysis you 
 have this tricked out multi-million dollar nanosuit that can do things like make you stronger or 
 make you faster. Think of yourself as the Six Million Dollar Man... just without the five years 
 to live bit. The suit can also cloak you and soak up weapons fire (for a limited time, mind you) , 
 but in reality the game pushes you more towards using the cloaking ability and the shield ability 
 the most. Even on the easiest difficulty settings, the bad guys are pretty sharp on their toes 
 when you're using speed mode, so nine times out of ten they'll end up pegging you with a few shots 
 regardless of how much you're running around like a chick with its head cut off and the strength 
 mode generally gets you killed before you really have a chance to really do anything.
  
  With that said, it wouldn't be a first-person shooter without things to shoot people with. Crysis 
 delivers your standard material here - you start the game with a pretty average American sub-machine 
 gun/assault rifle hybrid and you'll eventually work your way up to your own hand held version of 
 what the aliens use to shoot at you. Since you can only carry two or three weapons at a time, you'll 
 probably find yourself sticking to a select few of them. Again, this design choice seems to indicate 
 that even though the developers are encouraging freedom, that they're still herding players towards 
 a set path of some sort. Many of the weapons aren't particularly useful so there's really no point 
 in dragging them along. Indeed, the game's difficulty balance feels distinctly geared towards only 
 a few of the weapons in the game, mostly the Korean rifles and the later heavy weapons.
  
  When you're tired of shooting at people with guns, Crysis does contain a select selection of vehicles 
 for you to choose from. There's the humvee that the North Koreans have, there's a boat (which is 
 rather useless except for one certain part of the game) , civilian pickup trucks (another pretty 
 useless vehicle) , and tanks. Tanks sound cool in theory, but in reality those pesky Koreans tend 
 to shave off most of your damage while you're in one before you can really do anything with it, 
 forcing you to bail in favor of the much more rewarding (and time saving) method of just grabbing 
 a rocket launcher and doing things the easy way.
  
  Much has been said in the way of Crysis artificial intelligence leading up to its release and most 
 of it is pretty justified. It's AI. It's supposed to act like a human being and it does for the 
 most part. It's nothing to write home about, but it's nothing to yell at either.
  
  Presentation
  
  The presentation in Crysis is technically amazing, but it's also technically 
 uninspired. Many of the locations in the game are pretty standard fare for what the developers 
 are trying to accomplish - there's lot of swaying vegetation and bloom-ish lighting effects trying 
 to give you that deep down warm and fuzzy feeling you get when you think about your last (expensive) 
 trip to the Bahamas. There's a whole lot of palm trees and sand here too, but the developers don't 
 really do anything with it. It all feels like it was meant to look pretty rather than genuinely 
 be pretty (PM me if you need an explanation to that) . On the other side of the spectrum the ice 
 levels are equally faux-pretty, but uninspired. They're just... white. There's more to snow than 
 white.
  
  Aside from the obvious number crunching going on, the explosions for one look like they don't belong. 
 They just don't... fit. They look off and like they were made long before the rest of the effects 
 were and the developers forgot to go back and revamp those too.
  
  As for the audio, it's pretty average. There's your typical immersing audio track in the way of 
 jungle sounds and gunfire, and then there's your typical voice casting. None of the character acting 
 is really standout... it's all pretty standard over-the-top action flick sounding to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slk7pc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  This is easily the most technologically advanced game ever made. There is so much detail in this 
 game that you can't deny it's a masterpiece.
  The gameplay is perfect. There is no other word, it's perfect. The nanosuit does and works exactly 
 as you expected it to, and its functions are so accessible, you will have absolutely no trouble 
 changing them while you're in a fight. The shooting is phenomenal because it has bullet physics 
 which is very rare, and though it's not as good as S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s, it's still very realistic. 
 For those out there that don't know what bullet physics does, it basically makes each bullet an 
 object that can bounce off, go through various objects in a single shot, depending on the material 
 of these objects, it takes a tiny little bit to travel from the gun to the objective, etc. It's 
 not just a light beam that hurts if you touch it.
  The vehicles respond realistically and are not as fragile as the ones in Far Cry, the weapons sound 
 very satisfying, the physics in this game are similarly realistic to the ones you can find in Half-life 
 2, it's not a linear game, the AI is VERY good, it's long, it has huge environments, the gameplay 
 is fantastic and 50 bucks! It's the bargain of the century, apart from The Orange Box.
  P. S: I've been reading the reviews on Crysis and some are saying that it takes more than one clip 
 to finish off an enemy. Well I'm very sorry to say that that is not true. This is bullet physics 
 all over again. The bullet doesn't go exactly where you want it to from a long distance because 
 that's what bullets actually do. However if you stop trying to snipe everyone with the submachine 
 gun and get in the battlefield, you can easily kill 4 dudes or more with one clip. The trick is 
 DON'T AIM AT THE LEGS OR PRIVATE PARTS. In fact, you can even kill a guy by throwing a chicken 
 at his head with maximum strength. And I'm not joking, that's true.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infendo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  My rig: 2GB RAM, 8800GTS 320 MB,2,4 GHz dual
  
  Crysis: You can shoot aliens and Koreans, what the hell more do you want from you're game? Well 
 you have the amazing graphics and eaven though the AI isint very good you still have fun mowing 
 them down, the game is pretty easy allthough there are some moments where you simply have to use 
 "trial&error" to get through.
  
  
  Graphics: I was running the game on 32bit 1024/700 and some resolution at mostly high and medium 
 settings without all lag, except some moments where the game froze up for few seconds bud i figure 
 thats only because i had it cracked (i still bought it just didint bother putting the disc in all 
 the time when i felt like playing the game) , otherwise the game looks h0ly cow sh#$# mother#$%$&$ 
 awesome. (dont know any other human words over it.)
  
  
  Gameplay (SinglePlayer) : At the 1st paradrop i just got "sucked in" there was not a thing that i 
 didint like (except the AI and the fact that u never get to finish of the aliens) the weapons look 
 and sound nice, and i dont want to hear some dam bullsh$$ about them being weak, you're enemy is 
 most often WEARING ARMOR it's 2020 for christ sake you just dont pop a bullet through a alumynium 
 breast plate, bud some people had to whine so now you can shoot them in the head and they're down, 
 no questions asked, bud still you keep whining, well i was reading other player reviews and guess 
 what, the enemies are either to many, to strong or both , well dont judge the game badly cause 
 you suck at it, hell you have a nano suit, you can go invisible, run faster than a car, tougher 
 than a titanium wall and stronger then the terminator , you need a f (_) cking wheelchair? stop whining 
 and shoot the fuc..... And then when shooting rice is getting old 
  you enter the alien ship/house or somewhat of a mountain with blue lights
  there you loose gravity 
 and thats when the game gets intense, before you could establish a frontline while fighting rice, 
 now you often end up in a corner so you can allways see the alien pri+* thats ramming in to you, 
 and you have to spare you're ammo or you will end up like me fighting them with my fists ( wich 
 was awesome) .
  
  
  The Walkthrough (wich is presented here on  
 i read that AFTER finishing the game) ) : I disagree with almost everything on the weapons page, 
 1st of all, the Gauss Rifle takes down the giant flying aliens in 2 shots while with the shotty 
 it takes for ages, bud still , i can only say that the AK 74 looking gun is the best weapon since 
 you almost allways have over 100 bullets in it and you can equip it with a sniper scope a laser 
 aim and a silencer making it an excellent sniper rifle ( the gauss cannon is better against the 
 nano suited koreans in Awekening though) just try to headshot the koreans and you will get along 
 fine with them so my personal recomendation and AK 74 looking gun and the Gauss Rifle eaven though 
 i like the SCAR more you simple never have enough ammunition to finish 1 map without the Sniper 
 scope, and thegoing cloak headshot a rice then run away" method just ruines the game.
  
  Closure: All in all a great game with minor graphical issues and a bit dull AI
  and a lame somewhat 
 of an ending that only leaves you crawing for more.
  And you feel like playing the game bud when done playing the single player theres not much to get 
 back to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo, I thought the game was going to be great, but After I got my hands on my 
 jaw dropped to the floor. The game is an action ride from start to finish, you can never say "oh 
 this mission sucks, or im bored of this game" you can actually beat this game 3 times and still 
 want more. The graphics are phenomenal and hold the real definition of "next gen". The controls 
 are nice and smooth and the physics are incredible. As far as the story goes well, its great and 
 all but its not the best in gaming history. You start off in a jungle and end up in a frozen world 
 full of aliens how great is that. The weakest link is the multiplayer and even as weak as it is 
 its still the best out there lol. Even though, the multiplayer doesn't have team deathmatch its 
 not missed at all, there are a huge variety of game modes you can choose from and blasting your 
 enemy 50 meter away from you never gets old. the specs on this game are really really high, but 
 if you manage to achieve it you will be thankful that crytek took the liberty to make the best 
 game you will ever sit you lazy butt and play. Overall don't even look for a game that is similar 
 cuz this is as good as it gets. If you can't play it then I recommend you buy COD 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Crysis is an amazing game, with amazing visuals, briliantly realistic physics, perfectly constructed 
 story... and and and. Most definitly my game of the year, and funny enough that I am not really 
 into FPS's.
  
  Crytech and EA have really outdone them selfs (For the good) in creating this Beautifully elegant 
 graphics engine. The "Crytech 2" engine will certainly be at the forefront of gaming for many years 
 to come, and frankly I can't twait. At last a game that actually lives up to the hype generated 
 pre-release, perhaps even exceed it.
  
  Ever thought you would hold a pee to breaking point, dashing to the bathroom and back just to get 
 back to the action. Well I have done it. All you married oaks might want to shipping off the wife 
 for a month's vacation in Hawaii...
  
  GAME ON!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotGunBunny
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  I wasn't a huge fan of Farcry, I thought it was pretty entertaining until the aliens started showing 
 up, at which point I pretty much lost interest.
  
  At first I thought Crysis wasn't going to be much beyond good graphics. And in the end, it turns 
 out to be just that. Good graphics and not much else, but still something.
  
  Luckily, my PC was able to run Crysis on 1680x1050 at all High with 25-35 FPS throughout the entire 
 game. 
  But first I'd like to get the gameplay department out of the way: the combat is great fun and hugely 
 entertaining, the nanosuit powers add some good diversity to the game. The AI is generally satisfactory, 
 although there's things about that kept we wondering the whole game through. 
  At it's best, the AI is deadly and well written, like when you're healing behind a rock only to 
 find that the KPA patrol you were running from now has you completely surrounded.
  At it's worst, it's a turkey shoot, especially the long distances can take it's toll on the AI. 
 For example, when you're firing upon them from a long distance, the soldiers would rather go inspect 
 where the bullets hit instead of where they're coming. Which often ends up with them staring at 
 something punctured with holes while you snipe the back of their skulls out.
  
  It's also rather strange that, if you fire from close by, the soldiers will drop within seconds, 
 but if you're only a small distance away, one soldier can take whole clips before going down. A 
 shot in the head is always just as effective though.
  
  Eventually you'll get to the aliens, which to my surprise and delighment were actually pretty well 
 executed in relation to Farcry, the game does take a drastic turn, but it's not at all bad, it's 
 just as entertaining gunning down aliens as it is picking off KPA patrols, I think.
  
  So the end verdict on the general gameplay is that it's a very enjoyable game.
  
  However, 
 on to the technology, which is an important factor for this game.
  First off let's just get this out of the way: This game looks plain awesome and nothing compares 
 to it on that department, end of story.
  However, I'm not usually much of a graphics whore, but I have to say that, for your typically overhyper 
 shooter, Crysis manages to use it's graphical power to really make some enviroments unseen before, 
 there's some awesome spots in the level design at certain points that are simply stunning, especially 
 after you're out of the jungle and heading towards the aliens.
  So I would definatly say that Crysis does manage to put it's graphics to good use at times.
  
 The physics are also great fun and really add to the enjoyment at times.
  All of that comes at a cost, Crysis takes a monstrous PC to run, and putting everything on low 
 really takes some of the enjoyment away.
  
  Now, all this is fine and all, but in the end, Crysis lacks what pretty much every game nowadays 
 seems to lack. It's entertaining as hell, but it's doesn't manage to go anywhere with it. At the 
 end of the game, while you're being presented with the awesome visuals of an alien ship crashing 
 into an aircraft carrier and sucking it down with huge explosions and whatnot, you're left with 
 this feeling of emptyness. 
  The game ends without any real satisfaction, the 2 bossbattles that follow up each other at the 
 last level are probably the dullest part of the whole game.
  
  So in the end, Crysis is good fun, but it still doesn't manage to push anything to new limits, 
 it perhaps shows us a glimpse of what games might be able to do in the near future, but I doubt 
 anyone wants to pay 50 bucks for a techdemo.
  Crysis, as fun as it is, doesn't even scratch the surface of it's full potential, and as such ends 
 up as nothing more then a few hours of happy blasting.
  It's good fun, but nothing beyond that.
  
  The game is supposed to be a trilogy, not surprising 
 then that the game ends in such a lame way, but it makes me wonder why the hell they couldn't just 
 take a bit longer and finish the whole story at once. Although this seems to be a trend nowadays, 
 to split up a perfectly good story, then sell it seperatly, each part for the same price as any 
 whole game.
  
  What I'd advise most people to do is to wait until the entire trilogy is released, hopefully by 
 that time more people will be able to run it. Then we'll see if Crytek is the herald of the "next 
 gen". But I doubt it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for a long time. watching trailers, and looking at screenshots, 
 and reading previews. I was very pleased when I got the full version. this game requires a top 
 notch pc to be fully appreciated. i have a very expensive new pc and still only run the game on 
 medium settings. but it looks amazing. 
  
  the lush jungle island is of course it's main asset. the trees will fall over if shot at. there 
 are a number of vehicles in the game. you can drive a truck that looks like a chevy s10. or a jeep 
 with a gun attached.. in the jeep you can use the weapon while driving or switch seats and fire 
 from ontop of the vehicle. there are boats too and i am sure there is more i haven't seen yet.
 
  
  the story is well played out. the characters do their best to kill you. it will take cunning and 
 quick reflexes to beat this game. be sure and pick up as much ammo as you can after you get a kill 
 because you will need it.
  
  i like the dual pistols alot. and of course the SCAR. very effective weapon. this game plays alot 
 like far cry. which is no surprise since they were developed by the same guys. if you liked far 
 cry, you will surely like this game.
  
  multi-player is ok. but there are much better games out there like cod 4 and bf2142. if you are 
 looking for multi-player, i recommend one of those. crysis is meant to be played single player. 
 i am sure some people will disagree with me on that. but that's just the impression i got. 
  
  so definitely get this game. this is one you should have in your collection. it is by far the 
 best shooter available. it blows the doors off halo 3. i haven't had this much fun sing fear came 
 out. it is an enjoyable game, very nice graphics. and lots of killing. that's mainly what i like 
 in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revon1o
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  Ingenious game play, immersive and very coherent story, thousands of small details that builds 
 into a magnificent shooter like no other. Great replay value with vast areas to explore and experiment 
 with your nanosuit capabilities. With so many options due to the non-linear characteristics of 
 the game play it is possible to play it again and again and enjoy it as much as the first time 
 through. The sound is spot-on and creepy and goes hand in hand with foliage and textures that makes 
 you sweat and want to swat flies. Probably the only drawback of the game is its heavy system requirements 
 for a visually unparalleled experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00585034
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  Crysis is just one of those games you know your going to like. You've probably seen the pics and 
 movies. Amazing, but is it actually fun to play. 
  
  Short answer: yes, you will enjoy the game especially the multiplayer modes.
  
  Long answer: 
 yes its insanely fun an addictive to play. This is one of those well polished, well presented and 
 well done games. The single player is epic and makes you fell like you have a duty, and the multiplayer 
 is even more fun and engaging. This is defenitely worth the money, although you might want to wait 
 for the price to drop before actually buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchihataru
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  beautiful graphics... awesome gameplay.. spectacular scenery... nothing you've ever seen before.. the 
 graphics .. is just jaw dropping.. the suit abilities are real good... this is more of a stealth game 
 .. cloaking and ambushing the enemy from behind ... super strength... super speed.. max armour.. lots 
 and lots of diffrent kind of things.. also, you can plan the way you want to attack your enemies... its 
 just a really good game... worth buying... but, before buying it make sure you have the latest graphic 
 card and lots and lots of ram to make yourself satisfied of the game... uh still no 100 words.. so 
 no choice but to say that this game is real awesome.. nice game.. nice game ... nice game... nice game... nice 
 game..... nice game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j89808
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  NOW THIS GAME ROCKS. This came out with such a high production value. I have never seen a game 
 with these graphics, and the physics here. Usually when games claim to have good graphics, it is 
 usually dark, like Doom 3 or Half life 2, or many other "graphically good" games.
  
  However, Cysis went over the top and made the most gorgeous environments. This kinda feels like 
 a sequel to Farcry, but no complaints, since i loved Farcry so much.
  
  My only complaint is that I can't play the graphics at max, but i suppose i will in several years.
 
  
  I would suggest buying this game NOW, and waiting several years until a normal priced rig can run 
 this. It will be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hjindee
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Ive Completed the game in 10-11 hours, i played nonstop on a Saturday medium diff. The game has 
 a very unique gameplay, if you learn the suit mode controls quick, then you can pull of some insane 
 combos for killing 5 to 10 soldiers, it has a very good storyline, but i dont want to ruin anything 
 for people who havent tried yet. So far for me the ending was a bit disappointing, but anyway was 
 awesome, as i think as many others who completed the game and think its a good game, hope to come 
 a sequel or expansion pack (sorry for spoiler) .
  So far in weapon's the MOAR freeze cannon, with effects, to the SCAR, and all the nice little modifications 
 to the weapons you can do in an instant makes the game a fastpaced non-stop action. 
  AI, i have tried from Easy to DELTA!, and if you want competition, turn the game on Delta diff, 
 and u will have quite a challenge on your hand.
  
  So far so good, after completing the Singleplayer, ive turned my eyes on the Multiplayer part, 
 and that is just a kickass action ride, everything you tried, used, and drived, you can get and 
 use in multiplayer, Suit functions is awesome against another player trying to run you over when 
 you just jump over the car with maximum strength, its just fun as hell, it cant be any better.
 
  You have the same like, All vs. All witch is called Instant action, then there is powerstruggle, 
 its cool, its like Battlefield 2/2142/1942 and like Counterstrike mixed together. You have these 
 different Control points, some are spawns, some are Electricity factory's, war factory's, and prototype 
 factory's, its all about whiping the other enemys base off the map, but too do so you first have 
 to get rid off thier defense, and only thing to do that is buy a handheld TAC, TAC tank, and some 
 other stuff i cant remember right now. But too buy these things you have to get these points, wich 
 is given too you by killing an enemy or overtaking a control point. You can go everywhere on the 
 map, too sneak up too those control points even if you have too stealth up and hit another person 
 in the back. You have this menu over Weapons, Tanks and other destructive stuff that can help you 
 further too completing the task, like i said CS mixed with BF2.
  The TAC Tank kicks serious *** when you see the tactical nuclear bomb exploding... yes a tank that 
 fires mini nukes... how awesome is that ?, and yes there is helicopters, jeeps, boats, only thing 
 that aint there... planes only bummer i can think off for this game. Before you complain about the 
 game, about the singleplayer part, try out multiplayer before. 
  
  Graphic's... well my rig aint the ber rig of all, i play the game in 1280x1024, everything on medium, 
 Shadow and Object set for High.
  AMD Athlon 64 X2 Dual core 4600+, 2 GB ram, Radeon Saphire X1900XT 512 mb, and soundcard if you 
 are interested, Creative X-Fi
  
  There are some minor times when i saw some minor FPS drops but no worries. if you have a low end 
 rig before buying the game test out the Demo first too check if you can run it, then you should 
 really consider what you want, better graphic's or smoother gameplay, and for god sake remember 
 you Graphic driver remember too update it. if you are one of those with the rig that can play, 
 this game is a must have for every FPS loving gamer.
  
  P. S.
  My first game review EVER!, thought you should know... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttbomb420
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game was supposed to be revolutionary and parts of it makes me say "wow that is awesome", 
 but in all honesty the game reminds me too much f halo. The game is Far Cryed themed with halo 
 type atmosphere and game play with a little star craft mixed in. I new this game was going to be 
 sci-fi, but come on. This game would be wounderful if Call of Duty wouldn't have just came out 
 and its modern warfare twist to the series made me question how good of a game this really is. 
 I would prefer a game like farcry with the graphics of the game rather than this. The suit is innovative, 
 but that doesn't make it good. Hopefully as I play this when taking a break from COD: MW i can appreciate 
 it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHouck
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game since they announced it. I loved Farcry and couldn't wait to see 
 what Crytek would do next. Take away the outer covering of graphics in Crysis and what do you have... a 
 game that could've easily been a farcry mod. This game is farcry with aliens and ice! Anyone who 
 says otherwise obviously hasn't stormed the beaches of farcry lately. I was under the impression 
 that this game would set the bar for pc gaming but they forget a couple of things... emotion and 
 story. Graphics are great and all but they can't make up for a lack of feeling in the overall game. 
 I ended up not caring about any of the characters or the situations they were in. Also I don't 
 know who decided ice was a great way to go but in general design terms it looks just boring. Also 
 the character designs for the aliens didn't really feel very alien really. I felt like I was fighting 
 in the matrix... lol. I did notice in the credits that there were 3 writers on the game and I don't 
 know if they were on vacation or what. In the end I came away from the game feeling like... that 
 was it? I waited all this time for that? So if you're looking for a game that's basically farcry 
 with aliens with a new coating of graphics then this game is it. If you're looking for something 
 deeper then I wouldn't recommend it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I so far, I have played a lot of good games this year. Call of Duty 4, Bioshock, Medal of Honor 
 Air Bourne, and Lost Planet. But the number one game to come out so far, is Crysis!
  
  Crysis is the new game from Crytek, which Far Cry for the PC about four years ago. Crysis has a 
 few similar game play elements to it, but a lot of the game play is different from that in Far 
 Cry. This time, not a lot of the game is focused around you playing stealth like. There are a few 
 scenes where you may need to sneak around in the bushes, But it is more of using the powers of 
 your muscle suit. Your muscle suit gives you a bunch of powers that you use to take down your enemies. 
 The powers are strength, which gives you the power to pick up and through things really far, jump 
 really high, and add power to your punches. Another power speed give you the ability to run really 
 fast. One cool power cloak, makes you invisible for a while so you can sneak past enemy forces. 
 The last power maximum armor makes you a lot stronger you will last longer in a fight.
  You use these powers in different strategies to help take down your enemies.
  
  The story in 
 Crysis is that these scientist make a discovery on an island located some where in the Philippines. 
 The North Koreans move a large military force over and capture the island. You, part of a USA special 
 force team is sent over to try and save the scientist. You soon figure out what is on the island. 
 a bunch of aliens that are just waking up from a long nap.
  A bunch of weird things start to happen, and you and your squad have to try and survive.
  
 
  For the first part in Crysis, you are fighting a bunch of North Korean soldiers. The North Korean 
 soldiers are really smart, and will work in teams, call in reinforcements, and call over more soldiers 
 if you kill one soldier or if they see you. They will also follow you around and watch you if you 
 make a noise of if they see you while you are in cloak. for the last part of the game, you are 
 fighting these aliens that have the ability to freeze things. The aliens are not as smart as the 
 North Koreans, but they are much harder to kill, because they have more armor and they move alot 
 faster than the North Koreans. There are a bunch of different types of aliens, such as the little 
 ones on the ground, or the big ones that fly over head and drop reinforcements on the ground or 
 shoot at you. The enemy A. I. in Crysis is some of the best A. I. in any video game to date.
  
  The guns is Crysis are pretty good. There is a standard pistole which you can dual wield. An 
 assault rifle, and Ak 47, a sub machine gun, a shot gun, a sniper rifle, and gun that fires out 
 these lasers, and rocket launcher, an alien ice gun, and a grenade launcher which is used to take 
 out a giant enemy at the end of the game. The guns are cool, but what makes them better is the 
 ability to customize them. You can and scopes, silencers, flash lights, and a bunch of other things 
 that make you gun good against all types of enemies.
  
  The graphics in Crysis are the greatest looking graphics I have ever seen.
  environments and 
 every feature, like the trees look realistic, it seems that you can reach out and touch rocks and 
 trees in the environment because the look so real. The people look realistic, you can see wrinkles 
 and other features on their faces. The vehicles and guns look realistic. When things blow up, parts 
 just shoote every where. Everything just looks so good. 
  
  The special effects in Crysis are amazing. When you shoot a tree, it falls down, and if you or 
 an enemy is in the way, then you or he will be crushed. When things explode in Crysis, fragments 
 and particles shoot every where. Crysis has some of the best special effects ever. There is so 
 much going on at screen at once, with trees falling, enemies moving around, bullets wizzing evey 
 where, vehicles driving, and then smashing and blowing up and fragments flying every where. The 
 frame rate never gives in.
  
  The sound in Crysis is amazing. You hear guys yelling out things at their fellow comrades, and 
 you hear trees fall, and the sound of you creeping around in bushes sounds good. When things explode, 
 or artillery is dropped, you hear it blow up all around you. Every thing in Crysis sounds so realistic 
 that you will forget that it is just a video game.
  
  The multi player in Crysis is really fun. You only have two multi player modes but those modes 
 are so much fun that they will keep you playing for a long time. There is your standard death match 
 which is really fun, and a mode called power struggle. Power struggle is kind of like shares characteristics 
 of Battle field and Counter Strike. the object of the game is to capture alien technology, which 
 is like battle field. You have the ability to buy weapons, a dn upgrade your weapons, like in Counter 
 Strike. The multi player in Crysis is some of the best multi player of the year.
  
  One thing about Crysis is that it leaves of at a cliff hanger which is awesome because there will 
 be another Crysis, and I thought that I heard some thing from the president of Crytek that Crysis 
 is a trilogy, so I can not wait until Crysis 2 comes out.
  
  If you even just kind of like first person shooters, then Crysis then you should at least give 
 Crysis a try. If you love first person, then Crysis is a must buy. It will be one of the greatest 
 experiences you will every have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Direct X10 is here and unless you're horribely cynical you can't have predicted how teeth grindingly 
 frustrating it was going to be, and if you did turn up your nose in doubt congratulations, you 
 don't have any friends so can't prove that you called it. Upon booting up the game I was pleasantly 
 surprised that it had auto-detected my specs and recommend high detail settings. So I clicked the 
 start button with a big smile on my face and was greeted by jaw dropping graphics at 10 frames 
 a second.......... After having a premature eye-gasm and cleaning up the mess, in my new found 
 mental clarity it became very apparent that I was going to have to drop the graphics settings to 
 get any kind of playability out of it. But I have to say this took alot of the fun out of it for 
 me, explosions no longer brightened up my day in the way they did on high detail stutter vision 
 mode. In this sense I hate Crysis and it can go f*** itself, all 12gb of it. But, choosing to ignore 
 the supposed facade that is the graphical element of any game. Under the surface Crysis is a very 
 good shooter, with interesting physics and highly destructible vehicles. It is hard to criticise 
 it for anything other than the expectations that surrounded it and the jump to vista, but the game 
 can hardly be faulted for that. If you are on vista though, then Crysis is going to feel like yet 
 another slap in the face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FOlympusAngel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Crysis Review : Done the single player campaign less than 15 hours. Where do I start first?
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  
  I expected the gameplay would more fun if we use another method than 
 classical first person shooter controls such like W. A. S. D keys. However, it is normal to put on 
 the same options and I was like ok.... Get a Xbox 360 Controller and you'll get a lot of fun of 
 it. Trust me, the game controls way are much easier or difficult with it + fun.
  
  * I recommend this game only for experienced players. Even on Easy difficulty, Koreans will swarm 
 & overwhelm you if you're in dead end.
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  
  It's marvelous how Crytek made graphics on Crysis and it's much viewable than old FPS. Very detailed 
 environments on the island ( Tropical Jungle, Vast of frozen landscapes ( still the Tropical Jungle 
 + Snow ) , Alien Ship buried somewhere in the mountain ( I love it and the look inside looks like 
 a maze ) & finally the boat at the end ( I won't reveal all the contents of course ) . It reminds 
 me Crytek Engine 2 + Euphoria System lol!
  
  * I won't recommend this game if you have a poor computer (performance) , even it's only 2 cores 
 inside because you'll get laggy framerates when playing ( Mostly in High & Medium Settings ) . I'm 
 playing on Very High setting and it still lagging a bit. So make sure to have the right computer 
 with the recommended performances or please visit the website.
  
  Sound & Effects 8.5/10
  
  The sound is kinda off... glitchy. Sometimes when you engage yourself in a firefight, you still 
 have the same music playing or it won't start. If you browse in the Crysis document by opening 
 the files in the disk, you go in the section where's the MP3 from the game where it plays and they 
 will list you tons of battle's sounds. The effects from the game are spectacular and I can say 
 more like MARVELOUS BABY!
  
  Bugs & Defaults 9.5/10
  
  There's 2 huge glitches in the Alien Ship in the mountain, one near of the alien power core & one 
 ( biggest at the end ) downside from the final exit to the next level. However, it would kinda 
 hard to cheat in the Alien Ship because there's full of Octopods in the Legion part attacking you 
 if you find a little glitch in the main control factory in the ship. There's another on the Human 
 Deck's ship when you'll drop yourself on a fire area.
  
  Ideas 9/10
  
  The Story is kinda of original but I don't like Crytek using some ideas from War Of The Worlds 
 ( Octopods ) and making the final design for Aliens subordinates. Your allies are not a good help 
 in a firefight, they usually hide from the enemies and using tactical battle and their weapons 
 are not effective at all ( mostly shooting anywhere lol ) but at least, they give you some advices 
 & tricks to get you out some unexpected problems. Some people on the human's deck ship ( NPC ) 
 are immortal face to the SURPRISE at the end of the campaign. Ah well i think thats all for now.
 
  
  Overall 9.5
  
  I recommend it for experienced players + great performances on a powered multi-core computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I, like you, have been watching and waiting for this game to be released. I have read and seen 
 so much of this game, I got sick of it before playing it. Well, after buying it, I am happy I did. 
 This game is gorgeous. Visually, it looks like nothing I have ever seen before in a game. It moves 
 with brilliant pace. The sun rises and falls, and you catch yourself looking at the vistas, and 
 animals, and plant life. I can not say enough about the attention to detail. The only other game 
 that grabbed me with its attention to the small things was Oblivion. If you were impressed with 
 the way Oblivion looked when it first came out, this game has that quality. Visually, it just grabs 
 you.
  About the only qualm I have with the game, is the lack of weaponry. I like lots of guns in my shooters. 
 An FPS always has to pass my Perfect Dark 64 weapon test: Lots of guns, with multiple functions, 
 and great animations. This game passes 2 out of 3 for me. Crytek got the multiple function and 
 the great animation part right. The absolutely nailed the feel of shooting the guns as well. They 
 failed on the number of weapons though. There just aren't enough weapons in this game for me. 
 
  This game is a system hog as well. I can't bring myself to turn down the sliders to gain anymore 
 frames though. This game does scale well though so, they got that part right.
  The gameplay though, is, in a word, amazing. This game is an absolute blast. The story moves at 
 the right pace. The characters are great. The enemies are fun on any difficulty setting. Everything 
 about the gameplay just feels right. I am amazed at how well the game is solid blend of you being 
 to make your own path , and still moves you toward your objective. Most every task that Nomad (your 
 character) is assigned is up to you on how you want to complete it. You can blast your way through 
 like Yosemite Sam. You can go slow and use stealth. You can hijack a vehicle and speed past your 
 enemies. You can do what you want. The multiplayer is a lot of fun too. I can keep going and going, 
 but you should just go buy this game and enjoy the heck out of it over and over and over for yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardonacus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking for an outstanding First Person Shooter, instead, I found just another FPS. 
 It's a rather under achieving effort from the creators of Far Cry. It's very fun and it has moments 
 when if taken just a little bit farther, it might of been dazzling. The storyline for the game 
 is above average, but nothing really new. The Graphics are the games best feature, they are top 
 notch. Using DX10, really brings out the life in the game. The sound effects are average at best 
 and the controls are what you want them to be. I reconfigured a lot of the controls because I just 
 couldn't except where some of them were placed by the factory. I was really hoping that I could 
 make my own story on how I got to the end. But you still have to go here and remove this, then 
 go there and take care of that. 
  All in all it is a fun game and I guess that is what the bottom line is, it's just that if I could 
 of done the unusual or unexpected, and I still could of gotten to the end of the game, it would 
 of made it so much more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunken_munki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Right from the start you feel immersed into this gorgeous world that has been created for you to 
 blast through. Interaction with almost everything in front of you.
  
  Thrilling story, cut scenes that blend you from scene to scene. Great voice acting and animation, 
 this feels like something totally complete.
  
  Awesome gameplay plus the nano suit adds an extra dimension, it's good to see they tried to add 
 something new to the genre. However there isn't much else.
  
  I haven't given multiplayer mode a good going over yet, however from what I've played so far its 
 very tricky. It seems that in the new 'power struggle' game mode once a team gets the upper hand 
 and starts spawning with high power weapons its more or less finished for the losing team. I managed 
 to die non stop without doing much else for 30 mins. I was on the losing team. It seems everyone 
 else was just switching to the winning team and making it more imbalanced. I expect patching to 
 fix this.
  
  Currently no team deathmatch, and this seems like a massive oversight  seeing as this is the most 
 popular game mode seen in any other fps online.
  
  However, a good all rounded fps, fun to play even though it seems rather short.
  
  Shame the 
 RPG market hasn't received this kind of treatment. Call of duty 4, Gears of War, Crisis FPS heaven. 
 My money is on COD4 to be the best out of the bunch.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ugikogaru
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played through the whole game yet, but i didn't have to. This game is one of the best 
 fps's i've ever played. The graphics are unbelievable, and look best with up to date graphic cards. 
 This game is best played on the hardest, or normal difficulty. The guns are realistic, and the 
 sounds are superb. I really cant say anything bad about this game. It reminds me of the first time 
 i played halo combat evolved. Its just awesome. I recommend this to anyone who likes to play First 
 Person Shooters.
  
  There might be a few turn offs for other people in this game. It doesnt bother me, but other people 
 might not enjoy it. This is not the typical rush in and kill everyone game. If your gonna play, 
 have time to play. It takes awhile to complete missions if you dont want to die at all. 
  
  This game also requires atleast a 1.5g of ram and a nice graphic card to play. So for you people 
 out there with stock dells, or other computers. Dont waste your cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  OH MY GOD!!!!!!!!
  my advice, even if you cannot run this game on the higher graphic settings, play this game for 
 the fun's sake. I would still say that Bioshock is the best FPS ever, but this game is something 
 else. The only problem that I see in the game is that it is so easy even in normal difficulty, 
 and some scenes that could have been more realistic are left out. and by the way I think the game 
 should have been longer. 8 or 9 hours of Crysis is never enough! but if you get the huge level 
 design into account, the game's length would easily be forgiven
  I don't have anything else to say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aristonrr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Trying to avoid the hubbub surrounding Crysis is an exercise in futility. But now, after having 
 played through the single player campaign, the dust has settled enough for me to cast more than 
 a critical eye on this so-called "revolution" in FPS.
  
  First off: a revolution it's not. Not by a long shot. Sorting out the good, the bad and the ugly, 
 we have:
  
  The Good:
  Graphics are an eye-opener. Played it on very high under DX9, and the detail, lighting and texturing 
 is astounding (personal favourite: the winter landscape) . Sound is good. Ballistics are nicely 
 realistic. Having a limited ability to cloak and thus combine stealth play and action was fun all 
 the way through the game. Missions are diverse, combining the kind of open field of play similar 
 to Far Cry with linear run 'n' gun levels. Enemy AI is fine most of the time (also see "the bad") . 
 Thrilling, heart-pounding sequences. Impressive artistic design.
  
  The Bad:
  Tired setting, poor dialogue, been-there-done-that a million times. Come on: tough grunts battling 
 their way through aliens and hundreds of enemies while delivering forced, unfunny one-liners just 
 don't thrill me like they did when I was a wee lad of 13. The story has a poor ending (I know, 
 I know, there's gonna be two sequels, but that is no excuse for sloppy writing) . Enemy AI is godawful 
 at times. I can't count the number of times I saw Korean soldiers trying to walk through walls 
 while ignoring the fact that I'm tramping up behind them. Other glitches included a helicopter 
 I had to shoot down to complete an objective; problem was, the heli decided to fly to the highest 
 point overhead, making it impossible to hit. Sigh, groan, reload. The suit powers are so limited 
 most of them are well-nigh useless (like Maximum Strength and Maximum Speed) . Weapons are few and 
 far between. Enemies take what feels like a zillion hits before they finally drop (a head shot 
 will usually drop them on one, however) . Sometimes it is not clear why enemies can suddenly see 
 you (or, conversely, why they can't) . Mouse control is laggy and couldn't be configured to my satisfaction. 
 This is because Crysis "cheats" to achieve it's look: the game has a bad LOD system causing it 
 to reload details of objects right next to you when you turn their way. This ugly side-effect is 
 masked by a laggy mouse that is way too slow for my taste. Even turning off motion blur (an innovation 
 I truly despise) doesn't solve this.
  
  The Ugly:
  Nothing ugly here. Except maybe the scraps of newspaper flying around; those textures are of a 
 poor quality but not really to the detriment of your gaming experience. 
  
  Summary
  Crysis is a great game well worth playing. It is, however, not an instant classic, nor a revolution 
 in gaming. It just does what it does on a high level, improving on what its predecessors have done, 
 in some cases taking turns for the worse. Of course this is a personal, subjective view; still, 
 I prefer the wit, intelligence and professionalism in story-telling purveyed by the Bioshocks and 
 the Thiefs of the gaming world to the soulless, vapid  crap served 
 up by games like Crysis. Please, Crytek: get someone to write a REAL story for your next game, 
 so that the flash and bang in your impressive technology will amount to more than a stolid fart. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cactuar123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  All of us gamers know what a first person shooter is. You look at the point of view of the person 
 you are playing as, while aiming for the sweet feeling of blowing up heads. Crysis revitalizes, 
 reinvents, and defines the standard of "next gen" first person shooters. This game features you, 
 the protagnonist, who goes to an island and explodes North Koreans and aliens. Best plot ever. 
 I'm just kidding. It's much more elaborate, but we won't be seeing a Crysis 2, I'll tell you that 
 much. The graphics are.... FREAKIN AWESOME! But they do not come without a price. I already have 
 a pimped out, jacked to the limit computer, but for people who don't have these capabilities, this 
 is the only major part where Crysis goes wrong. Now, onto the great parts of it. This game has 
 a brand-new, super-sleek superhero suit that puts you in power! It has a list of abilities, such 
 as.. Super-strength, that allows you to jump to ridiculous heights, and my favorite part, choking 
 North Koreans, throwing them into a gas tank, shooting the gas tank, and blowing everything, trees, 
 animals, Koreans, you name it, it explodes. Speaking of blowing up animals and trees, this game 
 features, that's right, no carbon neutrality! So, what do you do after you finish the game on Delta, 
 you hardcore gamers out there? You play multiplayer! Like every other PC FPS in this gen! But this 
 time, unfortunately, no team deathmatch. But other than ridiculously high PC expectations, no team 
 deathmatch, and a couple comp crashes, this game, without a doubt, will fascinate gamers for years 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan1087
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Hello gamers read this briefing of Crysis and this will answer all your questions.... hopefully
 
  
  Crysis is by far the best PC gaming experience of this year...
  
  The graphics in this game just blows you away because of the many features that would be a dream 
 to have in a game for example the splash in the water when you shoot it or blow it up and the shadows, 
 its just like real life and this also makes you feel like your actually there fighting the battle. 
 This game also looks good in medium quality instead of high but I have not tried it in low but 
 I'm sure the quality would still be rather pleasing
  
  The different things you can do on this game is also quite incredible like the way you can pick 
 up objects to use as cover when your running and to throw the objects at the enemies. You can have 
 different mods for your suit starting with increase of speed which makes you go faster, increase 
 of strength which allows you to jump higher and do more damage to enemies, increase of armor which 
 allows you to heal yourself faster than the other abilities, stealth allows you to go invisible 
 for a short period of time and to finally be able to change things to do with your e. g. light on 
 gun, laser on gun and many more. You can also have the fun of driving vehicles and to be able to 
 use the guns on the car and over 5 possible seats to use while in a vehicle. Shooting at barrels 
 also cause them to explode like many other games, not a new feature but a fun feature.
  
  Also this game has a ver large map so you can either sneak round in the jungle, attack from the 
 beach and even swim or get a boat across, this features allows you to go different routes every 
 time so when you play you will never get bored because of the many different routes there is to 
 choose from.
  
  A nice feature or can also be quite a annoying feature is that on normal games the enemies normally 
 stand around and look lifeless and wait for you to attack them but where as on crysis they do stuff 
 while your not around and can spot you moving and can hear you moving.
  
  Crysis is only out on PC so if your into a bit of first person shooting then you would be crazy 
 not to try the demo for this, you can download the demo here at gamespot and you can get it for 
 free!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 15514500
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing hands down and the game itself is good, but it's not the greatest.
  First of all, if you want to witness the maximum potential of the game you're gonna need a killer 
 setup. For those of you who lack necessary hardware, don't even bother. When reviewers say you 
 need top of the line hardware, they mean it! This game isn't as fun when your computer is lagging 
 every two seconds, it will just frustrate the crap out of you.
  
  This game is unique in that not only do you need skill in shooting people as with any other first-person-shooter, 
 but you need skill with using the Suit. The suit features maximum strength, maximum armor, maximum 
 speed, and a cloaking device. The downside is, you can only be in one mode at a time and switching 
 between these modes can be very annoying. Yeah, I admit that the suit is a pretty cool idea, but 
 after time I realized that these features are comparable to any first person shooter game, with 
 custom configurations. Such as running with increasing speed, and increasing jump height, and even 
 adjusting strength. You could do this with just about any other shooter. The difference is they 
 have integrated these features into the default game. I mean what if you were to add this suit 
 feature to Half Life 2? Would it be a better game? Not really, because not only are there scripts 
 out there similar to the features of the suit, but it's a matter of if whether you like it or not. 
 What I am saying is, in Crysis you are forced to acquire skill with the suit whether you like it 
 or not. Therefore, I have to say that I am not impressed with the suit, although it is appealing 
 to the novice user.
  Another thing I would like to mention is, where's the team death match in multiplayer? Hopefully 
 they will add that in the future.
  Regardless of the cons that I have mentioned, this game has still introduced an impressive engine, 
 with superb graphics. Hopefully this inspires great mods to be made in the future, and this is 
 why I can conclude this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boda3000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Crysis is, without a doubt, the best PC game released this year. It just not excels in amazing 
 graphics as it does in advanced gameplay, great AI, gigantic maps... With so many great things, 
 it is actually difficult to say what makes Crysis the big game of the year. Let me cover each approach 
 from the game at a time.
  
  Let us start with the graphics. Naturally, you have seen some screens of it. If you have not, I 
 urge you to do it. Crysis at very high settings on those screenshots looks exceptionally great. 
 I have not actually tried, as my PC is not high-end. However, even running on medium, it still 
 looks great. In addition, facial animation is the most realistic I have ever seen. 
  
  Advanced gameplay is another aspect of Crysis. You can play Crysis in different ways: being the 
 Rambo of the jungle and killing everyone as crazy as you can get and, at the same time being the 
 stealthiest spy ever or the mad-for-headshots sniper. The game leaves you room for that with the 
 different powers of your nanosuit (strength, speed, cloak and armor) . You can play Crysis in various 
 ways you can imagine and this is revolutionary on the FPS world.
  
  The AI is one of the best I have seen on FPS games. They seem to think rather than act like programmed 
 robots who always hit you. They can actually hear you and, as stupid as it may seem this comment, 
 this is greatly realistic.
  
  The gigantic maps are what characterize Crysis as revolutionary in the FPS world. Think about your 
 last FPS game. On a regular FPS, you follow, even though it sometimes does not seem that way, a 
 prearranged route and you stick to that until the end of the game. Every time you play, does not 
 the game feel the same because of that? Well, on Crysis, it does not. You can take different paths 
 to reach your objective. On the first part of the game, for example, you can go by the beach or 
 go stealthily inside the jungle. The map is enormous on each part of the game and that leaves us 
 a lot of room to act and plan our strategy.
  
  Concluding, if you have a PC, you should at least try the Crysis demo. I consider Crysis to be 
 for the PC what Halo 3 is for the 360 or what Super Mario Galaxy is for the Wii. Crysis is a wonderful 
 experience and, if you consider yourself a PC gamer, get it, for it is a great game. I am sure 
 that you will not regret any dollar you spend on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamgrace
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Meh.....
  
  Was ok. Glad I didn't buy it (yet. played my flatmates version....)
  
  Ending was pants. 
  
  Really Anti-climatic. Like sitting through 5 hours of sexual intercourse 
 only to not realise you just came.
  
  The whole game was way too easy. Even on the hardest setting. 
  
  Always an abundance of ammo, 
 guns, nades, tanks etc to find and use. The nano suit turns the player into a predator-like immortal 
 badass. Turns gameplay into stealth, shoot, stealth, shoot.... rinse and repeat. Or, you can whack 
 on the speed boost and just run past everyone. May not be linier but its sure as shit dull.
 
  
  Physics were very good. No faulting there. Maps were far too vast, bit of a waste really.... I 
 recall the same feeling playing Project IGN.
  
  Far tooooooo system hungry. Minimum specs are such shite. Recommended specs are even more of a 
 joke. Youd need server level CPU/RAM power, and about eight 8800 GTXs strapped together 
 to get a frame rate of/or greater than 60 during any major fire fight or jungle battle.
  
  AI was clever. TOO CLEVER. They seemed to pretend not to know where you were, and accidentally 
 come across you every single goddamn time. Plus they were made of granite. Head shots only 
 killed with one bullet if they were unaware of your presence. If they knew you were there or they 
 could see you, their heads (and bodies) suddenly became 30% stronger. At one point I ran right 
 up to a guy and unloaded 2/3 of a pistol clip into his face and he proceeded to run away shouting 
 obscenities at me in Korean.
  Plus, there are at least 5 or 6 Koreans and US soldiers that seem to have been cloned. There's 
 a section where the player is on an aircraft carrier, and you walk past one guy who tells to where 
 to go and then 15 ft away is his doppelganger (they looked a bit like Rio Ferdinand =D) .... then 
 in another section is another one. Playing this area I must have seen 3-4 of the same character 
 models within a small section of the map. Seemed a touch rushed to me. Especially after hearing 
 that no two NPC's would look or act the same way in Crysis (lol, come to think of it I guess it 
 was a play on words. No two do, but 4-5 do...) . They must have taken that feature out in the end 
 version.
  
  Controlling vehicles was also disappointing. They ranged from extremely sensitive to slow and clunky. 
 Flying was a bit pants too. Felt too slow and there really wasnt much to it. I remember 
 seeing an interview where one of the developers was raving about the flying sections. Sections? 
 Section! One. And it lasts about 5 minutes, and thats because youre flying the equivalent 
 of a breeze block with thrusters. And guns. 
  
  The Aliens. Ha, the aliens.... what a load of sweaty balls. When youre inside the ship, 
 theyre as weak as a 10 year old girl. When theyre outside the ship in their armour, 
 theyre as weak as a 10 year old girl, wearing armour. 
  
  Makes me laugh. These aliens are apparently millions of years old and have massively advanced technology 
 etc, yet I could still beat them down with a f*cking shot gun.... one of the oldest weapons man 
 has.... hmmmmm.... 
  
  Anyway, I could go on and on, so I will. 
  
  Cut scenes. Where to begin. Ok, all cut scenes in game use the game engine (what the gameplay uses) 
 yet for some reason they run at 8fps, are out of synch by nearly a minute and generally look goddamn 
 awful. EA and Crytek need a swift kick to the side of the head for releasing this game in this 
 state. My PC that I paid a grand for can run it on high until a cut scene occurs, where it then 
 slips into a coma, vitals slowing gradually until game either hangs or the user quickly skips it 
 by pressing Space Bar and therefore missing the part of the story.
  
  LOL, the story. The Crysis story could quite easily be explained (in detail) in the cartoon section 
 of your local rag. The story (if you can even call it that) in a nut shell, consists of your character 
 landing on an inland populated by Koreans, your character then heads inland, into the alien ship, 
 out of the alien ship, off the island and the back to the island. During this time, you fight pockets 
 of Koreans scattered about the place, weak little aliens, bigger weak aliens, and robot aliens...... 
 edge of your seat kinda stuff. 
  
  I wont slam the game anymore as it is good, just not as great as Id hope a game thats 
 been in development for as long as this was. Shame. They seemed to focus some much on this crazy 
 game engine, and it is amazing if not a little too system hungry, and added the story as an afterthought.
 
  
  Ive yet to play multiplayer, but going on what Ive seen; engine, weapons, system 
 requirements etc Im going to pass until theres some substantial patches/fixes out 
 as I just dont think the games up to scratch in its current state. 
  
  Plus Call of Duty 4 just kicks its nano suit wearing punk ass....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjarrith123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  this game is just a genus work fom crytek and this beat evryone out of my list of top ten. it is 
 just woth it too buy 8800 series and a brand new computer
  if you need it. this is a game that is the most worth of buying a new computer i have ever play. 
 the top game of the millinum. i cant say anymore but gamespot wont let me so ill keep talking. 
 my point of wiew is like that if you dont have a good computer this game is not good but if you 
 wll buy 8800 series this is just the best game i have ever tested.
  just a GREAT game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thought_1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  The Master Chief is good, the Scientist is great. The Nomad walks alone.
  
  Scale. Everything about this game is epic. The levels, the scripted events and the main character. 
 The sandbox gameplay is absolutely fantastic.
  
  You must play past the demo level to really get a feel for this game!
  
  I often wondered why 
 so many games put you in the place of the avg. joe, and why so few throw you into the fray as a 
 total badass.
  
  Crysis is the latter as I often found myself thinking:
  
  'it doesnt matter, I have the suit'
  
  Tank?
  'it doesnt matter, I have the suit'
  
  
 Tons of troops?
  'it doesnt matter, I have the suit'
  
  Multiple Hinds?
  'it doesnt matter, I have the suit'
  
  At one point, there were about 8 enemies stalking me, 
 I was laying low by a fallen tree, they started to pass right over me, cloaked. It was so intense 
 as my cloak was slowly fading. One of the enemies looked right at me, I popped a Flashbang, switched 
 to speed and got the hell out of there.
  
  
  Before playing I read a review that stated 'the bar has been raised.'
  
  I laughed to myself 
 thinking that it wasnt possible, but its true:
  The Nomad walks alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawawaa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Wow what an amazing game. Yes its demanding on hardware but man is it worth? Yes. Graphics holy 
 crap, gameplay fun!, AI great but needs little tweaks, multiplayer its good. In time more gametypes 
 will be out and what the modding community will bring omg can't wait for that. This is the new 
 golden standard for shooters. With the modding you can do and it can also be improved with more 
 features being made by community... its hard to say this but Half Life being # 1 in mods better 
 watch out. Things that you can do and create wow... If your pc can handle it this is a must buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Buy this game NOW !!! This is the best piece of work out in 3 years of FPS mediocrity .Solid graphics, 
 great vehicles, weapons and finally a new game has arrived that is a blast to play. The familiarity 
 of FAR CRY is there but with a whole bunch of improvements. It looks and feels like the old game 
 .. but adds it's own signature to thisLegacy ?game . Fact is. whatever you call it I can not 
 stop playing it. The last time I ENJOYED a game this much goes back to GTA Vice City and Far Cry 
 in 2002-2003. This is truly a great game !Buy it, enjoy it and get on line with it !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smiley_vivi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Crysis simply put is one of the best first person's of all time. This game is revolutionary. Never 
 have I played a game more than once, but crysis did this for me. Theres so much stuff to do in 
 the game. So much interactivity in the world. This sets a new standard for fps games. Not only 
 is this game very immersive, it obviously looks amazing at the same time. The scenery just had 
 me looking at the screen. The best part is when the world freezes and you come out of the cave 
 to look beyond at the sky and just see everything. Simply breathtaking. Id give this a 9.8. I took 
 some 2 points off for the garbage ending. The game also streched on a little too long. I hate when 
 people complain about short games. This game was perfect. Wtf do you expect? A game to be 30 hours. 
 
  
  All in all if this game doesnt win game of the year..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balata
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  I am not really into FPS games, but from time to time I play some shooter games. From the first 
 step in Crysis I was hooked and stunned by the amazing graphic. Nothing comes close to its detail 
 level. Together with a great story and exceptional variations this game will get the GOYA. The 
 game also offer something that really make your person shine and the game cooler than anything 
 else; The Nano Suite. The only negative aspect is the spec needed. The game needs a true power 
 machine with the newest and most expensive processors and graphic cards. It does work with lower 
 spec PC and still looking good, but if you have muscle-machine you are in for a treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiredDreemz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Crysis has every thing you could want in a game. A certain amount of replayability, gorgeous graphics 
 that will bring any gaming behemoth crumbling to its knees, and gameplay that is truly indulging. 
 You actually feel guilty playing the game! Crysis proves that Far Cry was no fluke. Crytek has 
 top quality game development down to the T, and I can't wait to see what is set to replace Crysis 
 in the future. This is a game that should definitely be considered the yardstick for every other 
 FPS that is to come. It will take a helluva lot to knock Crysis from the podium, and it is a game 
 I know will age with a huge amount of grace, exactly like Far Cry did. If you are going to buy 
 only one FPS game this Xmas, make sure it's Crysis (as long as of course you have the PC power 
 to back the game) ! According to reviews, even 8800GTXs in SLI mode couldn't manage the game in 
 top resolution with ultra settings, so that proves how amazing the graphics are. If anything, sometime 
 you won't believe you are looking at a game as often you'll be wowed by the photorealism of the 
 eye candy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  I loved Far Cry. It was a given that I'd pick up this game. I'm not disappointed by any means. 
 Like Far Cry, Crysis can't be played with the rush in with guns ablazing, but stealth plays a huge 
 factor in your survival.
  
  Graphics are excellent of course. We've all read how great they are. They'll be fantastic for a 
 couple of years, when you can finally max them out with an affordable graphics card. For now they 
 still look great on a lower resolution and medium settings. Sound is excellent, and really makes 
 for an immersive experience. The abilty to swap out different mods for the weapons is a nice touch. 
 I like being able to switch to a single fire mode with the sniper scope, to conserve ammo.
  
  I've experienced a few game crashes due to memory leaks that was easily rectified with a system 
 re-boot.
  
  I find the game quite open, I've avoided battles by sneaking around them, only to go back and do 
 the fight anyway. I've taken cover under a pile of dead bodies that I'd racked up from sniping 
 them from a hill, and then picked off their buddies when they came looking for me.
  
  Fun game, but I think a patch may be needed for some minor performance issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borisyankov
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Crysis contains of two different games. Yep, you've heard it here first!
  
  The first one is very fun and consist of the first part of the game. The great AI, the right difficulty, 
 the different ways you can approach your goals makes this part top notch.
  
  The second part begins when you enter the ship. Still the game is good, but definitely not as enjoyable. 
 The gameplay in the ship itself is (intentionally) confusing and strange. Cool, but not really 
 fun. Then you get out there follows some more conventional action, but still not at the level of 
 enjoyment of the first half.
  
  I am waiting for MODs so I can play again in the jungle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KickAssDude2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  Graphics go with out saying are amazing (although I'm looking forward to affording a machine that 
 can max them out)
  
  Gameplay and opponent AI are really good keep shooting someone and then cloaking the enemy will 
 eventually start shoot blind or lobbing granades at you.
  
  Sound is amazing. I've actually heard an enemy approach due to them stepping on a twig (or some 
 sort of noisy surface) 
  I
  'm rating this as a single player game as I haven't gotten into the multiplayer side of things 
 yet. (due to the brilliant storyline)
  Longevity shouldn't be a problem due to the multiplayer but still to be verified. 
  
  One word 
 of warning, If you're not sure if your PC/Graphic Card can handle Crysis, then it probably can't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Causticspit
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  My machine is quite up to date, but it's not cutting edge by any means...
  
  AMD x2 6000+
  4GB RAM 800mHz (Corsair)
  two 8800 GTS OC 320MB in SLI
  
  Running the game 
 on medium settings.
  
  I am running Vista Ultimate so get DX10.
  
  Game looks wonderful, and I have loved every minute of it, but I am amazed that after upgrading 
 my rig to cope with it, I can only run the game effectively on Medium settings. I know that my 
 4GB of RAM can't be full used and does improve the game play, but even without that factor I do 
 have a reasonable system and yet it is only just taking advantage of the DX10 shaders. 
  
  Otherwise I love this game so far.
  
  I completely disagree with the negative views which have 
 followed the praise for this game. It does require a very powerful PC and if you have the required 
 hardware the experience is obviously tremendous. 
  
  The environments are very free roaming and not as linear as the original Far Cry game. It has all 
 the immersive qualities of FEAR and the wonderful map sizes of BF2. I think I am more into the 
 Story Telling of HL2 and it's Episodic process, but that aside I am very very impressed with this 
 game.
  
  Thank you for making it Crytek :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horrowhip
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I came in expecting a lot. The literal flagship title for the PC this year. Now, the game speaks 
 for itself graphically so I won't even bother talking about that. 
  The gameplay is fantastic, definitely the best in a very long time. You have a plethora of choices 
 at your disposal from the weapon customizations, to the nanosuit, to the path you take to complete 
 your objectives. This game literally lets you play the game how you want to. Want a stealth game, 
 put on a silencer, turn on your cloak and stick to the bushes. Want some run and gun action, go 
 full auto and fill those Koreans with lead. Want to mess around? Turn on cloak and walk up, grab 
 a chicken then chuck it at a Korean. You have choices.
  The gunplay feels refreshing and difficult all at the same time. The guns have recoil so you need 
 to plan for that. Koreans wear Kevlar, so shooting them in the chest with a silencer on won't make 
 them easy to kill. The game has fantastic ballistics, bullets lose velocity the further they travel. 
 Makes you want to plan out your attacks accordingly. The levels have a variety of weapons laying 
 around so you can switch out your strategies on the move. Makes for a diverse, fun experience.
 
  
  The story is great. Very believable, and compelling. Voice acting also helps and this game has 
 some of the best in a long time. Without spoiling anything, this game has a lot of intense moments. 
 The only downside is the cliffhanger ending. Upside to that is, I am ready for a sequel.
  
  Some of the later levels get really difficult and you really need to work hard to overcome some 
 of the enemies. They always move in large packs of enemies so plan accordingly and be prepared 
 for some tough battles. Also, be aware of your surroundings. Shoot gas tanks to blow enemies up, 
 use foliage for cover, knock down buildings to kill enemies. Use your terrain and environment to 
 your advantage. This constant give and take with the environment is also a great example of how 
 the game engine effects the gameplay by allowing important gameplay consequences from the environment.
 
  
  This is an instant classic in my opinion and definitely the best game I have played this year.
 
  I've spent over 20 hours on the SP Game and about 60 on the MP, beta included. 
  PS - Power Struggle is the most entertaining MP mode in a long time. For C&C: Renegade vets, Power 
 Struggle is a mode you will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: te22a
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  First off - upgrade your system. There really is no point in paying for Crysis when you can barely 
 run it on your 4 year old system. This game warrents the upgrade - and believe me - it's well worth 
 it.
  
  OK, so we all know the graphics is what hyped the game - but what about gameplay? Fortunately the 
 gameplay is amazing and totally immersive. The missions are varied, and the way in which you can 
 approach each mission is endless. You can choose the right weapon for the job, and the nanosuit 
 plays a huge part in the success or failure of each mission.
  
  The thing I liked about Crysis is that it pays hommage to every sci-fi action movie out there, 
 and it does it tastefully without coming off cliche'd or sloppy. There's a little bit of Aliens 
 mixed with a dash of Predator and even Terminator. Plus, the alien technology and weapons are slightly 
 similar to something out of War of the Worlds. So there's a lot of meat and bones in here for fans 
 of the genre as well as die hard gamers.
  
  The sound design is as good as any blockbuster movie you'd see these days, and the presentation 
 from Crytek is polished and appears to be totally bug free. 
  
  But like all games, there are flaws, and the only gripe I found with Crysis was the AI can be a 
 little dumb at times, and unrealistic in their approach. But if it was "too real" then it probably 
 wouldn't be as much fun now would it?
  
  Crysis is an amazing game and really does usher in a new standard for PC gaming that every game 
 development company will be desperately trying to match - both with graphics and gameplay. 
  
  Quite simply the best PC shooter ever to date. The future is here.
  
  Highly recommended 
 - but remember to UPGRADE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to Crysis for almost a year now it looked amazing graphically however 
 gameplay was still something I wasn't sure they were going to be able to pull off.
  
  So I downloaded the demo the second it was released to see if the game was worth it... The single 
 player demo was incredible and the Sandbox 2 editor was an absolute bonus as well for a free demo 
 it was superb in every way. I went into the demo with extremely high expectations and it exceeded 
 them.
  
  So After buying Crysis beating the single player campaign and trying multiplayer for 20 odd hours 
 I came to this conclusion.
  
  The Game is by far the best shooter I have ever played
  
  The story line was interesting even though the whole Alien thing was spoiled by trailers.
  
 
  The Graphics were superb I'm running on Ultra High Settings under DX10 and it ran flawlessly, 
 highly optimized. The game made me stop and admire the graphical work of the forests, alien structures, 
 the vast plains, the tropical beach paradise. It all looked so amazing and it still amazes me.
 
  
  The Gameplay was of course the thing that hooked me the most. graphics are a nice bonus but gameplay 
 makes or breaks games... The Gameplay was excellent the Nano suit is awesome perfect for every 
 situation. Speed to get the hell outa there. Strength for Hitting harder, Throwing Farther, Aiming 
 Steadier. Cloak for the silent kills. and Armor for the run and gun moments. The weapon customization 
 worked well in conjunction with the nano suit. Silencer, Reflex Sight, Assault Scope, Sniper Scope, 
 Laser Pointer, Grenade Launcher, Tactical Tranquilizers, Incendiary Ammo. it all works so well 
 and in real time. Many people complain about the lack of an auto aim... I thought this was a welcome 
 addition to the game to create realism, Guns do no always hit when pointed at a Target do to weapon 
 inertia and Recoil. you almost always have to use the sights on your weapon instead of shooting 
 from the hip. Its a difficult thing to adjust to after playing games such as Halo where every round 
 hits a target when pointed at it but Kills are definitely more rewarding. Vehicles handle smoothly 
 but take damage easily you vehicles have a damage meter rather than relying on your own armor to 
 try to survive shots. There are few types of weapons but each weapon feels balanced. (SCAR, FY71, 
 SOCOM, SHOTGUN, DSG, MPX8, GAUSS RIFLE, MOAR, MOAC, LAW, TAC CANNON, MINI GUN) Overall The gameplay 
 is superb and lifted any doubts I had of weather or not the graphics would match the gameplay.
 
  
  The sound in Crysis is immersive and feels right for the situations you become involved in. Explosions 
 are LOUD. The Forest has a very realistic Ambiance. the guns are loud (unless suppressed) . everything 
 just feels right. The Music is amazing as well and really comes in at the right time making the 
 overall game feel much more Epic.
  
  The Physics add a whole new way to have fun. after clearing out villages you can break EVERYTHING 
 and shoot down trees in segments. the enemies have very satisfying death patterns. A guy who is 
 shot running trips over himself and face plants into the ground, a guy who is thrown looses all 
 control of his body and becomes a deadly projectile. enemies who are gunned down by light weaponry 
 fall over gracefully, vehicle's explode and become flaming wreckage, or you can shoot the tires 
 out which actually effects the vehicles performance, even shoot the engine to stall it, shoot the 
 gas tank to catch on fire. You can collapse houses on your enemies. Place C4 on bridges and hide 
 and wait in the forest for cover for enemy convoys to come, blow the C4, the bridge falls with 
 the first vehicles, the others steering out of control to avoid the bridge, then you snipe the 
 drivers in the back of the convoy, you have a perfect ambush. It all adds a new level on interactivity 
 with the environment giving you unique ways to take out your enemy.
  
  The Single Player is the most epic campaign I've ever played. on easy its about 12 hours for an 
 inexperienced player, and on harder difficulties it can be much longer. The first levels are Sandbox 
 style and allow you to chose your path to your objective whether it be taking out an enemy camp 
 on the way or avoiding the camp and vanishing into the forest. Enemies are not stupid. they will 
 flush you out with grenades and use cover effectively. The final half of the game is a true first 
 person shooter style linear level design and is still entertaining and challenging. The battles 
 are large scale and are absolutely breathtaking. The single player has high replayablity and I 
 see myself tackling it over and over just to try different styles and paths to choose from.
  
  The Multiplayer is exceptional. You would think nano suits would be over powered however they 
 are not. battles are extremely faced paced. Power Struggle feels like a Counterstrike/Battle Field 
 2 Hybrid, and Instant action feels like a much more fast paced Halo rumble pit. Both modes are 
 fun to play and can entertain you for hours on end.
  
  Overall the game is a masterpiece the best graphics I have ever seen, the best first person shooter 
 I have ever played... This game wins my vote for Game of the Year over Bioshock, Call of Duty 4, 
 The Orange Box, Halo 3, and Assassin's Creed. I definitely got my $50 worth
  
  Crysis is just remarkable. This is a game that pushes the envelope in terms of both technology 
 and gameplay and does so with aplomb. Crysis raises the expectations for every shooter to follow 
 when it comes to graphics, interactivity, environments, immersiveness, AI, and gameplay. Quite 
 simply, Crysis represents the first-person shooter at its finest, most evolved form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amanofthesheep
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Yup it is the best looking games EVER, it makes bioshock look positivly dated in comparison. Particular 
 highlights are the detail in the jungle foliage, the character models, explosions, just about all 
 the textures and all on my meek 7600GT. The cutscenes are jawdropping, both in thier cinematics 
 and their animation.
  Some have said it has an ineffciant engine, but at 1024x768 with med/high settings, it still plays 
 at a bearable framerate. In larger areas (where you can see for miles around) , I had to drop the 
 res a bit, but thats understandable as the amount of detail you can see even at 200m is incredible. 
 If you where impressed with Oblivions views off the Jeral mountains, this will leave you speachless. 
 Also this will have massive replay value when I upgrade, as I havent even seen the games at high 
 settings, and I'm really looking forward to it. The sound, although nothing of an impact as the 
 graphics, are all spot on, with good voice acting, gun effects, general ambiance noise, and just 
 about anything you do will cue the apropriate sound, just like in real life.
  
  The gameplay feels quite similar to halo in many ways, as well as far cry and COD. The guns feel 
 very realistic and can be quite hard to get the hang of, even for a counter-strike fan such as 
 myself. But the game is so imersive (with the exception of the koreans speaking English) that you 
 will find yourself fighting for your life as if it were real, so you will become more proficient 
 with each weapon quite quickly, especially when you are thrown in the deep-end with 8 koreans hunting 
 you down. You can approach each situation anywa you wish, but I prefer storming in and hiding behind 
 cover while taking down each enemy. This is opposed to the other obvious choice of taking the stealthy 
 approach, which can be tricky as the enemys spook easily and will alert every guard in proximity 
 of your presence. The veichles are useful in some situations, but I found myself wanting to go 
 by foot most of the time, as the controls are quite clumsy and unsatisfying (in a similar fashion 
 to far cry) . The A. I is generally very good, with enemys using cover, dodging bullets, attacking 
 in groups, but you can find small loop-holes in thier intelligence such as approching them at speed 
 and gunning them down from about 2m away before they pluch up courage to attack you back. Overall 
 im impressed with the way the game handles, abielt some minor niggles, but you tend to forget them 
 easily as you get sucked into the world so much. 
  
  The story is good (although the ending is a let down apprently) with great cutscenes and sequences 
 that give you the general jist of whats happening, and you actually care about your allies such 
 as Pshyco and Jester ; (. When the games switchs to sci-fi mode, theres is an essence of many popular 
 films including the Matrix, War of the Worlds and Alien, and the games can be a little unnearving 
 at times. I havent finished it yet, as I'm in the Alien ship floating arounds gawping the shader 
 effects used, so I cant comment on the ending.
  
  So far I'm loving it immensly. The graphics are a huge jump forward (and can only get better when 
 I upgrade my PC) and the gameplay is extremly immersive. This title is easily on par with my favorite 
 shooters and Sci-fi such as Halo, Far Cry, Metroid Prime and CSS. Only had it so far two days, 
 so I havent tryed the multiplayer yet, but even if there was no multiplay I would still think this 
 game is the nuts.
  
  If you have a fairly good PC, there is no doubt that you should get this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofan-11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  crysis is probably one of the best FPS's i have ever played. the graphics, the gameplay, the AI 
 is the best ive ever seen, and the physics are awesome. the story is very suspensful and pretty 
 creepy as well. im not saying that there arent any drawbacks though. levels are basically linear, 
 but VERY big. so each time you play, its a whole different experience. im not too mad about it 
 though. it would have been really complicated if not. **WARNING** you need one of the best computers 
 on the market to run this baby on ultra high. but high settings and medium settings both make this 
 the best looking game ive seen. i really like the weapons customization and the nanosuit abilities. 
 i think both of these factors played a very big role in the success of crysis. wanna sneak up on 
 a guy and hit him with your gun? or do you want to storm in and boost your strength and brake his 
 trachea with your bare hands? "its all up to you" and i really like that about this game. but..... like 
 any other brand new game thats released too early, there are going to be lots of patches (i predict) . 
 the multiplayer could have been given a little work. but with everybody making their own maps and 
 their own mods who knows what crysis is capable of! many people say they are disappointed with 
 the story line. i believe that the first game in a trilogy isnt going to be as striking as the 
 next. im really excited to play crysis 2 after having played crysis. its okay if you have a bad 
 computer. i still recommend getting it. there are going to be so many mods in the future (i think 
 they are even making a WW2 mod) so for all those WW2 lovers out there, GET THIS GAME! that said, 
 i just need to point out something that was said in someone else's review. "Crysis on the other 
 hand, makes you wade through a JUNGLE ALL DAY AND NIGHT and forces you to fight the same exact 
 way that far cry is. IT SUCKS. I'm fed up. The guys at crytek need to stay far away from a computer 
 and stop outputting CRAP. Cause thats all they make is crap." okay....... not like im a fanboy for 
 crysis or anything. but based on neutral speculation on both games (which i own) id have to say 
 that crysis beats cod4 in graphics, gameplay, and storyline. cod4 is just like any other cod. extremely 
 linear and uninventive. sure i really like cod4.... but fanboys really piss me off. crysis is not 
 "overrated" at all. crytek deserves more than just a pat on the back people. crysis - 9.5 cod4 
 - 9.0 (you do the math) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverbullet198
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  First off, I don't have the best rig for it, im running
  Windows xp
  2x geforce 7600s
  3700+ processor
  2GB ram
  
  So I was not surprised when I couldn't play it on full, but as 
 Crytek happily boasted about is that it can play 2 year old machines, mines not even a year old 
 yet and I was pushing to play it on a res of 800x600 with low-medium settings. but that was not 
 disappointing because it still looked great.
  
  The biggest let down for me was the fact a lot of promised content was not in the game.. I mean 
 I was lead to believe that you eventually sided with the Koreans and depending on how you delt 
 with them before hand depended on how much help you got i. e. if you went around killing them all 
 you got very little help.
  There was suppose to be time of day simulated on it? Im sorry but letting the time of day change 
 after a loading screen is not good enough as from what they where portraying it was to have full 
 day and night cycle.
  
  The footage from most of the trailers where not even included in the game, so I found my self disappointed 
 when I never came across a promised tidal wave in the game. One particular trailer showed your 
 character being dropped off at the edge of the ice sphere, and you then proceeded to walk into 
 the changing environment, that never happened.
  
  Above all I think the game was highly over rated, it delivered far less of which was promised, 
 and of course the ending left me wondering why I bought the darn thing.
  
  But after all the bad points ive mentioned, I can't knock the overall single player experience 
 as it was fantastic, I was just a little disappointed in it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Breakout in Graphical Technology. Somewhat Destructible environment. Nano Suit Functions are 
 cool and fun. A. I. s are smart and they actually think. 
  
  Cons: Almost no computer right now can handle this game at it's fullest potential. The game is 
 too one dimensional, just plain gunning and running. Way too similar to far cry. Does not have 
 the humor that far cry had. 
  
  I wish they would have added some role playing into this game like Deus Ex did. If you played Far 
 Cry before you would not be blown away by the game play.
  Overall, this is a satisfying game. You can beat objectives in many different ways from using stealth 
 mde and sneak around or go on a absoluterampage with maximum armor mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, ground breaking visuals, state of the art gameplay, multipath mission completion 
 (on most levels) and the replayability to go with it, and excellent sound. 
  
  What 's not to like? Glad you asked! It looks like CryTek built the Cry 2 engine and future proofed 
 it by building in a horrendous level of GFX advances and capability. Should mean plenty of engine 
 licenses for CryTek in the next 12-18 months, licenses that competing 3D engines won't get. What's 
 that mean for the Crysis  about running the GFX high enough to get 
 the quality of video present in many of the prerelease videos. There just isn't any reasonably 
 available consumer computer kit that can display that good of GFX at much more than still frame 
 rates. 
  
  Do I really need to tell you Crysis is probably Game of the Year? Didn't think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryram32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is no slouch when it comes to graphics and imersive game play. The story line isn't too 
 bad either. Keep in mind that unless you have a fairly up to date system, or have the cash to upgrade 
 yours, this game will not run well. My specs are as follows: 2.2 gig Athlon 64 4200x2, 3 gigs of 
 ddr 400 ram, A-Bit KN8-SLI motherboard, 2 geforce 8600gt cards in SLI, 550 watt X-connect 2 power 
 supply, 820 gigs of hard drive space, a dvd-rw drive and a dvd cd-rw drive, and windows vista home 
 premium 32 bit in an Antec Nine Hundred case. I also installed all of Nvidia's recommended hotfixes 
 and the beta driver for my video cards. I have half of the settings set at medium and the other 
 half set at high. My monitor is a 22" Benq with 1680 by 1050 resolution but I am playing the game 
 at 1280 by 768. With these settings it looks quite good and plays smoothly. I am considering upgrading 
 in the future to the new 8800gt cards but mine are fine for now. With that out of the way lets 
 get back to game play. The jungle scenery looks spectacular. You can shoot a palm tree and watch 
 it fall over. The graphics are that good. Everything pretty much behaves as it would in real life. 
 If you hit the gas can on a jeep it will blow up. Something to keep in mind if you have enemy KPA 
 standing around a jeep. I am a big fan of FPS games and since F. E. A. R. there just hasn't been anything 
 quite like this. This game succeeds where F. E. A. R., Half Life and Far Cry failed and that is with 
 graphics so realistic you just get swept up into the game and lose all track of time. Don't get 
 me wrong those three all great games but this one really rises above and beyond. In my opinion 
 it lives up to the hype. I'm glad I upgraded for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invictuslemming
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  After playing the Crysis campaign through and having had a few days at the multi player I'd have 
 to say this game satisfies all my expectations. Had I been asked the same question a few days earlier, 
 when i was still working on the Single player my response might have been more negative.
  
  I'll break this review down into three sections, hardware, Single player and Multi player.
  
 
  Hardware Requirements:
  My hardware: 8800GTS 640mb, 2GB-6400 Ram, Core2Duo e6600 (2.4Ghz)
  
  This game is a beast to say the least. If you like running your games at the highest settings 
 like me, you'll be in for a surprise. 
  The game defaulted to all high settings for me, with Anti Aliasing turned off. I bumped the AA 
 up to 2x, just to get a little nicer of a picture while playing campaign mode. Overall the game 
 worked fine, but there were some hectic moments (the last encounter especially) where this game 
 brought my system to its knees. In these rare sections I had to turn the AA off and cut a few of 
 the settings down to medium to get acceptable, playable frame rates.
  Overall with all high settings and 2xAA i was averaging 30fps. Not great, but more than playable 
 as long as your not playing online against other humans. In multi player you'll probably opt to 
 drop the settings a bit further like I did.
  
  Single Player Campaign:
  
  This section is where i may differ from other people but honestly, starting out the game was interesting. 
 Learning to use the exosuit to augment your tactics was fun, and being able to approach each situation 
 however you want, either Rambo style, or Metal Gear style was a true bonus.
  The problem... This gets boring, really fast, there's not much change through about 70% of the 
 campaign, you're going to complete numerous infiltrate, attack, destroy missions, you'll pickup 
 on the AI tactics pretty quick and they become way too predictable, eventually you're probably 
 going to get very impatient like I did. You'll even say what I said "Where are the aliens???". 
 
  Well, the good news is, they do show up eventually, and the better news is, this is where the game 
 gets awesome, and I mean really awesome. I can't remember when I had so much fun in an FPS, its 
 been a really long time. I don't want to ruin it for anyone who hasn't played yet, but this last 
 part of the campaign definitely raised the bar for FPS games in the future. Trust me, you'll enjoy 
 it.
  
  Multi Player:
  
  As a player who once tried Far Cry online, I definitely wasn't expecting much at all from the multi 
 player from Crysis. It definitely wasn't the reason I bought the game. Thankfully I was greatly 
 surprised, if you're a fan of the battlefield series, you'll see allot of similarities here. While 
 maybe not quite as in depth as Battlefield, there are vehicles in the game, they serve their purpose 
 and seem to be well balanced. Nothing seems overpowered, but the bigger weapons pack the punch 
 they should.
  
  The fact that every player has their own exosuit means there is absolutely no safe place to hide. 
 If you think you have a fire escape covered, think again when a player just pops his strength augmentation 
 and jumps onto the roof from behind.
  
  If you like objective based games, you'll probably like the Power Struggle mode, which is very 
 similar to the Battlefield 2142 Titan based Conquest maps... Capture strategic points, hold them 
 to get weapons to weaken the enemy base... Then of course, blow up the enemy base. 
  
  The other multi player mode is Instant Action, this is a straight up death match which becomes 
 extremely hectic when playing on a 32 player server, If you want to work on your pistol or melee 
 skills, or just want to wreak havoc on people, this is the place for you.
  
  Unfortunately those are the only modes I'm aware of, but at least they are entertaining, maybe 
 Crytek will add some more in a later patch.
  
  Summary:
  
  Hardware - Its going to bring your system to its knees unless you have the latest and greatest 
 hardware. My system was playable on all high settings and 2xAA (at 30FPS ) . For Multi player i 
 reduced half the settings to medium to ensure I wouldn't be hindered by slowdowns.
  
  Single player - Repetitive at the start, can get boring. Ramps up extremely fast about 70% through 
 when you finally meet your new enemies. The ending is very reminiscent of a game I once played: 
 Battle Clash (SNES) with the Super scope. Overall the campaign is rewarding, it just takes a while 
 to get there.
  
  Multi player - Still playing it, it can get addictive and is a welcome surprise. Power Struggle 
 and Instant Action are fun, hopefully they will expand this to a Team Death match and maybe a few 
 others in the future.
  
  If your system can handle it, buy this game you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingboard
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I've been following this game since it was announced and I was worried that gameplay would suffer 
 since they were focusing so much on visuals. Luckily I was severely wrong. A lot of the gameplay 
 styles itself after FarCry in the sense that you have multiple ways of attacking each situation. 
 The nanosuit adds even more depth to this since you can go in stealthed and eliminate the enemy 
 without them knowing you're there or turn on armor and start mowing them down. The A. I. is good 
 at tracking your movement and flushing you out of cover. Sometimes you'll blow a guy's head off 
 with silenced shot and the guy next to him won't notice but that only happened a couple of times. 
 That story is much better than FarCry. Voice acting is very good and the character animation makes 
 them seem alive. Each chapter in the game got better and better. I did run into a couple of glitches 
 while playing. One time in the Core level a door forgot to open and I was stuck until I realized 
 this and reloaded a previous save. A couple of times some objects were floating as if the physics 
 hadn't kicked in on them. As soon as I shot them they would instantly fall from the sky. In the 
 cave level there was a weird light with a glow around it that followed me around. It ended up being 
 a light from somewhere else in the level that was clipping through the environment. Occasionally 
 there would be helicopter exhaust emitting from a random place in the sky with no helicopter to 
 be seen. A lot of people are hesitant to buy this game because they don't think they can run it 
 maxed out so what would be the point. My computer is 5-6 years old and even though I had to play 
 with everything on low it still looked amazing and I got a solid frame rate with only a few slowdowns 
 during heavy particle effects. Buy this game now and play through it then do it again when you 
 get a better computer. Its worth playing through a few times just for the cinematic events that 
 happen throughout this incredible game. Crytek has created a masterpiece. Don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw0rdsMan_00
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  When I first find out about Crysis I was so anxious that I couldn't wait to actually play the game. 
 
  That time finally came and I must tell you:
  - Thrilled by graphics and... NOT so thrilled about gameplay!
  The environment it's fantastic, 
 the ideea itself, the alien invaders, the alien ships... oou and the SUIT: the suit it's awesome 
 [Cloak engageD] .
  
  You begin the game with a nasty fall, shoot a bunch [a lot!] of korean people [no offense] , customize 
 your weapon then customize enemy weapons ;) [ 'cause you're out of ammo] , and when you get a break 
 U simply STOP and admire the jungle. After that you proceed to next level: shooting hi-tech aliens. 
 And folks that's it, period! I'm not telling you anything about how it ends - I leave that surprise 
 to all of U who will grant Crysis aprox. 10 hrs of gameplay [then you'll feel just like me] . I've 
 finished the game in 8hrs and 48minutes - sorry about my lack of modesty :)
  
  I don't know what you expected from Crysis, but I'm a FarCry fan [I still play that game] and I 
 was hoping that Crysis will override my FarCry needs. 
  Well IT DIDN'T! 
  I sure wanted more! I guess that EA has something to do with that.
  
  I'm looking forward to 
 play FarCry 2 [though I'm not so anxious as I was about Crysis] . And this time I hope that Ubisoft 
 will 'back up' this game.
  
  My rating: 8.0 [eight point zero]
  
  Better luck next time EA!
  
  Hail!
  Peace and Pleasure my brethren
  CJ aka Sw0rdsMan :)
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R4ptor_
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Firstly, this game will challenge your hardware more than it can handle... guaranteed. Good thing 
 then that it still looks better than anything else out there if you set everything to the 2nd highest 
 setting (i. e. high) . At this setting you can do 1680x1050 on a 8800GTX and get  30fps all the time 
 easily. Throw in another 8800GTX in SLI and you can get the full jaw-dropping experience with all 
 settings on very high, 1680x1050, same fps. 
  
  Of course, it's better imo to just hack XP for very high settings which looks 99% as good as Vista's 
 DX10, but then I'm getting  40fps @ 1680x1050.
  
  The gameplay is as unique as you can get for a FPS with the non-linear levels and nanosuit combining 
 to really give you an unlimited amount of options on how you're going to approach and execute a 
 mission. You'll prob pick one of the nanosuit functions and become a real master at applying it 
 to get things done, absolutely freakin great.
  
  Sound is as immersive as you can wish for, really feel like you're in a jungle with some hollywood 
 summer blockbuster soundtrack in the background. The voice acting and weapon noises are similar 
 to those of Far Cry, which works for me.
  
  All in all this game is a monster and confirms the fact that high-end PC gaming is so superior 
 to consoles it's laughable. I have a PS3 and enjoys it, my best friend is a X360 and Halo fanboy 
 and I agree it's fun, but Crysis on a high-end rig with mouse and keyboard is in a totally different 
 league.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Hmm .. Crysis .. What can I say about the game that has everything. But how ever, I will try to 
 describe to you how excellent this game really is.
  
  The year is 2020. You are a marine in USA army and you are sent somewhere to the Pacific to find 
 out what North Koreans are doing there. Of course you will find out that they are not alone, there 
 are some aliens and that is the only thing I don't like in first-person shooters.
  Because the year is 2020, US army have some hi-tech weapons which will help you to survive your 
 way through the jungle on the island. What is interesting, is that, you are not some kind of machine 
 soldier, you are ordinary man in nanosuit. This suit have five great abilities; to increase your 
 speed, strength and armor, to make you invisible and to upgrade your weapon. Now let me tell you 
 something about visual things in this game.
  
  Graphic and physic in this game is something that is revolutionary thing in games so far. Environment, 
 water, trees, rocks, cars, men ... all of that is absolutely excellent. Horizon won't appear when 
 you are getting closer, it's already there. But something that really kept me in the chair is physic 
 in the game. When you kill the enemy, he won't JUST fall down, he will fall down with "style"; 
 when you shoot in tires of a moving car, they will explode and car will lose control; in palm tree, 
 it will fall; in wood box, it will smash etc. Physic is that what describes this game.
  Of course, appropriate sound is backing up this game. In everything that you shoot, it will make 
 a unique sound.
  
  That's about it what I can say and you need to know about this game, and believe me, if you had 
 any doubts about this game, DON'T. For the ones who love first-person shooter, they will be thrilled. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamstmx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  One word, AMAZING.... never has a game had so much detail and freedom, but on such a scale while 
 never complicates things. You always know what you have to be doing with clear objectives but they 
 leave the way you go about it totally up to you. 
  When you think the game cant get any better, it does, and it just rubs any competitions face in 
 it. One second ur blasting out the back of a dropship at aliens when suddenly you need to take 
 control of the ship and guide it through tornadoes while trying to avoid a frozen storm while all 
 the time being blown away by the games visuals!
  The game is stupidly addictive, and you simply cant put it down until its done, you can finish 
 the campaign on Delta mode in just over 10 hours or so, but thats some serious good going with 
 not much exploring and deviations. If you wanted to do all sub missions, explore eis base and encampment 
 this game would take way more than 30 hours, and for a game with this much detail, thats just crazy.
 
  Visually is where this game stands far from the crowd, the vistas are just mind blowing making 
 you feel like youve been thrown into a Rambo movie crossed with LOST. Tearing through the jungle 
 with helicopters hot on your tail, bursting out into a river, jumping into a speed boat and blasting 
 down the rivers, jumping off waterfalls and power diving into deep pools to save ur hide just makes 
 all competition seem week and scripted. This is where the games at, and takes all the good bits 
 from Far Cry and mixes in some of the best bits from the best actions films and forms more of an 
 interactive blockbuster movie.
  
  To put it short, this game is a system hog, but with a half decent system you can get it running 
 35+ fps for the majority of the game bar the last boss fight which gets a bit chuggy. I'm running 
 with a Quad Core Q6600 Pro, GF8 GTS 320 OC2, 2GB Ballistix and Raptor Drive, totaling about 600's 
 worth of system if you really hunt around, and I would do it again just to play this game. Its 
 totally future proof so when we drop those sexy GF9's in our system we can play the game through 
 again for a totally new experience.
  
  Dont listen to these console whores about ti being a broken game, yes it has its bugs, but what 
 games dont, especially ones that push the boundries quite as much as this one. Those bugs will 
 get patched in a few weeks and those people wot have anything to say. I own consoles, i love them, 
 but when it comes to serious visuals and gameplay, PC all the way! GO CRYSIS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  As I am a big fan of FPS I had a very good time with Crysis. And who doesn't know Crysis, everyone 
 knows that Crysis is using CryEngine 2.0 and it's probably the best looking game ever made. Absolutely 
 everything in this game looks realistic (except the Aliens) . You will need of course a very powerful 
 computer to play that game, but even in low details the game looks amazing. A played it on very high 
 and I saw just everything :) . For example-there is a car coming you way, you use the Running mode 
 of your suit, run behind the car and shooting its gas tank, it blows in the most original and realistic 
 way, you can actually see the small parts flying in the air, the debry... The gameplay is very cool, the 
 AI feel very weak at time, but the game is still hard, because... everything is realistic (I've blowed 
 up a helicopter and then I was crashed, because I didn't move and it fell on my head : () . There is 
 a lot of shooting in the game, or if you play with Strengh mode you can grab your enemies (the Koreans) 
 for the necks and throw them, or just choke. When the aliens come you can grab them and beat their 
 heads till they die (it very cool) . You are a guy called Nomad, wearing a special suit, that makes 
 him  can also moderate your weapon. There is a scope, reflex sight, laser 
  are some vehicles in the game-cars, tanks, VOTL. The sound effects, of 
 course, are also great, you can feel the jungle around, you, the alien ship, the ship, the caves... There 
 are also some glitches, but they don't make the game bad. I recommend it to anyone with powerful 
 PC, because everything in this game must be seen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazingEternity
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  I had been looking foward to Crysis for almost a year now it looked amazing graphicaly however 
 gameplay was still something I wasn't sure they were going to be able to pull off.
  
  So I downloaded the demo the second it was released to see if the game was worth it... The single 
 player demo was incredible I played it about 75 odd times and the Sandbox 2 editor was an absolute 
 bonus as well for a free demo it was superb in every way. I went into the demo with extremely high 
 expectations and it exceded them.
  
  So After buying Crysis beating the single player campaign and trying multiplayer for 20 odd hours 
 I came to this conclusion.
  
  The Game is by far the best shooter I have ever played
  
  The story line was interesting even though the whole Alien thing was spoiled by trailers.
  
 
  The Graphics were superb Im running on High Settings under DX9 on a laptop and it still runs very 
 well. The game made me stop and admire the graphical work of the forests alien structures the vast 
 plains. the tropical beach paradise. It all looked so amazing and it still amazes me.
  
  The Gameplay was of course the thing that hooked me the most. graphics are a nice bonus but gameplay 
 makes or breaks games... The Gameplay was excellent the Nano suit is awesome perfect for every 
 situation. Speed to get the hell outa there. Strength for Hitting harder, Throwing Farther, Aiming 
 Steadier. Cloak for the silent kills. and Armor for the run and gun moments. The weapon customization 
 worked well in conjuction with the nano suit. Silencer, Reflex Sight, Assault Scope, Sniper Scope, 
 Laser Pointer, Grenade Launcher, Tactical Tranquilizers, Incidiary Ammo. it all works so well and 
 in real time. Many people complain about the lack of an auto aim... I thought this was a welcome 
 addition to the game to create realism, Guns do no always hit when pointed at a Target do to weapon 
 inertia and Recoil. you almost always have to use the sights on your weapon instead of shooting 
 from the hip. Its a difficult thing to adjust to after playing games such as Halo where every round 
 hits a target when pointed at it but Kills are definitely more rewarding. Vehicles handle smoothly 
 but take dammage easily you vehicles have a dammage meter rather than relying on your own armor 
 to try to survive shots. There are few types of weapons but each weapon feels balanced. (SCAR, 
 FY71, SOCOM, SHOTGUN, DSG, MPX8, GAUSS RIFLE, MOAR, MOAC, LAW, TAC CANNON, MINI GUN) Overall The 
 gameplay is superb and lifted any doubts I had of wether or not the graphics would match the gameplay.
 
  
  The sound in Crysis is immersive and feels right for the situations you become involved in. Explosions 
 are LOUD. The Forest has a very realistic Ambience. the guns are loud (unless supressed) . everything 
 just feels right. The Music is amazing as well and realy comes in at the right time making the 
 overall game feel much more Epic.
  
  The Physics add a whole new way to have fun. after clearing out vilages you can break EVERYTHING 
 and shoot down trees in segments. the enemies have very satisfying death paterns. A guy who is 
 shot running trips over himself and faceplants into the ground, a guy who is thrown looses all 
 control of his body and becomes a deadly projectile. enemies who are gunned down by light weaponry 
 fall over gracefully, vehicle explode and become flaming wreckage, you can collapse houses on your 
 enemies. it all adds a new level on interactivity with the environment giving you unique ways to 
 take out your enemy.
  
  The Single Player is the most epic campaign ive ever played. on easy its about 12 hours for an 
 inexperienced player, and on harder difficulties it can be much longer. The first levels are Sandbox 
 style and allow you to chose your path to your objective whether it be taking out an enemy camp 
 on the way or avoiding the camp and vanishing into the forest. Enemies are not stupid. they will 
 flush you out with grenades and use cover effectively. The final half of the game is a true first 
 person shooter style linear level design and is still entertaining and challenging. The battles 
 are large scale and are absolutely breathtaking. The single player has high replayablity and I 
 see myself tackling it over and over just to try different styles and paths to choose from.
  
  The Multiplayer is exceptional. You would think nano suits would be over powered however they 
 are not. battles are extremely faced paced. Power Struggle feels like a Counterstrike/Battle Field 
 2 Hybrid, and Instant action feels like a much more fast paced Halo rumble pit. Both modes are 
 fun to play and can entertain you for hours on end.
  
  Overall the game is a masterpiece the best graphics I have ever seen, the best first person shooter 
 I have ever played... This game wins my vote for Game of the Year over Bioshock, Call of Duty 4, 
 The Orange Box, Halo 3, and Assassin's Creed. I defintely got my $50 worth
  
  Crysis is just remarkable. This is a game that pushes the envelope in terms of both technology 
 and gameplay and does so with aplomb. Crysis raises the expectations for every shooter to follow 
 when it comes to graphics, interactivity, environments, immersiveness, AI, and gameplay. Quite 
 simply, Crysis represents the first-person shooter at its finest, most evolved form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanesade
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Here is yet another next gen game that's broken.
  First off ... the look is fantastic. But good luck getting it to run good enough to be able to 
 play at those settings. I have a quad core, 4 gig of ram and an Nvidia 8800 GTX, and that still 
 isn't enough. You really need an SLI set up for this game.
  Beyond that, a lot in this game doesn't work. The menu for instance. If you have it in Full Screen 
 mode ... the hot spots for the buttons are miss aligned. Frustrating and quite frankly ... this 
 is lame. The game also bogs down and freeses when the action gets heavy.
  
  Between Vista and this game being buggy ... you might want to wait and see if they bother fixing 
 it first before buying it.
  
  Also ... I was looking forward to playing with "Sandbox" the editor. I finally got it to install 
 after finding a well hidden set of instructions in a read me file. But after all that ... it still 
 wont load up. The silly thing just wont start. More Vista fun I suppose.
  
  You might want to hold off on upgrading to Vista too ... lol ... frankly it's more of a pain in 
 the ass than it's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  The year is 2019 and a massive asteroid has crash-landed somewhere within North Korea. Soon it 
 is revealed that the asteroid is in fact a gigantic alien vessel whose malevolent mission is to 
 eradicate mankind. As part of a covert Delta Force squad from the United States, players must fend 
 off alien advances through tropical jungles, frozen terrain, and other climate-altered regions 
 in an attempt to board the gravity-free mother ship. Created using Crytek's proprietary game engine, 
 Crysis offers a dynamic world featuring earthquakes, tornados, landslides, and breakaway ice. The 
 perpetually changing environment requires adaptive techniques for the squad to survive, and players 
 can commandeer trucks, tanks, boats, helicopters, and other vehicles to help reach their objectives. 
 The alien AI is also designed to challenge, adopting real-world military tactics and coordinating 
 attacks to fight as an enterprising entity. Crysis features a number of options for soldiers in 
 combat, with the ability to grab and use nearly any item found in each destructible environment. 
 Online multiplayer support is available for up to 32 combatants, and a toolset is included for 
 creative players to construct levels for use in either solo or multiplayer action.
  
  As with Far Cry, Crysis will be an open-ended game with many ways to meet objectives. An addition 
 to the previous Far Cry formula is that any weapon may be modified with devices such as silencers, 
 targeting scopes, and targeting lasers.
  
  The protagonist, Jake, is also capable of being modified, as he wears a US Military prototype "Nano 
 Muscle Suit." This allows him to carry armor, use heavy weapons, reduce noise output, increase 
 speed, jump higher, and treat wounds on the battlefield. Due to the ability of constantly regenerating 
 health, the game will be completely devoid of first aid kits or medical kits. All of these actions, 
 however, use rechargeable energy reserves that power the suit. The suit can be greatly modified 
 to meet the playing style of the player and further enhance the gameplay experience.
  
  The artificial intelligence in Crysis also aims to be realistic and believable. Enemy soldiers 
 constantly employ tactical maneuvers, work as squads, hide and ambush amongst the scenery, and 
 adapt to changing environments and conditions. Soldiers will also respond to sound and subtle movements 
 triggered by the player's movement. While not engaged in combat, the AI will also exhibit typical 
 and lifelike behavior, such as smoking, yawning, talking, waxing cars, patrolling, saluting superior 
 officers, etc.
  
  Crysis will contain its own Sandbox Editor, much like Far Cry in which you can edit and create 
 new levels. Created levels will have full support in all multiplayer modes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafoofoo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  So I went out and got CRYSIS. I didn't expect much, what with me not being the greatest PC Shooter 
 fan but whatever. MAN this game looks sexy. I liked watching my guy run around through totally 
 awesome looking environments and then pwn some unlucky North Korean. The whole "oh noez something 
 is wrongzorz and alienzorz" thing kinda turned me off and that's what mainly caused me to lower 
 my score for it.
  
  Anyways, the Suit. Man that nanosuit wins. Almost as much as I do. You can basically, either go 
 super fast with one upgrade, get uber strong with another, or have the suit get super armored which 
 allows you to take more punishment before going down. I personally used the strength and the armor 
 ones more as I like to be the hulking crazy guy with a gun in most FPS'. This game perfectly allowed 
 me to do that. 
  
  The difficulty was kinda easy though....... :-/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omarsimpson
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I have it and the game is running just fine on max settings. But, I don; t get the hype. This 
 is basically just another FPS, with an added nano suit. Graphics are great, but not more than I 
 would expect at this date and time. Gameplay so far has been smooth and enjoyable. AI seems a bit 
 buggy, enemies don't always look for you or even in your direction. Vehicle operation is as expected, 
 nothing new there. I have it running on XP and Vista 32bit versions, and I may be a bit dense, 
 but not alot of difference in visuals. Basically, I think this is a good well written, smooth, 
 and fun game. It really does not have a lot new to offer. One thing it will do is get alot of gamers 
 to upgrade their systems to run it at max settings. I gave it a 9.0, just does not give me goose 
 bumps like I thought it would. 
  
  specs: E6750 Core 2 2.66
  4gb DDR2 800
  Gigabyte P-35 MB
  MSI 8800 Ultra
  32" W/S LCD
  
  Really hoping UT3 will rock my socks, 
 this one does not. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinx27
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I had been looking foward to Crysis for almost a year now it looked amazing graphicaly however 
 gameplay was still something I wasn't sure they were going to be able to pull off.
  
  So I downloaded the demo the second it was released to see if the game was worth it... The single 
 player demo was incredible I played it about 75 odd times and the Sandbox 2 editor was an absolute 
 bonus as well for a free demo it was superb in every way. I went into the demo with extremely high 
 expectations and it exceded them.
  
  So After buying Crysis beating the single player campaign and trying multiplayer for 20 odd hours 
 I came to this conclusion.
  
  The Game is by far the best shooter I have ever played 
  
  The story line was interesting even though the whole Alien thing was spoiled by trailers. 
 
  
  The Graphics were superb Im running on High Settings under DX9 on a laptop and it still runs very 
 well. The game made me stop and admire the graphical work of the forests alien structures the vast 
 plains. the tropical beach paradise. It all looked so amazing and it still amazes me.
  
  The Gameplay was of course the thing that hooked me the most. graphics are a nice bonus but gameplay 
 makes or breaks games... The Gameplay was excellent the Nano suit is awesome perfect for every 
 situation. Speed to get the hell outa there. Strength for Hitting harder, Throwing Farther, Aiming 
 Steadier. Cloak for the silent kills. and Armor for the run and gun moments. The weapon customization 
 worked well in conjuction with the nano suit. Silencer, Reflex Sight, Assault Scope, Sniper Scope, 
 Laser Pointer, Grenade Launcher, Tactical Tranquilizers, Incidiary Ammo. it all works so well and 
 in real time. Many people complain about the lack of an auto aim... I thought this was a welcome 
 addition to the game to create realism, Guns do no always hit when pointed at a Target do to weapon 
 inertia and Recoil. you almost always have to use the sights on your weapon instead of shooting 
 from the hip. Its a difficult thing to adjust to after playing games such as Halo where every round 
 hits a target when pointed at it but Kills are definitely more rewarding. Vehicles handle smoothly 
 but take dammage easily you vehicles have a dammage meter rather than relying on your own armor 
 to try to survive shots. There are few types of weapons but each weapon feels balanced. (SCAR, 
 FY71, SOCOM, SHOTGUN, DSG, MPX8, GAUSS RIFLE, MOAR, MOAC, LAW, TAC CANNON, MINI GUN) Overall The 
 gameplay is superb and lifted any doubts I had of wether or not the graphics would match the gameplay.
 
  
  The sound in Crysis is immersive and feels right for the situations you become involved in. Explosions 
 are LOUD. The Forest has a very realistic Ambience. the guns are loud (unless supressed) . everything 
 just feels right. The Music is amazing as well and realy comes in at the right time making the 
 overall game feel much more Epic.
  
  The Physics add a whole new way to have fun. after clearing out vilages you can break EVERYTHING 
 and shoot down trees in segments. the enemies have very satisfying death paterns. A guy who is 
 shot running trips over himself and faceplants into the ground, a guy who is thrown looses all 
 control of his body and becomes a deadly projectile. enemies who are gunned down by light weaponry 
 fall over gracefully, vehicle explode and become flaming wreckage, you can collapse houses on your 
 enemies. it all adds a new level on interactivity with the environment giving you unique ways to 
 take out your enemy.
  
  The Single Player is the most epic campaign ive ever played. on easy its about 12 hours for an 
 inexperienced player, and on harder difficulties it can be much longer. The first levels are Sandbox 
 style and allow you to chose your path to your objective whether it be taking out an enemy camp 
 on the way or avoiding the camp and vanishing into the forest. Enemies are not stupid. they will 
 flush you out with grenades and use cover effectively. The final half of the game is a true first 
 person shooter style linear level design and is still entertaining and challenging. The battles 
 are large scale and are absolutely breathtaking. The single player has high replayablity and I 
 see myself tackling it over and over just to try different styles and paths to choose from.
  
  The Multiplayer is exceptional. You would think nano suits would be over powered however they 
 are not. battles are extremely faced paced. Power Struggle feels like a Counterstrike/Battle Field 
 2 Hybrid, and Instant action feels like a much more fast paced Halo rumble pit. Both modes are 
 fun to play and can entertain you for hours on end. 
  
  Overall the game is a masterpiece the best graphics I have ever seen, the best first person shooter 
 I have ever played... This game wins my vote for Game of the Year over Bioshock, Call of Duty 4, 
 The Orange Box, Halo 3, and Assassin's Creed. I defintely got my $50 worth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexh111
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  How is this game any different than Far Cry? It has the same boats, helicopters, vehicles, terrain 
 and ridiculous AI.
  
  Classic Far Cry experience... I emerge from a tunnel in prone position at night... crawl towards 
 a ledge... one of those creatures with the missile launcher arms spots me from a zillion miles away 
 and fires a missile directly at me.
  
  Classic Crysis experience... I am being persued by a copter firing at me (at night) ... I cloak, jump 
 off a cliff into the water, swim away and the helicopter continues to fire at me knowing exactly 
 where I am! 
  
  An AK47 can punch bullets through concrete and yet it takes a dozen shots to down a North Korean.
 
  
  "Hard" when a level is challenging or interesting is cool, "Hard" when the computer cheats is just 
 lazy programming and makes for infuriating gameplay. 
  
  So far, I feel like I am playing Far Cry with a different story line. I am not sure what all the 
 fuss is about. Then again, Bioshock was average and Gears of War is a crappy rail shooter. I can't 
 remember the last satisfying FPS I played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  As I finished Crysis, and the credits started rolling, I knew I had just taken part of one of the 
 better games ever made. This one will be a classic for the ages to come. Just as today we look 
 back on half life and say, "Wow, now that was a great game", people 6-8 years from now will be 
 saying the same thing about Crysis. 
  
  Gameplay- Although most people think all that Crysis offers is graphical fidelity, I look at it 
 more as a showcase of gameplay supremacy. This game is in every sense of the word fun. The star 
 of the show is the nanosuit, which some might consider a weapon of mass destruction, if used by 
 the right soldier. This soldier is Nomad, and you play as Nomad, a member of the elite Raptor squad 
 in the special forces. You aren't the leader of the group, but you still carry out essential tasks 
 that only your nanosuit lets you accomplish. You have the options of augmenting your strength, 
 which lets you jump higher, or pick up and throw heavy objects; if you crank up your speed, you 
 can run at an extremely fast pace for a short period of time, or reload faster, or use the speed 
 to jump further. Armor mode is what it sounds like, you can take more damage than you could without 
 it turned on. This mode is essential in firefights, especially when there is little cover. Cloaking 
 is arguably the most useful, as you can hide from enemies, but this doesn't make you invincible, 
 as if you move it runs out much faster. These powers, coupled with the fact that the maps are just 
 wide open jungles ensures some of the most solid gameplay you have ever experienced in a shooter. 
 There are some AI issues, such as boats and helicopters who are a little too smart, but at its 
 core, the AI is very smart, and this brings the game to even more life. The story is also very 
 well told. Although it is a fairly generic storyline and plot, the manner in which they have executed 
 it and the way they tell it is absolutely top notch. Once you play through the epic moments the 
 game presents, the story just doesn't seem as generic anymore as it would on paper. There is a 
 cliffhanger ending, though, which does put somewhat of a damper on the story, but also ensures 
 a sequel. The only complaint I would pose against the story and game design is the fact that there 
 was only one ice level. In my eyes, that level really stood out from other games, and was very 
 fun trying to flee and fight the aliens in the iced over jungle. Hopefully in the sequel there 
 will be much more of this. On top of this they added in an easy to learn map editor called the 
 Sandbox 2 editor. This editor is one of the most addicting features in a game I have ever seen. 
 You can literally get lost for hours just playing around in it, setting up scenarios such as a 
 battle of dozens of NK soldiers and aliens. If you have the patience, you can create stunning maps. 
 This feature alone helps elevates Crysis above most other games.
  
  Graphics- Yeah.... I don't think I need to cover this area too much. The only problem is that the 
 game can be blisteringly intensive in terms of its hardware requirements. If you don't have a computer 
 that can max this game, it still looks very good, but when you max the settings out it looks absolutely 
 phenomenal. If you don't care too much about graphics but prefer gameplay, then you should pick 
 this game up regardless of if you can set the graphics up or not. One little thing about the graphics 
 I noticed is that most of the North Korean forces you face look exactly the same. It's almost as 
 if you are facing an army of clones. Still, you can't really notice this unless you grab them by 
 the neck.
  
  Sound- What is there to say about sound? Everything sounds great. No problems here. One bonus is 
 a very good soundtrack, that gets stuck in your head after you play the game for prolonged lengths 
 of time. Overall, the sound is great. 
  
  Multiplayer is fun, but there seems to be major problems with connections to servers. Multiplayer 
 is also very hard at first when you begin playing it. Power Struggle is a pretty fun mode, but 
 Team Deathmatch is just screaming to be included. Hopefully they will add it in a patch someday.
 
  
  Value- For $50, as terms of gaming goes, the only other game that can compete with Crysis for value 
 is the Orange Box. The single player is a solid 10-12 hours long on normal difficulty with extreme 
 replayability, and multiplayer has nice appeal, but when you add the fully featured map editor, 
 the value soars.
  
  Overall, if you have the hardware to run it, Crysis is 'the' must have game of 2007. Halo 3 eat 
 my heart out; I have Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantrips
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  First off, I should mention that I was looking forward to Crysis. A lot. Not enough to play the 
 Beta, but enough that I was willing to buy the game.
  
  Let's see. My specs are:
  Core 2 Duo 6600 o/c to 3.2GHz
  Radeon x1900 XTX
  2GB 1066 DDR2
  Windows XP 32 bit
  
  
 With this setup (well above the 'recommended' settings on the box) I'm forced to run the game at 
 1024x768, and everything set to 'medium'. Anything higher and the game slows to a crawl. Let me 
 just say that the terrain (plants, rocks, trees, and whatever else you find in a jungle) looks 
 like CRAP on medium settings. The players and weapons still look OK, but nothing I wouldn't expect.
 
  
  It seems to me that the developer spent so much time making the game look spectacular on 'high' 
 that they abandoned the other 98% of consumers that aren't going to be able to run the game with 
 those settings. They should have spent more time working on the next setting down, so that even 
 though we're not running IBM's BlueGene supercomputer, we can still experience some breathtaking 
 graphics.
  
  So much for the next-gen graphical experience!
  
  Now let me get to the AI.
  
  The magical suit you're wearing lets you change modes. There's 
 a cloak mode, a heavy armor mode, and a strength mode for jumping (among others) . About 15 minutes 
 into the game, I activated the cloaking device so I could sneak up on some bad guys.
  
  So here I am creeping along, fully cloaked, in the dark forest, sneaking up on an enemy soldier. 
 Well actually, I wasn't sneaking up on him. I was still about 50 meters away.
  
  Suddenly, even though he's little more than a stick figure on the horizon, he notices me, turns 
 around, and pegs me in the face with his rifle.
  
  I was CLOAKED. It was NIGHTTIME. I was CRAWLING. I'm in a PITCH BLACK FOREST. I was 50 METERS AWAY. 
 How the f* did the AI not only spot me, but turn around and cap me in the face?
  
  Stupid annoying stuff like that makes me quit and uninstall games. Which is what I did. Unless 
 you've got a $2500 supercomputer, this is definitely not worth the hype. Maybe I'll play it again 
 in 3 years when I can afford to run it on 'high' and they've made some serious AI patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ministerpaul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry set the mark for first-person shooters in 2004 in terms of graphics and sound, as does 
 Crysis today. Both games are/were ahead of their time, but seem to lack longevity due to very short 
 single player campaigns and limited multiplayer choices. Battlefield 2142 has need not worry about 
 loosing ground in the Highly competitive online multiplayer area to Crysis. As Crysis seems to 
 have only deathmatch games online with no teamplay or co-op strategic play.
  
  Run and gun multiplayer games get boring very quickly and continues to be dominated by juveniles 
 and unemployed geeks living with their parents. Get a job! However Crysis was worth penny and live 
 up to expectations. Unlike Gears of Wars, Crysis ran with few glitches due to the cooperative effort 
 put forward in the production of this game. By looking at the Credits Epic tapped representatives 
 from AMD, INTEL, ATI, NVIDIA, and Microsoft DX9/10 teams. Epic also utilized an extensive Quality 
 Control team heade by a manager. Excellent Job.
  
  Overall... Crysis has raised the bar for P. C. gaming and all Developers should take notice. the 
 graphics and sound are only rivaled by World in Conflict. The storyline seems familiar and the 
 aliens copied from the Matrix's sentinels. The games was a bit short and very easy. The ending 
 was open which of course leads to Crysis Part 2.... can't wait. Unfortunately due to a short single 
 player campaign and very thin multiplayer menu... Crysis will enter the realm of beverage coasters 
 in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntjm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Bought this game thinking it was going to revolutionise PC gaming - I have recenlty upgraded my 
 PC to run games like this and wanted to buy it due to
  the hype and the fact that I loved Far Cry.
  My PC is a 2.4ghz Dual Core running a 640mb Geforce 
 8800gts with 2gb of RAM. I am playing it on very high spec (Vista) and it seems to run pretty well 
 if a little choppy. There is no difference in smoothness of performance if I tone it down to "high".
 
  Anyway, I am playing the game on easy level and it is HARD- the Koreans take about a dozen shots 
 to kill and you can't just run around mowing everyone down - you will not survive. The graphics 
 are good but not mindblowing and the nanosuit concept is a bit overrated and slow to perform when 
 under pressure. One thing I was impressed with is the way 
  the environment is affected during firefights - trees crashing down and buildings falling apart 
 - a very impressive feat for the developers to pull off and is one of the highlights of the game. 
 Everything else is just a bit samey and the game takes a while to get used to as it's concept f 
 success is based around stealth rather than brute force. 
  I think the game has been overhyped and although it is a entertaining, it is a bit difficult to 
 be enjoyed fully. Considering how much CPU and GPU power is needed to run this thing, the end result 
 is a bit disappointing. I'm thinking of buying COD4 to make up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is probably the best FPS of the last few years. It brings a new perspective the the gameplay 
 of the genre as you can get into the middle of the conflict or keep your distance and still have 
 the same results. It's revolutionary in its own way in term of graphics, level design and gameplay.
 
  
  The graphics are out of this world. It's like nothing you have ever seen. Huge landscapes, water, 
 vegetation you name it; all look breath taking. The level are huge and give a grea t amount of 
 fredom in exploring and aproach. 
  
  The weapons are few in number and mostly the ordinary one you see in other games, but the weapon 
 system is extrordinary allowing you to midofy the weapons to best suit your need (for example sniper 
 scope to keep you distance or/and silencer to keep stealth.) This is by far the m, ost succesful 
 feature in my opinion. 
  
  The gameplay is unique and diverse. You get to use tanks, boats, track and planes, all with great 
 control and a high dose of realism (if you smash into a wall the vehicle might get destroyed) . 
 The powers you have although only four in number permit diferent stiles of gameplay and some realy 
 nice stuff like throuwing enemies in the air, runn9ing past them or jumping on roof tops to snipe 
 them out. Some details make game awesome like the destryable environement, some team play portions 
 of the story (like the one where you guide your team mate fron one burning car to the other so 
 that he can keep warm) . 
  
  The story is nice even if it is not completly original (nano -tech has been used in many games 
 before this one, and alien have invvaded the earth several time before) . The characters have different 
 personalities and all fit their place in the overall story.
  
  The sound is awesome. The music is simple and atractive an perfectly fits the scenary and the events. 
 The sound efect seem real enough and the dialogs are very well done. 
  
  It there is something bad to say about the game it must be about the AI (artificial inteligence) . 
 In all the time i played the game i don't believe that the friendly npcs ever killed a hostile. 
 It flet like their are more part of the story rather than the gameplay. Some enemies always seem 
 to now where you are even if you are stealthed and perfectly still in the bushes. If you drive 
 with a vehicle in one of their base they won't stay in the building and will charge at you and 
 you can kill almost all of them before they can destroy the vehicle. Don't get me wrong in the 
 same case as above the Ai behaves nicely and the enemies will look around if they "thought" their 
 heard sometihng, they will throuw grenades at your vehicle or run for cover.
  
  Over all this game is far (very far) above the averege and in my opinion is the best FPS of the 
 year (at least ; if not of the last 3-4 years) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This ... is the best game I have ever played in my entire life!
  Never have I seen such a beauty! Everything in this game blends together to form a perfect masterpiece.
 
  
  === The graphics ===
  
  The most obvious element of this game. The graphics are what contribute the most to the game's 
 realism.
  
  This game has absolutely everything! High level antialias (6x) , anisotropy (16x) , very high resolution 
 textures, high poly objects, vehicles, NPCs. 
  
  Everything is high poly, the environment, the trees, everything!
  This game is a record-breaker. 
 The sky is very well made! The shadows are beautiful, much better than the ones in Stalker - Shadow 
 of Chernobyl. And t he bump maps, combined with the shadows and the shaders really make a perfect 
 and smooth environment.
  
  The water, the ripples, the water effects, the blending between the water and the shore, the shading 
 of the ocean bottom via the water reflections are just a few details that make this game so great.
 
  
  === The sound ===
  
  The sound is pure genious, either on 2 old speakers or on a new 7.1 surround system. It sounds 
 real! Everything in the game has a sound effect. 
  
  Every bump and collision and step produces a sound, and not just any 5% volume sound. The sounds 
 are clear, smooth, real.
  
  The volumes are perfectly equilibrated. Every sound effect is calibrated to reproduce to optimum 
 volume. A footstep will not scratch your ear, but neither will an explosion go unnoticed.
  
  === The physics ===
  
  The physics are revolutionary. Basically, Crysis contains a destructable 
 environment, this being made possible by the powerful physics engine. You can destroy almost anything, 
 from trees (that don't only snap at one predefined joint, but it rips apart where the bullet hits 
 it) , to household items (drawers, windows, shelves etc.) to entire buildings.
  Yes, buildings are completely destructable, and not in the simple way. Building parts are not just 
 welded together. When destroyed, a lot of parts tend to bend or generate holes exactly in the location 
 where you hit it.
  This being said, an explosive charge in a building will blow it apart and shove pieces everywhere.
 
  
  Another thing I would like to say about the trees. Trees are not just destructable. They are "movable". 
 They move and bend along with the wind, both the body and the leaves. This happens when the leaves 
 are hit as well.
  
  Let's not forget the vehicles. The vehicles are vulnerable, in a variable way, a lot of parts are 
 individually destructable. For example, shooting in the windshield or in the tires, they explode. 
 This may be seemless at start, but if a vehicle tire is shot while the vehicle is moving, the pressure 
 generated by the explosion's shockwave will lift, set off course or even turn over the vehicle.
 
  
  Vehicles also produce significant shockwaves when detonated. They don't just explode, they bounce, 
 they jump into the air, they catch fire. When detonated, parts will fly in all directions.
  
  The physics engine also allows the player to pick up and throw objects. This, combined with 
 the suits ability to enhance strength can become a great ally. This tactic can also be used to 
 hold a large item and protect yourself from the incoming bullets.
  
  Another good thing about the engine is it's seriosity. It doesn't tend to joke like others. Falling 
 from a variable height leads to variable damage. An object falling upon you can do damage, or worse, 
 kill you.
  
  === Special effects ===
  
  As far as special effects go, one word represents it all: "Best". Yes, the effects in this game 
 are the best I have ever seen.
  
  What is so special? The explosions are photo-realistic, as well as the gun fire, the muzzle flash, 
 the shells that fall out of the weapon, the fire and the smoke, the decals on the walls, the focus 
 and blur whenever an explosion occurs. It all ads to the game's atmosphere.
  
  === The gameplay ===
  
  The gamplay, as all other elements, is stunning. It all relies on the 
 suit the player wears. An advanced suit that has special abilities. As a player, you have health 
 and energy. Energy is renerable, as well as health. Energy is used for the special abilities of 
 the suit. I will not present the suit as I do not wish to spoil the game.
  
  Altough small as number, the weapons are more than enough. What is present in the game? Firearms, 
 grenades (frag, smoke, flashlight) , explosives, fixed machineguns, alien weapons and even fists, 
 they are all in here.
  
  Besides the weapons, the game presents weapon addons, such as silencers, scopes, rifle grenade 
 launchers, laser sights, flashlights etc.
  
  The same does not apply to the vehicles though. There are a lot of vehicles in the games such as 
 cars, trucks, boats, amphibians, tanks, APCs, artillery, AAAs etc.
  
  === The storyline ===
  
  Altough not a strong point, the storyline is still good. A team of 
 special forces sent to investigate a missing research team, to which the player belongs meets a 
 strange and unique alien race... The rest is for you to discover :-)
  
  What to say as final words?
  Buy it or you shall regret it dearly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalker700
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Crytek already showed us they are capable of making great game. Far Cry was a masterpiece for a 
 first game. But this one, is simply a different league, even from it's predecessor.
  Graphics : 10
  It's really amazing how the game immerse you into it's world. From beautiful tropical 
 islands to a frozen paradise. The attention to detail is simply staggering, and the effects are a 
 whole new level of design, fishes swimming in the water, birds and animals running in the wild, fog 
 and smoke in the air, the look of a rising sun at the beginning of the game is really somthing brilliant.
 
  The characters looks simply real-life, and the expressions are amazing.
  Of course, the main attraction is the physics engine, everything is breakable, and in a really realistic 
 way of course. However, I found it quite strange that the enemies don't have any physics at all after 
 they are dead... But that's really a minor quirk.
  Overall, I don't think you can give the graphics a score lower than 10.
  Audio : 10
  The voice 
 acting is great, each character has a different voice actor that's really bringing the character 
 to life and give them each a unique personality. The music is AMAZING, really puts you to the great 
 atmosphere of the game, whenever you're just exploring, the music is quite and calm, when you're sneaking 
 the music begins to get more exciting and offensive, and while fighting, the music is really bringing 
 the battlefield to life!
  Gameplay : 9 
  Here's the place where the game has some flaws. The nano suit is a really interesting and fun idea 
 that really giving this game a different feeling from the rest FPSs in the market, there are ALOT 
 of combination you can do with the suit, and it's really fun. For example: What more fun? Just shoot 
 a guy with a shotgun, or sneak behind him, grab him in the neck, and throw him to his death (even higher) 
 with maximum power? I think we all know the answer..... the shotgun is more fun:)
  However, too bad the powers of the suit are very limited, by time I mean, by the time you move a few 
 meters in speed mode, the battery will be dead, or the cloak mode is really lacking some attention, overall, all 
 you're gonna mostly use and stay with is the armor mode.
  The real time weapon modification is really fun and gives you a lot of choices to fight, whether 
 go silent with a silencer, or go loud with a granade launcher, is something, the player, again, needs 
 to choose, and you can't say it's not interesting and adds a lot of tactics to the game.
  The level design is FAR from linear, there are A LOT of ways to finish objectives, you can sneak 
 silently from the enemies and just to "this and that" and continue (well.... it's not what you think...) , or 
 go loud and simply destroy and kill everything that's in your way.
  The main problem I had with the gameplay is the lack of good enemy AI, sure, the do act smartly sometimes 
 like flanking or cover and shoot, but the have some weird quirks sometimes, also, the fact the the 
 enemy is made out of iron is also somewhat annoying, add to the difficulty, sure, but overall annoying.
 
  Value : 8
  The game is a lil' on the short side (10-15 hours depending on the player) . The multiplayer is good 
 but nothing ground-breaking.
  So basically, you might want to finish the game more than once if you've liked it (like I did) but 
 overall, still lacking something.
  Overall: Everything has been said already, the graphics are simply out of this world, the audio is 
 great, and the gameplay is fun and deep, and if you prepare to deal with some really minor quirks 
 and downsides, and if you can afford the right rig, then you simply can't miss the experience this 
 game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NosmoKing1984
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Well, how disappointing. This game misses every mark it should have aimed for. This game isn't 
 fun at all, it feels like hard work because you have to do everything yourself. You have to kill 
 all the enemy and comb through all the buildings with a fine tooth comb to find enough ammo to 
 continue. Worst of all is the weapons, they are so horrible to use. Sometimes you can kill someone 
 in one shot, but others they just refuse to die and you end up just firing an entire clip into 
 them. I don't care if people say "it's more realistic", bottom line is, this isn't fun. Shooting 
 someone, hearing them scream (confirming you've actually hit them) and then them not dieing after 
 doing this 8 or more times is just frustrating. 
  
  The worst part, where I realised how broken this game is, is when I got to the part with the tanks. 
 You're told to "take care of those tanks" with no other direction at all. No helpful hint saying 
 "find the rocket launcher over there" or anything. This leaves you wandering around a town aimlessly 
 trying to find something to kill a tank with while being shot at by said tanks. The tanks drivers 
 are also psychic, they will start shooting at you when you are hiding behind a building, and they 
 don't see you go there. They just know where you are. The foot soldiers seem to lose where you 
 are but as soon as one of them knows, they all seem to.
  
  One major problem with this game is the fact it is free roaming, you can go anywhere and explore. 
 But the design of this is terrible since you can end up just wandering around doing nothing and 
 getting lost.
  
  I've also found many other bugs, like a big yellow and red box appearing where a car spawns, this 
 happened alot while I played the game. And the much hyped physics engine tends to screw up a lot 
 too, such as objects vibrating off each other very loudly and then launching suddenly off into 
 orbit.
  
  I also found that there was far too many enemy to be entertaining, it's not even slightly fun to 
 be completely surrounded in a jungle where you have low visibility and being shot from all sides. 
 And with the weapons being so poor you can only shoot them up close reliably. 
  
  Personally I'd have rather the game be delayed for another year to fix the obviously terrible AI 
 and physics than this broken turd. I may give the game another chance if they can fix these problems 
 in a patch but I fear that the problems run deeper than a patch can fix.
  
  The only thing I can say positively about this game is the graphics are stunning, but once you 
 get over how good it looks and focus on the game, it falls flat on it's face. This is a classic 
 example of a game developer only focusing on the looks and forgetting the gameplay.
  
  Bottom line, only play this game if you have a high threshold for annoyance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karimbus
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  This is the most overhyped underperforming game I have ever bought. I have a PC with an 8800 Ultra 
 and a 30 inch screen and needed to play the game at 1024x768. At this res it looks downright awful 
 and i still had framerate issues when there was more than one enemy on the screen. The AI was just 
 poor - enemies that spawn and scream and do not pursue. The AI is much worse than in another game 
 that has reviewed worse that I picked up - Timeshift - which I much prefer as it runs well and 
 certain levels look as good as in this game (but at 2x the resolution) . This game is going to have 
 fans in the PC world but PC gaming is dying and so the overhyped reviews are a response to that.
 
  
  Its not a BAD game, but the lack of attention to even higher end machines pisses me off. The game 
 is more of the same - I am going to bring it back and play Far Cry again. Its the same game but 
 at least it runs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tskviper2
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Go to http://www. ea. com/crysis/info. jsp and read the story line.
  Now remove the third paragraph and it fits how I feel about this game. It's missing a third of 
 the storyline.
  
  While you are there read the features list.
  The part about an original alien species makes me laugh. It's not original to have them move fast 
 and take loads of damage before kicking the bucket, it's old and boring (same with the KPA anything 
 but head shots are pointless) .
  
  And another one that gets me is "Emergent game play means that in-game actions affect future outcomes 
 and give each player a unique experience". 
  What does this mean? The only part I have seen is that not killing some KPA resulted in them joining 
 in when I ran into a second patrol but that's not enough to call it a feature. However in early 
 previews they mentioned how the player's actions in the early game would affect how much help you 
 got from the Koreans later in the game. That would have been cool, too bad they cut that part out 
 of the game completely.
  
  The only thing that can save this game from mediocrity is a free downloadable expansion that at 
 least delivers a proper ending.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Crysis. A word silently muttered by computer enthusiasts and gamers around the world for the past 
 one and a half years. From the moment that it was shown off at E3 2006, the game became extremely 
 hyped, garnering followers and fans who hoped for it to start off the Next-Generation of PC gaming 
 with jaw-dropping graphics and unprecedented interactivity. Fast-forward to today, November 2007, 
 and Crysis has been finally released. Is it everything gamers have been hoping for?
  
  For those of you familiar with Crytek's debut effort, Far Cry, you will understand the potential 
 and amazing work Crytek can put into their games. However, Far Cry was just a scratch on the surface 
 of Crytek's vast store of talent and advanced technology. Crysis takes everything about Far Cry, 
 fixes many of its issues, and ups the intensity ten-fold.
  
  To start off, the game quickly introduces you to the premise of the plot. It is 2020; a team of 
 archeologists have uncovered something incredible on a remote tropical island in the Philippine 
 Sea. However, before they have the chance to further investigate, they are abducted by the North 
 Korean military, (KPA) who soon closes off and quarantines the entire island. You are Nomad, a 
 member of the Delta Force Special Forces unit, which is assigned to rescue the science team and 
 figure out the reason for the KPA's invasion. As you progress through the story, you battle increasingly 
 larger and better trained KPA forces that stalwartly defend the island and its secrets. However, 
 you soon figure out that there is something else on the island, something which has been recently 
 awakened. Crysis quickly picks up at this point and throws you into a conflict of possibly-interstellar 
 proportions. It is quickly evident that Crysis has a more interesting and superior story to Far 
 Cry, which basically consisted of one man saving a damsel in distress and defeating a madman's 
 plans for world domination.
  On the gameplay front, Crysis does draw on a lot from its predecessor. But, considering that Far 
 Cry was unique in the genre at the time of its release with its nonlinear gameplay and huge, outdoor 
 environments, it's only a plus. Crysis again starts you off on an expansive tropical island divided 
 into large, several kilometers-wide levels. You are often given mandatory objectives which unfold 
 the expanding conflict and continue the story arc, but the way you achieve these objectives is 
 entirely up to you. The levels are large, and often contain many paths around the map, such as 
 a beach and a cliff, or several paths up a mountain side. Crytek's philosophy in creating the game 
 was, "Veni, Vidi, Vici," or "I came, I saw, I conquered," and it shows. You can choose how you 
 want to engage your enemies, and this is well-supplemented by the highly-touted Nanosuit. Basically, 
 the suit grants you the ability to enhance any of the following; strength, speed, stealth, and 
 armor. These different modes confer various advantages and disadvantages. For example, in strength 
 mode, Nomad is more able to pick up and thrown large objects at high speeds and more able to absorb 
 gun recoil, giving you a steady aim. Speed mode makes you extremely fast, but vulnerable to enemy 
 fire. Players will eventually learn to pull off different combinations of these powers which can 
 allow them to approach combat situations in even more tactical ways.
  
  In terms of weapons, Crysis doesn't offer a huge plethora of weapons as you would be able to find 
 in games such as Call of Duty 4. Surprisingly, this is only a plus. Each gun in this game fulfills 
 specific roles and feels completely different. The SMG allows you to easily suppress enemies, the 
 sniper rifle is excellent for taking out enemies only at long distances, the assault rifle is a 
 middling weapon, etc. Added to this is the rail-weapon modification system, which allows you to 
 put on a plethora of attachments on each type of weapon. From scopes to grenade launchers, you 
 can customize your weapons in real-time to tailor your specific play-style. There are also a several 
 kinds of grenades such as frags, flashbangs, and smoke grenades.
  
  All of these innovative gameplay elements would be wasted when coupled with an average shooter's 
 AI. Thankfully, Crytek has adopted and improved on the great AI from Far Cry. The KPA are smart, 
 and they work together as a team to root out and lure you into the open. Unlike in Far Cry, where 
 the mercenaries could spot and shoot you from a mile away; enemies in Crysis are more realistic, 
 relying on more human-like levels of hearing and vision to detect the player. Battles with the 
 KPA never unfold the same way, due to the dynamic nature of the AI, the large environments, and 
 the tactical freedom available to the player. In the second half of the game, you are introduced 
 to the Alien threat. Unlike most games, where aliens are often depicted as bipedal, average-intelligence 
 creatures (See: Halo, Blacksite, Gears of War) Crytek has adopted a much more radical design approach. 
 The aliens, simultaneously reminiscent of the creatures found in War of the Worlds and the Matrix, 
 are an extremely aggressive threat. They, however, do not cheat and also rely on their senses to 
 root out the player. The huge, alien vs. human conflicts introduced later on are a nice change 
 of pace when compared with the earlier, more personal parts of the game. The game is of above-average 
 length, and should take shooter veterans up to twelve or thirteen hours to finish using the game's 
 Normal difficulty mode. Crysis offers four difficulty modes, all of which actually make differences 
 in how the game is presented instead of just ramping up the enemy's health such as in most shooters. 
 For example, Delta difficulty, the game's most extreme mode, takes away the crosshairs and forces 
 all of the Koreans to speak in their native language. This provides a much more intense and uncertain 
 experience, and is highly recommended for a player's second play-through. The game ends on a mysterious 
 note, and leaves the player wanting for more, Crytek having stated that Crysis is only the first 
 in a trilogy.
  
  In terms of presentation, Crytek has probably accomplished the most with Crysis. The graphical 
 experience, provided by the new Cryengine 2, is simply breath-taking. From the completely dynamic 
 lighting casting individual shadows from every leaf, to the waves of the ocean breaking across 
 a beach, to the extremely detailed character models and facial expressions, Crysis has become the 
 graphical benchmark across all platforms. From medium settings on up, it is simply the best looking 
 game out, coming even closer to the goal of video-realism. The game looks even better in DirectX 
 10, adding such effects as sun-rays, 3D ocean waves, and object-based motion blur. The physics 
 system introduced to the game is probably one of the best in the industry, allowing the manipulation 
 of nearly every object in the game world. Crysis touts destructible environments, meaning you can 
 blow apart shacks and houses, and even shoot down procedurally-constructed trees. It all adds to 
 the sense of realism and interactivity.
  
  Crysis also impresses on the sound front. Ambient noise is of particularly great quality, from 
 birds tweeting overhead to the low-frequency rumblings of the large artifact buried in the center 
 of the island. Weapons sound effects are also realistic, changing in frequency and pitch depending 
 on where you are and the distance of enemy fire. It all sounds extremely immersive, especially 
 if you've got a surround sound system. Taking feedback on Far Cry, Crytek has thankfully improved 
 upon the terrible and cheesy voice-acting found in their first game. Every character is realistically 
 voiced, and there are no cardboard cutouts or overly-done accents such as those found in most games 
 in the industry these days. The music is also appropriately epic and mysterious at times that it 
 needs to be. The score was composed and recorded by Inon Zur, and it's definitely one of his most 
 electrifying and impressive performances to date.
  
  
  The game also ships with a multiplayer mode, offering two primary gametypes. One is instant action, 
 which is the game's deathmatch mode. It is entertaining and different from other shooters when 
 you consider that all of the Nanosuit powers introduced in single player are in the multiplayer. 
 The highlight is the mode Power Struggle, which throws two opposing teams into a match resembling 
 a cross between Counter-Strike and Battlefield. The goal of each team is to destroy an enemy's 
 base with either nuclear or alien weapons of mass destruction. In order to do that, each team has 
 to dynamically capture spawn points and alien crash sites which provide their team with Energy. 
 Factories are also spread around the map which allow players to buy land, water, and air vehicles 
 and unleash hell on the other team. In order to use the energy, a team must capture the Prototype 
 Factory typically found in the center of the map, allowing them to purchase weapons and vehicles 
 capable of dishing out an extreme amount of destruction. The maps are huge and allow the same degree 
 of freedom as the single player campaign does. All in all, multiplayer is a fun and comprehensive 
 addition to a game already possessing a stand-out campaign.
  
  The game also comes with the Sandbox editor, a fully-featured engine editor which allows you to 
 manipulate and even create your own single player AND multiplayer levels from scratch. The mod 
 potential for Crysis and Cryengine 2 is simply astounding, and the current in-development mods 
 such as Obsidian Edge II and Command and Crysis: The Dead 6 are quite promising.
  
  When you take a step back and look at Crysis, you see the makings of a masterpiece. An incredibly 
 diverse and innovative campaign combined with a highly-developed multiplayer mode really show off 
 Crytek's skill and potential. Amongst other shooters, this one stands head and shoulders above 
 the rest for successfully taking risks in all aspects of gaming, including graphics, sound, and 
 gameplay. In an age where developers continually pump out safe sequels built on previous successes, 
 Crysis is to be commended for simply being better and different. If there's just one shooter to 
 get this year, it would definitely be Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simondale
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  u mite aswel buy far cry ... it will look better if you havnt upgraded lol
  the nanosuit is pointless .... i just hid an popped then off one by one
  its just really dissapointing.... take 
 away all the layers of stuf and its just another normal first person shooter.... i would have admired 
 them more if they made a new i. p. and failed then this game. 
  graphics cant save this game no matter how good they look.
  hope there next game is better.
 
  i dont know why the internet sites hyped this game so much and gave it such a high score...... high 
 scores like this from sites have to much of an impact in this industry..... this industy needs to 
 grow and fast i think.
  innovote and prove games are exiting and worth while for us and future generations . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Well any one who has seen the trailers for this game in the last 18 months will no doubt be hugely 
 disappointed when getting down to playing the actual game. This is just more of the same old Far 
 Cry but with updated graphics. Don't get me wrong, this is still a good game but I've done it, 
 seen it and played it all before. In fact this is no where near as good as the original Far Cry 
 in terms of gameplay.
  
  Whilst the graphics are good - this game is very demanding on systems - I can just about manage 
 to play with everything maxed out but the frame rates are awful, but it doesn't look anywhere near 
 as good as the trailers that have been put out. To be honest , graphics wise this is no more than 
 you would expect from a modern DX10 game but the performance is shocking and in my opinion falls 
 well short of COD4 which was released last week.
  
  Further the game, particularly the interface is buggy - lots of people are having problems and 
 often you can only play the game in a window rather than full screent.
  
  Sound is good, just more of the same old far cry.
  
  The story - well I won't put in spoilers 
 but it is quite banal and hugely predictable.
  
  Gameplay - pretty poor - It's just run and gun. You are given a "Nano suit" which has special powers, 
 one of which being invisibility so you don't even have to fight, you can just run past mobs to 
 your objective. The first half of the game is typical Far Cry style but as it goes on it gets worse 
 and worse. The game is incredibly short and there's about 7 hours gameplay at best, padded out 
 in the middle by the awful "Core" level where you lose your compass and are wandering around in 
 zero gravity caves for ages. To put it simply, this title tries to be Half Life, but fails dismally.
 
  
  Now fighting - there's another thing. The guns are woefully underpowered and you have to shoot 
 an enemy about 20 times close up in the face before he goes down.
  
  There is also a tendency for the character to get stuck when near walls presumably because of memory 
 leaks. This has happened to me several times when on foot and driving tanks, causing a reboot. 
 I have also found myself falling through floors into a wire frame 3D Max abyss. Often doors that 
 should open don't. Bugs bugs bugs.
  
  Multiplayer seems to be quite popular, but I don't enjoy it - It is an overly complicated rehash 
 of capture the flag which gives you access to vehicles when points are capped. Its like an amalgamation 
 of BF2, and ETQW all in one and its incredibly difficult, particularly because when you die you 
 respawn back at the home base rather than at forward bases that have been captured, so it all gets 
 very repetitive. The tutorial makes online play look much better than it actually is. The graphics 
 in MP are much worse than the single player campaign.
  
  There is absolutely nothing new in this game. If you haven't played Far Cry before you will probably 
 enjoy it, but if you are short on cash and have to choose between games, certainly go for COD4 
 or next weeks UT3 instead.
  
  To sum up the game is uninspiring, you don't want to keep going back for more. It's ok to jump 
 in and play for half an hour, but then the boredom creeps in and you will find yourself taking 
 the disc out of the drive and playing something else.
  
  Graphics 9
  Sound 8
  Gameplay 5
  Stability 4
  Value 5
  Overall 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dsummers26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  My computer is a C2D E6600 slightly overclocked to 2.8Ghz, 680i mobo with 4G of OCZ Reaper and 
 2 8800gts 640mb in sli and I still suffer from frame rate drops below 25fps at High setting during 
 intense gameplay using 1280x1024 Res. it's sucks. I play COD4 using max settings with no hiccups 
 what so ever. if u only got the money for just one game at the moment I would go with COD4, which 
 seems to be more PC friendly with lower specs. I look at it like this, why Buy a porshe if u can't 
 drive it over 60mph. LOL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garythemessage
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  I played this at a friends house (PC) and the graphics are great. The binoculars are cool. The 
 cloak is neat. But this game soooo boring. I've played this game a dozen times already. I hate 
 to say it, but I kept remembering Battlefield Vietnam for some reason. This sort of game has been 
 done to death. It's boring no matter how flashy and pretty it is. Certainly lovers of FPS should 
 consider it, but games need to move on. I'm sick to death of this formula of: "There's some generic 
 looking dudes shooting at me, where are they?, run over here, run over there, shoot, shoot, shoot, 
 run some more, listen to some stupid chatter on radio, run some more, shoot, shoot, shoot. It's 
 mindless and boring. And it's totally fake.
  
  Have game makers no clue about guns? I would repeatedly run up to some guy, point blank, and shoot 
 him in the chest with 10 military rounds. And he runs away! What the heck? I've shot and killed 
 deer many times. One round always results in one kill. Are you to have me believe that the Crysis 
 dudes are using subpar weapons? Like pellet rifles or something? Trust me, if you were to shoot 
 someone in the chest with any sort of military issue carbine/rifle, and shoot them 6 or 8 times, 
 they would not run away. In Crysis this happened repeatedly. Just a rant. Sorry.
  
  I just cannot see upgrading my PC and purchasing this game, only to play the same old boring FPS 
 one more time. I'm done with FPS games. Give me something new, or I'll stick with strategy games 
 (and, yes, they are falling into the same trap of offering nothing new) . Maybe Assassin's Creed 
 will be something different.
  
  And if you loved Crysis - more power to you. But if you keep buying and writing rave reviews, the 
 producers will not innovate. They will stick to the same boring forumula! So be careful with the 
 9 and 10 star reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angel_2005
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  Im playing this game with Intel core quad qx6700 2.67 Ghz 
  4 Mb ram vista ultimate extreme striker motherboard and Asus 8800 Ultra Sound Blaster X-fi Etreme 
 Fatality Professional series 
  I bulid my computer my self and it was worth it , just for this game .... The levels the story line 
 is great ,The nano suit got to love it , this game actually beats Halo 3 , Call of duty 4, I just 
 hope that there will be more games like this game ... the levels of the game are explorable and 
 you can almost walk anywhere in the levels huge maps and the weapons are really realistic I guess 
 it all depends on what graphics card you have and the processor you have Of course the more beter 
 graphics the more money you have to spend you can buy nvidia ge force 8800 312 mb ram, of video 
 for just $300.00 to $400.00 or cheaper .. I have a 8800 Ultra 768 Mb and cost me $750.00 and Believe 
 it or not but it does make a difference ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielcwc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game, I feel like this  (WOAHOOGHAOHWOOAHOHGOA) Yea, that kinda describes what 
 I feel after playing this game. Graphics are just the best. To be honest, I just get a new PC, 
 and although it can only run this game in 800x 600 and medium, I get lots of eye candy out of it. 
 And if I max everything out, umm it lags like  Yea, so forget 
 it, I admit that I am not rich enough for a damn good PC. But anyways, this game looks too real 
 to be a game. Gamespot is right this time, i actually want to bring my frds over and see this game. 
 It's that good in graphics. Now talk about gameplay, I don't complain much about the gameplay. 
 This is pretty much what I expected. Although I don't use the abilities a lot, I like to just engage 
 the enemy to finish them off. Yea, I heard someone said they just keep using cloak to get through 
 this game. Seriously dude, if you do that, that's your own choice, they didn't tell you to play 
 that way don't they. You have your own choice of playing this game, and if you think keep playing 
 using the cloak mode ruins your fun, then why would you keep on doing it? (smart) . That say, I used 
 cloak mode rarely in this game, most of the time I cycle between armour, power and speed. A firm 
 sequence, (speed) run into a the field, (armour) shoot the hell out of everyone, run out of bullets? (power) 
 jump on roof tops or just throw stuff at them lolx. I LOVE THE THROWING STUFF TO KILL PPL WAY lolx, 
 seriously I killed one of the minor boss using this the throwing mechanics cuz I ran out of bullets. 
 And when he gets killed by a barrel, I laughed so hard lolx. So story is the thing everyone is 
 talking about eh? Well, I am not gonna focus too much since I don't want to spoil it. It's a pretty 
 normal, not over the top story with RICH characters. Seriously, pay attention to what the charaters 
 say in the game, some of them develope an actual human character, it makes me feel like he/she 
 is a real person. yea yea yea, it's too simple, everyone can write it bla bla bla. But I think 
 it's more about discoevring the story. THe game always keeps you moving and makes you feel like 
 you are actually "living" the adventures Nomad has. I don't feel any dull moment in this game. 
 I have only one minor issues, which is the little buggy stuff. But I forgive EA since this is the 
 first Sci-fi FPS they have. So concluding my experience with crysis, it's a good game. Pick it 
 up and you won't regret. BUT make sure you check the hardware requirement. Don't end up with a 
 really great-looking game that you can't run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmography
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best FPS ever created, it does a wonderful job of making you feel its really 
 you whiping ass on koreans and aliens. The graphics are top notch, it really adds to the realism 
 and just everything in the game is a real treat. The assualt and core levels show just how beautiful 
 this game is. 
  
  One of the most glossed over feautres of crysis is the gameplay, its just not all looks. Crysis 
 is like a hot blonde who also has a PHD in astro physics. The suit functions are a great part of 
 the game and you have to use these suit abilities to get through the game.
  
  Crysis also does a great job with the other characters, you just gata love Prophet, Jester and 
 Psycho really great squad members. Also the way other characters act in the game are really well 
 done especially with lines from marines like "I'm a marine, I'll walk on water if I have to" just 
 make the game stand out against the competition.
  
  Crysis is the best FPS of 2007 and rivals many classic games such as Half-life. Crysis delivers 
 on every front. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickler2
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows why tis game is awesome but I'm going to concentrate on the negatives. First, the 
 game requires the CD to play every time. Second, the game has to be started from the CD menu or 
 it will just hang before it plays that 'EA overlord' movie you can't skip past. Third, 64bit doesn't 
 work it also just locks up. Forth, this game installs the malware known as securom, securom will 
 clam it's not malware; however, I'm sure most would agree, anything that hacks up a users registry 
 and puts undeletable files on their harddrive is malware. Fifth, after playing for a few hours 
 artifacts start showing up with my 8800gt (probably because it is over heating) , I'm not sure if 
 this is crytek's fault or nvidia's. Sixth multiplayer locks up when loading every so often. This 
 one time it locked up I had to ctrl-alt-del out and I was unable to even kill the crysis. exe*32 
 process with the end process option resulting in having to reboot.
  
  In case you think it is just my system... I have all the latest whql drivers, nothing is overclocked 
 and my 4GB of memory have survived an all night run of memtestx86 with zero errors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to discribe my feelings for this game, it looked so cool and the demo amazed me. I got 
 the game and completed it in like 6 hours on delta and it disappointed me so much. It's obvious 
 that im not part of the majority, since most people think really well of this game. First off i 
 liked it, but once uve played through the singleplayer and done every tactical trick in the book 
 its just really boring. The storyline is so furiously bad that it makes me wanna scream, it had 
 such great potential but it just shows how crytek needs to hire a new story staff.
  
  Speaking of staff, i also think they should get a new gameplay staff since the game isnt really 
 much of a deal, theres hardly any difference in the 10 different enemies, theyve all got pretty 
 lame AI which utterly fails. The only enemies that i ever had any trouble was the Nano-suit koreans, 
 which are basicly walking tanks, infact you could kill a fully armored tank faster then with a 
 nano-suit korean.
  And the first time you see a korean stuck inside of a tree scream "I see him, there he is, i see 
 him, there he is, i see him" you know youre not fighting the must intellectual of AIs.
  
  Story:
  I could write a whole book about how the story of Nomad the great supersuit-man kills 
 a while alien invasion using nothing but a gauss rifle and a minigun fails. The end was a serious 
 cliffhanger and its just a pure waste of time.
  
  Im not gonna go on with this "review" since this game made me furious, it promised so much and 
 yet it failed so horribly.
  
  Overall:
  Crysis is a game with great graphics but a dent in every other aspect of the game.
  
  Lets 
 hear it for the flamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2005wrxsti
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Many people in the movie industry regard Citizen Cain as the most provacative and incredible accomplishment 
 in movie making history. It's been heralded for it's plot, acting, background story with the media, 
 and cinematography. So, all in all it's the best movie ever created, right? Wrong...
  
  Lets get to the root cause of every gamers desire to play a game, fun factor, because there's really 
 nothing else to gaming than enjoying a little time blowing stuff up and/or living in a fantasy 
 world. Does Crysis have awe inspiring visuals? Yes, of course it does and we've known this from 
 the start, so this shouldn't be a surprise to anyone and with the next gen. of video games using 
 these high quality graphics will Crysis stand the test of time? No...
  
  Why do gamers still go back to classics like XCOM, Half Life (1) , StarCraft, Diablo, System Shock 
 etc. It's not because of the graphics I assure you. They've stood the test of time because of story, 
 gameplay, and immersiveness. Crysis delivers on some of these in part, but it still is lacking 
 that addicting immersiveness that very few other games lay claim to. Is Crysis a bad game, absolutely 
 not! Is it a great game, absolutely! Is it a 10 out of 10... quite simply, NO! There are minor issues 
 with the hud, and some things that aren't quite as smooth as I feel after I've had a shave from 
 the barber at the Ritz Carlton. There's also a little bit of a learning curve in this FPS, because 
 it's not true to form with most other FPS titles, this is more of a tactical feel like the first; 
 which isn't necessarily a good thing, I still don't know how a man that's 700 yards away can see 
 me in the thick underbrush of a lagoon... doesn't make sense! I also assure you that you wouldn't 
 be able to hear a silenced 9mm or SMG from even 100 yards away. 
  
  Regardless it's farely clean for a newly released title... but if that's all it takes to give a 
 10, then our standards are set way too low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aoki_squared
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  If your rig can support it, this game is beautiful. The animations are dead on and the level design 
 is amazing. The first "half" of the game is where I spent most my time. The free roaming levels 
 are awesome -- no play-through will be the same twice. Once you hit the 'halfway' point, the game 
 becomes more linear and you spend less time exploring and more time getting into the story. The 
 story isn't amazing, but it does the job well enough and the cut scenes are very well choreographed. 
 While more linear, the second half of the game puts you in some very entertaining sequences. The 
 last boss battle feels rushed and the ending is poor, but the actual game is what's important. 
 Anyone with an upper end PC should play Crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionwolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Once again Crytek sets a standard with the level of graphical detail. I'm running an 
 impressive system and I couldn't get my levels over high without the framerate deteriorating below 
 20 fps. Most of the time it was above 40-50 fps but during intense firefights it did dip pretty 
 low making the gameplay very difficult. The graphics are so amazingly flawless even on high you'll 
 find yourself comparing it to the best hollywood sfx has to offer. Watching a tropical island freeze 
 over is truly impressive.
  
  Sound: At the top. Between the voice acting, the musical score, and the lifelike sound effects, 
 you won't be able to tell the difference between game and movie.
  
  Gameplay: A lot like Far Cry. For those who loved Far Cry, this game will seem very very very familiar. 
 Although the addition of the nanosuit in this enviornment really amps up the gameplay. It's a model 
 for all other FPS's. I'm looking forward to Far Cry 2 - Crysis was just so much fun I can't wait 
 to see what's next from Crytek.
  
  Story: When you look at it from the outside is doesn't look too original. Alien invasion, waring 
 humans, ensuing fights between aliens and humans... but Crytek really twisted these things together 
 with semi-sci-fi technology. It's balanced really well and a refreshing breath of fresh air into 
 the alien invasion genre. I've gotta say though, when Far Cry hit 5th gear it found more horsepower 
 and ran it up to 6th. Crysis runs out and the ending seems a bit premature. Almost as if they weren't 
 done with the game but the release date didn't get pushed to the right so they were forced to release 
 the game without the desired ending. 
  
  Tilt: I've gotta say I've been looking forward to this title for awhile. I even spent a fortune 
 upgrading my system (it was time anyways) to ensure that I could run the game properly. I've found 
 throughout the years that when you expect something next level there's a good chance that you will 
 be disappointed as things get cut from production after they've been presented as an option during 
 development. Crytek promised it all and that delivered it all. I was a little suprised that the 
 technology to properly run the game on very high doesn't even exist yet. But I've seen that before 
 so it doesn't shock me. 
  
  Finale: Not enough multiplayer support yet - that is to say, only 2 servers up and I can't seem 
 to connect to them right now so I won't review multiplayer yet. As far as single player Crysis 
 delivers on 9 out of 10 levels. It just needs to finish the story. Will there be a Crysis 2? I 
 sure hope so. It would be nice to actually finish the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  In no way can the small amount of bugs bring down the glory that is Crysis....
  Every game launch you hear the same minority complaining bout crashing and bugs... Clean up your 
 install and learn how to maintain your rig.... damn
  
  This game rocks and there is plenty of eye candy in every detail of the game and the story line 
 is FINE, I don't know what people expect but as a big Fan of Half Life if you take what HL actually 
 tells you and compare to this the story's are comparable!! HL just rides on the unknown story to 
 keep you guessing.
  
  Gun models are top notch, Character Models are top notch, Levels are insanely big, The visuals 
 as well as the Music Score is Cinema Like.
  
  With a Quad Core and a GTX I have no problem playing on high in Xp at 16x10 res.
  
  This is 
 gonna be a trilogy fyi and I can't foookn wait for part 2!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeless_hobo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I'll probably get insanely flamed by fanboys and the like, but this is MY review and reaction of 
 the game. 
  
  
  Gameplay 6/10
  
  The gameplay is the same as any FPS formula. W, A, S, and D to move, and moving your mouse to aim. 
 Simple, right? WHAT THE HELL IS SO REVOLUTIONARY ABOUT THAT? All I heard about this game is how 
 it's going to change FPS games and blah blah blah. People expected this game to change the genre 
 like Half-Life and Doom did, unfortunately it didn't. The only thing that makes for some interesting 
 situations is your nano-suit. Speed makes you move faster. Cloak hides you from enemy view (which 
 drains your energy overtime) . Strength allows you to jump higher, have less recoil, and well... obviously 
 stronger (punching) . There is nothing redefining about that, nothing at all. 
  
  The other thing is the open-ended maps. Has this been done before? Yes, and in multiple games. 
 Farcry and Battlefield 2 (as crappy as that game is) already brought us that. These open ended 
 maps are nothing new. Another complaint would have to be the guns. How many are there? A handgun, 
 SMG, 2 automatic rifles, 2 precision rifles (gauss included) , the alien gun (which you only use 
 for about 10 minutes) , the gatling gun, missle launcher, and TAC gun (which you only use for not 
 even 5 minutes) . The last 2 aren't even really guns, but I know people will cry if I didn't mention 
 them. Overall thats about 5 guns that are always accessible to you throughout the entire game. 
 This has to be the lowest amount of weapons I've honestly ever seen in a game.
  
  The spawn points for enemy's are a whole other story. Enemy patrols? Thats a funny joke Crytek, 
 because I saw maybe only one or two parts where the enemy's were doing something besides shooting 
 at me. When I'd cloak in to an enemy base/outpost the AI would just be standing there not doing 
 anything at all. Non-scripted AI you say? I think this video will judge that: http://youtube. com/watch? v=6pfmws7mjPE 
 . During shootouts the AI will cluster in to about groups of 5 - 20 and will just swarm you. This 
 is insanely hard to get out of. I played the game on normal, and at parts where this happened (which 
 is pretty common) the game became incredibly difficult. 
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Now who could complain about the graphics? They are simply amazing. But there is one problem. No 
 one, and yes I mean NO ONE CAN "MAX" THIS GAME OUT. If you think you can your obviously smoking 
 some cheap drug. No hardware currently available can play this game on Very High, 16x AA, at 1600x1200 
 resolution, and have an FPS always above 40. Even the best graphics card and CPU get destroyed 
 by this game. I play with some settings on medium and high and I only every reach maybe 45 FPS. 
 It drops down to about 8 - 15 fps during a fire fight. And yes I know your probably saying "WELL 
 TURN YOUR DAMN SETTINGS DOWN". Well, the problem is that I like looking at nice graphics (which 
 is the only reason I played this crap) and I know everyone else does too. Now, whats the most important 
 thing to do when developing a game? MAKE IT GODDAMN SCALABLE SO CURRENT HARDWARE CAN PLAY AT HIGH 
 SETTINGS. I mean, what the hell is the point of releasing a game that NO computer can play well 
 on High settings? It's just stupid. By being able to play it "well", I mean 4x AA and High settings 
 with at least an average of 50 FPS. 
  
  Sound 4/10
  
  This is probably where all the glitches and bugs are mainly focused around. The music is absolute 
 crap. You'll hear the same freakin' song every time your in a fire fight. Sound files sometimes 
 either don't even play at all or just cut out at random points. Another thing which is pretty funny 
 is when a enemy yells something like, "Frag Out!" or some other type of speech that indicates that 
 they are throwing a grenade. 75% of the time they don't throw crap when they say that.
  
  Getting in to more bugs, there are times when I WOULD END UP UNDER THE GODDAMN MAP, WTF IS THIS? 
 Other bugs include spawning and then dying instantly, lighting problems, constant freezing, being 
 unable to beat the FINAL BOSS, dropped guns (on the floor) actually firing, and getting stuck (being 
 unable to get unstuck) .
  
  Value 5/10
  
  Don't know what all the hype was about. If your wondering about multiplayer, it's nothing new at 
 all. It's just like Counter-Strike and Battlefield 2 combined. Large maps and shooting people up 
 (with vehicles and guns) . That's it. Nothing new, nothing genre re-defining.
  
  The story also leaves out so many questions, and the ending just made me laugh because it was so 
 terrible. 
  
  Overall 5/10
  
  Can't believe this is the finished product. Anyways, flame on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  hmmm where do i start, how do i start?
  FARCRY was my favorite FPS of all time, CRYSIS came really close to replace it but failed in various 
 areas.
  
  Graphics - Outstanding graphics, if your hardware can take it your eyes won't believe what you've 
 just seen.
  my specs E6550 2.33ghz, 8800GTS 640mb, 2gb ddr2, nforce6 650i mobo,
  i am playing with all settings on HIGH @ 1280x1024 and no AA, the game is running surprisingly 
 well, i was expecting worse actually, keep in mind i am using WINXP SP2, my average is around 35 
 fps, lag was minimal for me.
  
  everything around you is so good you will spend a lot of time staring, drop a bomb and the shack 
 breaks in pieces rising smoke, cars explodes with huge special effects, water and animalia all 
 around.
  
  i had the chance to see if DX10 on Vista made any difference and once you enable Very High (and 
 take a big performance hit) the graphics looks absolutely gobsmacking compared to the DX9 version 
 (no i wont switch to Vista yet, dont care) .
  
  in the end, the graphics are gobsmacking.
  
  Sound - again another award should go for the audio, starting from the voices, the music and 
 every little sound around you, this game was born for Surround speakers, impressive.
  
  Gameplay - The new thing here is the nanosuit giving you all sort of powers to play with, Maximum 
 Strenght, Maximum Speed, Predator-Like invisibility and more and you will need to use it if you 
 want to survive.
  
  the game is still...... Go anywhere, play as you want, do what you want.
  
  it is some sort 
 of FARCRY 1.5 until FARCRY 2 is released, the story is passable but well presented and you will 
 spend a lot of time fighting bad guys and laughing hysterically when a truck explodes sending people 
 in the air 10 feets high. mmmuahahaha!
  i'm disappointed at the 2nd half of the game (no spoilers) it's going to be a love/hate affair 
 for everyone i'm sure.
  
  also the game suffered a couple of annoying bugs (falling through objects, loading crashes) during 
 the final levels. god help us.
  
  Conclusion?
  
  Without a doubt at least 65-70% of the world will love CRYSIS, the remaining ones will argue and 
 try to convince you it is merely a poor game hidden behind good graphics.. the truth is FARCRY 
 was better, the first moment i saw the ocean in Farcry my jaw dropped and spent hours staring at 
 the screen.. none of this here and you'll get a feeling of "seen it all before", it lacks some 
 of the magic that made Farcry the best shooter of all time.
  
  don't get me wrong though CRYSIS is really good game (at least 1/2 of it while you're in the jungle 
 and fighting people) and worthy of your time, of your blood and of your hardware.
  
  
  Cryrecommendedsis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedtzero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  This game certainly takes the fps genre to a whole new level. Super graphics and sound, great interactivity, 
 awesome physics and enviroment. Though the start of the game seems like something you seen before, 
 it really gets better as you play on. It has it all, driving vehicles and tanks, flying vloc :) , 
 tactics (depends on how you play) , co-operative battles with other Americans against the North 
 Koreans, and some shoot em up! All with a good potion of mysticm added, in form of some strange 
 aliens. 
  
  Any new coming game should be prepared for great critic after this. I really see forward to the 
 Far Cry 2 title next year. Hope its as exiting as this! 
  
  A great minus to Crysis, is the system requirements! This game laughs at any high-end system today. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  We've known Crysis for a long time now and for some reason when playing the game even though it 
 has amazing graphics, you don't ever have a sense of "WOW" because we've seen it in the gameplay 
 videos for the past 2 years nearly lol. What really makes the game is the physics but unlike what 
 Valve have done with HL2, Crytek have seemed to forget all about it and not have any physic puzzles 
 or anything in the game at all to make use for it. Instead it's all very natural where you can 
 knock down buildings and trees and cars react realistic etc etc. I would have prefer some puzzles 
 myself to make use of it all and give the game abit more creativity.
  
  One thing you'll notice about Crysis is it's linear without being linear lol. So basically you 
 have to go to a set place but you can chose whatever route you want to get there. This makes a 
 welcome change from lots of other games this year such as Bioshock or COD4 where it's just very 
 linear one set path type thing. However again Crysis just doesn't make use of it because the AI 
 for the soldiers just isn't smart enough and they don't chase you in the woods and they don't cut 
 down the trees to find you hiding etc etc. So insetad you'll find yourself getting sick and tried 
 of going point to point because there just isn't much to do until you get to that point.
  
  The gun play in Crysis is fantastic and it's really the best part of the game because of the nanosuit. 
 Basically the Nanosuit gives you lots of options like to be able to stealth or run fast or give 
 you armor or strength etc etc. You'll finding yourself making use of all these as you get put in 
 sticky situations however you really feel forced to use them at the right times isntead of being 
 able to chose what type of gameplay you want to play. Everything about the guns feels fantastic 
 and they fire with just the right recoil and feel just the right weight and it's just pretty much 
 perfect. What also makes it is the fact you can customize your weapons by pressing C and you can 
 put things on and off them like a torch or silencer or a scope etc etc.
  
  The problems in Crysis for me was everything feels like a generic sandbox and theres nor eal story 
 or chaarcter development that'll make you care too much about playing the game and carrying on 
 with it. It's like that female scientist you meet on the island i was expecting some romance story 
 between them or just something abit more than we got. I wanted to make friends with my nanosuit 
 brothers but you'll play the whole time without them. The base storyline is all there, it's just 
 the details that're missing that make it feel very generic. I love the whole theme which i don't 
 think has ever been done before and escaping the island was very exciting in the planes helicopter 
 things and that was a blast but where were the characters.
  
  When your walking round in other FPS games you can often stop and talk to the characters in the 
 game. However in this one they just stand there and look at you and say nothing and it really gets 
 me cause i wanted a romance in there too. Also the ending was abit of a cliff hanger lol, you expect 
 it to end on the aircraft carrier at the end but didn't expect what happened which makes way for 
 a Crysis 2.
  
  One thing that i didn't enjoy about the game is how long everything takes to kill, i mean if you 
 think the korean soldiers take long at the start then just wait till you fight over nanosuits which 
 seem to take more damage than your nanosuit and then the Aliens which take about a year to kill.
 
  
  We've all seen the graphics and they're just fantastic but the only problem is you wont want to 
 play crysis on anything but atleast High settings for all the beauty because that's what Crysis 
 is for. Crysis without the good graphics would just be like playing Halo without Masterchief lol, 
 just doesn't work.
  
  The sounds are all there too with good voice acting and sound effects, although i noticed sometimes 
 the sounds were abit glitchy and didn't play. Also the music is good but it never really stands 
 out as like "OMG i need to download that" which is a feeling you would get is playing MGS for example.
 
  
  
  The multiplayer in Crysis is not so good and they've made a rushed attempt at it but it just ends 
 up being very generic and not all that fun. It's hard to pinpoint it's faults because i just think 
 no matter what you do to it, Crysis multiplayer is jus missing that special something that makes 
 other games like Counter Strike soo addictive and fun.
  
  
  So yeah all in all Crysis is a very satisfying FPS and it wont really disappoint the average gamer 
 and is much better than 99% of the crap released this year. However it all feels far too generic 
 for me and is missing alot of touches that would make it that good. Ontop of that the multiplayer 
 just isn't any fun and you start to realise you can't give a game a 9 or 10 just for the graphics, 
 and while the gameplay is fun, theres no story or character development and they don't make good 
 use with the physics like Valve have done.
  
  
  I would defo buy this game despite all the faults because it just ends up being this years best 
 singleplayer FPS if you have the machine to run it. It's a good 10-15 hours long and the amount 
 of times you'll die at the end will probably make it much longer lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: variableKIA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  Without the details turned up, it looks like a nicer than average shooter.
  Not the dream like photo realistic promational videos that EA has been promoting.
  
  
  With 
 the details turned up, the low fps makes it un- playable.
  
  The most dissapointing aspect of this game is the failed promises of quad core support and some 
 decent sli utilization. Unless there are patches forthcoming, this game though still being fairly 
 decent fails to live up to its own hype.
  
  If you compare this games graphics to COD4 and the difference in perormance, Cod4 is a more of 
 a truimpth
  
  Wow theres a lot of trees and long draw distances, a bit of blur to disguise the attrocious frame 
 rate and some nice water effects.
  
  Wow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hector_01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  When Crysis first surfaced on the net, the first thing i thought was "wow those graphics look awsome" 
 but, like so many games before it, they tend to be all flash, no substance. Games that are just 
 made to show off some flashy new graphics engine but lacks the most important factor, gameplay. 
 
  Now you can be forgiven for thinking that this was just gonna be another tech demo wrapped in a 
 fancy looking package, cause i thought the same at first. As more and more screenshots began to 
 show themselves and some actual game footage was avaiable to watch it started to look like that 
 maybe, just maybe there was actually somethin else besides those great looking graphics. Now before 
 i say anymore i can safely say after completing the game that Crysis, as expected, has the greatest 
 visuals ever seen in a game today. This was no surprise, cause we all new that it would look visually 
 stunning but the game itself has some of the funnest and innovative gameplay seen in a game. 
 
  
  First off, Crysis puts you in the shoes of an American delta force soldier armed with the latest 
 nano suit technology. This is one key factor in the reason why Crysis sets itself apart from its 
 older brother Farcry. The suit allows you to perform superhuman feats such as jumping great heights 
 and super speed, as well as being able to cloak (which was probably my favourite and most useful 
 of the suits fuctions) . You can also set your suit to take extra damage so you don't die quite 
 as quickly. With this suit combined with the absolute open ended gameplay allows for some of the 
 most enjoyable gaming i have had in a FPS. The sheer size of the environments paired with your 
 nano suit means you will never approach a situation the same way twice. It is truly refreshing 
 from the regular shooters that have been released over the years. 
  
  Along with this there is variety to the environments so your not just presented with constant open 
 ended jungle environments. There is also a section of the game where you are fighting your way 
 through an alien temple which has you navigating its hallways in zero gravity. This was a good 
 break from the jungle settings you were previously fighting through. The zero gravity, along with 
 the dark and strange alien temple was an awsome example of the different style of play crysis presents 
 you. With not much more to say about crysis in terms of gameplay, the battles you have with both 
 the koreans and aliens are very enjoyable. All the guns have there own feel and there is plenty 
 too choose from. Along with this each weapon has certain minor upgrades you can add to them which 
 is another great addition Crysis has to offer. 
  
  Now with everything that has been said, Crysis combines it all with the most advanced and spectacular 
 visuals you will ever see. You will need a high end pc to run this game with all the sliders set 
 to high (which is as high as dx9 will go and as high as a current high end pc can run it at this 
 time) . Even though running this game on very high is probably not a option at the moment due to 
 the fact that no pc can handle this playably, high settings are still leaps and bounds ahead of 
 any other game currently out or about to come out. The amount of effects, physics and hugley detailed 
 textures that are used in this game gives it that cinematic feel which i absolutely loved. It was 
 like a high action hollywood movie which you were the main star. There are numerous cutscenes throughout 
 the game that push the boundries of how realistic you can get with todays graphics. 
  
  Along with the graphics, Crysis has a great orchastral soundtrack which sets the mood just right 
 for each situation you are faced with and this along with some great sound effects and voice acting, 
 along with the korean soldiers actually talking Korean ( when you set the difficulty to Delta) 
 all wraps up the very solid package that is Crysis.
  
  The only thing i can say negative about crysis is obviously the need to have a computer which most 
 people dont have, to enjoy the graphics at there fullest although computers these days are cheaper 
 than you think if you know what parts to get. There are also some minor glitches throughout the 
 game with the ai and technical hickups but are easily forgotten when compared to the positives 
 of this game.
  
  Overall Crysis is a great, if not the greatest shooter of the year. It combines next generation 
 graphics and hugely open ended gameplay to create a shooter you will never forget.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gfish19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  This game brought everything it promised and more. I'm talking everything from huge weapons, dynamic 
 explosions, destructible environment, to little things like bullet travel time. The single player 
 is thrilling. While the story line could have had a better ending than that, it did not leave me 
 disappointed at all. In fact it made me want to go online and kick some butt. Which brings me to 
 multilayer: the lack of team death match is weird in ways and leaves many of us asking "What gives?", 
 but then u look at the two other game modes and forget all about team death match. There are still 
 many bugs that need fixing and some game physics need tweaks, but don't undermine the whole game 
 just because some things are not perfect, but for the most part the game is. 
  Definitely pick this title up, as long as you have the required rig to run this beast, you will 
 have tons of fun while raining destruction upon aliens, or people alike! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirateotobx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  I think the game and the graphics are great. I also think that EA rushed putting this game out. 
 There are too many glitches and bugs. Test it and re-test it until the bugs are worked out and 
 then release the game. Don't rush to put it out and then make us have to wait for patch after patch 
 to fix everything. This is why console games are becoming more popular than ever. Crysis requires 
 endless tweaking to get it to run acceptably. You shouldn't have to pay 500 or more to upgrade 
 your pc to get a game to run as all the hype advertises it can. I think the story is good, not 
 quite on par with Half life 2 and the subsequent episodes 1 and 2. (You can bet I'm eagerly anticipating 
 the episode 3 to see what happens next.) Crysis does have a Halo feel, with a little battlefield 
 2 mixed in, whether you like to hear it or not. I don't play console games, I am a PC person only. 
 It would be nice to get a game you can pop in the machine and be off and running like I see my 
 sons do on their xbox 360 or PS3. Wishful thinking I guess. I would recommend buying the game just 
 expect to have issues and not have the graphics like you would like as hyped. My machine is:
  
  Manufacturer: Dell Inc. 
  Processor: Intel (R) Core (TM) 2 CPU 6600 @ 2.40GHz (2 CPUs) , ~2.4GHz 
 
  Memory: 3070MB RAM have 4 gig installed only shows the 3
  Hard Drive: 309 GB 
  Video Card: NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GTX 768 mb
  Monitor: Dell E228WFP 
  Operating System: Windows 
 Vista Home Premium 32 bit
  
  This is a pretty good machine and meets the recommended requirements... but as I said still doesn't 
 quite handle this game.
  
  Good luck..;-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  ... to the bone . Lets get the good things out of the way ... for example the graphics ( perfect 
 10 ) wich are the most advanced i've seen besides unreal 3 .... provides super open spaces & explosion 
 effects ... but olso its a little below unreal 3 when it comes to shader effects & models & artwork 
 creation good thing that the game takes place in realistic enviroments but no bigg every engine 
 has its strong points & weeak points ! The sound effects are just as great & the gameplay is quite 
 the same in Far Cry but because of the nano suit ( which is a combination of many games out there 
 like rechargeble shield from HALO , powers similar to those augmentations in "PROJECT SNOWLIND" 
 ) & the weapons that have upgrades ( similar to stalker but in more of an arcadish way ) .... you 
 can't call the game revolutionary but you can call the game a good "fusion point" for the FPS genre 
 + the only real revolution stands in the glorios battlefields provided & the great "FEAR" like 
 A. I. for the human enemies & the all known ALIEN A. I. .... ofcourse this freedom ends still due 
 the story & takes you from objective A - B, C etc. ! Now lets talk about the down side of the game 
 which olso starts with the gameplay 60% of the game you will fight human opponents .... in this 
 case ( i have played the game at normal ) your a like a good "PREDATOR" like in the movie ... in 
 fact you will feel like in the movie but from the predator's eyes ... that gorgeous A. I. does not 
 stand a chance against you because you are superior ... only 15% of 60% you will meet NANO SUIT 
 GUYS allmost as strong as you & they can really be a challenge but till you meet them after 40 
 minutes of the game it kind'a gets repetitive ..... the same happends with the ALIEN enemies which 
 are generaly squids .. metalic 1ones of all shapes & sisesz starting from the human to a buidlding 
 ... alll you have to doo is to keep moving & shoot them & thats done a "serios sam" way but with 
 tactics in way bt stil repetitive ... especially because the aleins design is very poor ... very 
 very .... something inspired by "war of the worldsonly 4-5 kinds of them in all of the game 
 ! The story is another downside .... is still your alien invasion .... story from a super comando 
 eyes .... named "NOMAD" ... you don't evan know your real name or your teamates & the dialogs are 
 preety predictible but with super voice acting ... where you will often meet characters that you 
 talk to you just like your long life firends .... but in fact you have just seen them for the 1st 
 time ! & i just forgot to mention ... that the big boss battle at the end is kinda stupid if you 
 want you just have to move away from the last boss ... at the edge of the carrier & he will just 
 keep on firing but at nothing because you are out of the way & its all very scripted when it comes 
 to a boss battle ... & its kinda dum to kill a MOTHERSHIP ( lets say ) with somekind of a pulse 
 rifle ! Anyway you need a high end rigg to play this game .... because its a real system eater 
 ..... but oslo if you upgrade for it don't expect a revolution ... anyway i have runned it fine 
 with a steady 45-50 FPS's at max Direct X 10 ..... 2900 XT , 4gb ram , Intel E6700 ! P. S. Y have 
 fnished the game in 6 hours very short ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rad6666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  Crysis
  
  Ok this is the follow up to highly acclaimed and very enjoyable Far Cry..... which 2-3 years ago 
 was a great romp.
  
  Starting out in Crysis you will feel like you have been here and done it all before, let me start 
 by saying the AI in this game is horrendous, as so are the apparantly non linear routes you can 
 take, you can chose to go to the right through the jungle or keep to the road or path and straight 
 into the thick of it, the maps are large and the vegitation is there, but now with shootable leaf's.. the 
 AI troops are so random in their search for you and will hang in groups even if you blow the head 
 of the guy in front of them its much worse than Far Cry which is a shame (I parked a vehicle in 
 the middle of the road and hid in the bushes and watched the AI routine try to drive their vehicle 
 straight through mine for about 10 mins) Just one example of terrible routines on show here. The 
 suit sucks major ass, the videos that have gone before show it to be integral to the game, UH NO!!!!.... You 
 have 6 different abilities with it but the only one you`ll use is the Cloak disappearing right 
 before the eyes of your assailants.... it goes like this SHOOT KILL ... Come out of cloak... Go back 
 into Cloak .. SHOOT KILL... repeat til all guys are gone I did this 45 times .. which backs up my 
 argument about the terrible AI... Headshots are one shot kills but body shots about 8 or 9 bullets 
 this is probably to compensate for the AI.
  The reason I am talking so much about the AI is that in this game I feel is a big part of it.
 
  Graphically the game is nice Direct X9 and 10 not much between them in looks... however you do 
 need a monster PC to get the best out of this game.
  I was going to talk about the story but who cares about the story eh, you guys just wanna kill 
 stuff.
  
  I really really wanted to like this game I play all the triple A releases .. but this guys does 
 not cut the mustard I don't know how Gamespot gave this game a 9.5 its ludicrous to the extreme...
 
  If you don`twant to waste your time although a little short play COD4 it`s the best FPS out there... this 
 on the other hand is a HUGE let down...
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALZex
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  I must admit I do enjoy a good shooter and Crysis really is that in comparison with shooters. I 
 problem came in when I play Call of Duty 4 single player first and then Crysis. COD4 really spoilt 
 the game for me because the gameplay... the fun factor was so much better than Crysis. 
  
  dont get me wrong Crysis is great but COD 4 should have scored better!! Shame on you gamespot!
 
  
  I also don't enjoy the lack of speed in the game. Some of the slow feature like shooting a guys 
 4 times in the chest to kill him!! Powers are also overated! not nearly enough juice for a fun 
 factor!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMThomsen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  The best looking game ever made - without a doubt. Then that's said. The gameplay, on the other 
 hand, I didn't find that attractive or fun.
  It features huge open maps, instead of the classic linear routes from other FPS's, but I honestly 
 think I prefer the linear routes. I find myself using a lot of time just running around to get 
 to the next "checkpoint", and while the jungle looks amazing, it gets quite old quickly.
  The game's big gameplay apeal is the nanosuit. Now, don't be fooled by the amazing gameplay vides 
 you've seen, because the actual game isn't that way at all. Al your powers are (greatly) limited 
 by a power bar. Which means "Maximum Speed" only makes you sprint about 10 meters before running 
 low, which in fact is worse than other games with a standard stamina bar for sprinting.
  The "Maximum Strength" is usually only used to get past certain obstacles that you either need 
 to smash into pieces or make a super jump over. 
  You would think it would be awesome to smash enemies in melee, but you walk terribly slow when 
 you aren't using maximum speed. Some would say "hey just use speed to get to them and then switch 
 to strength!" Yes, that sounds good on the paper, but in actuality it takes about a second t switch 
 powers, and by the time you get to him, your power bar is low, so you cant punch him. The nanosuit 
 was a great idea, but could be implemented a lot better.
  
  The shooting in the game also seems ankward. Most weapons are surprisingly unprecise and enemies 
 can take a huge amount of bullets before dropping dead.
  
  The AI and physics system is also below standard. The enemies sometimes behave strangly and some 
 times you'll get frustrating by the fact that they seem to be able to see and shoot you through 
 vegatation - even from miles away.
  
  The first part of the game takes place in an ordinary jungle, but afterwards, we get enclosed in 
 small, boring, uninspired corridors. The developers should really have deleted this part or reworked 
 it. It was just not fun to play. When we get out agian, it's time for the frozen paradise, which 
 Crytek hsa bragged about for months, and I have to say they had the right to brag. 
  
  With all this said, Crysis isn't a terribly game. It's above the average shooter, but could easily 
 become so much more with a few more months of development time, but EA is known for pushing deadlines 
 before christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiliary
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  With all honesty this game is simply AMAZING!
  
  WHY?
  
  1. The story line is completely engaging.
  2. Graphics are truly NEXT-GEN.
  3. Sound effects 
 and music score matches the non-stop action.
  4. Game is challenging but does have some bad AI here and their but nothing to worry about.
  
 
  I have NEVER played a game like this EVERY and I've played them all. My comp is capable of handling 
 this game on very high settings so I'm enjoying it's true glory. But what makes this game so god 
 dam good is it's story line. Honestly, the story line is simply a feeling to behold. I have never 
 been so engaged in a story line for a game. Somehow Crytek pulled it off! 
  
  BRAVO!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cataclysm_NZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  So heres me, absolutely extatic about trying out Crysis, the most sought after and eagerly awaited 
 game of 2007. I sit back in my chair waiting for it to install, time seems to slow down. This is 
 agony. Finally, it installs and with a few clicks i'm starting the first mission.
  
  (This review does not contain spoilers)
  
  I got through the game in around 6 hours which is 
 pretty quick for me. The story could have done with being a bit longer. Crysis strikes me as a 
 game that has been completely overhyped and almost seems like Crytek and EA were rushed to finish 
 it.
  
  The gameplay is what has let Crysis down. You're just sent willy nilly across an island in the 
 Pacific, deactivating Distrupter Beacons and the like. It all seems a bit reminisce of FarCry and 
 alot of other FPS Action/Adventure games. As for the aliens.. boy were they out of place. I won't 
 reveal anything else about them as obviously not everyone has played the game, but i'm sure you'll 
 get where i'm going when you play it.
  
  Crysis is still quite buggy. Running around, you see a rando smoke tuft in the sky (what looks 
 like exhaust fumes) . Helicopters crash into cliffs and stay there, allowing you to freely do the 
 mission without the need to worry about helicopters (personal experiences playing through the missions, 
 not sure if this happened to you too) .
  
  Overall I think the CryEngine 2 is probably the most powerful game engine to date, but sadly, Crytek 
 haven't done as well with it as they could.
  
  But for now, I eagerly await another company to take the CryEngine 2 and do something that Crytek 
 couldn't pull off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salzdaprinze
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is spectacular from all directions of the game. The graphics are Outstanding, The Sound 
 is excellent, The gameplay is increadible and the overall game is a masterpiece. Unfortunatley 
 it takes a massive amount of horsepower hardware to run the game in all its glory... and even then 
 it still is not at full potential, which is pretty amazing as the game is increadible as it is 
 but definitly has room for improvement in all aspects ranging from Sound, Gameplay and even visuals. 
 Crytek delivered a game that was not just meant to be a FPS but a moving experience that takes 
 the FPS and gaming in general to new levels. Without a doubt, Crysis was made and meant to be played 
 in a loud surround sound environment with high resolution displays on the PC. 
  
  For the people who claim this game is "boring", "Bad" or "horrible", One must understand that it 
 is not the game that they are upset with, its their lack of being able to play this game at high 
 settings on their PC and call foul by calling it "poor" optimization. Crytek did a fantastic job 
 on this title and is doing what revolutionary games do best,.. Push PC gaming and Technology forward. 
 10/10 for a Crytek and creating a game that brings the goods at its proper platform, the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldavidtw2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Not only a generation, but an entire new world of Gaming begins right now, and all of us are witnesses.
 
  That is, in terms of everything, Graphics, Strategy, Skill, Agility, Intelligence, I ran outta 
 vocab, you fill the list.
  
  First off, this new world of FPS is NOT easy in some sort, in terms of singleplayer, whenever enemy 
 see you, they begin to shoot at you just as fast as you would. 
  Although sometimes I think they're all nearsighted and need a glasses, but they aren't stupid.
 
  They take cover, throw nades, shoot randomly when you go cloak (and sometimes really accurate) , 
 they hear the sound you walk, they look at the leaves move when you go by, they feel you when you 
 get close to them.
  In terms of teamwork I cannot give a better compliment, they're good at it, really, really good.
 
  You don't kill them in 1 shot, in fact they're all bullet proof (and you gotta shoot down the 
 helmet first if you want a headshot far away) .
  I really see the "adapt" part in commercial, because I don't need to learn a thing in Call of Duty 
 4 (or 5 or 6 or w/e is coming) , I need to watch out where I walk by, where I hide, where I start 
 shooting, how long I wait, instead of just run up and boom boom boom, because nobody can survive 
 outta that (with very little exceptions in Delta mode when enemies are in small amount)
  
  Now switch to Environment. I believe many of you done this before, shoot down all the trees around 
 you in demo with machinegun.
  It's needless to say that absolutely NO game have done this before, and absolutely no game ever 
 can you shoot trees into 5 sections while it's falling down and crush an enemy jeep and blow 3 
 people away flying over your head.
  Although not all buildings are destructible (or it'll be a little bit too hard to make friendly 
 NPCs to show up) , but for those that are, you enjoy every second punching it and watch it fall, 
 except when you get crushed and die below.
  I haven't gotten into a lot of singleplayer, only got a few hands-on helicopter trials, TAC launcher, 
 boat, etc. But these are ridiculous enough to waste all my free time everyday. Simply too fun to 
 help myself get off the computer and do my homework.
  
  Multiplayer is HARD as well, in some case at least. because everybody can cloak, and they can stay 
 at 1 place (thanks to other suit functions they can be almost anywhere) and punch you in the face 
 when you walk by unknowingly. Rocket launchers, grenades, and alien stuff, you never know what 
 your opponents got for you in the middle of ladder walk, or in middle of any walk.
  Of course when you're used to it it'll get better, but you still never know who's right behind 
 you, or right in front of you with some freeze ray.
  
  If NIM was the first video game ever made, this is the first video game in the next phase, which 
 will include another few generations to come, where ultrarealisticness and extensive brain usage 
 is added to gameplay, not just aim and left click.
  There's simply too much to talk about while I don't wanna waste too many time on this because I 
 still wanna play abit more.... or start my college application at 2 a. m. plus homework.
  
  Final thoughts, gaming world just changed, and console gamers are just not lucky enough to feel 
 it now. get this game, any time you can, asap, it'll change everything, just like when people found 
 that electronics can be used as gaming and entertainment instead of business.
  
  Adapt the new world of gaming, Engage the new breath of revolution, or you will not Survive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rah_mhambrey
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  not revolutionary...... but evolutionary all that is there in this game has been done before but 
 the way it is implemented is what makes it so great... the graphics are awesome... well thats a given.... the 
 sound is amazing..... the story is not that gr8 but it is implemented very well...... the gameplay 
 just feels right the nanosuit adds a totally different dimension to the game... level design is 
 good..... the ai can be a bit cocky at times but overall its good...... but when u review a game 
 it shoud not be a sum of its parts so i feel that the game as a whole is awesome even tho it might 
 have some issues with the story and ai 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trickcdr
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Loved Bioshock, Jericho, Call of Duty 4. Finished all of them by playing level after level in an 
 excited frenzy of can't wait to see what is next. Unfortunately, fired up Crysis (medium quality 
 is all my new laptop could handle) and was simply amazed at how boring and non-immersive the game 
 was...
  
  With all the great games to play this Christmas season (Blacksite Area 51 is next to install) , 
 Crysis was supposed to be amazing, but here are my complaints of the two hours I played before 
 I hit the uninstall button:
  
  1) AI is dumb as a rock. Many times I was standing in clear sight and they ignored me.
  
  2) 
 Nanosuit "twist" is boring. Cloaking lasts too short, and disables when you fire your weapon. Having 
 to use a key press and mouse direction to select a different nanonsuit function got OLD real quick.
 
  
  3) Physics is too incosistent. You can knock down a building with a vehicle, but you can't dent 
 a plywood/metal panel in some areas...
  
  4) Non-immersive. I was always concious of playing a video game. Jericho, rated only 6.5 on this 
 site, was twice the game, and I played it until 3am every night until I beat it.
  
  5) Colors. What is with Crytek and palm trees, islands, extreme color? Looks like a cartoon playing 
 the game. They needed to filter and tone down the colors.
  
  Bleh, enough, I played Half-Life 2 Episode 1 (3-4 year old game engine) for hours the other day 
 and it was FUN! The bottom line, Crysis is just not any fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whocares9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is with out a doubt the best shooter game made thus far. The immersion, gameplay, great 
 visuals, and impressive package all around really push this game to superiority. This game is also 
 a technical achievement, you will stand up and want to applaud the people who made this as you 
 play it. Don't believe the fan boy non-sense hating of this game. People hate on this game because 
 it is demanding and they can not play it... that is the only reason. The music will cause the perfect 
 emotions for the right moment. The size of the maps are over-whelming and the gameplay is beyond 
 the days of linear shooters. You can take on a enemy camp for example from what ever direction 
 you choose to or you can skip it all together. The environments are destructible and no game so 
 far comes close to the impact a grenade has when thrown at a building in Crysis. If you have the 
 PC to run it or are soon going to be owning a PC that can handle this game than you are in for 
 one incredible ride... just make sure to buckle up cause it is so impressive you may fall off your 
 chair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mshal15
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing but hype. I have a core 2 duo running @ 3ghz, an 8800gt overclocked, and 4gb 
 of ram. I still needed to turn settings to medium to achieve acceptable frame rates. There is no 
 support for sli.. It doesnt appear to be optimized for duel/quad core cpus.. Why would anyone release 
 a game that no computer can run? The game does not look that good on a mix of medium/high settings. 
 It just looks like far cry did when it was released. 
  The gameplay offers nothing new or exciting, except a suit that gives you powers....
  The maps 
 are large and open, but you are pretty much funnelled to your objectives, it might as well be a 
 "shooter on rails" game.
  This game is dissapointing..
  Bioshock and COD4 are much more fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thor-Axe911
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Wow... where to start?
  
  Hmm, how about, best graphics in any game known to man? Oh wow thats pretty big. What about, amazing 
 first person shooter? Well, all the abilities really allow you for your own strategy, mine being 
 sneak into a base with cloak, sneak up behind enemies, activate strength, melee, then go to Armor 
 and take out some people, then use speed to go for cover. It pisses me off how people say its just 
 far cry with some add ons. what do i say to that? bull shi*. You've probably never played the game!
 
  
  Anyways, The replay value is incredible, i've played one level three times and each time i had 
 a different experience because the maps are huge allowing different paths to your objective, encountering 
 different enemies and bases. Creating an awesome and intense gaming experience.
  
  and lastly, the story line. I'm not gonna say anything, dont wanna spoil, but lets just say, get 
 the game. the game play and story alone make it worth the money, and to top it all off, best graphics 
 ever made =D
  
  p. s halo is over rated. halo isnt even in the same league as this game
  
  I even got Special Edition of crysis the day it came out :)
  
  Cyris.... for... the... win 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrysavast
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Well Here I Go Again, Was Waiting For This Game
  For So Long And Its Now On The Shelfs Where It Can Stay
  Very Disapointed, Been There Done, That. 
 Another Farcry Game 
  With Glitching Graphics Im Runnin X6800 Duo Core O/cd to 3.4
  On Water Witha 8800gtx Also Water Cooled And Clocked The Game Was 
  Developed Horribly Like I 
 Said Save Your Money And Play Farcry Again.
  Bioshock And COD4 Is Worth The Money Not This Game...
  Very Poor Im So Sad It Had To End Up Like 
 This.
  Was Looking For A Great Next Generation FPS Crysis Is Not It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zdorab
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Incredible. Unbelievable. Its everything everyone has been waiting for -- 
 Plus more.
  
  Best graphics to date on any system, games are now going to be rated as pre-Crysis and post-Crysis.
 
  
  If your afraid your computer can't play it don't be. Play it on a lower resolution on lower settings -- 
 it will still look amazing.
  
  The explosions in Crysis are incredible. Life-like balls of flame shoot into the air and only the 
 smoldering wreckage of vehicles is left over.
  
  This game is strikingly realistic. I've bailed from a jeep heading towards another jeep, only to 
 have both explode knocking over a tree, and then blinking in disbelief staring out of my dead characters 
 eyes seeing how the tree fell on top of me. It was cool enough to not be mad about the death.
 
  
  The only thing bad about the game has to be the enemy health. The absorb far to much and take away 
 a little realism. It would also be nice if they would take limb damage and maybe fall over, but 
 hey, you can easily look over it.
  
  Go buy Crysis. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoyholyhoy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  when i first heard of this game in 2006 i was about to wet myself with the happieness and now that 
 i finally got to play it i did wet myself with exitment! this game is halo X10000 and every type 
 of game i like in one! i worshipt CRYTEK sinse far cry because they focus on the best possible 
 type of gameplay you could imagin. i am one of Crysis' biggest fan and i will always have this 
 game in my daydreams. but i also like UT3 and TOB alot too so we'll see onse i play them all more! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead789
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the first time i had seen Crysis almost a year and a half ago, i wanted to be awed at 
 the awesomeness of this game. Now, finally my dream has come true. After spending around 2,000 
 dollars to completely upgrade my computer, I can finally play Crysis (as well as a multitude of 
 other games) . Now, i have heard from some people that there is no hardware that can run this game 
 on ultra high. Nay Nay i say. I have Vista home premium, the core 2 duo E6750 OC 3.2GHZ, the 8800GT, 
 3 gigs 800mhz ram, and i can run this game fully speced at around 30 fps (even in large battles) , 
 which is fairly smooth for all the eye candy you get to witness. But don't get too caught up in 
 the graphics, or else the advanced AI will sweep you away. Also, i have heard that this game is 
 unrealistic as far as game play goes. To them i say, of course its unrealistic, its a game. How 
 fun would a game be if your suit could just absorb all the bullets ever fired at you. It would 
 be very fun in real life, but in a game, that gets old fast. Plus, it adds to the strategy that 
 the game developers wanted you to use. That is why there is strength, armor, speed and cloak mode. 
 They are all supposed to be used so you wont just armor up and run and gun. Arguments aside, this 
 game is beyond amazing and is easily the best shooter I've ever played. If you have the system 
 to run this monster of a game, then you have to go out and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11wow11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  So yeah, I think it's way over hyped. And these are my reasons: 
  
  Very basic. Point and click; it's so boring. the nanosuit is so obsolete compared to standing back 
 and shooting. 
  
  Repetitive. This game offers nothing new. Same weapons, same enemies, same aliens. It sends you 
 to gather Intel, and save an archaeologist about 6 times in the first hour or 2. 
  
  Graphics. The graphics are really good... if you have a $300 graphics card. It's way too demanding, 
 even on medium/low. The physics are pretty bad. Yeah, you can knock over buildings which IS pretty 
 cool, but when you go up to someone and shoot them with your shotgun, they do a cart-wheel, going 
 backwards which is completely over the top and random. 
  
  Multiplayer. Crysis has tried to copy the battlefield series' system of multiplayer play. Don't 
 get me wrong, I've been a huge fan of the battlefield franchise for a long time, but it just... doesn't 
 belong in crysis... I can't describe it but it just doesn't fit. 
  
  Solo play. WAY too much of it. The fact literally half your team dies in the first half hour is 
 really disappointing. You spend way too much time on your own doing unrealistic things. Being sent 
 here and there to do all the work all the time. Again, boring and dated. 
  
  
  So yeah, all in all I find Crysis to be a HUGE LETDOWN. I really didn't like this game. But it's 
 just my view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I generally play FPS most but over time I have gotten bored with most of them, a few games have 
 come along to revive my interest such as half life 2 and BF2. Crysis has taken it to a new level 
 though, great physics of course the best graphics out there right now and great gameplay. I think 
 this particular game can be played on a lower end system but to truely appreciate the game to it's 
 fullest, you need a rig that will allow you to crank the eye candy to the max. This is the type 
 of game that PC gaming needed to get it noticed once again as the reigning leader. If you cant 
 play it right now atleast buy it for the future. This game is a must buy IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Graphically, this game can be stunning, provided you can run everything at high. When you start 
 moving the settings down to medium or low, it looks noticeably less good. When you set shadows 
 to low and shaders to medium/low, the game looks no better than Far Cry. For some reason, antialiasing, 
 even at 2X, delivers a huge performance hit, so you will almost certainly need to leave it off. 
 If you can get 30-35 fps walking around and 25-30 fps in large fights and/or densely populated 
 areas, you're doing well.
  
  
  The graphics are the high point of Crysis, not surprisingly. The draw distances are extreme and 
 the maps are mostly open, with impassable cliffs often used to define the mission boundaries, preventing 
 you from straying too far. They did the same thing in Far Cry, though Crysis seems to give you 
 more leeway in this regard. The island environments look great, trees, water, rocks, everything. 
 Character models are nice, with the faces being particularly realistic. The physics have been upgraded 
 as well - trees fall over when shot, and some buildings can be taken apart, piece by piece, perhaps 
 a little too easily. Other than buildings and trees, the rest of the environment is fairly static, 
 no craters or deformable terrain. Also, the physics system does not allow you to shoot through 
 materials as CoD4 does, as even NOLF did. You can crouch behind a piece of plywood with enemies 
 blasting away and nothing will penetrate it.
  
  
  The nanosuit is another addition to the formula. It allows you to withstand extra punishment, run 
 faster, punch harder and jump higher, or cloak. It does add variation to the game, but sometimes 
 it causes problems, especially cloak. Cloak renders you totally invisible, and by totally I mean 
 that an enemy can't detect you when he's so close that his groin is touching your nose. An enemy 
 might have you in his sights, but as soon as you cloak, he quickly forgets where you are, firing 
 a few blind shots initially, then resumes a search pattern. The advantages of cloak are offset 
 by the fact that it drains energy over time, and the burn rate increases the faster you move. When 
 used in conjunction with a silenced weapon, enemies become dazed and confused, and the AI just 
 doesn't seem to be functional anymore, running around aimlessly as you pick them off one by one. 
 Enemies should be able to fully detect you once they get within 10 feet or so. The funny thing 
 is, I can see their cloaked guys from a mile away with all the blue swirls around them. Well, you 
 say, just don't use cloak or silenced weapons. Well, I tried that, and all it buys you is quick 
 trip to the boneyard as every enemy within 200 yards bears down on you in a heartbeat. While the 
 average North Korean soldier can take anywhere from 6-8 shots to the body before dying (many, many 
 more for NK nanosuit soldiers) , you are dead after 4-5 hits, nanosuit and all. Headshots will kill 
 most human opponents in one hit, unless you're a certain North Korean general who can take hundreds 
 of SMG rounds right in the face and not blink. So in the end, everybody will end up making heavy 
 use of stealth tactics, cloak and silenced weapons, since that is by far the most efficient way 
 to deal with situations. Cloak, kill, hide, wait for energy to recharge, cloak, kill, hide. Unfortunately 
 this also seems to break the AI.
  
  
  The AI performs well when it's not boggled by stealth tactics. They take cover and attempt flanking 
 maneuvers. They don't react to being shot, however, and keep right on going, not even staggering 
 for a few moments or bending over in pain.
  
  
  The early missions involving the North Koreans are well done. They allow you to tackle them mostly 
 as you see fit, with some limitations. Vehicles are plentiful and there are quite a few ways to 
 approach a given objective... you can swim up the river or take it from the jungle, on foot or 
 by vehicle/boat, etc. The larger camps will usually have several entrances, guarded by heavy machinegun 
 emplacements, sniper towers, and sometimes minefields. There are also some secondary objectives 
 which you'll be given along the way, usually to disable radar jamming which interferes with your 
 map, or learn the locations of caches, hostages, etc. They did a good job creating the feel of 
 a war zone - reinforcements are flown in when you secure an area, planes fly overhead on bombing 
 runs, enemy helicopters patrol the sky and drop in their own reinforcements when trouble arises 
 (caused by you) . There's even a tank mission towards the end of the NK portion. A nice sense of 
 freedom and well-executed for the most part.
  
  
  I actually preferred to avoid combat as much as possible, and I'm appreciative that Crysis gave 
 me that option, at least in the NK part. Most of the time I would sneak by patrols instead of engaging 
 them unless they were absolutely in the way.
  
  
  On the flip side, the alien missions are not as good. They tend to be confining, linear, and very 
 heavily scripted. Most of them are the 'kill X number of baddies before you can move on', type. 
 You're usually required to defend someone or something by killing off a set number of spawning 
 aliens. I had these sequences break on me several times, simply because some of the dead aliens 
 wouldn't disappear, which prevented new ones from spawning. I ended up sitting around the first 
 time wondering what I was supposed to do next. Reloading was the only solution. The spawn and kill 
 missions are pretty much all you're going to get in the second 'half' of the game, which is considerably 
 shorter than the first 'half'. You'll get to do them on foot, in a humvee, in an anti-aircraft 
 battery, in a troop transport, and on board a carrier ship.
  
  
  The end boss, while spectacular to look at, fell right into the shooter boss stereotype. Wow, I 
 need to blow up piece x, y, and z in order, then use a special weapon, with the help of my friends 
 of course, all the while fighting smaller spawning enemies, and *then* I can kill it? Wouldn't 
 it be cool for a change to have an average-sized or even small end boss, or maybe no end boss at 
 all, perhaps something that requires some imagination? The end run really has you on rails, and 
 it left me disappointed.
  
  
  As to the characters, yes, they're there, but they fall flat. The character you play, Nomad, lacks 
 any personality. At times I could detect the voice actor nearly laughing as he read his lines. 
 Unlike Jack Carver in Far Cry, Nomad is a faceless soldier (literally) who has no opinion or input 
 of his own, other than 'I can do it!'. Your encounters with other NPCs are brief and none of them 
 are particularly interesting or memorable. As ridiculous as Far Cry's story and characters were 
 and the voice acting being pure cheese, they were lively, memorable and had a sense of humor. Crysis 
 doesn't have those elements.
  
  
  This has become the norm these days, but it must be said that this game is quite short. It's perfectly 
 do-able to finish in 6-8 hours on delta, assuming you aren't doing much sightseeing.
  
  
  There seems to be a great deal of potential with the sandbox editor and mods, so I'm sure the game 
 will have a long life beyond SP. The MP aspect should get bigger as time goes on as well.
  
  
  Good game, yes. Big innovation, not really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armeda
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for quite a while, and it is finally here. Crysis, the game that 
 puts other game's graphic to shame. But that is not the only reason I love the game. Well, actually 
 I don't love it for that at all, cause barley anyone, if anyone at all can play it on it's full 
 potential, but that doesn't mean the ones you can play with suck!.
  
  The graphics are pure eyecandy, you haven't seen anything like it, nor will you in a good while. 
 
  
  Also the gameplay is so well made, it feels like a "future sim" like how things may be in a few 
 years. This is a game that should be experienced by everyone.
  
  My only real complain is the maaaajor FPS issues. I know the graphics are two years ahead, and 
 as I said, no other game can compare to it, but why have fancy graphics when you can't experience 
 em without lagging the f' every second? The game is poorly optimized, and needs to be fixed, quickly.
 
  
  Other than that, perfect game. 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetmedic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a bloated overrated POS. The character models don't even look all that great. They 
 were better in BF2 and that came out how long ago w/o the almighty DX10. The storyline is "eh" 
 I might like it better if I could play more of the game but mine refuses to trigger any more objectives 
 after the "Tanks." I just don't feel immersed in the plot. COD 4 although short, actually got me 
 immersed in my character. The game-play is waay to easy. you can not die unless you try to. (I'll 
 tell you how to beat the whole game   Cloak, Kill, Hide, Cloak, Kill Hide. Follow that system and 
 you'll beat it in no time) I had no problem with the MP beta save for the constant server disconnects. 
 I figured that was just a Beta issue. I don't know what's up with this Retail Beta EA threw on 
 the shelves but I can't seem to stay connected to any servers. I wouldn't even have a problem with 
 the system crushing DX10 graphics if it seemed like they were worth it but they don't. My only 
 advice is don't by it yet. Wait till the come out with 3-4 patches and the price drops $10 or so 
 and maybe it will be worth it. Bottom line is that once again EA pushed their Devs to "get it out 
 the door" an the result is a game that was not nearly finished. This has become quite the habit 
 of EA and seems to be what the future holds for PC gaming. This is truly a sad day for gamers : (
 
  On a positive note the scenery looks GREAT and the turtles and crabs are very cool.
  
  BTW: That sweet SLI rig you bought, Useless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matte979
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Yes this game is hyped but rightly so. Crysis is the first of next gen games which pushes your 
 PC to its knees at max settings. The reason is not just the superb graphics its actually game play, 
 the game play in Crysis uses a lot of power to create and immersive and open sandbox world. Gone 
 are the linear approach and mindless straight forward action.
  
  Crysis challenges your mind to think and not just use your reflexes. It's easy to create a game 
 that uses effects and scripts to create good game play. But it's an art to create this without 
 using a linear and scripted world; this is what Crytek has done. The game play of Crysis is just 
 phenomenal; you have so many options how to approach a target or problem it's like a strategy game. 
 You can still go in with guns blazing but don't try this on the highest difficulty setting as the 
 AI will find you track you down and you will be killed. If you instead use Stealth and your smarts 
 you will be rewarded.
  
  I thought the fire fights in COD4 were intense, but I got a little tired of the trigger points 
 I had to reach to stop enemies from spawning. In Crysis the Firefights are on the next level, houses 
 crumble, trees fall down and dirt is thrown in your face, AI calls for reinforcements either by 
 running away and physically telling more troops that they need help or they can simply fire flares. 
 
  
  Weapon and character movement and firing is spot on and feels very solid.
  
  On the graphics side, the attention to detail is just amazing. Twigs on the ground, animals are 
 moving around in air and on ground, assortment of furniture in the houses. 
  And large areas of the maps that is just there to add immersion, other games would create some 
 artificial block, not Crysis. 
  
  Sound is vibrant, detailed and ever present.
  
  Crysis is for next gen FPS game play as Doom was for the whole genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Standard_222
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  I've learned to distance myself from promises and heresay hype from game developers, mostly because 
 by the time the final product comes out, most of those promises turn out to be just good ideas 
 that couldn't be executed. That's not the case with Crysis. Crytek made good on their promises, 
 making this a new benchmark in shooters. Simply put, FPS's will never be the same after this!
 
  
  The graphics engine is amazing, and pushes even the most up-to-date GPU's to their limit. The textures, 
 character models, environment detail, and lighting is so amazingly real, it will leave you in awe. 
 On top of that, the gameplay itself is smooth, fun, and very challenging, making this more than 
 just a good looking game. The guns are great, powerful, and very real sounding. It's hard to kill 
 a target at a huge distance when your weapon is set to fully atutomatic mode, like it is in real 
 life, so you'll be making your way to get close to your enemies for the kill most of the time. 
 The game is very open and non linear. There is no specific way to kill your foe, and/or approach 
 them, and there is no specific way to accomplish your objective. The game just gives you an objective, 
 but it's up to you to figure out how you're going to accomplish it. The environment is also revolutionary, 
 because almost everything is animated. You can beat through walls, blow up vehicles in any way 
 you choose, kill foes using the objects and events that take place around you, and sometimes unexpectedly 
 (i. e a falling tree or flying tire) . Basically this all boils down to how you want to play. You 
 can stealth, melee, and go guns blazing with the simple push of a button, kill enemies any way 
 you choose, and the AI from the enemies is some of the best I've seen. It's like you're actually 
 there! I haven't beat the game yet, in fact I've only played for 3 hours, but I know that this 
 game is what we've been waiting for. It's the new Half-life of our generation, and one of the best 
 first person shooters to date, and of all time. Every PC owner needs to get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade1978x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  I haven't played all the way through the game yet, but I reckon I'm about 80% through and there's 
 just been so many moments where I stared at my monitor and said "Wow..." out loud, it's astounding. 
 And this is right after just finishing Call of Duty 4, another almost flawless gaming experience.
 
  
  The difference here is that Crysis doesn't attempt as much of the realism that COD4 did, so the 
 "Wow"s are more because of the spectacle of the science fiction world that the game offers the 
 player.
  
  On the technical side, I have a AMD X2 4800+, 3GB of Corsair RAM and a 8800GT and I'm running the 
 game at the highest graphical settings, save for 4X anti-aliasing instead of 8x and the frame-rate 
 has been smooth for the majority of the gameplay. 
  
  Visually, the game is breath-taking. 'Near photo-realism' is the best way to describe it. I say 
 this because there was a moment I was standing on top of a hill and the sun was coming up, 'morning-time' 
 in the game, and the way the sunlight illuminated everything was exactly how it does in real-life, 
 to stunning effect. You could almost FEEL how cold it must've been in the game world in that 'morning'.
 
  
  The controls are solid, the weapons are powerful, even if many of the enemies are armored to the 
 hilt and require a few headshots to take down. I experienced a few graphical hiccups and a gameplay 
 bug or two along the way, but this takes nothing away from the fact that Crytek has crafted a technical 
 and narrative achievement.
  
  I've tried, but words don't do the game justice, only the experience itself can. It's a beautiful 
 blend of action, science fiction, mystery and suspense that I don't want to end. Being able to 
 play as an ass-kicking, nano-suit wearing super soldier doesn't hurt either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _KwispY
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  Crysis is supposedly a new, revolutionary take on the genre on FPS. However, I fail to see anything 
 quite revolutionary about it. Graphics are forever evolving in games, and there is no reason to 
 single it out for its graphical prowess. YES, it has amazing borderline photo-realistic at times 
 graphics, but for all my fellow pc gamers out there: graphics DO NOT make a average game and automatic 
 9-10 rating. To even enjoy this game graphically to its full potential requires quite a high performance 
 machine. By games of today's standard though, theres no reason to have an 8 series in your computer. 
 A late 7 can handle most games fine. That is to say, to all those who went out and upgraded your 
 computer SOLEY to play this game, I fell bad for you. The gameplay is totally average. This is 
 no step up or different than what we saw in far cry four years ago. By having no difference, and 
 not straying too far from a formula that seemed to work in the past, they pretty much doomed themselves 
 to make a far cry rehash. No one can argue this isn't a far cry rehash. By simply adding snow to 
 jungle environments and aliens, this game does not change drastically by any standard. It is essentially 
 far cry 1.5 The story is neither engaging or relevant. I found my self stopping to care very early 
 on as I was considering why this game felt so familiar to me. As for difference between this and 
 far cry, the only thing I can speak for is the nanosuit. The appeal of the nanosuit runs out pretty 
 fast. Eventually, being invisible and grabbing enemies, or using super strength and tearing buildings 
 apart, becomes repetitive and boring. The open-ended nature of the game seems to work against it 
 i think. Far cry was enough, we don't need more of the same monotony in another beautiful lush 
 jungle. I can't speak for the multiplayer, but the single player is throughly average, and extremely 
 over rated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth__666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Well, BioShock sure did live to its hype. It was fun, innovative, and the environments were awesome. 
 So, what about Crysis, would it live up to its long awaited hype? After playing the game for hours, 
 getting used to the nanosuit and its skills, I would have to say that Crysis not only lived up 
 to its hype, but in my book, its one of the three greatest FPS games in history.
  You just know a game is going to be awesome when the first thing you do is jump out of a military 
 plane with your sleek and super armor on and ready for battle. From that moment on, the game just 
 gets better and better. Once you land on the island, you get your awesome gun out, and shortly 
 after, you begin battling, now doesn't that sound like a whole lot of fun? Well it sure is. 
  One thing I loved about Far Cry was its smart A. I. The enemies didn't just stand in front of you 
 waiting to get shot at, they actually shot back. So, keeping this in mind, I was hoping to see 
 the same for Crysis and let me tell you, it didn't disappoint. The A. I. is unbelievable in this 
 game, almost to smart. Even on easy it can get quite challenging at times, but nothing impossible, 
 just good A. I. to make things interesting. 
  Like I said, I haven't played the game for long, only a few hours but those were the best few hours 
 that I've ever experienced while playing any game. The graphics are awesome, the game play is nothing 
 short of perfect, and the advanced A. I. keeps the game nice and interesting. So, if you were to 
 pick up one game and one game only for your PC during this holiday season, I'd say go with Crysis. 
 Despite of what one may think, the minimum system requirements aren't bad at all, I mean I ran 
 it fine on my laptop on medium settings. However, to fully enjoy the game with as much as eye candy 
 as possible, you do need a rig that can handle it. None the less, the game is absolutely perfect 
 and keeps you at the edge of your seat at all times. 
  So, what do I rate this game. Well, I'm going to go ahead and agree with Gamespot about this one. 
 A 9.5 is a very accurate score and that's what I would rate it. And who knows, by the time I'm 
 done with the game, by the time I've explored everything, I may change my score to a perfect 10, 
 and that wouldn't be to farfetched either. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxorigxX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  The game is a total fun and a real cool experience.
  Well what can i say........ Crysis is the best game ever with an amazing graphics and control system, the 
 gameplay is amazing the story is original.
  And i must say that when i firs got the game i know that the game will be awesome..... but i got 
 much more than awesome i got a perfect game with amazing next-gen graphics.
  graphics-10
  gameplay-10
  sound-10
  story-10
  original-9.5
  value-9
  title-10
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I don't think i should write more about Crysis, you got what i'm trying to say.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  Crysis is a great game!!
  
 buy Crysis. 
  i hope you like my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jevulen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  Crysis, the sequel of Far Cry, which opened like a sweet sweet dream to later on go on to be a 
 horrible hunt for tri-gens. As its predecessor Crysis too loses its charm the closer you get to 
 the finish, what was once a fun 1-man trip around an Island with NKA and their cars, is converted 
 to a teameffort against the ever so present aliens. That ruins it for me, though I can live with 
 it since the other things with the game are fun.
  
  Skulking around in the jungle, using your cloak to quickly take out enemy patrols before they have 
 the ability to put up a flare and gather friends, or speed in and shotgun them in the belly. Both 
 fun tactics. However, using the strenght-option, as fun as it might have been to run up and then 
 hit them with the end of your gun and watch them fly, is not an option. For some reason, when you're 
 in strenghtmode of the crysissuit and slap a radarjammingstation, it blows up. When you hit a NKAguy 
 in the face with the same hit, he just starts shooting at you, and you need to hit him 2 times 
 more before he goes down, very strange indeed. But then again, these NKA guys are well armored 
 and can take about ten bullets to the chest before going down. They also dont lose movability when 
 shot in the legs. They actually only have three different modes, alive and active with helmet, 
 alive and active without helmet, and dead, these are in my opinion very dated things. Especially 
 compared to Call of Duty 4 which has excellent responses to getting hit, enemies crawl around in 
 desperation, firing off their gun at assailants. Anyway, back to crysis.
  
  The island itself is looking marvelous, vast jungle, deep blue sea and destructable buildings. 
 The models are also looking very neat. The frozen things look mostly weird and not frozen, but 
 you can live with it. All in all, graphics are excellent, as is sound.
  
  The gameplay is also very good, with a few things that would need improvement. First of all, the 
 AI, dumb as a rock. You can lie literally five feet away from an enemy soldier and shooting at 
 him, and he'll just run around back and forth without a clue of what's going on. His friends a 
 few meters away won't react either at times.
  
  Then there's people on boats with machineguns, able to snipe you even though you are crawling around 
 the bushes in slowmotion. (and the accuracy with the machinegun aint good when you use it yourself, 
 but in the hands of the AI it's like facing someone with wallhack and aimbot at times) Fortunately 
 the boatcrew is easily killed by some wellplaced headshots.
  
  Another fun feature is that you can climb into almost any vehicle on the map and drive around in, 
 be it boat, truck or humvee.
  
  This game is in my opinion more fun than Bio Shock, though it has enough glitches to not make it 
 the best game this year. And the story is poor as hell. Crysis doesn't really deliver anything 
 new to the genr either, it does however combine existing elements and makes it an experience of 
 its own. It's a game I recommend getting, but dont expect it to be the best FPS-game ever and the 
 benchmark of all future FPS: s to come, there are better games out there representing the future. 
 (Call of Duty 4 comes to mind) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domy_g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  what can i say, if i said the future is now i'd be a liar, coz this thing is beyond the future...
 
  
  defying all of the current knows myths about FPS gender games, Crysis get to step in the light 
 with a head high telling the world that we've been playing our momma's FPSs for too long now.
 
  
  No offences for all the previous great titles but this thing which is really just can't be simply 
 described as a game is the real thing, it actually feels like we the republic of gamers, the nerds 
 and the geeks been waiting too long now but the wait is over with Crysis released just even playing 
 the demo sent me sleeping the other night with a smile on my face even so that for the first time 
 i get to feel my rig is pretty much a Atari within a case regarding the demanding hardware requirements 
 for such thing "told you can't call a game" but still this was a one happy and delightful memory 
 in my life.
  
  the graphics, sounds & game play is simply outstanding and beyond. it's just can be real having 
 such game to play, you get to emerged to a limit that you as a player just get totally isolated 
 from every thing else around...
  
  the thing to say that i swear if this title was to be sold for even a thousand buck i wouldn't 
 even think twice to get a job "in case i don't have the cash which i was lucky enough to have" 
 just to buy my self two of them, one to play and one to frame on my wall...
  
  if you actually reading this instead if purchasing one or playing it if you already have it you 
 are missing a lot and actually wasting your life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abr_alex
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Ok, Far Cry was good but Crysis is HUGE success. It's a new dimension for video games. Graphics, 
 physics, scale, animation are unparallel. Gameplay is very, very nonlinear - you can approach most 
 levels in a number of ways. Final battle is extremely satisfying. Aliens are unique and believable. 
 And yes, there is an enemy larger than hunter!
  Game of the decade, that is for sure. A revolution for shooter genre. And thats only the beginning 
 - MUCH more to come from Crytek (Crysis 2 preordered :) ) . Some of the levels are so incredible 
 that it's hard to believe anyone can do better. Bye, Half-Life 2. Crysis is a new King! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mer1384
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  This is not a game only, this is the dream of all gamers and developers in all years since industry 
 begun to grow ,I think that Crysis is a game with all features that a game must have ! excellent 
 graphic , excellent physics,
  nice and new shaders and lighting system, new shooter game play with a
  realistic character body 
 and detailed moves (your character is not only two hand with a gun in screen ! you can see your 
 shadow with nice animates and sometimes parts of your body during the game!) ,detailed and nice 
 designed
  characters and models in the game ,good sounds and realtime cut scenes 
  with nice environments , good and interesting story and about cry engine 2
  ,I think it is the 
 best engine of the world ! it fully based on directx 10 and it is
  a easy to use engine really ,against farcry crysis has a good loading time and it is compatible 
 with old hardwares and you have many options for setting the game for your hardware finally I must 
 say that working in crytek is one 
  of the my wishes because they are really a good and professional team in
  the game industry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pletharoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  So, Crysis. For me as well as millions of other gamers one of the most eagerly anticipated games 
 of all time. And my verdict, 80% at best. Allow me to explain. Yes without a doubt the graphics 
 engine within Crysis is the finest I have yet seen, but surely one must also factor in current 
 levels of technology combined with player enjoyment. We all remember FarCry, which even a few years 
 ago was again at the forefront of graphical beauty, but alas I can guarantee that a $4000 power 
 house would have laughed at it. Not so with Crysis. There is not a PC on the planet that can run 
 this game with all settings set to very high. I argue that it would have been a better idea to 
 release these settings when the hardware was available. It seems to me somewhat unfair to release 
 a game that looks so clearly better on these settings knowing full well you aint gonna be able 
 to run it well. 
  Enough of that however, for that is not what my real gripe is with. In my opinion, with the clear 
 level of efforts that have gone into the graphics engine, I must say that I think the real combat 
 element has been truly botched. We, the players are wearing a 2 billion or so nano suit, which 
 if you take the time to count, can absorb in armour mode, the best part of 4 bullets before it 
 is reduced to a fizzing wreck. Our local tangos however, well thier depleted uranium underpants 
 are clearly capable of taking full magazines whilst they happily back pedal pounding you effortlessly 
 with weapons which in their hands seem infintaly more powerful than when we get our hands on them. 
 Again the problems continue with our "predator" cloak mode. Awesome, right up until you fire a 
 bullet. Erm, why does that disbale it then? anyone? and you can bet your bottom dollar that the 
 aformentioned enemy will spot you, prone, in deepest darkest jungle, a mile away and begin pounding 
 away with their gyro stabalised mounted cannons capable of hitting a gnat at 1000 yards. Oh come 
 on! FarCry too was tough but at least realistic. I never had the feeling that it was a waste of 
 time attacking a base in FarCry. And as a final point my fovourtite of all modes, strengh, unless 
 one on one - maybe two at a push is nion suicide. These baddies can back pedal quicker than we 
 can run - try it. 
  So in conclusion, graphics, sound - welcome to the new king, but as a game, which after all is 
 what it really is I find the combat sadly lacking the intensity and realism as a game such as Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. So close yet so far... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  Well guys on my high-end system it will be very slow on a resolution of 1600x1200. In fact it is 
 not playable on these settings. With a normal resolution of 1024x768 and settings on high it is 
 great but the frames are in my opinion to low. Hopefully it will be better with the release of 
 the full game and eventually the patches in the near future.
  This game is great to play. This will be the number one for end of 2007 and with a very fast system 
 it will be very enjoyable. A high-end video card will be very important. Now finally I had a large 
 upgrade of my system and now it plays so well that I recommend everyone to buy this great game. 
 All right you need a huge system but if you will play at the highest settings you need this anyway.
 
  What a different. I hope there will be in the next future similar games to play. The next gen 
 games are full filling my needs and dreams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajspeed_1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  This is another triumph by crytek they have taken great thing out of all the great FPS's and put 
 it into one amazing game.
  
  Graphics Are so Damn realistic you will think you are in the jungle and if you just take some time 
 out of the carnage to appreciate it it mean Crytek have done their job Perfectly!
  
  Gameplay by now we should all be In tune with from the demo and believe me you will be using more 
 advance techniques straight after the demo level the next one is massive and will easily take you 
 an hour to get through and thats will just one set path you spread off it would be hours.
  
  Now i have only been playing For four hours and im Raving to kill some my Koreans but i thought 
 i would take a break just to right this review.
  
  Everybody who reads this to simply words GET IT! it is the funnest thing you will play for the 
 rest of this year and i have yet to get to the multiplayer to test its potential. Its a must have 
 FPS forget Halo 3 for Christmas Crysis is the wave of the Future!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alnar
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  This game exceeded my expectations. Even despite the fact that i had to run it on low with a mediocre 
 resolution, at times, i could not believe what my eyes were seeing. The game is just so damn spectacular. 
 Even on low it looks better than Far Cry does on maximum (and Far Cry still looks good, even by 
 today standards) . The physics, the AI, the story even (something that Far Cry lacked) is superb. 
 Outstanding. I feel like if some aliens really visited Earth for a video game competition, this 
 is something we could proudly show off. Hehehe.
  Do yourself a favor and buy Crysis. Don't think, don't second guess. Just have faith and get it. 
 If you have a rig that can run it on low.. get it. If you have a rig that can run it on medium or 
 high, GET IT. In around a year or a two years time.. when there is actually a video card that can 
 handle Crysis on Ultra smoothly.. GEEEEEEEEEEEET IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  With the Orange Box and so many shooters coming out, those short on money might wonder what is 
 the better deal. Well, if you are in for the Single Player, definitely Crysis. For MP, UT2007. 
 But the experience you get from the SP in Crysis.. is so much more worth than any Multi Player. 
 Its like an interactive blockbuster action movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzakj
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  Running with a 7950gt OC, I have to say that 20 fps is... enough for the pace of the game for the 
 most part, but that's running it at lowest settings. I HAVE to set shader quality to HIGH because 
 otherwise NOTHING shows up on the screen except the raw map (no characters, guns, trees, buildings, 
 NOTHING) . I played the demo and it ran at medium-high settings @ 1440x900 with the shader detail 
 on low (things were actually visible too) and getting 30 fps! Now I'm playing it at 20 fps at 960x600, 
 everything low but the shader quality. They really messed something up, and nvidia just released 
 a new beta driver that does nothing for it! I don't know if this is a widespread problem but it 
 really should be fixed soon... Enough of that. The game is fun if it works well, but it's not really 
 "revolutionary", it's fun, that's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prasath_amd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  My Sys Spec:
  
  Athlon 64 X2 3600+
  XFX 7600GT XXX Edition 256MB DDR3
  2GB DDR2 667Mhz
  ASUS M2N-MX
  
  Bioshock , Call Of Duty 4 , Half Life 2 EP2 , F. E. A. R makes 
 my system look like Ferrari Enzo but Crysis makes it looks like a broken Model T-Ford. It runs 
 on the lowest res ( 800 x 600 ) @ med settings. BUT Crysis's Photo-realistic Graphics & its GAMEPLAY 
 satisfies me like none other I've experienced before.
  
  Even though the Game is very taxing on the system its frame rate its extremely stable.
  
  Gameplay 
 in Crysis is better than every other First Person Shooter (Except Half-Life 2 & its Episodes) . 
 The reason is the supercharged state-of -the-art cutting edge Nanosuit you are given to play with 
 (Currently being tested by the US Military) which gives you the option of whether you want to approach 
 the situation like the Predator and stalk your prey (Cloak Mode) or go guns blazing like Mr. Rambo 
 (Armor Mode) or show your rage like Hulk (Strength Mode) to pick up guys by the neck the punch 
 them in their face!!!!. The suit also got an additional mode called (Speed Mode) which helps you 
 go around the gigantic maps & also comes in handy during some fire-fight escapes.
  
  Personally my favorite mode is the ' Strength Mode ' when you enable it the suit becomes red which 
 symbols ' Anger & Rage ' and it turns you into a super soldier ( Like the Universal Soldier Movie 
 ) you can jump on the roof tops, kill guys with a single, powerful punch and helps you steady your 
 weapons against the recoil when you are looking through the scope!!!!!!!!. This is superb.... Crytek, 
 You are the best!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Physics & interactiveness is simply life-like. You can't hide inside a house during a firefight 
 the explosion from the Grenades will blow every cover around you!!!!!!!!!!
  
  And the Graphics? Man............... If your system can't play Crysis on Very High Settings download 
 a HD Trailer of Crysis and get a feel for its true  just like 
 i had a vacation to the island on the south china sea!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  In case your system can't play crysis the way you expected please don't give this masterpiece low 
 scores you poor  finished this game 3 times and can't stop playing 
 it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Crysis could've been made a lot better. The Frozen Paradise level is too short and didn't provide 
 any fun........ The Frozen Paradise should've been non-linear.............. So Crysis is an outstanding 
 game but not perfect........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt that Crysis will shape the PC gaming environment for the next few years. It's 
 a trend-setting game like Far Cry was. In fact, like Far Cry, this game will probably be the best 
 in about a year when people update their hardware. Don't worry, it's not your PC that's crappy 
 -- Crysis will bring down to its knees any high-end computer currently available. 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 -- highly developed gameplay that leaves many choices to the player. Weapons feel 
 amazingly good and authentic. Movement and the AI is one of the best seen. You can immediately 
 see that lots of time, work and imagination went into developing this game and it shows. If you 
 can actually play this game (due to its enormously high system requirements) , you'll enjoy every 
 second of it.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10 -- almost perfect graphics ... maybe even perfect if I could enable anti-aliasing. 
 My very subjective view is that the HDR is still lacking the simple beauty of old and battle-tested 
 anti-aliasing (as also seen in Far Cry and 100s of other games) . Maybe this looks better on a crappy 
 Vista OS with its DX10, but that could require tons of additional memory to handle this game.
 
  
  Sound: 10/10 -- great ambient and battle/weapons sounds that greatly enhances the gameplay.
  
 
  Value: 10/10 -- even today I still play Far Cry and I see that happening with Crysis too. You simply 
 never get tired of Crytek's creations. With modding enabled this will be a great added value and 
 almost an endless replayability of this game.
  
  Overall: 10/10 -- technically this is the best FPS game of 2007. Other top 2007 FPS games (R6 Vegas, 
 STALKER, CoD4, games in the Orange Box) may overshadow Crysis in a short run since they run smoother 
 on mid to high end range of current computers. Maybe upcoming video cards drivers or a game patch 
 will improve Crysis performance, but regardless, Crysis is a great achievement and people will 
 still play this game quite a few years from now. And, of course, a great praise for being a genuine 
 PC game rather than a console-to-PC "handout", which is sadly a rare occurrence nowadays (STALKER: 
 SHOC comes to mind as another genuine PC project) . Anywho ... a must have game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dupreez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  Crysis is an amazing game, with amazing visuals, briliantly realistic physics, perfectly constructed 
 story... and and and. Most definitly my game of the year, and funny enough that I am not really 
 into FPS's.
  
  Crytech and EA have really outdone them selfs (For the good) in creating this Beautifully elegant 
 graphics engine. The "Crytech 2" engine will certainly be at the forefront of gaming for many years 
 to come, and frankly I can't twait. At last a game that actually lives up to the hype generated 
 pre-release, perhaps even exceed it.
  
  Ever thought you would hold a pee to breaking point, dashing to the bathroom and back just to get 
 back to the action. Well I have done it. All you married oaks might want to shipping off the wife 
 for a month's vacation in Hawaii...
  
  GAME ON!!!
  
  Graphics 9.5
  Sound 9.0
  Gameplay 9.5
  Value 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcrarela
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This game makes HALO look like a piece of crap.
  
  Of course, you can't put those two side by side in terms of graphics and other things -- seriously, 
 you really CAN 'T put them side by side. HALO doesn't even par with Crysis, nothing does, yet.
 
  
  Way to set the bar. Very impressive. If only the third-gen platforms could be as flexible as the 
 pc.
  
  Anyhow, the next thing needed is to integrate that flexibility and scope with the intuitive controls 
 the Wii-mote provides.
  
  If only.
  
  Is it just me or does anyone else get a headache from these first-person shooters?
  
  Jeez. 
 I'm in need of an aspirin in the first half-hour.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Realmjumper
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Crysis for the last 6-9 hours nonstop. Feels like I just started playing. As 
 soon as you sit down and are engaged in the storyline you don't want to get up. It has twists and 
 turns, the objectives are fresh, and it just makes you feel so immersed.
  
  I'm playing on the hardest difficulty too which is Delta. Having the nanosuit definately balances 
 things out when compared to Far Cry. The game is now actually beatable on Delta and compares to 
 that of Legendary on the Halo franchise. Of course since i'm using a mouse and keyboard i'm much 
 more able to kick butt unlike in console. (Not as good with gamepad)
  
  As for the A. I. it is sublime. Enemies will take cover and help each other out. Of course eventually 
 you figure out how to beat them but you can't just rush in there or you will die. Having the nanosuit 
 just really gives you power which is overwhelming. You pick how you want to attack your objectives. 
 Do you wanna snipe the enemies in the boat and do a beach assault? Or will go fight your way through 
 the forests cutting threw everything with hot lead?
  
  The weapons are customizable with silences, lasers, reflex sights, assault scopes, sniper scopes, 
 and more. As soon as a grenade goes off near you, or an explosion, your screen shakes and dirt 
 gets in your face. It's so realistic it's insane. Vehicles are very realistic and take damage. 
 Pop off the tire off a car and you'll have trouble driving it on it's rim. Shoot the extra gas tank 
 in the back and watch the fireworks fly. 
  
  It's like Half life 2 is no longer a match. A new king has come to take it's place, and that game 
 my friends is Crysis. The music is also phenomenal. The cast of characters hold you to the story 
 and the voice acting is sublime. It all really comes together in a great package.
  
  You feel like the character Nomad. You are an elite special forces operative with the latest nano-suit 
 technology. This is the Deus Ex of 2008. Really words cannot describe how good this game is. Lets 
 just say I wouldn't doubt it's going to be Game of the Year. I don't know why you're reading this. 
 You need to play this game now. Hopefully it will come to consoles next year. It's so deserving 
 of success it's incredible. Surpasses Gears of War, Halo 3, and any other game that's coming out 
 in 2008. Perhaps only the mighty Mass Effect can stand near it due to it's massiveness.
  
  10 out of 10. Great graphics, A. I., storyline, campaign, multiplayer, UI, the perfect game.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eraser2k1nin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I thought Bioshock & Half Life 2 Episode 2 set the bar to high for any other FPS. Crysis clearly 
 took it to another level! I bit on the Halo 3 hype and wasted $64! I spent the best $43 on Crysis. 
 
  Gameplay = innovation
  Graphics = Best in gaming to date
  Replay = Being determined
  Sound = doesn't get any better! 
  
  Only drawback is it does tear up on a solid system like 
 mine
  
  Core 2 Duo e6600
  ATI x1900xtx
  2 GB XMS RAM
  SB X-Fi 
  
  During high action framerate did take a hit on my pc. But gameplay quickly made me forget about 
 frame rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcdrummer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Nice to see a pc game that isn't hampered by cross platform development. This game goes way beyond 
 halo. People get so geeked over halo and it's an ok game that is very repetitive but it was so 
 much better than most console players had in the past that they got extremely excited. That's all 
 well and good but pc players that have had excellent fps over the years wondered what the hoopla 
 was about.
  
  Well unfortunately because of console dominance pc players started to wonder if there was any hoopla 
 for the pc at all because some of the best games for the pc started coming out cross platform and 
 thus with dumbed down interfaces and dumbed down ai. It's documented that Oblivion which was a 
 great pc game in it's previous iteration called Morrowind, had to be dumbed down because the consoles 
 couldn't handle the ai scripts. Even long standing genre's like RTS, (real time strategy) , games 
 had to see console development dumb down their games. Sadly Age of Empires III was the chief offender. 
 The game was dumbed down for cross platform release and didn't even feature as many options for 
 command as the studio's earlier releases like AOE II and Age of Mythology. Dark times.
  
  Release after release on the pc with the console being the first consideration for development 
 and the pc given the same interface and general treatment that consoles got when it could do so 
 much more over the last 2 years had even the most die hard pc gamers wondering... "was this the 
 end of pc gaming." Still we had excellent releases like Civ IV, Company of Heroes and WoW that 
 didn't bow to console pressure but over all it has been rough on the pc gaming community and many 
 lost heart over the last couple of years as we saw all these event unfurl. Even top notch games 
 as Bioshock suffer from multiple problems on Vista and clearly has the earmarks of cross platform 
 design. On top of that the number of games started to wane for the pc as developers focused on 
 consoles more and the shelf space for pc games diminished to a couple shelves at your local EB 
 and Game Stop. Sad times.
  
  Well the Crysis, in the words of Mr. Castanza... "I'm back baby!!!"
  
  Crysis is open ended 
 in most scenarios and allows the player to decide how to attack. The game play is very reminiscent 
 of farcry but improved by a few things, graphics obviously, suite mods and weapon mods.
  
  I won't go into all of the same things you have seen in every other review about the cinematic 
 feel of the game, how engaging it is and how wonderful it looks and how high the production values 
 are. I will just say, thank you for not letting consoles impede your development. This is one of 
 those triple AAA games that literally drives the hardware sales so people can play it like the 
 good old days when you would run out and put a new video card in just to be able to play the latest 
 and greatest.
  
  If there is any fault with crysis it's that the story, similar to farcry could have used a little 
 better scripting as it doesn't quite match some other top tier titles in this area. Other than 
 that, time to upgrade folks and put your console gamepads down to experience the best looking fps 
 ever released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomicfireball
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Crysis is easily the best-looking PC game to date. But the good looks mean steep system requirements. 
 At this point, no rig can max out this game and play at a decent frame rate. Before the game's 
 release, there was word going around that this is one of those games that is only eye-candy, and 
 has no good gameplay. I am here to tell you all that the gameplay is actually pretty amazing. So 
 good, it equals Halo, for the Xbox 360. Crysis will hopefully be able to be maxed out when Nvidia's 
 9-series video cards come out. Then, Crysis will be almost perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0de_red999
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  If you have a high tech computer go ahead and get this game there will still be lag and not very 
 great frame rate but it will be very fun and enjoayable. if you dont have a hgh tech whait a month 
 or two to get it. for them to get a patch and some new drivers for DX10 so if you got a good computer 
 and this game runs like crap dont worry it is not your computer it is the game. the story in this 
 game is very fun to play exspecaly the aliens so if u dont care about graphics and are just looking 
 for a fun game that stands out crysis is your game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
