-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: CSI: 3 Dimensions of Murder
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/csi3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Five new cases to play through.
 A couple of interesting twists and clever inside jokes.
 Lots of crazy scientific evidentiary processes to mess around with.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Storylines are exceedingly predictable.
 Some of the CSI cast is missing, and even the ones that are there aren't all that great.
 Gameplay is still extremely easy.
 Character models are ugly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.8, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 578 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Telltale Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 14, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite the touted inclusion of full 3D environments and longer cases, 3 Dimensions of Murder mostly 
 covers well-worn territory, and it's still a breeze to play through. 

   CSI  continues to be one of the most popular crime-solving dramas on TV, and as such, the video 
 game tie-ins keep on coming. Technically, CSI: 3 Dimensions of Murder is the fourth all-new CSI 
 PC adventure game, but it's the third starring the Las Vegas cast (otherwise known as the only 
 cast worth watching) and it's the first effort from developer Telltale Games. After CSI: Miami, 
 Ubisoft handed Telltale the keys to the franchise, and what it has turned in is a slightly lengthier, 
 more involved adventure than what the previous games offered. But these marginal upgrades don't 
 do anything to counteract the main problem that has plagued this series all along: It's just too 
 easy. And that's not even mentioning that 3 Dimensions of Murder's five sordid mysteries aren't 
 as interesting as the cases found in the last Las Vegas game, Dark Motives, and that minor glitches 
 and continuity issues run rampant all throughout the adventure.  

          Ho hum, dead bodies, brutal killings, sexual deviancy, blah blah blah. What else have you 
 got?     

  The premise of 3 Dimensions of Murder will be immediately familiar if you've played any of the 
 previous CSI games. You're a new recruit in the Las Vegas Crime Scene Investigation unit. At the 
 beginning of each case, you're given a crime scene and a cast member from the show to pair up with. 
 They primarily just act as a mouthpiece, since you're the one doing all the investigating and evidence 
 collecting. The cases presented in 3 Dimensions of Murder generally revolve around, of all things, 
 murder. You'll find a dead woman on the floor of an art gallery, an apartment drenched in blood 
 (but with no body to be found) , and even a gunshot victim found on the floor of a demo booth at 
 the fictional Las Vegas equivalent of E3. In fact, the best part of 3 Dimensions of Murder is that 
 it does go to some lengths to throw in some inside jokes about the video game industry -- primarily 
 in that specific case. For example, marketing people talk about how great games that don't sell 
 are failures, and weak games that do sell are winners; there are random digs at the proliferation 
 of sex and violence in games (slightly ironic for an M-rated adventure) ; and there's even a fictional, 
 canceled game series starring a cartoon duo that's highly reminiscent of Sam &amp; Max.  

  However, there are two problems with all of this. One, the CSI games aren't targeted at the kind 
 of hardcore players that would even begin to understand what any of these gags mean, and two, that 
 case is the only one with any cleverness behind it. The rest of the cases travel the same roads 
 of murderous intent that have been seen both in the show and in the previous CSI games, and it's 
 not done with much flair or creativity. In fact, if anything, the cases follow a pretty predictable 
 path of logic. While the evidence is never the same twice, the timeline for suspects is. There 
 are always three suspects in any case, and eventually you'll get warrants to bring them all in. 
 The third one you bring in is always the guilty party. Sometimes the game will loop back around 
 and start trying to point you in the direction of other suspects, but it always comes back to that 
 third suspect in the end. Before you start screaming about spoilers, the fact is, such a predictable 
 line of storytelling is practically a spoiler in and of itself. Is it some kind of lame tie-in 
 to the fact that it's the third Las Vegas game, and that there's a 3 in the title? Did someone 
 actually think this was clever? Well, it's not, and it's the sort of thing you'll pick up on by 
 the second or third case, whether or not you read this review.  

  On top of the case predictability, there's just not too much that's interesting about any of them. 
 The case in the not-E3 is kind of amusing because of the inside jokes mostly, and there is an interesting 
 conclusion to the case involving the blood-soaked apartment, but that's about it. The red herrings 
 the developers try to give you don't do anything to throw you off the obvious conclusions about 
 who did what for which reason. The last case in particular seems like a fairly desperate attempt 
 to try to tie previous cases together into one big, grand finale, but it just feels labored and 
 unnecessary. Plus, it's possible to break the continuity of the story flow from time to time. If 
 you miss an obscure piece of evidence, sometimes the story will continue on, giving you details 
 you won't have the set-up for without that piece of evidence. Once you go back and find that wayward 
 piece of evidence, the set-up for that story bit will then come after you've already heard the 
 next part, which is disjointed, to say the least.  

  Furthermore, the interactions with the characters aren't very engaging. The voice acting is mostly 
 good (at least, from the suspects and other non-CSI types) , but there's a lot of it, to the point 
 where characters will sometimes repeat lines and ramble on about nothing of consequence. The box 
 cites "longer cases" as one of the selling points here, but the cases aren't longer because there's 
 a decidedly higher amount of investigative work to do -- they're longer because the suspects just 
 won't shut up.  

  The investigative work in 3 Dimensions of Murder isn't much different from what you would experience 
 in the other CSI games. You poke around a crime scene, or a suspect's residence, and look for evidence 
 that points you toward the truth. When you collect evidence, you can swab for blood, dust for fingerprints, 
 run UV lights to look for semen stains, and just rummage around for any trace evidence that might 
 be hidden. At the crime lab, you can do even more: run computer searches for prints, DNA, chemical 
 makeups of unknown substances, ballistics matches, and the like. There's plenty to do, but once 
 you have a basic grasp of how the evidentiary process works, you'll find that there's not much 
 to it. When you pick up a sizable object, always look for stains or fingerprints, and odds are 
 you'll find something. Whenever you find a print or blood or anything with DNA, always run it against 
 other samples you have or search through the database. It's basically busywork, although it is 
 somewhat satisfying to watch as the evidence you're collecting paints the picture of what went 
 down.  

  But again, this is all pretty easy to do, and quite predictable in nature. On the default difficulty, 
 it's extremely easy to find evidence, and you can always grab hints from the CSI you're working 
 with if you ever get stuck. Asking for hints docks you on your postcase evaluation, but that evaluation 
 doesn't actually do anything except change the rank you're given at the end of a case. Higher difficulties 
 make it tougher to find stuff, but if you've ever played a crime-solving adventure game before, 
 you'll still know where to look.  

  CSI: 3 Dimensions of Murder is the first in the series to use fully 3D environments and characters, 
 but the shift in graphical style hasn't made the game look better in any way, nor has it made the 
 evidence-detecting process any different. You don't freely walk around environments looking for 
 stuff. Rather, there are hot spots and areas you can move to, and you can't go anywhere beyond 
 the limits of those hot spots. The environments look decent enough with the new 3D graphics engine, 
 but the character models have taken a decisive step backward. Faces look blurrier and less detailed 
 than they did in previous CSI games, bodies look a little stubby and weird, and the animations 
 of the characters are just as minimal as they were in the old games. There's also this strange 
 facial texturing problem that only presents itself in certain scenes, and it causes odd lines to 
 appear on the faces of the CSI cast. It's exceptionally ugly and appears even with all the game's 
 graphical bells and whistles turned on (few of them that there are) .  

           It may look like Jorja Fox, and it may kind of, sort of, almost, OK not really sound like 
 Jorja Fox, but it definitely ain't Jorja Fox.     

  The presentational issues don't end there -- the bulk of the show's cast is on hand for this game, 
 but Marg Helgenberger and Jorja Fox are nowhere to be found. Worse still, the replacement actresses 
 are awful. Both try way, way too hard to emulate the vocal inflections of the two actresses, and 
 they come off sounding pained in the process. William Petersen and Eric Szmanda are the lone bright 
 spots of the regular cast, as Gary Dourdan and George Eads sound like they couldn't be more bored 
 to be there. Apart from the boredom of the cast, the audio also has a nasty tendency to hitch up 
 in random spots. Sometimes lines will overlap, sometimes they'll repeat multiple times, and sometimes 
 audio will just cut out altogether for a line or two.  

  CSI: 3 Dimensions of Murder certainly has its moments, but like every other CSI game to date, those 
 moments are easy to get to, and ultimately unsatisfying because of the light amount of effort it 
 took to get there. The CSI games have never been designed to appeal to the hardcore adventure game 
 fan, but even casual players won't find too much about 3 Dimensions of Murder to get excited about, 
 especially if they've played previous CSI games, as they'll know what to expect before it even 
 happens.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: leed123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Buy this, its fantastic, its a super game, you have to buy this, buy this buy this buy this buy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy 
 thisbuy thisbuy thisbuy this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gariasm
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed was the Mature only rating of the game, I imagined it was because of 
 the nature of the show, and I wasn't wrong.
  
  It started as a nice investigation game, with details about the nature of some of the main principles 
 of crime scene investigation and everything around it.
  
  But then the game turned plain, every case after the first one left the same taste, and at the 
 last case rejoining come of the characters of the previous cases seems frankly poor, investigation 
 in Las Vegas and you find the same people in 2 differents cases, I dont get it.
  
  The game is aimed for mature or grownups but a 10 years would finish it without major probles, 
 is too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: technixps3
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this 3D thing is not so bad, but not a lot of freedom to move about. Hopefully future 
 releases will include that.
  
  And perhaps more than just 5 cases as well? Though they are longer cases than the first 2 CSi releases, 
 5 cases comes and goes. No real replay thrill with this one.
  
  Gameplay is average, considering the easy settings tell you what tools to collect evidence with 
 and detect trace with.
  
  Graphics are a step up compared to the previous 2 releases. Sound gets extra points, pretty good 
 job on voiceovers and sound effects. Music is good but repetitive at times.
  
  An OK value for the price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krazyguy569
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 11, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I thought the cases were very good, I would say equally as good as cases on the TV Show, I also 
 liked how the 5th case tried to use the previous cases to sort of make it feel like it was all 
 wrapped up and that it was worthwhile to do the cases before it. I do enjoy the TV Show CSI: Crime 
 Scene Investigation though so that may have had something to do with my liking the game. Anyone 
 who isn't a fan of the show, I would think, probably wouldn't like the game... I definitely didn't 
 like how the voices of every female character were wrong. The people who did their voices were 
 very good at impersonating them, but not good enough for me. I would obviously have much rather 
 the real people take time from their busy TV show lives and do the voices themselves, but what 
 are you gonna do, at least the voices sounded... somewhat close to the real ones... I very much 
 agree with Gamespot on that the character graphic seem to have taken a step backwards. The scenery 
 and the crimes scenes looks very nice and... graphical.. but the characters faces look a bit off... 
 or a lot off... For that reason, I think it's completely stupid that they titled it CSI: 3 Dimensions 
 of Murder because there were previous CSI games, and they were in 3D too, they weren't 2D so it 
 seems completely pointless. Luckily though the voices that are the real characters, I thought were 
 all great, and all the characters were very interesting, story lines great etc. Only other problem 
 is, is once youve beaten all 5 cases obviously, the game just sits there, so for that reason, I'm 
 not sure if buying it is the best idea, although I did. but all in all, I would definitely say 
 it's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 12, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  Actually i am pretty sad about this release beacuse after i played it, i felt disappointed... CSI 
 3 has a new 3D environment, well it is OK but its graphic still ugly, low-detailed. CSI 3 only 
 can play in 800x600 resolution and make me surprised...... The story is OK but it seems that CSI 
 Miami's story are better. CSI 3 loading time is also a big problem. It takes a long time to load 
 the lab, morgue and blah blah blah. And gameplay is pretty easy but takes long time. CSI 3's sound 
 is poor! it should add some exciting background music! At last word, CSI should do more work on 
 its graphic.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay, has anybody studied Plato and his allegories? Well, for those who haven't, let me bring you 
 up to speed. Plato has many famous allegorical stories which serve to illustrate his point &amp; 
 belief that what we see is merely a vague representation of a things true form. It's like seeing 
 a shadow of a cat and thinking that's really what a cat looks like. The same could be said for 
 this game. While it's entertaining, it's very linear, and also only a shadow of the actual show 
 which we love so much. There are 5 different cases to work through and while the first is interesting, 
 the second is smooth due to already being familiar with how the game works, but 3-5 become a steady 
 trudging of just more of the same old thing. The game is at least worth checking out if you can 
 pick it up cheap or borrow it from a friend, but it's not something I would suggest paying full 
 price for unless you are just the most die hard fan of the series and can get enough of anything 
 CSI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolasgarett
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 11, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Guys you must be kidding! I am a die hard adventure gamer and I have never ever tried the CSI series 
 because of the lacklustre reviews it ignites. I am pleasantly surprised. The voice action, the level 
 design, the plots, the characters are awesome.
  
  I have grabbed a copy just the other day and I can't stop playing it. It completely immerses you 
 into the world of Forensic investigation. What more do you need. Action sequences and explosion.
 
  
  In a nutshell ---A brilliant game. I haven't played the earlier ones but based on the work gone 
 into creating this one ---An extremely worthwhile buy.
  
  The best part is that the cases become tougher as the levels increase and the even the killers 
 are not brain dead ---they try hard to cover their tracks and each one of the cases can easily 
 figure as a CSI EPISODE anyday.
  
  The graphics are Great.
  
  The gameplay is easy.
  
  The learning curve is just right.
  
  TOOO GOOOOOOOOOOD.
  
  Man the majority of the 
 gamers here are just too critical.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kal_elwolf
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I will make this review short, CSI 3 is a Good and fair Game, but for those who have a sharp sense 
 for details, its just BAD. these player will find the Game just not worth the effort.
  for example on the very firs case, when you see the body on the floor and take the firs picture, 
 the very first cut scene shows the woman being killed by two blows, one that knocked her out and 
 one that left the splatter on the wall. we find a bird statue missing, and you get a print from 
 the stand.
  but when you find the bird you get a blu paint trace, but no prints, if someone took the time to 
 wipe of the prints is just common sense that that person would also wipe the paint from it, and 
 at least try to wipe the blood off it. 
  another thing is the fact that in no moment do we take a narcotics test on the gallery owner, even 
 after he says that the drugs are not hes and we found them in his safe.
  and the fiance, are we supposed to believe that he does not do drugs with out a test.
  we never 
 take the artists fingerprints in the hole investigation.
  these are basic investigation evidence we gather, it should of been the first thing, blood samples, 
 fingerprints and narc testing of all suspects.
  but thats just me.
  this game was not worth my time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muck46
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  As for point and click games the csi franchise has been pretty entertaining for an evening or two. 
 Especially if you are a fan of the series. 3 dimensions of murder boasts a 3d crime scene longer 
 cases. While the "3d" enhancements are nice improvement on the series it could have given you more 
 freedom of movement that could have made it harder to find evidence. Instead you are restricted 
 to certain areas so you know where to what is needed to procede. As for longer cases that take 
 dramatic turns, they may take a little longer at first, but not enough to make it a selling point. 
 In fact maybe only two of the cases seemed to be longer than I remember in previous games. The 
 developers simply put more evidence that is needed into each case, so it would take you longer 
 to collect and analyze and it really dosn't. As for the dramatic twists, they become pretty predictable. 
 In the first four cases the culprit will end up being the last suspect you get a warrant for, big 
 shocker. The voice acting was another let down. The two female leads in the series did not lend 
 their voices to the game and it is pretty obvious and annoying. Overall, this is a good game to 
 a fan of the series (games or tv series) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erock7
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  This was the first CSI game I've ever played. I watched the show for a few seasons on and off, 
 and forensics has always interested me, so this game was right up my alley. Knowing that video 
 games based off movies are bad enough, let alone tv shows, I can safely say I wasn't expecting 
 much of anything quality from this title. At least I can say I wasnt disappointed.
  
  Overall its pretty much just a point and click adventure, no real intuition or thinking challenge 
 for that matter. To sum up the game play its basically just click and drag and click and drop, 
 watch a cut scene or two, and then click some more. Very easy. However, some parts can be quite 
 frustrating because things dont cooperate well, just wait until you encounter the urn of Satan 
 himself, and youll know exactly what I mean. 
  
  At first its fun, but soon the novelty wears off, and by the last case I just wanted to finish 
 it so I could uninstall the game with a sense of accomplishment. The voice overs arent bad but 
 can get annoying, some of the character models on the other hand are down right terrible. Especially 
 Sara, dear god what happened there... 
  
  Many of the cases are predictable, except for that one with the *twist*, even though that case 
 probably would of been more interesting if it had played out the way it seemed up until the end.
 
  
  All and all its something different, and can be interesting if your into the show. Even so, wait 
 for it to hit the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megatroll2590
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 13, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  my question is why did they have some unknown voice actor do both catherine and sara's voices she 
 sounds like she has a cold entire time she does both other than that its a good game the cases 
 were longer than any of the other games the tools are a pain though till you get the hang of it 
 the charecter models look nothing like the screenshots.... well except for grissoms and warricks 
 most of them dont look much like their character. i would say its a decent buy if you like csi 
 or mystery/puzzle style games they complicated the evidence processing to a degree of being annoying 
 there are 5 work stations that you have to figure out which evidence works on which work station 
 the tool icon/effects are nice though. the game is solid and fun it just has some minor flaws. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayjoh
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  I haven't played any of the previous CSI titles, so I really didn't have any expectations toward 
 this game. 
  I've only watched the television series half a dozen times, so I'm no fan, but I thought that it 
 might be interesting to play a detective game. Something that doesn't come along all that often. 
 
  
  Gameplay: FAAAAAAAAAAR to easy, if you ask me. The fact that you can't move freely in the different 
 locations makes all the evidence that you have to collect spring up your face, all the time... 
 all the time! You are constantly guided by a fellow CSI-dude (or dudette) who never stops telling 
 you how great you are for being thorough, and who comments on everything you find, revealing exactly 
 what it is and what its connection to the respective crime is. Bad form, for a game, that is supposed 
 to make the player be the detective. Another annoying detail, are the loading times between the 
 (usually not more than a couple of square metres large) locations. I have no idea what justifies 
 these loading times. Graphics... erh.. no. Sound... erhm... no. Who cares, those loading times suck, 
 end of story. You mostly control the game with your mouse . The only thing that you can't do with 
 your mouse, is make the characters in the game shut up (something you inevitably will want to do!) , 
 you have to use the spacebar to do that. There are some fun things, of course, the video game convention 
 murder for one, and some twists along the line, but nothing that outweighs the boring parts with 
 endless talking.
  
  Sound: The music is standard ambiance-crap, you know, a little industrial mixed with hip-hop groove. 
 Spare me. Please. The voice acting is terrible, especially considering the professional cast, hired 
 to record for this game. The sample quality is also really poor. Which is a sin, in a game with 
 so much endless talking. 
  
  Graphics: Nothing fancy. Not really truly ugly, but definitely not pretty. The character faces 
 look wooden and not at all alive. The surroundings look like they were at the E3 in 2001. There 
 are a couple of nice looking textures in there, but they are the exception, not the rule. 
  
  Last words: It's simple boys and girls, this game is a really average game. If I didn't know, 
 better (wait? Do I know better? Hmmm... nope.) this is the most averagestgest game in the world. 
 It's a little fun, a little boring. The graphics aren't great, but they don't totally suck either. 
 The sound... well, see above. I have to admit, some of the things in the game intrigued me, like 
 using all thos cool gadgets to find sperm on a sofa, or doing all that crime-solving stuff. But 
 the fact that it doesn't feel like I'm really solving stuff, really stinks.
  I'm really waiting for a big, sand-box detective game. Where you have more (or less) than three 
 suspects at a time, where you can start another case, if the leads go cold, and where your colleagues 
 don't comment everything you do. Here's to hoping! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  This is a fun and entertainment game, you have to use your eyes and head to solve a case, but the 
 fun dosen't always stay.
  
  The good: Cool the solve cases, discover things like the csi team, and match fingerfrints and that 
 stuff.
  
  The bad: Well.. the hole gameplay is kind of "old" like you are yust moving the mouse around, you 
 could have been able to walk around at your own. And it can be to hard sometimes, like when you 
 feel like your done everything, and you can't go any longer.. then it gets really boring. Thats 
 the most negative thing about the game, it should be a mode that was easier than normal in a kind 
 of way.
  
  So its ok until you can't get longer, but this game isen't something "big" if you know what I mean, 
 all things could have been much better, and its a one way game that if you come to a point and 
 can't get longer, you stay there and don't know what to do. Thats a really dum thing, but if you 
 have a big brain can this game be entertainment for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilchophe
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it , the CSI games series has really only been for the fans.
  For serious adventure/puzzle/detective gamers its just far too easy.
  
  As a fan of the tv 
 series it was definately fun to play. Apart from a slightly modified menu system for collecting 
 evidence the gameplay is pretty much the same. The major overhaul has been the graphics which doesn't 
 look too bad
  now that its in 3D. I dont know but to me it feels like a real game now.
  
  Its still far too easy and for most ardent fans should take a single sitting to complete. The characters 
 that are usually suspects are made to be pretty easy to dislike that it really gives you quite 
 a good feeling to solve a case and 
  see the fruits of your intuition and detective work, that is, if you are playing
  with no help 
 aids. 
  
  A solid game, a few bugs here and there but nothing that detracts from the gameplay and amust have 
 for any CSI fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: movieman_1000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This third entry (fourth if you include CSI: Miami) has a slightly different style of gameplay. 
 Mainly because rather than seeing a complete 360 degrees or just one image of a crime scene you 
 can only see a little bit, but you have more freedom to move around and see different areas or 
 rooms within that area. There is also a rotage option so you can really get into and around different 
 areas and actually have a better feel that you are uncovering evidence rather than just clicking 
 and having the computer do the rest. This was missed in the other games and really gives this one 
 a more interesting boost. The only issue is that some pieces of evidence or parts of a crime scene 
 have a really small mouse-click window and can be easy to miss, and missing them can hold up the 
 game. Having the indicator which marks when you have completely seached a crime scene is almost 
 a must and can almost make you feel like you are cheating which is unfortunate.
  
  The lab work is also improved, with different computers for differet tests and more interactivity 
 in the lab make you actually feel like you're processing the evidence rather than having Greg do 
 it all for you like in the other games. 
  
  That having been said, there are some downsides. Mainly the graphics. The characters look really 
 blocky and untextured, making them look even worse than they did in the previous Dark Motives game. 
 However crime scenes look great and have a really realistic look to them. If they had only made 
 character models look so good. Especially Catherine, who looks terrible.
  
  The sound is generally pretty good, with actors Eric Szmanda and William Peterson doing well to 
 capture their characters in their voices. There are some issues though. Gary Dourdan and Geroge 
 Eads don't sound nearly as enthused, Especially Gary who sounds bored. There are several lines 
 which could have been great but are ruined by poor delivery by him. Another problem is the absense 
 of Marg Helgenberger and Jorja Fox, who are replaced by likenesses. For Catherine, this is not 
 too bad with the replacement doing quite well. Saras relacement however is just plain poor, trying 
 too Hard to sounds like Jorja Fox. The music is also quite inappropritate at times. There is one 
 piece which becomes almost operatic which is just bizzare and kinda creepy. A better music score 
 would have been nice.
  
  Like all the other games, length is also a problem, with only 5 short cases which can be solved 
 in about an hour or two each. I don't see why we need to be confined to only 5 cases. There are 
 6 CSIs on the team now (going into the field with Greg rather than working with him in the lab 
 was a nice touch) and in this game you miss out on working with Catherine, who simply pops in and 
 comments on your cases from time to time. Why not just have a 6th case? Or better yet, more! Maybe 
 work with each CSI twice and have 12 cases? Or just make the 5 you do get even longer, maybe lead 
 you down a few more roads. Maybe more follow up after you've got the guy, maybe go further and 
 testify in court like some characters have to do in the show now and then. It's an idea. 
  
  As a fan, I did have lots of fun here. The cases, while short were interested, exept maybe 
 the final csae which attempts to link some of the previous cases and ends up being rather boring 
 due to lack of freshness. It basicly comes down to the fact of enjoyment of the previous games, 
 because with a few good developments and a few average ones, it's basically more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barcaboy93
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  I enjoy playing CSI games cause i m a fan of the tv show. But if you arent my type i think this 
 game wont be to your likings. At first i was exicited about the new 3D engine but it really doesnt 
 make much difference. The longer cases arent that longer and they are just too predictable. The 
 voice acting is rubbish and the characters faces dont have ant resemblence to the real things. 
 So if you arent a csi tv show fan dont come any where near this game as it is a real disappointment 
 to the series. But if you are a csi fan like me then i urge u to buy this game or rent it as it 
 has the familiar cool detective gadgets and nice detective feel to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alechair
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  It took me less than 6 hours to beat the whole game with master level. That means is quite easy. 
 The graphics look bad, and the sound acting is not what it should be for a game like this. Even 
 if you're not sure which tool use when looking for evidence, your partner will tell you... Seems 
 like a game for a 5 year old kid (of course despite the fact that has a lot of blood and mild language) . 
 Anyway, I have to say that this could mean a great future for CSI games, of course with new an 
 innovative stories, better gameplay, graphics and voice acting, but in 3d. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Little has changed, really, between the last two mediocre game versions of CSI. In that sense, 
 it does nothing badly, but neither does it improve on the inherent weaknesses of the first two 
 games in the series.
  
  First, the game adds 3D perspective. You might think this would be a benefit to the game, but it's 
 not. The game engine allows you a small amount of movement around the crime scene and other locations, 
 but not much. For beginners and casual games (the game's obvious market) the limitations are helpful, 
 in that it tries to structure the game a bit. For more advanced gamers, though, the limitations 
 seem irritating.
  
  The graphics themselves are badly dated. The resolution is low and fixed, and takes advantage of 
 few if any advances over the past few years, which seems like a purposeful way of making the hardware 
 requirements on the low side. Still, it would have been nice if the designers had allowed those 
 with higher machine specs to increase the resolution or turn on some advanced effects (which would 
 have heightened the ambience of the game a bit) . But perhaps the low-resolution is best -- since 
 the textures are *incredibly* low resolution in many spots in the game. Character models are passable -- if 
 the game were three or four years old, I might say they looked ok.
  
  Sound is good, at least when it is cast from the TV show. The voice acting for minor characters 
 is frequently over-the-top (standard, really, in this kind of game although I don't know why) . 
 
  
  Gameplay hasn't changed at all, really, since the previous games. It's a lot of hunting for objects, 
 collecting evidence with various tools, and analyzing them on the correct equipment. It's all pretty 
 straightforward, and not terribly challenging. It is possible to miss a piece of evidence and force 
 you to start over. But that will be rare. The game is pretty easy, clues pretty obvious, and obstacles 
 few and far between.
  
  The cases themselves are better than those in previous games, some of which were horrid, but still 
 not up to the quality of the television show. The game suffers from the same mediocre writing that 
 plagues most games these days. Still, some cases are better than others, and will hold your interest 
 long enough to play through the game (more than can be said for other games' clunky plots) , though 
 they certainly will not surprise you or offer any satisfying twists and turns.
  
  Replay value, however, is virtually nill. Even if you don't collect every piece of evidence (not 
 a difficult task, by the way) you probably won't be tempted to go back and find the missing pieces, 
 mostly because they don't add anything to the story. Many are just objects with no purpose at all. 
 The result is that the game feels like you're playing on rails. It's more like assembling a puzzle 
 than playing a game. And that is probably what many casual gamers/CSI fans really want.
  
  The interface remains clunky and slow. With the new 3D graphics, you're required to move in and 
 back from lab equipment, items, locations etc. far too much. It could have been streamlined quite 
 a bit.
  
  As for difficulty, you won't probably need to take advantage of the game's included cheats (you 
 can ask your CSI colleague for tips, if you must) . The game does allow you to turn off various 
 in-game helps (such as tags which notify you if you are done with an object or location, or to 
 turn off evidence hot spots on screen) . The game is more difficult that way, but not significantly 
 so. If you're an adventure gamer by nature, this game will take you far less than ten hours to 
 complete. Perhaps as little as six or seven, even for an average gamer like myself.
  
  For casual gamers and CSI fans, though, the game will entertain. And though I'm not impressed with 
 the game, I certainly can't say that I didn't enjoy it. So, despite my lack of enthusiasm, the 
 game was solidly mediocre. I give it a qualified recommendation -- if you liked the previous games, 
 you'll like this one. If you're a casual gamer, or a CSI fan, you'll probably enjoy it. It is certainly 
 the best in the series, but that's not saying much. Others should either wait for the bargain bin 
 or just ignore it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indianapepsi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I thought is was pretty good but rather easy and the cases were advertised as longer but in my 
 veiw they were shorter than Dark Motives and curtainly easier. It looked and felt awsome and the 
 lip sink was very good. the whole being able to move around the crime scene was very dissapointing 
 and at times just plain awkward and although there was a few twists there was not as many as had 
 been promised, and for some reason despite playiny on a very high end pc it will not let me play 
 with a high graphics detail although there does not seem to much difference between low and medium. 
 All in all I was expecting more case's than just 5 and a far longer game so I see as a step back 
 rather than forward sure it looks good but looks arn't everything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrystlDrgn2005
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  The new CSI game has set the standard for other games of this type. The intricate detail to finding 
 all the evidence in any given crime scene makes one wonder if anything was missed. Also having 
 to know knowledge of the previous games, shows, characters, etc. is not a must because of the Training 
 tutorial that was included at the beginning of the game. If you're not a die hard CSI fan then 
 this game may change your outlook on the game for certain. 
  
  This game takes great strides over the other 3 CSI games that have been released on the same series 
 of shows because of the different aspect perspectives that are possible in the gameplay. The 3-D 
 effect that each crime scene gives provides a sence of being in the room with one of the main characters 
 of the show and actually living out the game rather than being limited to a certain view perspective. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mYslead
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Well being a television licensed game, I thought for the worst once again. But CSI being one of 
 my favorite show I decided to give it a try. 
  
  And i was pleasantly surprised by the game. How the game is played out, the 3D atmosphere, the 
 camera swinging around, zooming at corpses etc. It's very TV feel, which is a good thing for immersion. 
 If you have played any previous CSI games, when it came to collect evidences, you have to try every 
 single tool you had before finding the good one, well not anymore, they got smart about it and 
 it's now only showing the tools that could possibly be used for the collecting.
  
  About the story, well the cases are very good and well thought. Three Dimensions to Murder is longer 
 than the previous CSI games and they are very plausible for an episode on TV. You get to be assigned 
 to a different CSI investigator for each case. They are mainly there to be your tour guide and 
 to give you hint if it ever comes down to it. Every CSI investigator is present in the game doing 
 brilliant voice acting even though Sara's and Catherine's voices are not from the original actor.
 
  
  The downsides of the game is the fact that the game is very short. Even though the cases are longer, 
 the game is still somewhat short. The cases are easily solved but then again it's something to 
 be expected. The graphics are really but REALLY poor. When you think of it, the game is only one 
 CD which i was surprised but then i saw the graphics and all of my questions were answered. The 
 character models have a very low count of polygons. Which hurts the whole production quality.
 
  
  So in conclusion, the game is more of the same, nothing really different but still good fun for 
 a few hours. In the end a decent point and click adventure game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crowdevil
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  CSI: 3 Dimensions of Murder
  This is a big step up from its earlier games. They have managed to make the game somewhat challenging. 
 Also give you the option to turn off the mouse icon that changes color when you are able to do 
 something. So if you think you can be a CSI, go ahead and try. The game is a bit demanding to the 
 system requirements. It is recommended to have 512 of ram. It should say that its required more 
 than recommended. But the graphics are smooth and the controls are the same as the others. So if 
 you have played the other CSI games there will be no game play shocks. Also, you are now able to 
 process evidence at the crime scene. You have digital cameras to play with. But all in all, its 
 a good game. I would recommend this game to all adventure genre players or CSI fans out there.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok,,, This is yet another great CSI game for the computer. They did update this game and made everything 
 more 3D and it makes it looks a lot more life like. It is played the same way as the other games. 
 You go to the crime scenes and find clue to the case you then go to the lab to see what you can 
 find with the clues , finger prints ect. You do a lot of qustioning people and suspects. The graphics 
 are great the sound is really good. The only down side for me is there is a little too much talking 
 and asking questions. Other then that it's great. You get 5 crimes to solve and it takes a little 
 while to get through all of them. I have not finished the game but am about half way done. great 
 Buy for CSI and crime game fans. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
