-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: CSI: Crime Scene Investigation: Dark Motives
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/csidarkmotives/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.5, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 807 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: 369 Interactive
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 23, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Serious adventure gamers will find little use for Dark Motives, but serious fans of the CSI TV show 
 will likely take something positive away from it. 

  Almost a year to the day after Ubisoft released its first PC adventure game based on Jerry Bruckheimer 
 and CBS' wildly popular crime-solving TV series,  CSI: Crime Scene Investigation , the company 
 has churned out a sequel in CSI: Crime Scene Investigation: Dark Motives. Similar in design to 
 VU Games' Law &amp; Order games, the first CSI title focused simply on giving the player the chance 
 to investigate and solve crimes that were comparably designed to the kinds of mysteries you'd see 
 on the show -- though perhaps a bit too simply. In fact, the first CSI game was almost entirely devoid 
 of challenge and basically just walked you through the motions of gathering evidence, effectively 
 holding your hand through any portion of the game that might require critical thinking. Dark Motives 
 is a lot like its predecessor in most every fundamental way, though with a bit more in terms of 
 challenge and a bit less in terms of hand-holding. Still, serious adventure gamers will find little 
 use for Dark Motives, though serious fans of the TV show will likely take something positive away 
 from it.  

          Once again, murder is afoot in America's playground.     

  Dark Motives presents you with five different mysteries to solve over the course of the game. As 
 it starts out, you are once again a new recruit of the Las Vegas CSI unit, and it is your job to 
 pair up with one of the many familiar CSIs from the show in order to solve these heinous crimes 
 through technologically advanced methods of evidence gathering and analysis. Each of the game's 
 mysteries is pretty unique and well written, and they range from investigating the cause of a motorcycle 
 stunt gone wrong, to solving the murder of a nameless transient, whose body has been dumped in 
 an abandoned insane asylum. As you gather your evidence and begin to put together a picture of 
 what exactly happened, the game will provide you with CG-based reconstructions of possible scenarios 
 for the crime, as well as some rather gruesome anatomical depictions of the horrible things being 
 done to the crime's victim,  la the TV show. The game certainly earns its M rating through 
 some of these reconstructions and a few rather risqu plot points and offhand jokes. Overall, 
 the game does emulate the show quite well, and true fans of  CSI  will likely get a kick out of 
 the experience.  

  Dark Motives' gameplay relies on pretty much exactly the same method of crime solving as its predecessor. 
 In each location, you start out with a specific area in which you can investigate. When you move 
 the mouse cursor over certain sections, the cursor turns green, indicating you can investigate 
 further. Often these locations yield evidence or at least something noteworthy to your case for 
 future reference. At your disposal, you have a wide array of detection and collection tools, such 
 as a UV light to detect hidden stains and bruises and varying types of fingerprint detectors for 
 different types of surfaces. All of your evidence eventually finds its way to the crime lab, where 
 it is analyzed or put into the computer or under a microscope for your own analysis. You can cross-reference 
 prints against the police database, compare different samples of hair, or compare tire tracks against 
 one another. All told, there's definitely more for you to do in Dark Motives than in the last game, 
 and the game is better about letting you take care of matters rather than simply doing everything 
 for you. Unfortunately, there still isn't much challenge to the game as a whole.  

  For the most part, each mystery's progression of gathering evidence, interviewing suspects, and 
 eventually acquiring warrants and conducting interrogations is quite straightforward. If by some 
 chance you do get stuck, it's probably because you've simply overlooked an obscure piece of evidence 
 somewhere. Though these pieces are rarely obvious by themselves, you can easily narrow down where 
 exactly to look simply by asking your current partner for help; or, to be more precise, you can 
 ask your partner if you can ask a question, and then you can just look at the title of the question 
 you want to ask. Actually asking questions docks points from your evaluation at the end of a mission, 
 but the titles of the questions, such as "How can I find out more about the origin of the wheelchair?" 
 pretty much tip you off as to what exactly you're missing, and you don't actually have to ask a 
 question. Additionally, once you get a feel for how the game's pacing and design work, the last 
 few missions become almost sadly easy, as it's just plain obvious what it is you're supposed to 
 do and how you're supposed to go about doing it.  

  Dark Motives, like last year's title, is a fairly modest game in terms of length. Each mystery 
 will take you anywhere from 45 minutes to an hour, and the game overall shouldn't take you more 
 than five hours to finish. Of course, there is the added bonus of theoretically trying to go back 
 and get a perfect score on every mission, but surprisingly enough, even with every helper turned 
 on and even after asking several questions to our partner, we never completed a mission without 
 getting the highest ranking, and we unlocked every single extra item on the first try. Whether 
 this is a bug or just an insanely easy game design, we will likely never know. One issue that is 
 definitely bug-related is that the game isn't entirely stable. On a high-end PC, there were times 
 when loading missions would cause the game to crash to the desktop, and occasionally, extended 
 play sessions would simply cause all the text from the game's menus to disappear. These issues 
 were infrequent but were still odd considering how light the game's hardware requirements are. 
 There are some other quirks here and there -- for instance, occasionally the game will allow you 
 to get ahead of the plot, providing you with questions and answers to scenarios you haven't experienced 
 yet -- but as with the stability issues, these are few and far between for the most part.  

          Fans of CSI will likely enjoy the game's representation of the show, but anyone serious 
 about adventure gaming will probably just find the game boring and stupidly easy.     

  The big draw for Dark Motives is that it features the full range of voice talent and appropriate 
 character likenesses from the TV show. Last year's game was rather disappointing when it came to 
 visuals, but Dark Motives does provide somewhat of an upgrade. The models for each of the game's 
 characters are much better, and they look and move more naturally, though the lip movements as 
 the characters speak to you are still pretty badly synced. The environments look a bit less fake 
 and a tad more interactive in Dark Motives, though it's still plainly obvious when an object is 
 something you should be looking at, as it's significantly brighter than the background that surrounds 
 it. The entire cast of  CSI  is on hand for voice work in Dark Motives, including William Petersen, 
 Marg Helgenberger, Paul Guilfoyle, and Jorja Fox. The range in terms of how well these actors translate 
 their roles to a voice-acting capacity is erratic. Some, such as Fox, seem to relish the experience 
 and really make their characters come alive. Others, like Petersen, seem bored stiff and serve 
 only to make their portions of the game less interesting. The remaining portions of the game's 
 audio are pretty well done, including some great-sounding background music and similarly excellent 
 sound effects.  

  Though Dark Motives is definitely a much-improved game over last year's effort, its appeal still 
 remains elusive to all but the most vehement fans of the TV series. This is not a game that typical 
 adventure game fans will get much out of, simply because it isn't designed with them in mind. This 
 is a game designed specifically for a general audience, and thus, the bulk of what would normally 
 make an adventure game challenging or unique has been stripped away in favor of the most user-friendly 
 interface and game design possible. If you are a fan of the show, then this likely won't bother 
 you, and you'll be able to more easily forgive the game's merely average gameplay and more readily 
 appreciate how well the game mimics the style of the show. For anyone else, Dark Motives probably 
 won't do much for you, and it is probably best left on the shelf.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: more_ncis_now
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Like the other CSI: Crime Scene Investigation games for the PC, the concept of this game is good. 
 Many of the people who have seen the show would like to see what it is like to be in the shoes 
 of a crime scene investigator and see how good they are at solving the crime. Although the concept, 
 graphics and sound are good, the gameplay is too slow. You are limited in what you can do with 
 the characters, and you do not feel free to play the game as you want to. All in all, I expected 
 more from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalnutter
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 30, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  If you want a game that has lots of crime solving action then this game is for you. You have to 
 find the clues to help convict the killer in this second installment of the CSI series. If you 
 thought that the first game was good then you want to get your hands on a copy of this game. The 
 graphics in this game are just as good as what they was in the first game and not much has changed 
 you have got the whole crew from the TV series in this: Gil, Sara, Catherine, Nick, Warrick, Jim 
 Brass, Greg and you also get Doc Robbins. All the voices are done by the real people who play the 
 characters in the TV series. This is one of them games that you have to play even if you don't 
 like the game you have to play it just to say that you have played it. The clues are not easy to 
 find to help you solve your cases but you have to work at it and you would become a brillient forensics 
 officer in the game from working out the clues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffythewise
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 11, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this game pretty much sucks. I didn't know that Ubisoft could make a bad game, but apparently 
 they did and I just didn't know about it. There is nothing to this game. I'm all for puzzle games, 
 but this really sucks. I'm really trying to figure out how to say sucks in one hundred words, but 
 I'm not coming up with anything. Let's put it this way, they made Catherine Willows ugly. It's 
 just as good thing that after you get dissapointed with the game, you can either turn on the tv 
 or go out and buy the show on dvd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReffO
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  This game could have been much better. It was way too short and it could maybe have been more challenging 
 because of the small amount of cases... I completed the game easy on the "hardest" difficulty.
 
  But the graphics were very good... I think it would have been better with a 3D game play instead 
 of the 2D-like game play.
  When they manage to make the show so good, they could have put a little more effort in making this 
 game. The good thing about this game, is that I got it really cheap^^ i i i i i i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I am an avid fan of CSI, so i was ready to go scouting for a few more clues and crimes. This game 
 however starts of with several logical flaws, which required a patch. So, the makers were basically 
 fumbling the evidence all over the place and i started to re-investigate case 1again and again, 
 only to learn that it was a bug.
  
  I find this inexcusable in a game, because the game just stops and it frustrated me to no end. 
 So the investigation became a frustrating sizzler. With the same sounds and graphics.
  It is too bad that this game crashed to such an event, as it could have inspired more towards this 
 game. 
  
  If i look to the game from a distance, then the game itself is a decent CSI style of game. too 
 bad that the mouse cursor is too much of a givaway at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  If you ever dreamt about having an experience as an investigator, so this is the right game. CSI, 
 a popular TV series, has now a version in game, where you will see and use all the gadgets that 
 are needed to find the murderer or thieve. You'll be introduced to the investigation team, where 
 you will do your first job as investigator. The game is composed of four scenes. Looks like not 
 so much, but each scene is big enough to make you think and search. An advantage in this game are 
 the cutscenes that appear during the game, showing you reallistic anatomic happenings, like breaking 
 bones, damaged veins. Here's your oppurtunity to show others what are you really made of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecradleoflife
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  The cases are very well made  clever criminals vs. clever Crime Scene Investigators. Whenever 
 you get a case its easy to get started. The first time you get a lot of help from the other investigators, 
 but later on you have to get your own brain going in order to solve the mysteries.
  
  The sound of the game is alright  but where the heck did The Whos Who Are You go??? I really 
 missed cranking up the sound and solving some crimes with that sound floating out from my speakers.
 
  
  Unfortunately the value/length of the game isnt very satisfying. When youve solved the cases 
 the first time you dont really wanna solve them again. And since there are only five cases you 
 get really easy bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remcof
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS-very good graphics in the whole game 
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY-a good gameplay some people don't like it but i like it point and click 
  
  
  
 
  SOUND-the sound is good and on the perfect timing 
  
  THE GAME-it overall very good the best of the serrie i like to do this kinds of puzzles to search 
 evidence and search the body's and wan't to know the dead and get warrants to search a place and 
 use the evidence on the computer and the graphics are good so you can see evidence easely.
  
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ams714
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This game has decent graphics and crime stories, but they limited it by making it to easy. My opinion 
 is they should of left the solving up to you not making it as easy as they did, they only let you 
 click on the area's where the clues are, which defeats the purpose of playing the game and wanting 
 the feeling of being a detective, duh, lol. It could of had a lot of potential, but was disappointing. 
 If they would of left all the solving up to you meaning clicking on what you think are possible 
 clues and also maybe adding some stuff around the scenes, so that you could possible even make 
 some mistakes in your investigating like picking up and examining the wrong evidence, would of 
 added some spice to it at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaNgErOuSmOmO
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  i picked this one up last summer due to my recent intrest in the tv show and let me say, as far 
 as lisenced games go i could not think of a better show to expand upon the graphis are good with 
 the charater looking as they do in the show except for the Brass model. i really enjoyed the voice 
 acting with all of the original actors saying dialouge that they would say in the show, the non 
 main charaters are somewhat garden variety victims eact sounding exactly as the stereotyps they 
 are. the gameplay is also very good point and click fans will be pleased as well as games who like 
 to think there are 5 seprate missions all of witch are exceptional i reccomend this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nanna99
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  I have not played many games before i played this and i got top score on all the cases.... that 
 is to easy even for me. This is not a good game so find something as this but a bit harder. The 
 funny thing is that a changed a good game for this game. : ( 
  
  The sorry thing about it that I really like CSI the TV program and cant get too much of it. And 
 that is for all of the CSI program, Las Vegas, Miami and New York. I like to solve puzzle and se 
 if I can solve the problem but here you see the solution but can only do it in one way and you 
 see it early on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Some people said they did not like this game and I will have to say I think it is not the game 
 for gamers that want to spend a month playing the same game and haveing to rack their brain for 
 every answer. However, If you like games that take some thinking on your part but don't want to 
 spend hours on end to finish this may be the game for you. It was fun and although was challenging 
 was easy to catch on and worth the money. It has great graphics and the story line for the 4 cases 
 was pretty good. I would say it is a great game and for 20.00 worth a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capncrunch710
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  The game play of this game, is very repetitive. Even in the different cases, you feel like you 
 are doing the exact same things. The graphics are just ok for a game of this type, would like to 
 have seen a more difficult, technical aspect shown, where you have to take over as Greg, in the 
 lab to run the tests. Hopefully the new game due out in 2006 will have this, or at least be not 
 so linear. Overall this is a poor game, but better than the first. I only recommend it to true 
 fans of the show, who would enjoy playing it from time to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushedgurl911
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  All in all, graphics are great but storylines and depending on doing things in correct order or 
 start over Brings this game down in rank. Anyone who watches CSI regularly is going to be disapointed 
 in this game. The cases in the game are not complicated or bring half of the thrill and excitement 
 of the show. Gameplay is limited to evidence and if not done in order you're doomed to start again 
 and again, but after learning how to play and what to look for this game was a waste. I'm not sure 
 Ubisoft should try to improve upon this particular series of games or call it quits altogether. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jur2
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:14 am PT
Review:  CSI: Crime scene investigation: dark motives is pretty fun for true CSI-fans, but as an adventure 
 game itself, very mediocre. The graphics have slightly improved since the original CSI game, but 
 not much. It still uses the 360 degrees graphics engine using Dreamweaver and Quicktime. A thing 
 that also has improved since the original CSI: Crime scene investigation is the difficulty. The 
 original game was just point-and-click, easy, too logical and unoriginal and too obvious. For example: 
 A remote control on the first mission lies there on a light red floor, while the remote is black. 
 A remote also makes it pretty obvious it has fingerprints on it. CSI: Dark motives certainly doesn't 
 have this wich is a great improvement. You have to look at the very tiny details to get it right, 
 mostly. What makes it worse, on the other hand, are things like preset questions (you just click 
 'm all) and the seduction to simply move your mouse around the screen untill your cursor changes, 
 and click, otherwise known as the "point-and-click tactic".
  
  Another fact i'd like to point out is the music. It's great. It really adapts to the atmosphere 
 created in the game. Most (if it isn't all) tracks are imported from the TV-series.
  
  As said in the headline, this game is more fun for CSI-fans than for non-CSI fans. This is because 
 of the fact that you get to talk, ask advise and work together with all the characters in CSI except 
 Archie, Hodges and Sophia.
  
  The bottom line: a somewhat better game than the first, although sometimes too hard and sometimes 
 too easy. The grapgics are only presets, making them move repeatedly. What could improve this game 
 is some more originality and sometimes help. The facts above also make the game boring when you 
 play it too long without progress (wich oftenly occurs) . Nice music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s2w
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  i love watching csi. the game is kind of a letdown.
  
  the screens are nice to look at, but the resolution leaves something to be desired. the sound is 
 fantastic, and the eerie background music sets the tone. the original cast does all of the voice 
 work, but they don't seem terribly enthusiastic about the project. well, either that, or the voice 
 director was really crappy. plus, greg taunts you when you use the wrong piece of equipment.
  
  navigation through the different modes/locations is kind of non-intuitive. finding clues is 
 surprisingly difficult, and though the cursor changes when there is something of import to be seen, 
 collecting the evidence isn't as easy as it would seem. 
  
  while you are able to go to the lab/crime scenes/pd at will, the gameplay is fairly linear in the 
 order of evidence collection/processing leading to new locations/old locations, etc. i'm looking 
 forward to a ps2 version that's less point-n-clicky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caliFRAGi
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:04 am PT
Review:  Yeah, I'm a CSI (LV) big fan. I buy this game because i like CSI TV series.
  
  The strory just fair. Only the last case (with Grissom) is the best and pretty complicated case. 
 This game is pretty difficult. Not the puzzle, but to finding the clue. The sound is pretty good.
 
  
  What makes me disappointed from this game is:
  They use Macromedia to built this game (aw man!) . Glitch everywhere (before i patch it) . How come 
 UBI Soft developed this game at this poor rate?!?! (compare to Splinter Cell, PoP, Brother in Arms, 
 etc) .
  
  For the fans, it's okay to play and or collect this game. But if you are not CSI fans, just borrow 
 your friend's CDs if you want to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borgmaster
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  CSI: Dark Motives is one of those games that will probably be liked by anyone who is a fan of the 
 series. It might also be liked by some non-fans as well. 
  The graphics are probably the best that could be done with a CSI: game. When you judge the gameplay, 
 just remember that it's a point and click mystery/adventure game that it is based on TV show. But 
 I have to say, the overall story-line is is really good for a game like this, and the freqeunty 
 references to the other game and the show will add to the experience for fans of the series. Last, 
 the sound quality is good enough so that you don't really notice in a bad way.
  Like I've said throughout the review, if your a CSI fan you'll love the game and you should probably 
 go out and by it, if you aren't you will still most likely like the game if your a pint and click 
 adventure fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatbrain
Rating: 2.9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  Dark motives. hmm... they sure had dark motives, when making this game (MAKE MONEY FAST WITH CRAPPY 
 GAME DEVELOPMENT) . The worst thing about this game is the user interface. Keyboard input, or lack 
 of keyboard input, why don't implement it! how hard can it be... It taks too long to navigate the 
 crappy menues with the mouse all the time (especially with the slow reactions to mouse clicks!) ! 
 And if I try real hard I think i can remeber a game from the mid 16th century that used panoramic 
 graphics (most gamers have invested in a high-end 3D graphics card that they probably want to use) . 
 Too bad ubi (who otherwise releases the coolest games!) developed and published this game: (... 
 This game is defenitly NOT for me, thats for sure. One can only hope, for ubis sake, that others 
 like it a lot more! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
