-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: CSI: Crime Scene Investigation: Hard Evidence
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/csi4hardevidence/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Quality of the writing has seen a significant jump over the previous games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Solving the mysteries is painfully easy and kind of boring.
 Character models look awful.
 No new gameplay elements compared with every other CSI game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.8, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 273 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Telltale Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Sep 25, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hard Evidence offers few surprises and even fewer challenges throughout its five undemanding murder 
 mysteries. 

  Playing Ubisoft's CSI games has always felt more like taking part in a truncated version of one 
 of those cheesy murder mystery getaway weekends than actually solving a realistic crime. At every 
 turn, these games find ways to clue you in on and push you toward exactly what you need to do next 
 to proceed. You don't so much investigate as you go through a number of mundane motions to get 
 to the predetermined conclusion. There's no threat of failure, nothing even remotely resembling 
 a challenge to be found. They are less games and more mediocre episodes of the TV show that require 
 button presses to unfold. CSI: Crime Scene Investigation: Hard Evidence is the fourth game in the 
 series, and it doesn't diverge one bit from the formula laid down by its predecessors.  

           Hard Evidence is a mildly ironic subtitle given how stupid easy this game is.      

 
  There are five cases to solve in Hard Evidence, with victims ranging from an immolated racist 
 cab driver to an electrocuted '80s rock group on a reality show that more than closely resembles 
  Rock Star: INXS  from a couple of years ago. As always, it's up to you to solve the crimes using 
 the scientific tools of the trade you've likely seen on the  CSI  TV show. You'll be plucking bullets 
 out of walls and matching them to various guns, dusting for finger prints, taking casts of footprints 
 and tire treads, and even swabbing semen stains off of used condoms. No one ever said the life 
 of a CSI was a glamorous one.  

  The main problem with Hard Evidence -- and it's the same problem that every CSI game has ever had -- is 
 that it's so unbelievably easy. Every ounce of thought or legitimate investigation is separated 
 from the mix, creating a sort of paint-by-numbers murder mystery. All you have to do is poke around 
 each location, wait for your cursor to turn green to dictate that, yes, there's something for you 
 to look at there, and then click on it. The game even decides exactly how you should collect every 
 piece of evidence, and the most thought you have to put into it is something along the lines of 
 "should I use ninhydrin or luminol to detect blood on this particular surface?"  

  If for some reason you ever do get stuck, it usually doesn't take long to figure out which scene 
 you missed something at, since a big green checkbox goes over every piece of evidence and every 
 scene you've investigated completely. If it doesn't have the checkbox, you missed something. Beyond 
 that, all you have to do is make sure you've asked every question to every suspect. And if you're 
 still somehow stuck, you can just ask any of the tagalong CSI characters for a hint. It "counts 
 against your evaluation" at the very end, but that evaluation doesn't really mean anything.  

 
  The one nice thing you can say about Hard Evidence is that the writing is at least considerably 
 better than in the last game, 3 Dimensions of Murder. That game was predictable beyond belief, 
 essentially telegraphing who each culprit was long before the endgame. Hard Evidence does no such 
 thing, and the storylines are actually thoughtful and a bit perplexing at times. Solving them may 
 be a breeze, but you won't necessarily guess who did it until the evidence finally comes together 
 at the very end. It's not quite as sharp as the writing on the show, but it's a heck of a lot closer 
 than ever before.  

  Unfortunately, while the writing may be solid, the presentation of the cases leaves a lot to be 
 desired. Several of the voice actors from the show reprise their roles in fairly lazy fashion, 
 and the few who don't (namely Marg Helgenberger and Jorja Fox) are replaced with actors doing lousy 
 impressions of the characters. The remaining voice actors are equally sedate or hammy, with no 
 middle ground to speak of. The game's graphics are an even bigger point of contention. All the 
 characters look mildly mutated, and the facial animation is extremely poor. The lip-syncing for 
 the dialogue doesn't match up at all, and all the characters have these really creepy eyes that 
 move around in a really unsettling way. The environments aren't bad, but apart from hunting around 
 for hidden blood stains and bullet holes, you're not going to spend much time appreciating the 
 aesthetic qualities of the area you're in.  

  One additional blight on the game's presentation is its insistence on shoving advertisements and 
 product placement down your throat. For example, when you get a vehicle to search, it's not just 
 a car. It's a Chrysler branded car with more Chrysler logos to discover than should be humanly 
 possible. Every single location you search in the game has some area to click on with an HP HDTV 
 in it. And the Visa ads... oh god, so many Visa ads. Not only are there billboards for the company 
 everywhere, the writers even inserted Visa into the  dialogue  in one of the cases! Captain Brass 
 actually refers to the "good people" at Visa and talks about their card monitoring services. Basic 
 ads are one thing, but this game crosses a line or two or three.          The sheer number of Visa, 
 Chrysler and HP ads in this game is painful to behold.      

  Hard Evidence is the first CSI game to appear on the PC and Xbox 360 simultaneously. The games 
 are near identical, save for the predictable interface differences. The PC version has a leg up 
 on the 360 version, simply because it's a lot easier to click around the various menus and tools 
 using a mouse and keyboard than an Xbox 360 controller. It has another leg up on top of that, given 
 than it's $10 cheaper than the 360 game. At the same time, if you're some kind of Xbox 360 achievements 
 nut, Hard Evidence might just be the breeziest 1,000 points you'll ever earn over the course of 
 a six-hour game. There are no tricky points here. Just beat all the cases, and you'll get them 
 all.  

  If you've already invested in the previous CSI games, you're not going to find anything new or 
 exciting here in the gameplay department. All you'll get are five brand-new cases that you will 
 solve exactly the same way you did in the previous games. If that's enough for you, then by all 
 means, give Hard Evidence a shot. However, more discerning players looking for something vaguely 
 resembling a challenge would do best to skip this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jtk2596
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Upon watching an episode of CSI this year up pops a commercial for CSI Hard Evidence. I was unaware 
 of other games that have previously released but I had to get this one. Upon receiving a copy from 
 Santa this year I couldn't wait to get home and start CSIing. Needless to say I was let down tremendously.
 
  
  First off the graphics and sound are sub par at best. I was willing to put that aside for some 
 challenging cases and original thought, but I didn't get that either. 
  
  The 5 cases in the game have good plot lines but are way too easy. You have no way to fail. Even 
 with all the aides off finding evidence is hardly a challenge. All the interviews are pre written 
 so you aren't really asking the questions.
  
  For those of us die hards, here are some positives. The cases have multiple areas to collect evidence 
 and you must get warrants and such. You use most the collection and detection tools that are featured 
 in the show. You have 2 labs to use 5 machines to analyze the evidence. The interrogation room, 
 morgue, garage and Brass's office are all other areas to use to nail the criminals.
  
  I would say to wait for this one to drop in price or just plain wait for the next edition. Hopefully 
 the makers of CSI and Ubisoft will take some feed back from the public and make the next game more 
 challenging and requires original thought for all us work with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I can notice some improvement from last CSI 3, and the graphic is good but still considered moderate. 
 Character looking somewhat bad. Voice acting is great, but it is poor when acting the anger conversation. 
 Controls are still bad, even it already 4th in the series. Sometimes you just can't zoom in the 
 specific area to have evidence easily. Its length is pathetic, I do suggest to have at least 7 
 missions? It is quite addictive since you would like to know who is the murderer, and it just right 
 of difficulty for me. But it could be harder. And the crime scene could be more surprising? Overall, 
 it is worth playing for CSI fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaiser6666
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  I am a big csi fan so my review may come across as abit bias but i am also not picky when it comes 
 to gaming. Anyway the graphics are good but some of the charecter models need abit more work . 
 As for length each isnt is about 2-4 hours on first playthrough which is good its also a big imporvment 
 over the 3 dimisons of murder becasue there is more chacter interaction. For example - when you 
 find out about a piece of evidence under a microscope Sara comes in and talks about it and speaks 
 to Nick. Also another improvement is what you can do in the lab you can do more with vidoes and 
 photos but i won't say what and you can also take cars to the garage and take them apart and check 
 for more evidence. Finally the cases themselves are really interesting i won't such much but it 
 one case a man is murdered and the only witness is his blind wife and another one is how does a 
 taxi driver get burnt without the car going up in flames aswell ?. The voice acting is superb even 
 thought Cathrines voice actor isnt done by her t. v counterpart it sounds just like her and Sara 
 isn't done by Jorja Fox but its not a bad subtitute. Overall the game is a must for any csi fan 
 but other people not may enjoy as much I gave it 9.0/10 -because sometimes the charecters sometimes 
 reapeat a line they just said as they did in 3dom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indianapepsi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  First of all its a huge improvement on the last installment, the 3-D movement is so much better, 
 and evidence collection has also been made much better. Storylines are a lot deeper and make a 
 lot more sense than last time out and they also tie together better, and the more adult theme of 
 the stories make the experience feel even more like the real CSI
  
  The return of bonus features makes it more worthwhile playing as well.
  
  But all I see is 
 ppl complaining about it, too much like the others or been there done that even the gamespot 
 ppl say its too much like the others, Okay ppl lets put it in perspective shall we, Its based on 
 a TV show so it will NEVER change too much until the TV show changes!!!!!!! So quit complaining 
 and enjoy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: site_b
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  As the title implies, this game is basically CSI 3DOM part 2. There are hardly any new tools to 
 work with, a glitch causes the screen to flicker during gameplay, and Gamespot is definitely justified 
 in giving that score in the 5 range. There aren't many completely new lab mini-games, and I blew 
 through like, 3 of the cases in just a single day! When u play the game, u might find yourself 
 going ho-hum , Not much of what was written on the Gamespot fact sheet for this game is true. You 
 don't end up interacting with the investigators in any special way other than the question-clicking. 
 And some features, such as garage lab and GMC unit, are rarely used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZlatkoZ
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  That's right, it's me back again to review another gem that i just had the pleasure of playing.
 
  
  Let's break down the game for people that have never played a game in the CSI franchise. You basically 
 play as a new CSI in Las Vegas' department for crime scene investigation. You have to solve 5 violent 
 crimes, alongside your favorite characters from the show: Sarah, Greg, Catherine, Gill, Warrick 
 and Nick.
  
  Without ruining the plot or going too far deep into it, the basic principles are that of a standard 
 adventure game, however it is first person as opposed to many adventure games' third-person views.
 
  
  Advertisements from companies seem to litter the entire game, i counted at least 10 shameless VISA 
 card advertisements, about 2 or 3 Chrysler promotions and an absolutely unlimited amount of HP 
 computers, LCD tvs and a bunch of other things.
  
  The other drawback to this game is that the writers and modellers got lazy at about the half way 
 point and decided to reuse the sets over and over again. If you don't believe me, there are 3 cases 
 that have 1 exact same room in common, 1 case has triplets (easy modelling) , 2 cases have the same 
 characters, and same voices as well. There are a few that i forgot, but the most notable ones in 
 my mind were the: -Luxury Suite, High-Roller room, Recording Studio.
  
  The corner-cutting does not end there, the videos are not only taken directly from CSI the show, 
 but every item used (for example ballistics) has the same video when clicked on.
  
  I feel for the developers of this game, i really do, but this is an absolute disaster of a game. 
 I will give them one thing, the stories are somewhat descent, but they all seem to be very cut-corner.
 
  
  The graphics are nothing to praise either, the game is virtually IDENTICAL to CSI: 3 dimensions 
 of murder. Brass' office is the same, Grissom's office as well and the lab does not look much different 
 either, except the HP computer branding everywhere.
  
  Overall, this game was half descent, but the lack of difficulty left me wanting more, a lot more. 
 I think that if i go to the store and claim that i cant play this demanding game on my computer 
 so that i can get my money back, having only beaten the game in 8 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vmw
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Me pareci&oacute; un buen juego, pero creo que todav&iacute; a lo pueden mejorar much&iacute; simo.
 
  
  Las gr&aacute; ficas son aceptables aunque pueden mejorarlas, las historias de los casos son bastante 
 buenas como en la serie de televisi&oacute; n, lo &uacute; nico malo es que son solo 5 misiones, 
 muy corto el juego...
  
  El juego pude terminarlo en tan solo 2 d&iacute; as. Las misiones son muy f&aacute; ciles, para la 
 pr&oacute; xima entrega deber&aacute; n hacer algo mas elaborado. De verdad pens&eacute; que ser&iacute; a 
 mucho mejor que los pasados... De todas maneras se los recomiendo, es un buen juego, prueben ustedes 
 mismos a ver que opinan. Espero que salga pronto el pr&oacute; ximo para probarlo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Like I sad before the game is too short. Those who played later CSI games will know what is it 
 all about, those who haven't (I'm one of them) I'll try to explain to them.
  This game is based on the TV series CSI: Crime Scene Investigation. It puts you in Las Vegas to 
 solve the crimes. In main menu you can choose training level to learn how to solve crimes, investigate 
 crime scene etc. What I notice is that there is no Options in main menu so if you want to change 
 anything regarding to video or audio or some other settings, you must start the game and then open 
 options menu (for me it's strange :) ) . There is one more interesting thing in gameplay settings, 
 you can not choose easy, medium or hard level, but you can checked some fields that are helping 
 you when you resolve crime. Such as, when you find some evidence the proper tool automatically 
 shows up etc.
  There are five missions or crimes to solve. Every mission starts at the crime scene. When you done 
 with the crime scene you go to your crime lab to investigate evidence. In the left corner of the 
 screen you will find your PDA. From that you can choose wherever you want to go. In pda you will 
 find four fields: evidence, locations, case file and options menu. Yeah I forgot about the hints, 
 for every crime mission you will get other partner and if you stuck with the mission you can ask 
 him for a hint. In the location field you will find two types of locations; one is crime lab, morgue 
 places linked with police, and the other ones are crime scene locations regarding to the case. 
 In the upper left corner of every location regarding to the case is the circle which means you 
 didn't find all evidence. It is the case with the evidence. When you resolve the crime you must 
 go to be evaluated. If asked for many hints you will get poor evaluation.
  For graphic and sound I must say that developers are in a good path. Characters are realistic and 
 locations of the crime scenes are very good. About the sound .. it's very simple .. realistic characters 
 talk like in the series and that's it.
  Conclusion is that if you like this type of games you should play this one. But wait a bit, don't 
 buy it yet for only five missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedstone11
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were good, but the cases were far too short and easy (and I didn't use the game selections 
 that make it easy) . Some of the cases in the past games have been harder to solve. I think the 
 game makers spent too much time on graphics and not enough time on development of cases. Word of 
 advice for developers... next time spend more time on cases and less time on making the CSI crew 
 more realistic (Katherines eyelash blinking through the side of her head could use some work) .
 
  
  Now dont' get me wrong, I did enjoy it for the most part but it wasn't worth the price i paid for 
 it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
