-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: CSI: Crime Scene Investigation
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/csicrimesceneinvestigation/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 15, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 6.4, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 675 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: 369 Interactive
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 26, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The developer clearly tried to make CSI accessible for a wide audience and in the process also removed 
 all challenge from the game. 

  Based on the popular television show, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation seems like it has the perfect 
 setting for a game. More specifically, it seems like the perfect setting for an adventure game -- as 
 portrayed on the show, the profession is basically just a series of glorified adventure game conventions, 
 like pixel hunts (searching for tiny "hotspots" onscreen with your mouse pointer) and dialogue 
 trees. As such, it's frustrating that the game gets off to a promising start, then quickly turns 
 into a big mess. Ultimately, CSI has a good premise, good tools, and good scenarios for an adventure 
 game, but the developer clearly tried to make CSI accessible for a wide audience and in the process 
 also removed all challenge from the game.  

          You'll interact with the cast of the show.     

  You play as a new recruit at the Las 
 Vegas Crime Lab. The game is made up of five distinct cases, each pairing you with one of the show's 
 investigators. You investigate several murders, a case of arson, and a kidnapping. The first case, 
 the murder of a showgirl, acts as the game's tutorial. You learn how to use the tools of the trade, 
 including cotton swabs, rubber gloves, UV lights, and plaster molds. You search the crime scene 
 for prints, take your findings to the lab for tests, and match evidence against computer databases. 
 In this regard, CSI succeeds in doing what other good adventure games based on real-world jobs 
 do: taking the ins and outs of an actual profession and making them enjoyable.  

  But one of CSI's problems is that this tutorial never seems to end. There's always someone standing 
 over your shoulder, pointing out how whatever evidence you've found ties in to the big picture. 
 For instance, at one point you must analyze a phone message for ambient noise. You can select only 
 five distinct sections of the recording, and as soon as you select the right one, your partner 
 points out that there is an elephant in the background. Select another one, and he points out the 
 slot machines. And then he tells you about a casino with an elephant. What exactly is your role 
 in the detective work? At most, five clicks. Compare this to the exact same puzzle in Activision's 
 similar, but far superior, Spycraft, which required that you listen to a tape in detailed chunks 
 and extract the potential ambient sounds by tweaking frequencies. It may sound like busy work now, 
 but at least it was something to do.  

  The only real challenge in CSI is finding all the evidence. To do so, you go to various locations 
 and drag the blue cursor around until it turns green. Then you click, and you look at something. 
 You can try your tools, but if you're on the wrong track your partner will immediately tell you 
 so. "There are no prints here," your partner will say as soon as you take out the brush. Pick the 
 wrong tool for the right job, and your partner will advise you to "try a similar tool."  

  If you ever actually get stuck, it will probably be because you overlooked the single piece of 
 evidence that unlocks the next location. If you really don't know what to do, you can ask your 
 partner for advice. You get points deducted from your performance for asking for help, but luckily 
 you won't need to ask in most cases. When you click on your partner, a list of pertinent questions 
 comes up. Options like "How do I positively identify the vehicle?" will tell you that you need 
 to positively identify the vehicle, and you can set out without actually asking for help. And too 
 often, your partner's response won't make sense. Ask the aforementioned vehicle question, for instance, 
 and your partner will say, "Ask Dr. Wilkinson if he owns a truck." Unfortunately, there's no option 
 to ask who Dr. Wilkinson is, even though he doesn't show up until much later in the chapter.  

 
  CSI has many of these anachronistic moments, and they get more severe as the game goes on. One 
 such comment ends up giving away the game's big plot twist long before it should have been revealed. 
 Then again, the whole game, even if you get terribly stuck, lasts all of about five hours. The 
 cases take about 30 minutes to an hour each, though you are encouraged to go back through them 
 to achieve a perfect score. You can successfully end a case without finding everything, though 
 the things you don't find are typically the pieces of evidence that don't help your case, such 
 as a DNA sample from an innocent suspect.  

          Other than collecting evidence, there isn't much for you to do.     

  One of the big 
 selling points of CSI is that the TV show's cast provided the voices. As a result, the primary 
 cast is noteworthy, but having all that talent around only makes the nonactors stand out all the 
 more, because some of the extras are just awful. The character models are equally inconsistent; 
 the best look decent enough, but the worst look like heads carved out of marshmallow precariously 
 situated atop shirts stuffed with newspaper.  

  CSI seems like a squandered opportunity. In your first case, as you run the ultraviolet light over 
 a bruised neck and dust a remote control for fingerprints, it seems as though you're in for a game 
 of investigation and deduction. But all you're in for is running ultraviolet lights and dusting 
 for fingerprints while all the interesting decisions are made for you. It's simple, but at least 
 it seems promising at the beginning. The problem is that the game remains simple and gradually 
 loses this promise over its notably short life span.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Test your investigative skills and find the necessary clues left behind. Use of the correct instruments 
 are helpful. Thought it would be more like the tv show but I still played it through. I thought 
 I'd do better than I did. Not saying I did bad. When I watched the show I always followed and figured 
 out what they should do. You definitely need to pay attention to details. Don't just look for the 
 obvious clues. Also look for the ones you wouldn't expect. They basically tell you what you need 
 to do. But you need to process them in an orderly fashion in order to complete your job. It's a 
 back and forth between the crime scene, lab and police station. Question your suspects for processing 
 or elimination. Figure out who had the time, motive and resources to commit the crime. All and 
 all it wasn't a bad experience. I just needed to work a little harder to get a better rank on the 
 job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyclopsScott
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  As someone who thought slow-mo cool-music montages of people scraping things and looking into microscopes 
 was ridiculous, I ended up hooked on CSI during its syndication on Spike thanks to accessible characters, 
 clever stories (often two per episode) and some great acting. Oh yeah, and those montages end up 
 working well too.
  
  That said, I knew there were a few games out there, but were worried that they just went and did 
 nothing except be pixel clickers. That's not too far from the mark with this one, however its still 
 worthwhile for fans of the show for all the reasons they even are fans of the show: great stories, 
 acting and style.
  
  You start out as a new CSI trainee and get assigned quickly since the night shift is short staffed, 
 and Grissom walks you through some opening bits before letting you fend for yourself. The cases 
 progress from there, one with each major cast member, featuring no names becoming suspects, sure 
 suspects totally innocent, and twist after twist throughout each case. If you know the show you 
 can call a lot of these a mile away, but it should still manage to surprise you here and there.
 
  
  CSI's greatest strength is the look and feel. The game isn't vulgar or violent, yet rated M for 
 obvious reasons of the graphic flashbacks and of course, dead bodies. The acting is top notch and 
 the characters look dead on. There isn't much movement since the crime scenes are prerendered, 
 but everything just looks 'right', and the suspects screen is a welcome addition.
  
  CSI's biggest flaw however is the pure trial and error aspect of things. Instead of doing something 
 and screwing up, the game just has the senior CSI tell you you can't use that here or try something 
 else . This gets overly repetitive and really holds your hand as you narrow things down. One great 
 aspect of this however is you are able to complete cases without finding every piece of evidence. 
 I solved a fire scenario without even swabbing an obvious gas can based on the strength of the 
 other evidence I found. There is an incentive to get perfect scores and get everything, but I do 
 like that its not pigeon-holed into force find everything to win. 
  
  Overall its an easy recommendation to CSI fans, but really its quite short and latter games in 
 the series likely grow from here. Still a nice first effort though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Most of the time, games based on movies or TV shows exist for one reason: to cash in on the licenses 
 mainstream popularity, regardless of whether the property fits being made into a game. In the happy 
 case of CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, the show is an excellent platform for an investigative 
 adventure.
  
  And in some ways, the game does the show justice. The five cases youre asked to solve are similar 
 to what youd see in a typical episode, and the scripts are well-written and aimed at the same 
 mature audience. The dialogue is a particular strongpoint, with lots of genuinely witty banter 
 exchanged.
  
  That said, while the acting of the supporting characters is generally quite good, the main characters 
 deliver their lines with all the emotion of Mr. Spock. I guess the remuneration for participating 
 in the game didnt compare to their weekly paychecks, and their lack of enthusiasm shows. These 
 performances let down the games script-writers as well as the shows fans.
  
  The biggest letdown, though, is the gameplay, which is simplistic even for casual gamers. Solving 
 a case basically consists of finding all the clues at each location (the cursor changes color when 
 you move it over a hotspot) , exhausting all the dialogue-tree options for each suspect, showing 
 all the evidence you collect to Greg Sanders in the laboratory and/or Al Robbins in the morgue, 
 and occasionally using a computer or microscope to examine or compare certain evidence. Every clue 
 is spoon-fed.
  
  Its a shame, too, because the potential is here for a challenging investigation based on clever 
 detective work. You have a whole slew of tools to help you, such as a print-lifting machine, an 
 odor-sniffing device, luminal for finding blood at the scene, and many more. Instead of having 
 to figure things out on your own, though, your partner (one of the stars from the show) will tell 
 you exactly what you should do in almost every situation.
  
  If youre a complete bonehead and still cant figure out what to do, you can ask your partner for 
 a clue, but at the cost of some points, which are used to determine how successful you were at 
 solving the case (and rewarding you with concept art as a bonus) . A little more freedom would 
 have been welcome, especially since the hint system was already put into place for those who required 
 more hand-holding.
  
  The building blocks for a good game are certainly in place, but it seems like the developers took 
 the easy (fast) way out more often than not. Take the low-res graphics, for instance  while theyre 
 certainly acceptable (except for the Godzilla-movie lip synching) , thats as far as they go. The 
 cases are straight-up and lack tension or development.
  
  I really dont know if this game will fully appeal to anyone: its too shallow for gamers, and 
 the stars lackluster effort may disappoint the shows fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: more_ncis_now
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I like the idea of CSI: Crime Scene Investigation a lot. Being able to "be" the CSI is just what 
 I wanted in the game. What I didn't expect was how slow progression through the game would be. 
 There are many points where you have to listen to a suspect being interrogated, or where you have 
 to do what the game wants you to do. The game would be much more interesting if you had more freedom 
 and were not forced to do certain things at certain times. The game is OK, but not as good as I 
 hoped it would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalnutter
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  When this game came out in 2003 the TV series had been out for 2-3 years and was a big hit. When 
 the game came out this also became a hit because it was the first game where you could become a 
 forensic investigator and help solve crimes. This is what made the game become and instant hit. 
 All the voices are done by the actual characters in the TV series and there are 6 or 7 crimes which 
 you have to help solve. There are hints and cheats to help you solve the crimes but this type of 
 game wouldn't be as fun if you didn't work the clues out yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalkhaja
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  When I first got the game, I thought that it was going to be great. BUT, it really isn't. The game 
 isn't really exciting unlike the TV show, and there are ony 3 crimes to solve which means that 
 the game is completed as soon as you start being interested in the game. Fans of the TV show will 
 probably enjoy playing the game, but serious adventure gamers will find the game a total waste 
 of time.
  It is really quite simple: if you like the show, get the game. If you don't like CSI, don't expect 
 too much! Crime solved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norwaygamer
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I'm truly interested in the CSI series and was excited about trying 
 it myself. An adventure game with an interesting twist, I thought. And I was right. CSI: Crime 
 Scene Investigation is neither more nor less than an adventure game with a twist.
  
  You play a newly hired CSI, and are trained by Grissom and his team, which remarkably resembles 
 their TV series counterparts, taking into account the otherwise mediocre graphics of the game. 
 You have a full range of tools at your disposition when you are out in the field, helping you to 
 detect and collect evidence. You can swab liquids, detect bloodstains, take fingerprints, and many 
 other things.
  
  The story is interesting enough, and some of the chapters play into each other, and you are at 
 one point even able to go back to a previously solved case and right a severe mistake you've done. 
 However, it is sadly lacking in when it comes to the player being able to choose for himself what 
 to do. The game forces you to follow a particular line of action, rather than being flexible enough 
 to allow you to try solutions of your own. As a consequence, you will spend an unproportionate 
 amount of time running around searching for the miniscule piece of evidence that will enable you 
 to bring in a suspect for interrogation. This could have been interesting, if only this tiny piece 
 of evidence sometimes doesn't seem to be relevant at all to solving the case.
  
  To enjoy this game, you must be a fan of the series, or have an extraordinary ability to ignore 
 glaring faults in the gameplay. However, if you do have one or both of these traits, then you will 
 probably have some fun. For about 2-3 hours or so, which is the time it takes to play the game 
 through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Like many games, there are nice and less nice parts of this game.
  
  First of all, i admire the way it was done. The entire game feels like a Macromedia Director project. 
 To get it all done like this does take skills.
  The story is pretty nice and the puzzles to solve are good too.
  
  i have a few objections 
 to the way the AI works. It seems to me that some movies only unlock if you collect evidence in 
 certain sequence. It also seemed to me that the events leading up to a new location is not as fluint 
 as it could be.
  
  Overall the game is nice to play, but after you solve the 5 cases that's it. It gives this game 
 a replay value of 0.
  
  The graphics and sounds are ok but not outstanding. So over all it is a nice game for the fans, 
 but it won't go much further then that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hencurat
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  If you sometimes (or always) feel like Sherlock Holmes looking for a case to solve, you'll love 
 this game. When you finish a case, you'll play other and then other, because you'll NEED to solve 
 all of them to feel relaxed again. After playing CSI games, you'll study about Forensic Science, 
 learning as much as you can to solve real crimes. There's just one problem: the game is very short. 
 Short because you won't stop playing. You'll dream about what to do in the next case. In my opinion, 
 it's just excellent. You'll want to get all CSI games for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billmask92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect and has all the forensic stuff to help completer each case and give you extra 
 infomation. the graphics are a bit weird and some of the people only just look like the people 
 they are ment to. this game can have a little glitchs that effect the speech of the people, ( The 
 voices of are the real people from the program so this adds to the CSI effect.) , they can say somthing 
 and then it can go a bit weird and they will say it again other than that this game is a must have 
 for any CSI fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Being one of the most successful shows for CBS in primetime, it was only a matter of time before 
 it became a game. CSI: Crime Scene Investigation gives players a chance to experience the action 
 seen on the show every week. The nagging question still remains however; will people not familiar 
 with the TV show and the casual gamer enjoy this title?
  
  You begin the game as the newest addition to the CSI team in Sin City, otherwise known as Las Vegas. 
 The game itself is organized into five different missions. Each crime must be solved before moving 
 on to the next level. Players will be teamed up with one member of the CSI unit in each mission; 
 they act as an advisor to you. If you have any trouble with evidence or are clueless on what to 
 do next, asking your CSI partner will get you the answer right away. The different crimes, for 
 the most part, arent linked together in a storyline. However there is a bizarre twist in the end 
 that attempts to link at least some of the stories.
  
  In each mission, there are several locations where the player can explore. The crime scene itself 
 in each mission is where players typically start off; different locations will become unlocked 
 when more evidence is revealed. There are also a few locales that will usually always be available 
 anytime during a case. These include the morgue, the lab, and the brass headquarters. At the 
 morgue you can learn about specific clues found with the body. The lab is where you can analyze 
 evidence and search computer databases. Headquarters is the place players go to get warrants, bring 
 people in for interrogation, and obtain evidence from previous cases if need be.
  
  The first thing players will notice is the lack of adventure and exploration. Levels are static 
 and you can only rotate your view to look around. The gameplay itself is relegated to a point and 
 click style. The objects which players can interact with are clearly marked by having the cursor 
 change color when hovering over them. The main problem with this is that only items specific to 
 the case can be interacted with. Players can quickly enter a location, scan the room around with 
 their mouse, pick out the evidence, and move on.
  
  Once evidence is found, players have a variety of methods they can use. Gathering evidence is broken 
 up into two main parts: detecting and collecting. Dusting for prints, sniffing out gasses, and 
 using infrared cameras are just some of the detection methods that will be available to you. Once 
 detected, evidence can be collected via tweezers, swabs, lifting tape, etc and brought back to 
 the lab to be analyzed. If you are ever confused about which method of collection to use, your 
 CSI partner will give you subtle hints such as use something similar.
  
  The problem with this type of gameplay is that it is not very challenging. Whenever I had trouble 
 finding evidence, I simply ran the mouse all over the screen and waited for the cursor to change 
 color. In the five hours it took me to complete the game I can only recall a few times where I 
 had a question. Even so, all I needed to do was to ask my CSI partner and they told me the answer 
 I was looking for. This type of babysitting should not be included in a game that has been slapped 
 with a mature rating. Most of the games scenarios and problems can be solved by simple logic. 
 Even worse is the games ability to magically plug in all the missing information for you. It would 
 have added some longevity to the game to have players try to find out some of the information given 
 to them by Headquarters.
  
  Gameplay issues aside, the graphics in the title are also lacking. While the pre-rendered backgrounds 
 are adequately done, at times they appear blurry and too soft. Objects such as birds which are 
 close to your point of view appear out of focus. The characters themselves are done nicely but 
 animations often seem jerky and sometimes will skip. The lips are sometimes grossly out of sync 
 with the audio dialogue of the characters.
  
  Speaking of audio, that was one of the high points in CSI. The characters from the television show 
 lent their voices to the characters in the game. All the actors give good performances in the game 
 and are very convincing. The dialogue itself was written by CSI scrip writer Max Alan Collins.
 
  
  Fans of the show will no doubt love CSI. Its environments put players in the same situations as 
 the actors in the television show. Casual gamers will find the single player lacking and not worthy 
 of the $29.99 price tag. This game had a lot of potential but ended up being quite possibly the 
 longest tutorial ever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterShake888
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 2, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is considered "EDUCATIONAL" and as we know it, many gamers hate these types of illusive 
 games. The graphics and backgrounds were not that good and as well for the six cases in this game 
 are not as challenging as I thought they were. Tough luck. I did happen to beat all six cases with 
 very less evidence. I did get stuck one time on the very last one until then I completed it. I 
 would say that this is such a degrading game, it is not worth playing... This here is nothing but 
 a wreckless thought of an idea made by Ubisoft and 369 Interactive. What a fluke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  CSI is one of my favorite shows. I know, I know, it's pathetic, but I really like that show. So 
 of course this game appealed to me. I thought, Sure, they could make a good game out of CSI. Wow. 
 I was wrong. CSI is a terrible game with no point. It's devoid of any sort of entertainment value 
 at all. If I was more creative I could make a simile comparing this game to some disgusting thing 
 you find at a crime scene, but I'm not funny or creative enough to do that. In this game, you find 
 dead bodies and collect evidence using your mouse pointer. Your character doesn't really even move. 
 You just click on evidence. The only good thing about this game is the graphics. The characters 
 and environments all look pretty good, but that's not such an amazing feat considering you don't 
 move at all. The audio in this game is pretty bad too. The voice acting is awful. The actors sound 
 like they could not be less interested in what they're doing. Just, don't get this game. It's really 
 bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Although I liked the other CSI game Better this one was pretty good as well. It lacked a little 
 on the graphics and I think if you started with this CSI game it would be better but I started 
 with the newest CSI game and then moved to this one. It was worth the 20.00 I paid and still gave 
 me some fun play time. I would say it is a good buy but get this one before the updated CSI game. 
 The story line for the cases were good and easy to follow. It was a lot like the show but I would 
 say 17 and older to play do to the content of the cases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Statoboy22
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:01 pm PT
Review:  It's just too short to leave it like that, five missions is barely worth fifteen GBP (15.00) . 
 i completed it in under three hours, it's not for the real hard core CSI fans, but a great all 
 round player for the family to solve. 
  
  The other games in the series are hopefully better and include a better all round user friendly 
 and less demanding interface. In it's current status, the latest version released, it demands most 
 if not all of your CPU and RAM whilst playing.
  
  If you want to go buy a real crime-solving CSI style game, i sugest you wait for a few years until 
 they release better versions that are worth the thirty GBP (30.00) that it sells for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borgmaster
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:22 am PT
Review:  CSI: Crime Scene Investigation is a good first attempt at a CSI game. The gameplay and story are 
 solid enough to not completly suck. But my biggest problem with it is that it is way too short.
 
  I'll start with the graphics, their not the best... actually the character models are boxy and 
 the 360 view style just dosn't work as well as it should but it's not too bad.
  The sound, well... the voice acting from none-cast memebers is from pretty bad to not too bad; 
 as for the cast member voice acting, at least the cast is doing it. The lip syncing is horrible, 
 I mean bad. And you don't really mind the music (if your a CSI fan) .
  Now for the gameplay, the story isn't as bad as you would expect from this game and is somewhat 
 intertwined with itself. The actual point and click at the crime scenes is very simplestic and 
 easy. And the game just isn't hard at all. You'll probably finish it in two hours, and getting 
 100% on everything just adds another hour, at most.
  From a CSI to a point and click fan, rent it. From a CSI fan to another CSI fan, buy it (its less 
 then 20$!) . To any one else, just go away, shoo!
  
  I give this game:7.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: preacher02
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 12:07 pm PT
Review:  My first CSI game. Great fun as a fan of the series. Gets frustrating at times when you know what 
 you want to do but there is a peice of evidence to find before it will let you. You get to do all 
 the basics, dust for finger prints, uv lights, collect sample, process the evidence, talk to all 
 the stars, interview the suspects etc etc.
  
  Game is not long enough! 5 Crime scenes and the promise of bonus footage if you get 100% on all 
 cases. But thats it. 
  
  Still a great game for a FAN of CSI, I have the rest on order, am just hoping they last a bit longer! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha__13
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 28, 2004 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because I'm a fan of the CSI series. I tried it out, it's like being in those 
 scenes where they're like dusting finger prints and what-not, the scenes they gotta play music 
 in so you can make it through it. It's an ok game, but I got bored of it fast.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty cool for a little while, but then you realize you're just dusting for finger prints 
 or looking for blood.
  
  Graphics: Very good except for the fact that you can't change the resolution, 640x480.
  
  Sound: 
 All the sounds from the forensic tools sound pretty authentic, some boring music.
  
  Value: Once you solve the 5 crimes, it's pretty much done with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheZorker
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 1, 2003 6:16 pm PT
Review:  
  The game of CSI is not for the heavy puzzle solvers.
  
  It is not for hard nosed adventurers.
  
  It's for everyone else. For about $30, it provides 
 an excellent game for fans of the show. The game, is for people willing to go over their locations 
 with a fine tooth comb, just like in the show.
  
  Each 'episode' will take you about an hour, and there's some good plot twists. Voice acting is 
 excellent for a video game, for the most part (Hi, Matrix!) . Replay is rather low, unless you feel 
 determined to get 100% on every case (that should challenge the buffs) , though 90+% isn't tough.
 
  
  I highly recomend this game, especially if looking to get one's family into playing games.
  
 
  -TZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperNester
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2003 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The professional review sounds like it missed the point of the game. If you like the TV show and 
 are an average gamer, but not to interested in spending countless hours on the computer solving 
 puzzles and riddles, this may be your game. 
  
  The review makes it sound like the game is made to realistically put you into the role of being 
 an actual real world CSI. The game's real intent is to give you an interactive version of the TV 
 show and not take up too much of your time from actually watching the show.
  
  Basically you just click through the environments and collect evidence and give it to Greg for 
 analysis or use a computer or microscope in the Lab. Then you talk to Brass or go to a new location 
 and repeat. The voices from the show are great.
  
  My girlfriend really likes the show and playing with another person is fun, and helps if you get 
 stuck. I've played games like Zork Nemesis and the LucasArts classics like Sam & Max, Dig, Indiana 
 Jones Fate of Atlantis, Full Throttle, etc. and this game is very different. I'd call CSI "adventure 
 game LITE" because it really isn't difficult but it's worth playing if you enjoy the show.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocl
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 16, 2003 12:26 am PT
Review:  OK so this isn't very sophisticated, but then the show has mass-market appeal, and I think there 
 was an attempt here to create a game which not only has the same, but will run on as many PCs as 
 possible. I'd be happy giving this game to my mother to play, as the stories will intrigue her 
 and she can feel that she is progressing them without actually having to put too much effort it. 
 The game captures the feel of the show very well, and the style of the cases will be familiar to 
 fans. In terms of game design I'm not sure how they could have easily opened up the way it works 
 - surely it is better to be hunting for a clue in a choice of just 3 locations rather than 20 empty 
 artificially created ones, which are only there to string out the game. Think of playing a case 
 in this game as a similar experience to watching an episode and you'll be on the right track. As 
 to whether it is good value for money, well, there's the rub. Nice advert for Macromedia 'Director' 
 though. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
