-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: CSI: Miami
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/csimiami/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 David Caruso.
 Good music and ambient sound effects.
 David Caruso.
 Decent character models.
 David Caruso.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Mostly bland voice acting.
 Incredibly easy game, even with all the helpers turned off.
 Mysteries that simply don't engage you all that well.
 Game structure can sometimes get ahead of or behind itself.
 Roughly five hours long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.8, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 482 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: 369 Interactive
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 16, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
CSI: Miami is a copy of the previous CSI game, but with the less-engaging characters of the Miami 
 cast and a series of mysteries that also aren't as interesting. 

  As the  CSI: Crime Scene Investigation  brand of television continues to branch out, so does the 
 CSI brand of computer games. With two relatively new TV spin-offs -- located in Miami and New York, 
 respectively -- joining the already preestablished Las Vegas-based flagship series, it was probably 
 only a matter of time before those spin-off shows found their way into the crime-solving PC adventure 
 genre. That matter of time is now, thanks to CSI: Miami by Ubisoft and developer 369 Interactive. 
 Miami is, essentially, a direct clone of CSI: Dark Motives, which was released earlier this year. 
 Despite being a marginal improvement on the original CSI game, Dark Motives still didn't quite 
 come together as an entertaining adventure. As for CSI: Miami, it's a copy of a previously released 
 game that wasn't that great to begin with, but with the less-engaging characters of the Miami cast 
 and a series of mysteries that also aren't as interesting. So if that sounds like the opposite 
 of a recommendation, you're right on the money.  

          Welcome to Miami.     

  The setup for CSI: Miami is exactly like its predecessors: You are yet another green recruit in 
 the world of crime scene investigation, and your new squad just happens to be the CSI: Miami team. 
 You're initially greeted by David Caruso's character, Horatio Caine, who welcomes you to the team 
 and gives you your first assignment. There are five mysteries for you to solve in total, all involving 
 murder of varying degrees of foulness. In each mystery, you team up with one of the members of 
 the cast, each of whom helps you through the process of solving a crime. The members of the team 
 also act as the mouthpiece for the investigation. Your duties will include the manual process of 
 collecting evidence, processing said evidence, interviewing witnesses, and so on and so forth. 
 Occasionally you'll have to decrypt a message or put together a torn picture or something, but 
 generally, the gameplay consists of evidence collecting and processing. If you played either of 
 the previous CSI games, you'll know exactly what to expect from Miami, as no aspect of the gameplay 
 deviates even slightly from the original formula. There's not even a single new crime-solving tool 
 at your disposal within the interface -- it's just that much of a copy-paste job.  

  And with a direct copy of the same game engine comes all of the trappings that helped sink this 
 game's predecessor. For starters, the game is immensely easy across the board. The default difficulty 
 is so easy, in fact, that the term "game" seems quite generous in this case. There are so many 
 help indicators and available hints that there's practically no reason for you to ever get stuck 
 anywhere. On the plus side, you do have the option to turn off many of the game's methods of handholding, 
 but even so, the game still isn't very hard. Even if you don't have the evidence indicators, you'll 
 only need to look for the pieces of scenery that seem slightly brighter or are generally more focused 
 on, and you'll be good to go.  

  Another problem stems from the game's plot progressions, which can often become troublesome. CSI: 
 Miami is very picky about when it wants to let you progress and when it doesn't. Some pieces of 
 evidence can be ignored, but other, seemingly arbitrary processes must be adhered to. For example, 
 in one case, you find yourself collecting a couple of pieces of evidence from two different locations, 
 one of which has a fingerprint and the other that has a DNA sample. The point of the evidence is 
 to prove that someone in particular was in both of these places. You have two fingerprints already, 
 as well as two DNA samples from that same person with which to compare these other pieces of evidence. 
 However, you can't just compare one previous piece with the corresponding new piece of evidence. 
 You actually have to test both fingerprints and both DNA samples with each of the new pieces of 
 evidence before the game will let you progress. The game is also periodically bad about getting 
 ahead of itself, or lagging behind from where you've progressed to in the story, skipping ahead 
 to questions and details you're unaware of, or reiterating things you already know. Overall, it's 
 just kind of sloppy.  

  Then again, the adventure gaming mechanics of fan service games like CSI: Miami are rarely ever 
 much to write home about. Instead, it's the mysteries and characters of these games that are supposed 
 to draw you in. Unfortunately, CSI: Miami, while by no means a disaster in this category, simply 
 doesn't handle this aspect quite as well as its most recent predecessor. Part of the problem is 
 that the  CSI: Miami  cast members just aren't as compelling as the regular  CSI  roster. With 
 perhaps the exception of Caruso, you never get much of a feel for the personalities of any of the 
 other CSIs you're supposedly working with. In fact, their voice acting is downright bland and dull 
 throughout much of the game. Not even the supplemental suspect characters can save it either, as 
 most of them are too hammy and have deadpan tones when they read their lines. Caruso, again, is 
 the lone bright point, but even he tends to overdramatize some pretty simple lines. But, then again, 
 this  is  David Caruso we're talking about.  

  Similarly, the mysteries in CSI: Miami are rarely intriguing. There are some neat plot twists here 
 and there, but none of them have much substance or much excitement, and they never seem to have 
 a satisfactory conclusion. Perhaps even more annoying is the fact that the last mystery in the 
 game (without giving too much away) tries desperately to tie together all the other crimes into 
 one big, confused mess, which just doesn't work. In a crime-solving adventure game, you have to 
 be interested in the crimes you're solving, and though a couple of them start out hot, none of 
 them remain interesting from beginning to end.  

          How's that movie career going, Mr. Caruso?     

  CSI: Miami doesn't really present 
 itself any differently than Dark Motives, save for slightly brighter-looking menus. The characters 
 in the game are rendered just like in Dark Motives and they look fairly realistic, although they 
 don't really move around too much. The lip-synching is also bad. You'll occasionally run into some 
 nicely put-together cutscenes that show graphic depictions of the crimes being committed, and while 
 these do look decent, the video quality itself isn't especially high in resolution and a lot of 
 artifacting is noticeable. You also may find yourself running into some occasional choppiness too, 
 as we tested the game on a pair of different high-end ATI cards, and both times we encountered 
 some stuttering in the movement of the models and in the video. Apart from the spotty voice acting, 
 the remaining areas of CSI: Miami's sound design are pretty much the highlight of the game. The 
 music is nicely atmospheric, and the game features a solid array of sound effects.  

  Though it's hard to really be surprised by the fact that CSI: Miami doesn't stray too far from 
 where Dark Motives left off, it's still a pretty disappointing effort. What made Dark Motives appealing 
 to some fans of the show was its use of the popular characters and intriguing mysteries, neither 
 of which are qualities that CSI: Miami pulls off nearly as well. Like its most recent predecessor, 
 CSI: Miami is a game that traditional adventure fans will simply balk at due to its rudimentary 
 mechanics and marginal difficulty. However, unlike its most recent predecessor, fans of the TV 
 show probably won't get a whole lot out of it either.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DaSoul
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok im gonna do it categorised this time
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The game is your basic point and click-drag and drop adventure. I dont exactly know if its based 
 of the show but i think its not. The story is solid, has some fairly good plot twists, but otherwise 
 its a pretty usual CSI story
  7.9
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The Graphics are actually pretty good for a 2004 pointnclick. The Environments are detailed and 
 so are the characters. But you can see some blurry textures here and there.
  8.3
  
  DIFFICULTY:
  The Game challenges you to think a lot. Its kinda hard to figure out what to use 
 where and who to talk to wtihout asking you partner for a hint what lowers your score. Otherwise 
 the game is kinda easy.
  8.0
  
  OVERALL:
  CSI Miami is a solid game worth checking out if you like CSI Or CSI Miami or CSI New York or that 
 navy one. It has some intresting story twists and cases but otherwise its just an another brick 
 in the wall for the CSI series.
  
  Final Score:8.2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of puzzle games. The Myst series, Safecracker, and several other titles 
 are in my collection. I find them to be quite relaxing from the typical FPS and other fast paced 
 games on the market now days. So when I found out that they had a game for CSI MIami (being I am 
 a huge fan of the show) I had to see what it was all about. It turned out to be a great game with 
 an awesome storyline for a great price.
  
  First of all... the storyline. You are assigned to be a detective to help out each of the characters 
 of the CSI Miami Team. You work with one of the five original people ( Horatio Caine, Calleigh 
 Duquesne, Erik Delko, Tim Speedle or Yelina Salas) on each of the 5 cases in the game. You also 
 have Dr. Alexx Woods and Maxine Valera to assist you in your detective work. They help you to organize 
 and process the victims and the evidence to help you solve the cases you work on.
  
  Graphics and sound are pretty good in this game as at first blush I thought they migh be a little 
 lame. The creaters actually got the characters to look just like they do on the show. The voice 
 overs were very well done and that adds so much realism to you being in the game with the characters. 
 Not only do the characters bring the game to life... but the environment as well is alive with 
 activity all around. Most games I play that are like this (Myst for example) just had a picture 
 with things you could interact with in it. This is similar to that but they creators of the game 
 went a little further and added small but nice additions to bring the environment to life. Birds 
 flying around, plant blowing in the breeze, fish in a fish tank swimming and several other things 
 to enhance the gameplay and make you feel like you are actually in the room and not just looking 
 at a picture.
  
  The game play is pretty straight forward in that you have to collect clues by examining the crime 
 scene and collecting evidence. You have an arsinal of tools (from tweezers, luminol, flashlight, 
 finger print dusters) and many more. Each of your colleagues will help you in deciding what is 
 best to use to collect the data or evidence you are currently looking at. Along with evidence collection, 
 you will be working with Valera in the crime lab. Analizing bullet striations, dna, footprints 
 and many other things under a microscope/computer/assembly table. Alexx Woods will help you to 
 process the body for time of death/how they died and so on. As it is in the show... you must collect 
 enough evidence to be able to bring in suspects for questioning. Yelina Salas will help you with 
 the process of bringing in suspects... but you must have enough evidence in order for her to warrent 
 a location search or a warrent for questioning.
  
  You can also change how hard the game is by turning off hints. When you are processing a scene 
 and your mouse pointer goes over an object of interest... it will change to let you know there 
 is something there of interest for you. You can adjust the game to make it to where you are really 
 having to search for everything. That along with learning how each tool works to help you makes 
 this a great detective game to play.
  
  In conclusion, if you love puzzle type games you will probably love this game. If you are a fan 
 of the show... then you will probably enjoy this game. The storyline along with great graphics/sound... 
 interesting gameplay and an ending that is pretty cool... makes this a game for any detective in 
 your house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocho89
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  A perfect game for me i enjoy playing it. I will play it again and again. This game will not piss 
 me off because it is interesting and has a type of action in it thats why i will play it over and 
 over again. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for 
 me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect 
 game for me i enjoy playing it. I will play it again and again. This game will not piss me off 
 because it is interesting and has a type of action in it thats why i will play it over and over 
 again. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A 
 perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect 
 game for me i enjoy playing it. I will play it again and again. This game will not piss me off 
 because it is interesting and has a type of action in it thats why i will play it over and over 
 again. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A 
 perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. A perfect game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: messtimeteacher
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what the CSI: Miami game was meant to be. A game about solving crimes, that's for 
 sure, but what about being true to the TV series in speaking of danger, tension, fear, blood &amp; 
 gore, comparison. It is a mature rated game. In what ?
  
  I'm not a big fan of the series, but I thought it'd be a good puzzle adventure game. I ended up 
 solving puzzles that could not be done the other way round and as a reward I got ripped off with 
 way too short game movies that lasted less than 20 secs.
  
  However the game movies and the game in general are in graphic terms ok. So is sound and overall 
 idea. The mature part is one I don't get. Plus I missed out of some extra pulse from the game play 
 that's been annoying. And boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcadmin110
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  CSI: Miami is an adequate attempt to squeeze the popular TV series into a game format but ultimately 
 the game has little or no replay value once you run through it all. If you're a fan of the series 
 you might be happy to know all the actors lent their voices to the game and you'll probably enjoy 
 investigating the crime scene and using the investigative tools to uncover evidence.
  
  You'll get a lot of satisfaction from solving the case yet at times the game is incredibly fustrating 
 as you scour through each and every prerendered screen at the crime scene. Don't even attempt to 
 put it on a higher difficulty setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  This is another great game for CSI gamers. I have played the other two CSI games for the PC and 
 this one was every better then the first two. You play the game by looking for clues and questioning 
 people about the crimes. This one seemed a little harder then the first two and took a little longer 
 to get through which was good because that means more time for game play. When this game first 
 came out it was around $20.00 but can be found at the local wal-mart for $10.00. Good graphics 
 and sound. A must buy for a CSI fan or anyone who likes detective games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_weightman
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  CSI: Miami is a fun, not-too-challenging "murder-mystery" with all characters based off of the 
 CBS show. The game does not go into depth. Each case (level) is about 30 minutes. (Isn't the show 
 an hour?) There are only 5 cases: adding up to only 2 and a half hours of total game-play (plus 
 of minus) .
  
  I would recommend this game solely on the basis of the name and the characters. The graphics could 
 be better. The voice overs could be better. A lot of this game "could be better." I'm not a big 
 fan of criticizing games, as everyone is entitled to their own opinion; i did not find this game 
 to be what it was worth. The name, to me, has a big reputation. The game does not follow through. 
 I love Ubi -soft, just not this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 66550
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  I jumped on the CSI titles, being a huge fan of the TV show, and was let down immensely. While 
 the premise and stories are intriguing, it can't make up for the terrible overall feel.
  
  First of all, it feels as though you are extremely limited in the actions available, you are limited 
 to circling around a panorama and only moving in to examine specific evidence. If they had taken 
 the next step to allow you to walk around the areas and inspect things in 3d, it would be much 
 more fun. (Something you'd expect from the creator of Splinter Cell) . I've played other crime-drama 
 games and while all have the panorama viewer, the Law & Order games allow you to pick up everything, 
 whether it is relevant to the task at hand or not. While L&O and CSI are very different (L&O focus 
 on people and CSI focuses on forensics) , the principal is the same, make the environments more 
 involving.
  
  Second, the overall graphics are uninteresting and uninspired. The golf course looks as if it only 
 consisted of a building, a sand trap and a bridge. The nightclub consists of only 2 areas of interest, 
 each yielding 2 pieces of evidence. If you were to play it where it didn't give you any idea what 
 can be considered evidence and what can't, I don't think I'd be able to play it for 10 minutes, 
 luckily there is an option where your cursor goes green over evidence. 
  
  Finally, probably the biggest problem with the game is the frustration that goes with any CSI-type 
 game. If you miss just one piece of evidence, you can't continue. And with CSI-Miami and CSI-Dark 
 Motives, the idea of collecting evidence of other evidence it a neat idea, but in practice, it 
 can be frustrating. The "tips" that you partner can give you (which negatively affect your ratting) 
 are, at best, unuseful. If you need to check a bruise on a victim, instead of saying something 
 like, "I wonder what that mark around her neck is?", they say, "Maybe Alex (Morgue) can help you." 
 Like that gives you any clue to what your looking for. And the worst is if you need to collect 
 evidence off a item already in your inventory, or if you need to ask for a warrant or ask a question 
 to a suspect, your partner has "no more ideas".
  
  Overall, the game is terrible. If you're a die hard CSI fan I recommend you fined it used somewhere 
 for less than $10 and look up the "Hints & Cheats" section here at GS and look at one of the user 
 created FAQs if you get stuck with a missing piece of evidence (i did 3 times) . Otherwise, stay 
 away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmunda121
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game makes you feel as If you are in the actual crime scene the advanced options that you 
 can use adds to the depth of the game. I finished the game in about 3 weeks but I'm a slow gamer 
 so you might do it faster. THe only drawback is the boring tutorial otherwise this game is cool. 
 It also tests your observations skills because at the end of each case Horatio tests you on stuff 
 like: what colour was the carpet at the crime scene?" so you really have to take note when solving 
 crimes. This is a game especially for people that have good observational and logic skills 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottsSprgrl1
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I did not think that the graphics would be so life-like. The graphics 
 were awesome. The characters movements or the way the mouths actually looked like what the character 
 was saying. Not only was the graphics great but the plot of each new case. It always had me intrigued. 
 On every case, at some point you will get stuck. But that is wonderful because most mystery or 
 investigative games aren't so difficult. It really challenges you. The tools that you use to identify 
 and collective evidence are actually some of the tools a real crime scene investigator would use. 
 Not only can you enjoy playing this game but it is also good for learning. It helps you think. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unitedlife
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 1:05 am PT
Review:  This is another game in the CSI series, with the same basic click, click, click. Nothing really 
 new in this game from the original other than a little bit more thought-out stories. This game 
 has connecting stories within multiple levels but you are mostly only dealing with one CSI per 
 mission. Depending on the difficutly setting you can select for your self it makes the game more 
 challenging but nothing hard still. I would still but new CSI games because of the intresting stories 
 but for no more than $20.
  
  Gameplay - Intresting game play. Nothing really too new.
  Graphics - For the Graphics that were there they were all good but not many intreactive. Only movies.
 
  Sound - 2 miniutes at one location you start to think its time to mute music. Voices are from 
 the actors themselves ( something they may have spent more than 2 miniutes on) .
  Value- Again. Check your bargain bin, becuse its only worth $20 ( or less depends how much you like 
 the tv series.)
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
