-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cuban Missile Crisis: The Aftermath
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cubanmissilecrisis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cool, post-World War II setting and premise.
 The strategic map makes you feel like a real general.
 Logistics tie together the strategic map and battles.
 You really feel like it's the end of the world.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is a micromanagement mess.
 The battles start to blur together after awhile.
 Dense tutorial doesn't help overcoming the learning curve.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 5.8, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: G5 Software
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Dec 22, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Cuban Missile Crisis is a unique strategy game with a very cool premise and setting, though the 
 combat itself can be a difficult mess. 

  Alternative history has always been a popular genre of fiction, and for good reason. After all, 
 it's fun to speculate on what might have been. What if the South had won the Civil War? Or what 
 if the Allies had lost World War II? With Cuban Missile Crisis: The Aftermath, we have a strategy 
 game that asks what if the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis ended in nuclear war that wiped out civilization 
 as we know it? And what if the remnants of the surviving armies kept fighting for fuel and supplies 
 and to simply get home? It's a nifty premise, and one that's presented quite uniquely in Cuban 
 Missile Crisis. This is a game that could have been just another real-time strategy game, but it 
 turns out that it's stuffed with some really good ideas. And while the game itself suffers from 
 some notable flaws, it does manage to present a setting and a style of gameplay that we rarely 
 get to see.  

          Combat heavily favors tanks, and executing combined arms tactics is a handful, but at least 
 you can blow up pretty much everything onscreen.     

  In many ways, the plot of Cuban Missile Crisis reminds us quite a bit of the old, popular role-playing 
 game Twilight 2000, because both games share a desperate and bleak postapocalyptic tone. In Cuban 
 Missile Crisis, you choose to take command of any of the four major factions that are left in a 
 post-World War III world, including the Anglo-American Alliance, the Soviet Union, the Franco-German 
 Alliance, and China. However, instead of controlling nations and large armies, you'll command units 
 cobbled together with survivors and stragglers. Instead of huge divisions, you command companies 
 or smaller units, with a few tanks and other vehicles that are strung together with whatever spare 
 parts are available.  

  Cuban Missile Crisis plays out on two maps, a turn-based strategic map and a real-time-strategy 
 map where battles are resolved. While this makes it sound like other RTS games that feature overarching 
 campaigns, Cuban Missile Crisis differs in a few notable ways. The strategic map displays the territory 
 that's under your control, and, more importantly, the location of various supply depots that become 
 strategically critical to your campaign, including fuel depots, which help keep your vehicles going; 
 spare parts depots, so that you can repair your units; and ammunition depots for bullets and shells. 
 It makes sense that these become the entire focal point of your war effort, as you simply need 
 to secure more supplies to keep going. Still, you can't help but feel like a general when you come 
 up with a strategy and issue orders to your units. For instance, you may have multiple thrusts 
 into enemy territory to seize different objectives, or you may try to concentrate your units so 
 that you can force the enemies into decisive battle. It's so engaging that you'll often be tempted 
 to use the autobattle function to instantly compute the results of battles so you can stay in this 
 mode, rather than having to battle it out yourself.  

  The real-time battles, on the other hand, are a mix of both good and bad. The good news is that 
 there's very much a sense of logistics on this battlefield. Move your tanks around too much, and 
 they burn up their fuel, or if they shoot their cannons at everything they see, they'll run out 
 of ammo. The solution is to bring up your very vulnerable supply vehicles, so there's a real-world 
 logistical tempo that you rarely feel in RTS games. And the good news is that you don't "build" 
 units on the battlefield; what you start with is pretty much what you get. Couple that with the 
 fact that reinforcements in general are scarce between battles, and you'll suddenly find yourself 
 husbanding your resources, as each tank is worth more than its weight in gold over time. It's a 
 good thing that unit experience is also modeled, so you really become attached to the veteran units 
 over the course of a campaign. Thankfully, there's quicksave and quickload, which both let you 
 experiment with tactics, so if an attack fails disastrously (which will happen often) , you aren't 
 completely hosed -- just simply reload and start again.  

          The strategic map is one of the best features in the game, and the way it's executed is 
 unique to the genre.     

  Then there's the not-so-good stuff. Combat can be a micromanagement mess, and while we like the 
 idea that infantry can have different stances or that you can load different types of ammo into 
 your tank cannons, managing all of this can be a chore. Yes, you can pause the game in battle, 
 but you're still going to be doing a lot of clicking on the interface to give orders. And, like 
 with Blitzkrieg 2 (a game with which Cuban Missile Crisis shares a graphics engine) , armor is overpowering 
 in the game. However, if you don't have tanks, you're in for a harder time, because then you have 
 to rely on more combined arms tactics, which is harder to pull off, since pretty much everything 
 that's not a tank can blow up with a single hit. Meanwhile, the pathfinding has issues, as units 
 will get stuck in crowds, or go the long way around an obstacle, and so forth. What's important 
 here is that you can play through a lot of battles in the campaign. But if you complete every one 
 of these battles, then it won't be too long before you get a feeling of dj vu sinking in. Then 
 there's the tutorial, which is tough to get through, as it's stuffed with lots of text displayed 
 in tiny fonts, which is hardly a fun way to pass the time or to ease newcomers into the game. The 
 production values also vary. The graphics are on par with last year's Blitzkrieg 2 (indeed, both 
 games share the same engine) , and while the graphics engine wont' turn heads, it gets the job done. 
 The sound, on the other hand, features more of the generic military real-time strategy audio that 
 we've heard many a time before.  

  Despite these flaws, you can't help but admire some of the new ideas that Cuban Missile Crisis 
 brings to the strategy genre. The strategic map is well done, so it feels much more like a cool 
 wargame than it does a real-time-strategy game. The way that success on the battlefield affects 
 your strategic standing, and vice versa, is also an interesting aspect. Still, Cuban Missile Crisis 
 is very much geared toward serious strategy fans that have the patience for long, drawn-out games, 
 or for anyone who's a fan of bleak, postapocalyptic futures.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Don't you just LOVE alternate history settings? I mean, think about it... scenarios such as "what 
 if Hitler won the WW2" or "what if USSR invaded western Europe" have always been cool in their 
 own unique way. If you are a person with a vivid imagination, you can easily lose yourself in those 
 supernatural, fantastic nightmarish worlds that often send chills down everyone's spine. Just think... 
 Stalin invading Western Germany, or Hitler defeating the Allies in Normandy. World going to hell 
 in a wheelchair. Armageddon. Endgame. Nuclear winter. Scaaaaaary!
  
  And we like games with a truly scary setting, story and atmosphere. I mean, that's why we all played 
 Resident Evil games. But this game, this "what if" electronic wonder reminds me more of "The Day 
 After", considered by many to be one of the scariest movies ever. Well, it can't beat "Nightmare 
 on Elm Street", but hey... it was scary enough. In any case, it depicts our world after an all-out 
 nuclear holocaust breaks out. The Earth is destroyed, nuclear winter rages, radiation soaks the 
 fields and lakes, and few remaining survivors are trying desperately to survive. Pretty much like 
 Cuban Missile Crisis: The Aftermath.
  
  So, what do we have here... well, a game created using Blitzkrieg's engine. That's right, just 
 like Stalingrad, this game uses the same engine as one of the most fun strategy games ever made. 
 It has the same graphics, same cool-looking explosions, same nearly-useless infantry, same overpowered 
 tanks, same crappy AI, same pathfinding problems. Well, to be honest, the game looks a teeny-tiny 
 bit better than Blitzkrieg in some ways. Wiping out a squad of infantrymen with a 50. caliber machinegun 
 looks extremely gruesome and bloody, just like in the real world. Another reminder that war is 
 not a very nice thing. Also, their corpses stay on the map during the entire mission, a swell as 
 craters from shells and bombs. Which looks really good, providing you with a view of a devastated, 
 burned-out surroundings littered with dozens of corpses decomposing in the pools of their own radioactive 
 blood. Instant classic. 
  
  But let's not forget about the story, which makes this game oh-so-scary and appealing. It's the 
 groovy '60s, and Cuban missile crisis have resulted in a full-scale nuclear war. The war ended 
 in few short hours, leaving remnants of the world's most powerful nations to claw each other's 
 eyes out over a few scarce resources and non-radioactive soil left after all-out nuclear danse 
 macabre. So, you take the lead of either Russians, Chinese, Americans or German-French alliance 
 and try to conquer what's left of the world. Boys will always be boys, I guess...
  
  Aaaanyway, the actual game takes place in two different stages. Stage one is no more than a turn-based 
 strategic deployment of your forces. Stage two is the actual combat. You can purchase new units 
 as you progress throughout campaign and gather more resources. You have a nice little encyclopedia 
 with detailed descriptions of each and every unit you have at your disposal. And you can kick some 
 serious butt with your firepower. Cool. Kind of. 
  Well, the strategic part of the game is what makes all the difference on the battlefield. You can 
 kick your enemies' be-hinds in one decisive battle, or wear them down bit by bit with small skirmishes. 
 It's entirely up to you and your abilities. The game is not easy, but hey, you can always choose 
 the easy difficulty setting. You also need to take care of your resources even during combat. Drive 
 your tanks around too much and they will run out of fuel. Have them take too much damage, and you 
 won't be able to repair them until after the battle. Fail to get some medical assistance to a wounded 
 soldier and he will bleed to death. Be smart, take your time, plan carefully, make sure you scout 
 ahead and get a good intel on the enemy, and you will be successful. Kind of like the real battle. 
 Sounds promising, eh? But wait till you hear the bad news.
  
  Since this is esentially a Blitzkrieg-style game, it features many cool stuff that Blitzkrieg had. 
 Great-looking explosions. Powerful kickass air strikes that you just HAVE to love. Huge amount 
 of weapons and vehicles. It even looks better in a lot of ways - infantry looks a lot more detailed, 
 almost to a point where you can actually see what kind of weapon each individual soldier is carrying. 
 And lots and lots of sheer carnage. But, like I said, it also has terrible AI. Your units will 
 often choose a different target from the one you specifically ordered them to destroy. They will 
 take longer and more hazardous routes, which often means instant death. Sure, you can pause the 
 game and grab them by the hand in order to lead them like retarded children, but that's a bit frustrating, 
 believe me. I'm not gonna even mention the horrible pathfinding and the way cars and trucks turn 
 180 degrees while still in one place. All in all, a lot of unnecesarry frustration. Very often 
 your units will get bogged down for no particular reason. You will be forced to move them one by 
 one, like picking up toy cars, simply because some jerk didn't want to bother with correcting the 
 pathfinding issues in this game. Grrrrr...
  
  But there are good things as well. Finally, armored cars and APCs are actually useful in combat, 
 entrenched infantry is not nearly-invincible, such as in Blitzkrieg games, and you can actually 
 use snipers and infantry squads for scouting ahead of your main force. Terrain also plays a significant 
 role. High ground is as important as never before, for scouting ahead and defending a certain part 
 of the map. Fog of war is not so frustrating to deal with, and enemy anti-tank guns won't hit you 
 from a mile away with a pinpoint accuracy like before. Thank heavens for that!
  
  Well, all in all this isn't a bad game. Nor is it terribly good. It could've been great, especially 
 with it's alternate history setting and good combination of turn-based strategy and real-time combat. 
 But unfortunately, it has a few major issues that will frustrate you more than enough. Shame, really. 
 This game really has that... thing. Thing that makes it appealing, even unique. I'm quite sure 
 it has it's fan base. But it's just so darn average, so full of issues it's hard to recommend to 
 anyone. Love it or hate it, but don't buy it. Borrow it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damzor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  This game was one i found in EB quite by accident, and it had an interesting theme to it, so i 
 took it home. I assumed that it was very much like Blitzkrieg, and i wasn't wrong (not a bad thing) . 
 Sure, the game doesn't look flash, but the graphics get the job done. The audio is appropriate 
 to the theme of the game, and isn't so bad that you'd rather be content listening to a politician 
 waffling on about nothing. The almost complete destructibility of the environment and buildings 
 adds a degree of realism, as does the fact that if your tanks are heavily damaged by other tanks 
 or AT infantry, you can't just bring a repair truck into it and completely repair it (unless you 
 are really lucky) . Usually, any residual heavy damage has to be repaired on the tactical map, resulting 
 in the units being unusable until repairs are complete, or until you cancel repairs. Another things 
 is the constant need to keep your supplies of ammo, fuel, and spare parts handy but safe. There's 
 nothing worse than being in the thick of things and suddenly that absolutely-critical fuel truck 
 gets blown up before it gets to your tanks, or you run out of ammo. There is high degree of multitasking 
 necessary to manage the game successfully, and many people will find this difficult. However, once 
 you get used to it, the game becomes a lot more pleasurable to play. Another aspect of the game 
 i enjoy is the tactical map, where battle plans and resources are managed, and where new armies 
 are built and old ones repaired/upgraded. It gives the user a feeling of actually being a military 
 tactician, and gives the game more of a real feeling. Another interesting feature is the use of 
 Contaminated Zones, where nuclear, chemical and biological fallout are deposited. Generally it's 
 not a good idea to march your units into them (even your tanks) , as they tend to die very quickly, 
 unless you decontaminate them with special decontamination units beforehand. All in all, the game 
 is a very good one, and has good replayability. The high learning curve may deter some people away, 
 but it is ideal for those with much patience or have a big interest in What-If games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_G7676
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Cuban Missile Crisis: The Aftermath - Better than a Cuban cigar!
  
  You know what most RTS have in common is that they give you a set scenario and then give you a 
 base and resources to build units and everything in the field. I dont know about you, but when 
 the US forces invaded Iraq I dont think they had a mobile construction yard or an ore collector. 
 If you really want to try a RTS that not only gives you realistic resources but also makes it so 
 that the game itself is different every time you play, then Cuban Missile Crisis is for you!
  
  Cuban Missile Crisis places you in an alternate point in history where the US actually fires 
 a nuke on Cuba during the cold war, thus causing another world war and destruction worldwide. You 
 pick between the USSR, China, and The USA -Great Brittan alliance and the France - Germany Alliance. 
 The goal, like most other RTS; is to take over the world. Each team has their own strengths and 
 weaknesses, so make sure to take advantage of these things. The game is a cross between a RTS and 
 a turn base strategy game. During the first part of your turn you move your troops around and place 
 orders for re-enforcements. Once you have engaged into battle you then switch to RTS mode. This 
 game really hits the best of both worlds.
  
  The game play is rather simple. Your standard point and click troop movement and top view perspective. 
 A great feature, not found in many other RTS, is that Cuban Missile Crisis allows the player to 
 build trenches, bridges and other defensive things that you could not do in previous RTSs. One 
 other thing I really like about this game is that you can choose the type of munitions you use. 
 EX: If you are using a long-range canon you can fire standard changes, troop mines, tank mines 
 or smoking shells. Cuban Missile Crisis is much more realistic than the rest.
  
  On the tech side of things this game is nothing to be buying a new video card over. Minimum specs 
 are: a 1 GHz CPU, 256 MB ram, 64 MB video card and the only big thing about this game 2 GB of hard 
 drive Space.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the fact that its a RTS. The game gives you a feeling of realism 
 that cannot be found in other RTS like C&C and Warcraft III. The sound track for the game is your 
 standard RTS stuff, nothing special here. The real enjoyable thing about this game is that it handles 
 very well. Controls are simple and the tutorial makes things real easy to use. 
  
  The overall greatness of this RTS is that even if you start the same campaign, depending on how 
 you move your troops and how you do in combat you will have a different game play every time. The 
 other great thing is at $29.99 you definitely get your moneys worth. So go on out and give this 
 game a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ase290406
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  First of all if you like to just go in guns blazing and crush the enemy in a firestorm of destruction... 
 sorry this game is not for you. However if you want to know how real war plays out, in the real 
 world, you'll find it all here. 
  When you start a game you have a stategic map in which you play in turns.
  When you encounter 
 an Enemy a real-time battle kicks in. But first things first. In the game's story the Cuban missile 
 crisis (a real event in history) of 1962 in which Soviet nukes were positioned on Cuba didn't end 
 as peacefully as it did in the real world. Following a nuclear war you can choose to play 4 factions 
 which fight for the remaining clean land and water:
  Soviets, USA-UK alianse, China and the Franko-German alianse. With the start of the campgain you 
 get a strategic map in which you have: Your own units which you can manage and buy new equipment 
 for them. Enemy units. Your objectives which are bassicly major battle locations that you will 
 have to fight and finally the industrial installations. Those are important as each captured installation 
 (be it an airfield without which you won't have air support, or an oil reifinery) give you the 
 resources you need to keep fighting.
  So you point and click and move your units trough those installations and skirmishes with the enemy 
 to your final objective on the strategic map. There are about 5-6 strategic maps for each side, 
 but sometimes they are pretty similar so you can fight for different sides on the same battle in 
 some cases. And now to the battles themselfs. There are about 200 auntchentic units representing 
 each side in the war. What's remarkable about them is their realism. Artillery really do have a 
 long distance, Infantry is crushed by tanks unlsess they are dug in with AT weapons and then the 
 tanks are the ones left burning. Suplly units and trucks help you to keep your vechicles fueled 
 and ammo loaded and your troops can heal with the medical trucks. Air units ranging from bombers 
 to transport helicopters and gunships can be called in if you bought them on the strategic map 
 and are controllable while in flight. Tanks battles are great with turrets flying off the tanks 
 and burning vechicles left afterwards. You also have infantry scout units which do their role well 
 unless an enemy scout unit detects them and then it's pretty ugly. When it comse to tactics, that's 
 when you'll realise why war is considered a bad thing. It's very easy to be ambushed by superior 
 enemy but the trick is to see them before they see you and hit them hard from a safe distance. 
 Only when their guns and artillery are gone do you have a chance of attaking in the "classic" way 
 successfully but watch for enemy armour flanking you. If you can clear out the AA units, you'll 
 learn that your air support can do magic on the field. Especially attack planes who eat tanks and 
 everything else for breakfeast. 
  
  To summ it up that's how a real war is fought . No exagarated explosions and graphics, some nice 
 music in the background and the harsh reality of a superior enemy around every corner, and the 
 AI is superior here. As I wrote in the beginning this product is about realism not hollywood. So 
 good luck general.. just make it out alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markez83
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 14, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Be era ora che qualcuno facesse un bel gioco su un periodo storico un po' trascurato dai videogames 
 !!!... questo quello che ho pensato leggendo l'anteprima su una rivista.... e poi su gamespot.
  Il titolo promette bene "Cuban Missile Crisis" ... bene... bene per davvero, visto che i cubani in 
 questo gioco neanche si vedono! Questo gioco ha un po' deluso le mie aspettative: dagli screenshot 
 avevo capito subito che non era altro che Sudden Strike, rivisitato, rinominato, e riadattato in 
 un altro periodo storico... poco male a dire la verit, poich il gioco Sudden Strike a me non dispiace. 
 CMC  un gioco strategico che ti permette di schierarti con 4 possibili eserciti: Russia, Cina, 
 USA + Gran Bretagna e Francia + Germania. Le unit, uscite fresche dalle fabbriche, a turni si 
 muoveranno nella direzione indicata. La mappa full-scale ti da una buona idea della logistica e 
 delle unit sul campo, rappresentate solamente da un carroarmatino rosso.... una volta che si entra 
 in combattimento con il nemico, il gioco carica la schermata di grafica di Sudden, e ti da la possibilit 
 di giocarti la battaglia sul campo. Non ho ben capito, in base a cosa il gioco decida di darti 
 fanteria o artiglieria a suo piacimento... mentre i mezzi corazzati sono effettivamente quelli con 
 cui ti crei la tua bella divisione... il gioco non  cos intuitivo da giocare per chi non ha provato 
 Sudden Strike (oppure Blitzkrieg) e purtroppo la missione di training non aiuta un granch (oltre 
 a essere inutilmente lunga!)
  
  Riassunto:
  1. Buona trama e spunto iniziale
  2. Vedendolo come la versione migliorata di Blitzkrieg o Sudden Strike, effettivamente ci sono 
 nuove e utili opzioni.
  3. La mappa da una bella idea di come possa sentirsi un generale (anche se graficamente non  proprio 
 il massimo)
  4. La grafica e il sonoro nelle battaglie sono abbastanza buoni
  
  Difetti:
  1. Potevano trovare un altro titolo.
  2. Ci sono nuove opzioni ma altre cose sono 
 inutilissime... come avere 3 unit diverse una per la benzina, una per le munizioni, e una per le 
 riparazioni quando prima ce n'era una ed era comodissima
  3. Non si s perch ma all'inizio di qualsiasi campagna il nemico ha un esercito pari al triplo 
 del tuo.
  4. Non puoi creare fanteria o artiglieria a piacere
  5. Il tuo esercito  limitato, e non puoi ingrandirlo + di tanto (mentre il nemico si)
  6. Chi 
 si aspetta bombe nucleari e missili.... pu continuare ad aspettare.
  5. Manca un editor di mappe, che negli altri giochi c'era, ed era anche fatto bene 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
