-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Culpa Innata
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/culpainnata/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Ambitious story and believable characters.
 Fairly open gameworld.
 Great selection of logic puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too talky in spots.
 Ugly graphics and questionable visual design ideas.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 232 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Momentum DMT
Genre: Sci-Fi Adventure
Date:     Nov 2, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A memorable setting and engaging characters make Culpa Innata a strikingly unusual adventure game. 
 

  If only all adventure games began life as projects "to leverage core technologies in 3-D face animation." 
 According to freshman Turkish developer Momentum's Web site, the company originally set out to 
 create a prop to sell facial modeling to TV animation, but it wound up with a really solid point-and-click 
 adventure in Culpa Innata. Open-ended dialogue, an ambitious storyline, lots of intelligent puzzles, 
 and characters boasting lifelike personality and motivation make this an adventure to remember. 
 Only some fit and finish issues and some odd design decisions prevent you from getting totally 
 wrapped up in this unusual tale.  

           Honestly, does anyone really think that offices are going to look like this in 2047?  
     

  It all begins with a story inspired by Turkish sci-fi author Alev Alati's  Schrodinger's Cat  novels. 
 Much of the plot centers on the World Union, a federation that has absorbed much of the West by 
 the time that the game opens in 2047. This is the sort of government that keeps members of militia 
 groups in the Midwest up all night stockpiling ammunition, a United Nations on steroids that protects 
 society by turning people into automatons. Drone life isn't all bad, though. Instead of a typical 
 dystopian video game clich, the World Union is a blend between  Brave New World  and  Logan's 
 Run . Life is technologically sterile, but everybody has been so hammered into insensibility by 
 casual sex and instant gratification that they don't care. Of course, promiscuous totalitarianism 
 doesn't sit right with the protagonist, a female peace officer saddled with the unfortunate name 
 of Phoenix Wallis. An apparent murder of a Russian immigrant in her home city of Adrianopolis kicks 
 off both a whodunit and a philosophical investigation into this slickly sinister future world. 

  Given that previous description, it probably won't come as a surprise that the game does come off 
 a little on the pretentious side. You're beaten over the head too often with capital-B big ideas 
 and blunt symbolism (Phoenix's government office is in a converted church -- gee, how subtle!) . Social 
 commentary on what people are willing to sacrifice for security is fine and dandy, but too often 
 the developer hammers home its ideals without any regard for human nature. It's pretty tough to 
 buy that the entire Western world will be populated by techno-fascist drones preaching the virtues 
 of selfishness, genetics, and random sex in just 40 years.  

  Background accoutrements of this society are even more incredible. Every citizen wears a personal-assistant 
 earpiece that projects a holographic screen in midair. Residences and offices are protected by 
 holographic heads. Most living spaces are decked out with couches, chairs, and knickknacks that 
 look like they were dreamed up by sci-fi filmmakers in the '70s. The predominance of paisley-style 
 color splashes sure seem to indicate that the design team studied the interior decoration in  Logan's 
 Run  and  Rollerball . Poor visual quality makes it harder to accept all this outlandish paraphernalia. 
 With the exception of remarkably expressive and warm faces, the game is a mash of jagged lines 
 and blurry scenery.  

  So ignoring the background to concentrate on Culpa Innata's characterization and gameplay is a 
 more rewarding idea. Phoenix is one of the more believable protagonists to hit an adventure game 
 in some time. Her growing suspicion about the true nature of the society that she's been indoctrinated 
 to love is entirely credible, due to a top script and a voice actor who does a great job of capturing 
 the peace officer's blend of navet and pragmatism. Most of the other characters in the game are 
 equally convincing, thanks to personalities that are restrained enough to keep them from turning 
 into typical game caricatures (well, aside from everybody's creepy obsession with sex) . Varying 
 quality of the voice acting is the only negative. Many people speak in monotones, and some of the 
 ethnic accents come off cartoonish, particularly the Indian immigrant early in the game who sounds 
 like the murderous twin brother of Apu from  The Simpsons .  

  Basic game design also adds to the sense that you're controlling a real person, since you're free 
 to choose whichever tasks you want Phoenix to handle each working day. Some days you can get a 
 lot accomplished, other days not so much. Getting tired and being forced to go home instead of 
 burning the midnight oil means that the game isn't entirely nonlinear, although it's still more 
 open than the usual adventure that proceeds through chapters by lockstep.  

  What you're doing during these days is also somewhat original, at least in comparison to the tired 
 old "pick up everything you see" adventure formula. Momentum has modeled the game after police 
 investigations, so Phoenix spends her time following leads and interrogating persons of interest 
 instead of pocketing everything in sight. This can cause the game to drag in spots, as conversations 
 are drawn out and lines can't readily be skipped without immediately jumping to the end of the 
 conversation. Still, most of the script is entertaining, so you don't mind having to sit through 
 so much exposition. You're also provided with lots to choose from in dialogue trees, giving you 
 the ability to make small talk, press a suspect, play nice, or some mixture of all three. This 
 variety also boosts replay value, as when you pick a conversational tactic, you're stuck with it 
 and can't simply go back and choose all the options that you skipped the first time.  

           Aside from the somewhat peculiar focus on sex, most of the dialogue in the game draws 
 you into Culpa Innata's original world.      

  But it's not like you're eternally quizzing slack-jawed yokels. When you're not playing Columbo, 
 you collect the odd bit of junk that will come in handy down the road and also solve an incredible 
 number of logic puzzles. There seem to be dozens in the game. Most are reasonably quick and entertaining 
 variations on adventure-game standards like futzing around with fuse boxes, reconstructing pictures, 
 hacking circuit boards, and the like. Nothing here is wildly original, but at least this means 
 that you should be familiar enough with most challenges to have a shot at solving them without 
 recourse to a walk-through. Only a scant few come out of left field, a pretty good ratio for an 
 adventure game these days. Unfortunately, one of the most ridiculous is stuck right at the beginning 
 of the game, where you're expected to somehow figure out that you need to use cold cream and cotton 
 balls to expose a butterfly hidden in an engraved sign.  

  Considering that this is a developer's first time out of the gate, Momentum has done a fine job 
 with Culpa Innata. It could have used some visual refinements and a few tweaks to the back-to-the-future 
 backdrops, although it's hard to chide this game too harshly when it gets so much right.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: --Steve-o--
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  well the fact that I actually completed the game says something for it I suppose, but it wasn't 
 the most pleasant experience either. The entire 20+ hours that were spent on it was about 92% traveling 
 about to engage in monotonous dialogue with characters, and the other 8 percent was spent on puzzles, 
 which were fairly simple, with the exception of a couple, and fun. 
  The storyline appeared to be getting interesting around the middle of the game but ended up being 
 a tad too complex at the end, with many loose ends. It was enough to keep interest up throughout, 
 though. 
  A strange fixation and nonchalantness when dealing with sexual matters in the game (50% of conversations 
 were directed toward sex) made it weird and uncomfortable, and even embarrassing as the story progressed.
 
  Finally, blatant punches at religion and race make the game feel like a director's opinions are 
 being forced into your experience, which is not pleasant.
  The game's saving points are decent graphics and animation, a somewhat intriguing plot, and above 
 all the simplicity and small learning curve make it desirable to at least complete, but it stops 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ladyperfectmind
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 28, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  First of all, the most striking (in your face!) feature are the really outdated graphics. It looks 
 like this game was created in the 90's. But this would not be the biggest problem. 
  The world is fantastic, it is very credible and creates a quite realistic atmosphere.
  Now the 
 characters... OH MY GOD... the characters... are horrible.
  Phoenix Wallace is such a stuck up little pompous goody-two-shoes it makes me sick! She is a peace 
 officer that meets her girlfriend to talk about classified information about an on-going murder 
 case? WOOT?! I am very sorry but I cannot identify with this Britney Spears of peace officers. 
 If I cannot relate to the character... I cannot play the game. Well at least not in an enjoyable 
 fashion. Oh and speaking of fashion. 
  *SPOILER ALERT!*
  There is a quest that will have you buy the perfect dress and shoes to go clubbing! WOW this is 
 indeed an important twist to our murder mystery. I could have never solved it in the old boots!
 
  All in all this game has some features of a classic adventure game, but the dialogs and some of 
 the quests really bring it down to a, dare I say it, chick-flick kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowschaser
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  This is a very convoluted game with a story that makes little sense. I would recommend if you do 
 play to do tons of saves because if you do not chose the right dialog, the characters cannot advance 
 and you have to start over and if you do not ask the right questions, whole sections of play are 
 not possible. This was very evident in the Stardust nightclub where if you do not ask the bartender 
 about dancing girls, the stage curtain will never open and you cannot advance. This is the only 
 game I have ever played that leads the player to a room for no reason other than to pick up a circuit 
 board or something but not to advance them on a journey. It is full of irrelevant information that 
 leads nowhere- such as Phoenix keeps thinking that someone is watching her and you never find out 
 who. She wants to talk to her best friend which is a total waste of time. They lead you into plots 
 that go nowhere- such as characters you have seen that you see later but you don't know who they 
 are or what they are doing. They introduce a character Mata Hari and you never know who she is 
 and why have her in the story. The puzzles at times are very hard and then at times very easy. 
 You will need to look at a walkthrough and if this is your first point and click, you will have 
 a hard time because I really had to struggle to get her around. The music is excellent but the 
 game is very poor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ender61082
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  I was unsure about the game but it being so cheap on STEAM i had to try it. This game was great 
 period. It had a great pace i loved how everyday there was always something new to do. I never 
 was stuck completely. Not a whole lot of puzzles. the story was EXCELLENT, best story i've played 
 since The Longest Journey, possibly since Gabriel knight The Beat Within. I loved it. Some of the 
 Voice acting was horrendous, The first cut scene left me thinking "WHAT WERE THEY THINKING!" The 
 graphics are aged, It reminds me of max paynewhich was made in 2001 i believe. But all in all, 
 if you like adventure game, then you MUST own this game. 
  
  Adventure games are not about graphics its about the story. This story has plenty of depth too 
 it. With all the philosophical themes in the game it kept me thinking. It really makes one think 
 about the future. Very thought provoking game. Looking forward to a possible sequel. I hear theres 
 word of a special edition of Culpa Innata adding extra content and additional tweaks!
  
  Support this new company so it can make more of these great games please! I love you Momentum! 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 8
Date: May 16, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game mad me wana puke lots of times, not cause its a bad game but indeed cause its a great 
 futuristic game. This game really deals with what human kind, capitalism and imperialism are headed 
 for. Ac omplete selfish and materialistic sociaty, but with a "politically correct law" or in other 
 word, a fully hipocrit society, with no bownd to culture, to past, to family, no notthingness, 
 a nihilistic paradise.
  
  Somhow it holds a big misunderstanding about the "selfish gene" of richard dawkins, that I found 
 before also in MGS2, some people just take things lightly but sitll a great game.
  
  Hope no one spects this to be the society of the future, or maybe some psycho reading this? I hope 
 not.
  
  Soo if you are into some deep thinking, like adventure and puzzle games, and a good plot that lets 
 you wandering to the end, check this game out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 16, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  If you want to play an exciting, immersive adventure game then skip this one. It was hour after 
 hour of shallow dialog (mostly sexual) and boring locations. Ok I do give credit to them for creating 
 characters with facial expressions but it seems as though they got caught up in character design 
 and let the story fall to the wayside. 
  This game had the potential of being a great game if only they didn't let it fail at the end. After 
 so many bland conversations I thought I'd be rewarded with an intriguing ending at least but alas 
 no such luck. If you must play this game I suggest you borrow it from a friend or purchase it off 
 of ebay.
  It amazes me that people give this game a good rating and yet give Still Life a mediocre rating. 
 I would definitely recommend you play Still Life over this game any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spider_minion
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  CULPA INNATA is a point-and-click adventure game from first-time game studio Momentum. The game 
 is set forty years in the future in the eastern European city of Adrianopolis. This city, along 
 with much of the developed world, is a member of the powerful and expansive World Union. Life under 
 the obtrusive World Union government is founded upon technological worship, sexual promiscuity, 
 and extreme consumerism. The people, of course, couldn't be any happier with this lifestyle, especially 
 given that violent crime has been virtually eliminated. But the shocking murder of Russian immigrant 
 starts the game's heroine, the peace officer Pheonix Wallis, on a mission to discover who is responsible.
 
  
  The gameplay of CULPA INNATA revolves around Pheonix's labyrinthine investigation of this multifaceted 
 case. Controlling her, you interview Adrianopolis's varied residents, search for clues, and solve 
 a few dozen puzzles. Each clue tells you a little more about the crime's context and provides for 
 new leads-and even more questions. But this mission isn't only about a crime; it's also about exploring 
 the World Union's warped philosophies and Pheonix's conflicting feelings about the system she has 
 sworn to protect.
  
  What CULPA INNATA Does Well . . .
  
  Brilliant Setting: CULPA INNATA's setting, thick with political and philosophical overtones, is 
 the real highlight of the game. There's no evil dictator at the head of the World Union government; 
 instead, its a system that is propagated by teaching people to revel in their shallow, superficial 
 lives. Each citizen you interview and every new billboard you examine reveal more about the Union's 
 values. But its all the game world's finer detail that really sold me on the setting's verisimilitude.
 
  
  Solid Adventure Gameplay: CULPA INNATA thankfully avoids many of the pitfalls of the adventure 
 game genre. There's no way to get permanently stuck, your journal remembers all the important plot 
 points, and the game does a good job pointing you where to go next. Additionally, the ability to 
 pursue the leads in whatever order you want lets you put troublesome puzzles on the back burner -- at 
 least temporarily. Having played extremely few adventure games before, I appreciated CULPA INNATA's 
 attempts to make the experience largely free of frustrations.
  
  Awesome Soundtrack: CULPA INNATA's exceedingly cool music makes even the most trivial activities 
 feel profound. Being an indie game doesn't stop CULPA INNATA's soundtrack from being among the 
 best I've ever had the pleasure to listen to. And the voice acting is pretty good, too.
  
  A-Ha Moments: Discovering that important clue or finally solving a tough puzzle really makes a 
 player feel smart. These moments of discovery-like tracking down that last butterfly image or figuring 
 our how to open the door in the sewers-are very satisfying and worth playing for.
  
  What Happens Next?: From the opening demo, I become instantly hooked on the game's inventive story. 
 I eagerly awaited every juicy new plot point or learning more about the World Union society. There 
 are layers upon layers of mystery, and wanting to discover them provide strong motivation to continue 
 playing -- especially during the last few hours.
  
  What CULPA INNATA Doesn't Do So Well . . .
  
  Weak Payoff At The End: Though I was hooked for 
 most of the story, I felt cheated with the story's ending. While the main murder is wrapped up 
 nicely, so many more interesting plot points-like Pheonix's disillusionment with the World Union, 
 or the mysterious things you find underground-go unresolved. These latter questions are the ones 
 that really kept me playing, too. And it doesn't help that a character introduced late in the game 
 holds all the answers, rather than you having to piece the solution together with your keen deductive 
 skills. While it looks like the developers are working on a sequel, the lack of closure nevertheless 
 feels frustrating.
  
  Awkward Pacing: CULPA INNATA also suffers from some very slow moments. The sheer amount of dialog 
 in the game can be overwhelming, especially when its been a while since you secretly rummaged through 
 someone's apartment. There are some lengthy dry spells of new clues, too, and sometimes it feels 
 like your investigation is leading you in circles.
  
  Outdated Visuals: Additionally, CULPA INNATA is hampered by some very sub-par visuals. There are 
 extremely few graphics settings, some unnatural animations, and clunky 3d models. Interestingly 
 enough, character facial models and lip-syncing are top notch.
  
  And What's Just Strange . . .
  
  Dysfunctional Machinery: The World Union is evidentially caught 
 in some sort of technological malaise, given all the computers and machinery you must repair during 
 the course of the investigation. One wonders if Pheonix would be better off managing a RadioShack.
 
  
  Female Protagonist: While its progressive of CULPA INNATA to feature a complicated female main 
 character, at the same time Pheonix's outfits make her look like a psychedelic hooker. Of course, 
 she does fit in well with the rest of Adrianopolis.
  
  The Bottom Line
  
  CUPLA INNATA is a smart, creative, and thought-provoking adventure that falls just short of greatness. 
 While the game isn't for all tastes and has some significant flaws, they aren't generally enough 
 to undermine its amazing setting and intriguing story. With most games settling for pedestrian 
 stories and stereotypical characters, its refreshing to see a game try something so relevant and 
 ambitious.
  
  8/10
  
  [Originally posted on http://kcsgamedomain. blogspot. com/] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revenger681
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I've played dozens and dozens of adventure games. From animated games on the sega cd, to dreamcast, 
 pc and all over. I must say this game is GREAT. For the price it is not bad at all. I think the 
 reviewers here are WAAAAAAAAAAAAAy too harsh on the voice-acting. Their attitude and manners fit 
 how a character should be acting in a future that is the one they live in. One where strict education 
 is enforced, and society is sophisticated. Ofcourse the majority of slang would be eliminated. 
 It reminds me of the futuristic people you see in movies such as Demolition Man. This game lives 
 up to the adventure type of game, and there are not too many newer third-person games out there 
 now. If you're looking for a fun, refreshing, and adult themed adventure game: Look no further. 
 You will at the least get a kick out of playing through this game. Puzzles are tough enough, but 
 not impossible as with some of the myst games, The Crystal Key, and etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furryfuzzybunny
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, I must say that given the unanimous agreement amongst the credible gaming sites that this 
 is a winner, I could hardly allow myself to take another breath before peering in the window to 
 see what we have here.
  
  I can't say that I was either pleasantly surprised, nor predictably disappointed, given that I 
 really had no advanced expectations of Culpa Innata. However, I did have some vague hint of a game 
 resembling an updated Longest Journey (which I particularily enjoyed) . It bore closest semblance 
 to Dreamfall (the sequel) , plus a point and click interface and minus any action sequences.
  
  The story revolves around a 27 yr old female law enforcement officer working for the "World 
 Union", a group of nation states that have entered a pact toward a common purpose. That purpose 
 appears to be to create a kind of perfect utopia based on greed, selfishness, moral neutrality, 
 the pursuit of sensual gratification, and economic maximization. She bears the name Phoenix, and 
 there is a relevance to her name, revealed toward the end. She is tasked in the beginning with 
 solving a murder of one of their citizens (presumably unheard of in the World Union) . Seemingly 
 a simple challenge, but involving unsavory elements from what is termed the Rogue Nations, in other 
 words, the unwashed multitudes existing outside the favored World Union. She quickly sets to work, 
 which naturally takes her nosing around in search of clues. Like a loose dog from fire hydrant 
 to fire hydrant, she picks up a lead and sniffs her way (metaphorically) from suspect to suspect 
 tracing the invisible thread of intrigue. She engages in innumerous conversations for the mixed 
 purposes of gleaning pertinent info, making aimless gossip, teasing, tormenting, and provoking 
 those she encounters. Of course everything said is ultimately in the name of solving the case, 
 though there appear to be a few blind alleys that lead to temporary dead ends. No worry though, 
 just get a good night's rest and try again the next day.
  
  Phoenix is the kind of protaganist that we have seen an increase in of late.... the strong willed, 
 confident, undaunted, determined female who possesses a resourcefulness and level head to rely 
 on to achieve her aims. And if all else fails, she can always fall back on her feminine wiles to 
 see her through tricky situations.
  
  I must say that this game gave me just what I want in an adventure, a chance to live vicariously 
 through an expansive investigation, in the person of the hero. Being male, I might have, but didn't 
 feel alienated by the twist of gender. Actually, it's kind of a kick on occasion to see how the 
 other half lives, so to speak.
  
  I can't say how deliberate this was on the part of the developers, but I detected some pretty controversial 
 social insinuations in this game. Granted, the setting is a 2047 calendar date, but clearly they 
 are suggesting this as an impending future if our western societal norms continue to evolve at 
 the current rate. The idea that status (in the form of a numerical value) will be all in determining 
 an individual's place, potential and worth is a nightmare of reductionism, but appears viable in 
 the not so distance. The idea that we will be using each other for sexual pleasure without regard 
 to feelings, respect, or relationship sounds glorious but would probably redifine the word grim. 
 The idea that a child's natural development will not be allowed to happen organically, but be entirely 
 governed and controlled by cold, otherwise indifferent, state appointed experts makes one shudder. 
 Finally, the idea of a real life political correctness police patrol on the lookout for anyone 
 not displaying the required adherence to p. c. protocol....... we seem to be well on the way.
  
  The execution of the game was fairly unassailable, save for a handful of glitchy mentionables. 
 I found my character variously stuck in place, running backwards, freezing in mid sentence, and 
 sharing the screen with objects that should not have been there. I assume the patches addressed 
 these issues, though I declined to reach for any.
  
  The game was quite immersive, with the soundtrack (synthesized) , voices (regional accents abounded) , 
 colors (a bit too monochromatic) , enviroments (spacey, but not defined with sufficient textures) , 
 and lighting (Phoenix could have used a shadow) all doing there part to contribute to the whole 
 experience.
  
  The facial animations were very realistic, if a tad too cut and pasted for my taste. The auto panning/circling 
 of the camera perspective in a given room added a welcome dynamism.
  
  Any adventurer worth their salt ought to find many redeemable virtues in this virtual puzzler. 
 If you don't mind ducking and dodging the many flying cliches......"Law & Order" style arrest warrant 
 requests complete with hard boiled chief's approval a la Judy Dench, "Csi" style under the microscope 
 type busywork, Gambino family??, Al Bundy a la "Married with Children"???, Monica Lewinski reference, 
 "War Games" rip off, etc.
  
  This is a decidedly comprehensive game aimed primarily at those amongst us of the more "sugar and 
 spice and everything nice" rather than the"snips and snails and puppy dog tails" variety. 
  
  I had about 20 hours or so of near nirvana and just a shade short of utopia, in playing. Culpa 
 Innata is story driven, complete and satisfying in intent and near so in execution. You will conclude 
 this game with much to ponder of the world we are all a part of, in reality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakdek
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  Good adventure games are becoming rare. Great ones are near extinct. Cupla Innata happens to fit 
 in the latter category. 
  
  First of all, the story is original. It is set in the near future, in a pseudo-utopia like world. 
 You play the role of Phoenix, a high level security officer for basically what equates to a world 
 government. To me my role somewhat felt like a "Star Trek cop, but not on a ship", if that makes 
 any sense at all. A murder takes place, which is non-existant in this paradise, where genetic diseases 
 are identified and removed before birth (Gattaca anyone?) . It's your job to figure it out. 
  
  That's definitely one of the best parts of this game, the story. The cast of characters is 
 memorable, and range from terrorists to annoying salesclerks. The story also has deep, dark undertones 
 surrounding the scientific "chaos theory" (the butterfly effect) , non-linear mathematics, the Lorenz 
 attractor, etc Don't worry, it's not as confusing as it sounds, and the game on a whole doesn't 
 make you do much with them, you're not going to be doing equations (if you can add 1 +1 you should 
 be fine) but it will intrigue you as boring as it sounds.
  
  You will be solving many "logic type" puzzles in the game, some of which are excellent, some a 
 chore. None are designed as wonderful as The 7th guest, but they are definitely better than 90% 
 of modern adventure games out there and are actually "fun". 
  
  Graphically, the game is a mixed bag. The drawing and art in the game is fantastic, and really 
 adds to the overall atmosphere of the game. Unfortunately, the game suffers from poor resolutions 
 and just some random "ugliness". Overall though, unlike some other editors, I found the artistic 
 style of this near-perfect world amazing.
  
  Likewise for the sound. Tons of spoken dialogue for this game, unfortunately some of the speech 
 is just terrible, but fortunately some of it, including the main character, it is terrific. 
  
  Control is yet again, a mixed bag. The game loads quickly and responsively, even on older PC's, 
 but it does have a few quirks. For instance, in one of the areas, my character just doesn't seem 
 to want to run forward. She runs backwards, every time. Perhaps this is my punishment for the lack 
 of doing the daily exercises you are supposed to do in this world (oh yes, in this world, exercising 
 is the law) . It's not too bad though. 
  
  If you like adventures or merely a great story, get it for sure, if not, don't!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Here's a down to business list:
  
  Pro:
  
  * Deep and epic story, probably the most epic since The Longest Journey
  * Lots of content, you 
 won't finish this one in a single night
  * Open ended, your decisions influence outcome (not radically but enough to make you care)
  * 
 Excellent voice acting
  * Mostly good music
  
  Con:
  
  * Graphics could have been better for 2007, looks more like 2002-2005
  * Navigation is somewhat 
 cumbersome, it's hard to get to grips with the surroundings
  * The interface is good looking but not very user friendly, trial and error takes ages
  * Ending 
 not as epic as you might think, there will be a sequal
  * Lots or dialogue... I like lots of dialogue but this may be too much even for me, should have 
 been balanced with more exploration
  
  Sum:
  
  Somewhat rough around the edges but still the best adventure game of the year, if you like the 
 genre you should definitely play it. I would give it maybe 8.8 but I don't think it's really deserving 
 of the full 9.0. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
