-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cultures 2: The Gates of Asgard
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cultures2thegatesofasgard/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  4, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 109 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: JoWood Productions
Developer: Funatics Dev.
Genre: Historic City-Building
Date:     Aug 26, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Cultures 2's graphics are cartoonlike and the micromanagement it requires can be a handful, but 
 it's still one of the better city-building games out there. 

 In many ways, Cultures 2 plays like a typical city-building game. You drop buildings on the map, 
 the raw materials roll in, and the finished products roll out. Grow more people, gather more resources, 
 and then do it all again. Prosperity ensues. But what's unique about Cultures 2 is that it focuses 
 on something far more interesting than buildings: people. This makes for an enthralling combination 
 of city building and role-playing, with enough personality, activity, and variety to do justice 
 to both genres.           A little Viking village by the sea.    

 Much like in other city-building games, in Cultures 2, you preside over a teeming community of little 
 computer people. As the game progresses, your people learn. Each person is a unique character who 
 can be assigned a career. As they go about their careers, their skills improve. As their skills 
 improve, new careers are opened to them. This is important because the structures you can build 
 are determined by the skills your people have learned. For instance, at the beginning of the game, 
 you can't build a bakery, because it requires a milling skill of 10. But to build a mill at which 
 a particular character can increase his milling skill, you need an agriculture skill of 10. So 
 you have to start out with a farmer, promote him to a miller, and then promote him to a baker. 
 As he learns these skills, the game opens up and allows more possibilities, such as carpentry, 
 stonework, pottery, smithies, herbs, livestock, and more.   

  There's a lively ant farm of a game here, brimming over with detail and personality. Characters 
 walk, eat, sleep, and talk to each other for entertainment. Couples marry. Babies are born, grow 
 up, and are assigned careers of their own. You can give your little people shoes, tools, homes, 
 and spouses. You can stock their houses with furniture and crockery for cooking. Since you can 
 take direct control of your people, Cultures 2 plays a little like PopTop Studios' 2001 strategy 
 game Tropico, but without any of that pesky autonomy.   

  The game's framework of resources, prerequisites, and interdependencies can be confusing at first, 
 but the interface does an admirable job of smoothing out the complexity. Whenever something needs 
 your attention, a little banner appears at the top of the screen and sticks around until the problem 
 has been resolved. From the easy-to-read tech tree, to the figures on each building's supplies 
 and demands, to the sortable lists -- if you need to know it, Cultures 2 makes it easy for you to 
 find.   

  There are some elements of the game (such as trading and "asking" women to have children, which 
 you'll need to do regularly if you want your population to grow) that require a bit too much micromanagement. 
 But in a way, games like this are all about micromanagement. If you don't like juggling construction, 
 harvesting, production, and careers, you're probably playing the wrong game. Another problem with 
 city-building games like this is that the amount of information you have to follow eventually reaches 
 critical mass and will implode with the slightest misstep. However, Cultures 2 has a very forgiving 
 difficulty level and pace. With the exception of getting a hero character killed, there are very 
 few ways to fail a scenario outright.   

  In many city-building games, including the first Cultures, combat is usually problematic. But Cultures 
 2 has a much-improved combat system. You train generic soldiers, but you can differentiate your 
 troops by the giving them different weapons and teaching them different skills. You can even give 
 soldiers magic items and have them man catapults to attack cities. You can give units attack settings, 
 group them, and command them to eat and sleep as a team. It's not quite full-fledged real-time 
 strategy combat, but it's far better than the combat in most city-building games.   

  The game's 2D graphics are bright, colorful, cartoon-like, and occasionally too busy. It's possible 
 to lose characters in the foliage, and it can be hard to pick out a particular person from a group. 
 But on the whole, Cultures 2 is an attractive game with charming artwork. The sound consists of 
 a pastoral collection of twittering birds, clucking chickens, and hammering hammers. Characters 
 talk in vaguely Nordic muttering, and you'll hear the occasional belch or fart, which is probably 
 supposed to pass for humor.           Vikings doing what Vikings do best.    

 The campaign follows your group of Vikings as they do what Vikings do best: Leave Greenland and 
 sail around, visiting a bunch of different places. The campaign offers just enough of a narrative 
 to move the game forward without simply throwing arbitrary objectives at you. The locations, which 
 range from Normandy to Baghdad, are each represented by a sprawling map. As you explore each map, 
 you'll uncover quests, treasure chests, resources, wild animals, and other settlements you can 
 trade with or fight. The graphics for the settlements and their citizens give the locations some 
 nice flavor, and you'll even encounter quasi-historical personalities like Sinbad and Robin Hood. 
   

  Unfortunately, the only characters who carry over between scenarios are the heroes -- hard-coded 
 characters scripted to appear at certain times. Ironically, these are the least interesting characters 
 in the game. They don't have skills, they can't be trained, they can't be equipped with inventory 
 items, and they'll spend most of a scenario waiting around for a fight while everyone else is pitching 
 in to build the settlement. Apparently that's the advantage of being a hero: not having to work 
 anymore.   

  In addition to the campaign, you can play individual missions separately. Cultures 2 also has some 
 interesting scenarios specifically designed for multiplayer games, with emphasis on military or 
 economic goals. But good luck finding opponents -- the game's servers seem to have absolutely no 
 activity. Fortunately, you can play multiplayer scenarios as skirmish games against the computer. 
   

  Cultures 2 is a clever variation on the city-building theme. By placing more importance on the 
 people than the buildings, it gives a little bit of The Sims' dollhouse quality to the more epic 
 genre of city building. Cultures 2's graphics are cartoonlike and the micromanagement it requires 
 can be a handful, but it's still one of the better city-building games out there.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: phenom_piano88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  Cultures 2 might not appeal to many gamers, because its very cartoony and the graphics don't look 
 as good as other games. But it's content is really fun.
  
  If you like the sims, you'll probably like this game, it requires alot of management, like resource 
 gathering and such, and there are many kinds of resources to gather. There's also quite alot of 
 buildings to build and upgrade.
  
  the only complaint i have with the game is the military portion of the game. there isn't really 
 much of a variety of military units, and it could have been improved. managing your military units 
 is really a pain, i wish it could have been like starcraft's which is much more user friendly.
 
  
  but if you're not into war games, and you prefer the more peaceful resource gathering and building 
 games, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanjeev3
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The first time I saw this game I was stunned by the graphics. The gameplay is great, the only hard 
 thing about this game is to get food, but when you capture cows and sheep along with fishermen, 
 hunters and bakers you shouldn't have much of a problem getting it. A game I would highly recommend. 
 Another thing about this game is that it is known by few. The colourful and cartoony graphics of 
 trees waving in the wind, animals walking in the woods, mushrooms growing everywhere, it is like 
 a scene from the comic Asterix without the romans. The amount of professions avaliable to you and 
 the flexibility for one of your people to learn a profession is awesome. If you do not want your 
 person be a quarryworker for a while to gain enough skill to be a stonemason, learn the stonemasonry 
 at the school as long as one of your people are capable of being one. An all round awesome game. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
