-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Curious George
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/curiousgeorge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nicely cel-shaded character graphics.
 Solid voice acting.
 Some animated sequences from the film.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is mechanically sound but terribly oversimplified.
 Only three hours long.
 Minigames are insipidly repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.8, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 60 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco
Developer: Monkey Bar Games
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 1, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Curious George may be squarely aimed at a younger audience, but even they will likely tire of its 
 overly repetitive minigames and extremely simplistic platforming. 

  Few children's-story characters have sustained as well and as long as Curious George. The perpetually 
 inquisitive monkey has captured children's hearts with his good-natured antics since the early 
 1940s. Odd as it may sound, it has taken until 2006 for a full-length animated film based on Curious 
 George to find its way to theaters. With the film opening this week, Namco has released a new game 
 based on the film for every current-generation console and the PC. This game mixes in some of the 
 animated scenes from the film with a healthy dose of platforming action and some goofy, rhythmic 
 minigames. Unfortunately, as history has so often shown, platformers based on children's films 
 tend to be overly simplistic, overly repetitive, and overly brief. Curious George is all of these 
 things and fails to pull off anything beyond a middling platforming experience.  

          Curiosity may have killed the cat, but it somehow has kept this monkey alive for nearly 
 70 years.     

  The plot of the film and the game seem to be woven closely together. The Man in the Yellow Hat 
 (or Ted, as he's referred to here) is on a trip to Africa looking for a mythical idol. He thinks 
 he's found it, but he accidentally stumbles upon a rather teensy replica of the supposed idol. 
 Broken and dejected, Ted heads back to his ship to sail back to America in shame -- but not without 
 meeting a new friend first. A curious little monkey wanders up and beguiles the oddly dressed American. 
 Ted tries to leave the monkey, but he follows Ted back to his boat and inadvertently finds himself 
 on a journey to America. From there, as you might expect, wacky hijinks ensue, with Ted trying 
 to keep George's arrival a secret, and George getting into all manner of trouble. The good news 
 is that if you haven't seen the movie, the game won't spoil too much of it (although it does spoil 
 the ending) , as it only uses some disjointed sections of the film without much context. Unfortunately, 
 this also makes for a fairly brief game, because the whole thing can be beaten in about three hours, 
 and that's if you watch all the cutscenes without skipping around.  

  It's not that there's a dearth of content here -- the game does feature about a dozen levels, each 
 of which has a couple of different areas and challenges. The main problem is that every core component 
 of the game's action is dumbed down to the point of oversimplicity. All the level designs are extremely 
 linear, so there's really no measure of exploration, beyond a couple of nooks and crannies where 
 there might be some additional collectible bananas. And there's not much challenge to the platforming 
 itself, either. George can jump, double jump, swing, and slide around the different environments, 
 but all the various jump puzzles are laid out in such a painstakingly easy way, that you can practically 
 find your way to the end of a level without even thinking. In fact, some of the more challenging 
 jump puzzles can be completely circumvented due to some broken physics issues where you can jump 
 on and balance on seemingly invisible ledges that ought not to be there.  

  When you're not jumping around mindlessly, you're engaging in one of the game's minigames. There 
 are a few different types, but they all pretty much revolve around hitting controller or keyboard 
 buttons in time with some kind of rhythm. Button icons usually scroll one way or another across 
 the screen, and you simply need to press the buttons at the right time. The problem with these 
 games is that they, like the platforming, are idiot simple. Even at the fastest pacing, the buttons 
 move at such a slow clip that it would be near impossible for anyone to mess them up beyond repair, 
 and there's not much rhythm to the hits. They sort of fall on specific beats in the music, but 
 it's loose, at best. Worse still, the game insists on pelting you with these games in long stretches, 
 forcing you in some cases to go through up to nine rounds of the same game in a single level to 
 advance. It's already a short game, but being inundated with overly repetitive minigames makes 
 that already short length seem artificial.  

  The one thing Curious George does have going for it is graphics. The game uses a method of cel-shading 
 that gives it an appropriately cartoony look, without going overboard on the outlining. George 
 himself is quite adorable, and he and the other characters look pretty much like they do in the 
 film. The environmental designs are a little blander than the characters. Textures are flat, and 
 there's not much detail to be found in the game's worlds. But if nothing else, they're colorful, 
 and they fit the themes of the game. Technically, the game is mostly sound. The frame rate holds 
 up, and camera control isn't a huge issue, although it does have its annoying spots. Graphically 
 there aren't any significant differences between all three console versions and the PC version 
 of the game. In fact, the only real difference is the controls on the PC. You need a good dual-analog 
 controller to play this game on the PC. If you have one, you're set, but if you try to play with 
 just a keyboard and mouse setup, the camera movement becomes too annoying to deal with.  

          The game has a nice look to it, but it becomes deeply tiresome to play after a short time. 
     

  The game's audio is similarly decent. For the most part, you won't hear the real actors from the 
 movie (including stars Will Ferrell and Eugene Levy) . However, veteran voice actor Frank Welker 
 lends his efforts to George's voice in the game as well as the movie, and  Mr. Show  cocreator 
 David Cross is on hand as well. Welker's voice work is a treat (although the game overdoes it with 
 some of the monkey-screeching sound effects) , but Cross sounds kind of bored and disinterested 
 with the whole process. Fortunately, he only shows up in one level. The rest of the voice cast 
 is engaging enough to keep the story moving, and they sound enough like their film counterparts 
 that it doesn't make the transitions between cutscene and gameplay dialogue too jarring. The game's 
 music is appropriately cheery and inoffensive, though not exactly memorable.  

  Last year, a similar kind of platformer was released alongside the animated film  Madagascar . 
 That game was similarly simplified for the sake of appealing to a younger audience, but it managed 
 to simplify things without dumbing them down to utter banality. Curious George seems to have no 
 other goal than to be a game that has a cute, marketable monkey in it. It's not much fun, regardless 
 of what age group you belong to, and there's just not enough of the actual story to make it legit. 
 If your kids just can't get enough of that delightful monkey after seeing the movie, buy them a 
 stuffed animal, a lunchbox, or anything else featuring that smiling monkey face. Just don't drop 
 $40 on this dull, three-hour game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: yab_007
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  well this game has a good graphic for its comic style and the sound is not bad... The game is a 
 sequel of the movie storyline and everything goes almost according to the movie... good... To be 
 frank this game is meant for kids only but it is sometimes entertaining when you are stuck in F. E. A. R 
 and don't really know what to do... just plain fun and has a lot of tricky path... The game is 
 somewhat similar to Asterix and Obelisk XXL2...
  
  If you want to relax then curious is good for you... the gameplay is fair and the controls are 
 ok...
  
  but don't expect much on that game... have fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulcher
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  The Gamespot review reminds me of reading a Road & Track review on a family car...
  
  i. e. The Camry has annoying stability control systems that prevent you from doing a 90degree powerslide 
 at 120mph on the Autobahn... Road and Track forgets the Camry is designed for people to safely 
 transport an American family to Soccer practice, on US roads with 55 to 65mph speed limits.
  
  This reviewer has issues if he went to see Curious George the movie or play Curious George 
 the game if he thinks the target audience is over 8 or 9 years old.
  
  When I took my 6 and 3 year old to see the movie, they were on the older end of the spectrum of 
 the theatre packed full of kids...
  
  This game is designed to be one of the first games a toddler, small child get's his hands on. The 
 person assigned to this review should have had small children and should have observed them playing 
 it, then weight that into the review. 
  
  Reviewing it from the perspective of Battlefield 2 or something is way out of kilter..
  
  I'll 
 admit, I have not yet played the game but will be buying it for my small children. However, a review 
 from a small child's perspective and not a mature Gamer would be more useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRUNK_CANADIAN
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  This game is targeted to younger audiences, such as the under 8 range however the game rating is 
 E and therefore it is for everyone
  
  The questions that now plague your mind are "Is the reviewer insane?, What did he see that could 
 possibly make this game worth playing?" The answer to the first, yes i am in deed insane and am 
 planning to leave the clinic on tuesday. 
  
  Leaving only one question to remain, why purchase this game. FOr female gamers the appeal is the 
 cute little monkey and rather pathetic gameplay, however it is a good game for all female gamers. 
 In addition the game can be enjoyed by the mature fraction of gamers with the assistance of a 24 
 pack of beer. Preferably Molson, or Coors, on another note your intoxicated state will allow you 
 to see the game's humorious aspects and will keep the gamer playing for days upon end. 
  
  In regards to my scoring hte game possesses good sound and graphics in addition to the great value 
 to the drunk gamer. The difficulty is relatively hard for even the most expienced alcohalic gamers 
 but it is not this that will keep you playing for hours with your little monkey. Its all in the 
 humor and the booze, if people can look past the poor storyline, the lack of replay value, and 
 mistargeted creation of this game, the gaming community will discover a new revolutionary game 
 in the age of drunk gaming. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
