-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Curse: The Eye of Isis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/cursetheeyeofisis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 6.0, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 79 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Asylum Ent.
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 21, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Curse is without even the tiniest smidgen of originality, though it is an acceptable memorial to 
 a classic genre. 

  Remember Resident Evil? Although the Capcom series achieved legendary status in the mid-1990s, 
 both it and the survival horror boom which it spawned have decidedly quieted down in the past couple 
 of years. However, Asylum Entertainment is not following the prevailing trends. The small British 
 developer, best known for a handful of kid-friendly PlayStation games, like Powerpuff Girls: Chemical 
 Xtraction and Teletubbies: Play With the Teletubbies, has just released a very mature-themed survival 
 horror game called Curse: The Eye of Isis. Despite the company's lack of experience with this sort 
 of game-making and a few noteworthy miscues, the designers have traced the footsteps of Resident 
 Evil as carefully as a chiropodist. This leaves the end result without even the tiniest smidgen 
 of originality, though it is an acceptable memorial to a classic genre.  

          What would an Egyptian-themed horror game be without mummies and old-fashioned flamethrowers? 
     

  Curse veers outside the lines just enough to stave off Raccoon City dj vu. Stereotypes, 
 like  have been exchanged for an Egyptian theme that combines 
 a Victorian penny dreadful with  The Mummy  series of movies (the ones starring Brendan Fraser) . 
 The year is 1890, the place is the Museum of Great Britain, and the mystery involves a gang of 
 thugs who are out to steal a statue called the Eye of Isis. You play as Darien Dane and Victoria 
 Sutton, childhood friends who met in the land of the pharaohs while their parents were supervising 
 archaeological digs. Just before a reunion, and during a private showing of the Eye, something 
 strange happens involving the relic  and  a custodian is killed. Darien then sneaks into the locked 
 museum and begins to investigate.  

  Unfortunately, what initially seems like a fresh take on an old standard goes nowhere new. This 
 may be the first use of Egypt as a survival horror plot device, as it seems the Eye of Isis is 
 best at -- wait for it -- animating zombies! And animating mummies that act like zombies in rags! In 
 addition to looking for keys to locked doors, you seem to spend the entire adventure shooting, 
 beating, and flamethrowing the undead back to the grave. What few puzzles have to be solved are 
 made simple by the inclusion of a gleam of light that spotlights important objects. If you've got 
 the gray matter needed to install this game, you can effortlessly solve the puzzles!  

  The only significant change to the Resident Evil formula is an Indiana Jones-style chase that leads 
 from the museum to the London sewers to a train station to a cargo ship headed to Egypt. Fittingly, 
 the finale takes you to a pyramid. Since all the locales you visit later are explored in the same 
 fashion as the initial museum, there isn't anything that really stands out, aside from some slightly 
 different enemies and some slightly different gloomy backdrops.  

  There are also a few issues with mechanics, as Asylum has mirrored the clunky Resident Evil control 
 system for the PC. Camera angles are more about being cinematic and are not about ease of use. 
 You typically face the camera, with no idea what's in front of you, and often run into unseen objects 
 and battle offscreen enemies. Even worse, you can't reassign the movement keys. Although the action 
 and inventory key settings can be changed, movement is locked on the directional arrows. As a result, 
 you feel like you're playing a game designed for southpaws. Thankfully, you can ditch the mouse 
 and keyboard if you have a gamepad.  

  Adding to the awkwardness is the inability to save on demand. This isn't a serious problem, as 
 you can save frequently, but it remains irritating because there is no reason (other than the pending 
 Xbox port) you shouldn't be able to save anywhere. Also, the save point is provided by your friend 
 Abdul Wahid. Though it's nice that he follows you around, providing both this service and an extra 
 inventory, it's jarring to fight your way to a new location only to discover that Abdul is already 
 waiting for you. Finally, the map makes it hard to find your way around, as rooms aren't labeled. 
 It's best to ignore the map altogether and trust your instincts regarding the fact that rooms are 
 going to be in logical locations -- since they usually are.  

  Fit and finish problems cause more aggravation. Enemies frequently get caught on corners and walls. 
 This quirk really messes up the grizzly bear boss battle, as touching the trapped animal can cause 
 instant death. Foes also tend to forget they're in the middle of a scrap. Move into an adjacent 
 hallway, and they often just walk away until you fire a couple of rounds into their backs.  

  At least two quests are buggy. If Darien takes the water bucket outside the medical exhibit before 
 Victoria's rescue attempt, she can't apply the medicine needed to continue the game. Additionally, 
 if you leave the museum office without the Osiris room key and save your progress, the key vanishes. 
 The former bug caused us a few moments of panic, as it also crashed the game and seemed to wipe 
 out the entire save directory. Thankfully, a restart brought back all of our saves, safe and sound. 

          Curse turns into a chase that leads from the Museum of British History to a dank sewer 
 to, finally, a pyramid in Egypt.     

  Curse is really a better story than it is a game. Despite the hackneyed design elements and flaws, 
 the plot unfolds like classic pulp fiction. You've got a hero with a mysterious past, a gutsy heroine, 
 and a collection of enigmatic bad guys and creepy monsters. Atmosphere is tremendous. Every location 
 is shadowy and eerie, thanks to hardware transformation, lighting support, and a handheld lantern 
 that illuminates everything from below -- like a flashlight held under a person's chin. Echoing footsteps 
 and melodramatic voice acting contribute more chills to the haunted corridors. Well-drawn backdrops 
 set an attractive stage, even though there are too many doors to open and there's a tendency to 
 pad out playing time by reusing hallways. Character and monsters also look great and boast lifelike 
 animations.  

  So, you can best consider Curse: The Eye of Isis as something of a trip down memory lane. If you 
 didn't get enough of the survival horror phenomenon back when it was the biggest thing in gaming, 
 this is a worthwhile play -- even with the design miscues. If you  did  get your fill of zombie-smashing, 
 this is a tedious walk over familiar ground. For better or worse, Asylum hasn't made a fresh new 
 game so much as it has fashioned a tribute to Resident Evil with hieroglyphics.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 7
  Sounds: 6
  Value: 5
  Tilt: 7
  
  The Good
  * Cinematic approach
  * The Ram
  
  The Bad
  * Shallow gaming depth
  * Clumsy controls 
 (ported console)
  * Too short and very little replay value
  
  The reality of computer adventure games is that its not going to appeal to the larger audience. 
 Lots of chin wagging and less action is most likely a turn-off for most players hence the success 
 of FPS (and its many clones) . Maybe also it's because that we (as in humans) would like to see 
 the 'fruits of our labour' now instead of working hard for them. Dreamcatch Games' concept is to 
 mold both genres together in one sweet package. Curse: Eye of Isis has the game play of an adventure 
 game (that is searching for clues) yet have the necessary action of a third person game to keep 
 players on his/her toes. However, in saying that, it just missed the mark in both spectrums as 
 it feels like a watered-down version of an action/adventure game.
  
  The game begins as the player controlling Darien Dane, the son of the late Dr. Stanley Dane, as 
 he enters the British museum where The Eye is about to go on display in 1890. Of course there are 
 other parties who would like to get their mitts on this priceless statue as well; thieves, mobsters 
 and Dariens childhood friend Victoria. On top of that, the statue is known to be cursed 
 and behold already started to unleash its terror throughout the museum and beyond.
  
  The game play cleverly makes the player control two different characters, Darien and Victoria at 
 different times throughout the game. I thought this was a great appeal for both sexes to enjoy 
 this game as there are no real 'grungy' male testosterone yet no real 'wishy washy' feminine ideals 
 as both sexes plays a 'neutral' field. However, 'looking at the other side' this is also a downfall 
 as there are no real differences (other than the obvious) between these two characters.
  
  You also have limited control of a 'third party' Abdul Waheed (loyal friend of Darien's father 
 and the Egyptian government's representative for the museum) . Abdul acts as a guidance, 'inventory 
 carrier' and the big one, the check point saver of the game. Yes, the ported console thing has 
 reared its ugly head yet again. Thankfully he makes an appearance quite often. However his 'guidance' 
 is lack thereof as he constantly reminds you of the 'curse' and the urgency to stop it. Many-a-times 
 I feel like saying 'If you cannot gives me any useful hints then be quiet and make like a mule'.
 
  
  Being a ported console game there is a concern among 'keyboard/mouse' fanatics (like me) . The gaming 
 concept of a 'cinematic' approach is quite appealing as it really feels like 'playing' a movie. 
 To those who read my previous reviews (especially 'Land of the Dead: Road to Fiddler's Green') , 
 gaming to me is like watching a movie (as I rarely watch movies) . If I look at the cover 'Curse: 
 Eye of Isis', it's like looking at a movie cover of the same name. Another words, would I view 
 this 'movie' and enjoy it? In saying that, pleasant camera angles makes it refreshing to see however 
 the problem with this is when combat starts, it's really hard to judge distances. Granted there 
 is a 'targeted cursor' yet tactics plays very little as every monster slowly moans towards you 
 and it's just a matter of firing away and the occasional (and quite painfully) side-stepping/running 
 maneuver. A bigger problem is that considering this 'cinematic' approach, take note the direction 
 of the character is facing. That is, front on view is the reverse of behind view as its 
 based on the perspective of the character and not the player. For me however, I got used to this 
 idea quite fast as my 'extensive' training needs to be credited to the 2005 PC game 'Cold Fear'.
 
  
  Another real issue with Curse: Eye of Isis is the clumsy inventory system. Transferring items from 
 player-to-player becomes a chore and viewing the somewhat worthless map is even a bigger issue 
 as the map option (among everything else) is under the 'inventory' category as there is no separate 
 hotkeys for this. Again blame it on the console.
  
  Considering its a survival horror game, ammo is pretty limited hence the reliance of the 
 police baton is your only real defense and the somewhat innovative curse rating. 
 Some creatures of the dark will bestow you a curse that if not taken care off quickly, your health 
 will decrease and of course you eventually die. This reminds me of that Cthulhu insanity 
 check however you wont become insane but dead instead.
  
  On the brighter side of things, graphically the game is pleasing to the eye. Considering the game's 
 setting is in the year 1890, all the graphical details are quite impressive. Ranging from the realistic 
 movements of weapons (no super fast reloads) to the items placed in the rooms to the clothing worn 
 by the people is pretty accurate. However I wish there was more interaction with the environs than 
 'just looks pretty' as most are just there for 'show-and-tell'. Also the main characters 
 animations are moderately well done as the different styles of movements (reloading, walking, running, 
 swinging etc) are pretty fluent.
  
  Sound wise is a bummer. There are some pleasant sound affects like the squeaking of doors, the 
 rocking sounds of the boat and even the sounds of gun fire however there are some that will raise 
 your eyebrow. The quality of the 'British' voice acting is mediocre as if they are actual Brits 
 doing the acting then I will question their origin. Musically, well, is crap; very repetitive and 
 no real musical scores. That combat musical score sounds like a B-Grade 70s horror flick with a 
 very cheap synthesiser.
  
  The game is quite short as it will take for a casual gamer less than ten hours to complete. There 
 are two difficulty levels (normal and difficult) however the main difference between these two 
 is the difficulty of the combat. This will cause unnecessary frustrations than re-play value due 
 to the cinematic game play so it's highly advisable to play is under normal unless you are a sadist.
 
  
  Overall, the entire package is quite playable. There are some hiccups along the way and the cinematic 
 style of game play should be best left alone for the purist adventure gamer. To make this also 
 an action type 3rd person shooter, tactics can be quite hard to judge as its then becoming 
 a slugfest. I will give credit to the developers Dreamcatcher for their efforts however I cannot 
 see how one can make a cinematic 3rd person shooter effectively. That said, this game isnt 
 really an adventure game nor a shooter or nor a horror. Its really a jack-of-all-trade game 
 that brings on the elements of three different gaming genres all watered down to meet the expectations 
 of the causal gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  A lot of games follow in the famous Resident Evil footsteps, and Curse: the Eye of Isis in no 
 exception. With creepy atmosphere, hoards of zombies and plot as thick as paper, Curse provides 
 the player with 6 to 9 hours of straight forward gameplay, with just a pinch of puzzle solving.
 
  The Eye of Isiss atmosphere does a great job in reminding you that the game takes place somewhere 
 is the early 1900s, with periodically correct weapons and items (well, most of them) . The characters 
 dress and talk in a convincing manner, and are all well voiced.
  
  The starts out like so many other Survival Horror games, with the main character Derian entering 
 a spooky looking museum, all alone at night (maybe not the wisest of choices) , looking for a lady 
 friend of his, Victoria. Soon enough he discovers that the museum has been overrun with the undead, 
 and little by little a family secret is uncovered.
  The gameplay itself is pretty standard; you collect various items, such as keys and health, and 
 basically explore the environment for the next clue or cut-scene that will allow you to carry on 
 with the game. Speaking of exploring, one thing that really takes a huge chunk of fun right out 
 of the game is the map. There is no way of knowing where anything is, and you will find yourself 
 wondering around the whole museum (or any other environment for that matter) just to find the right 
 door for the right room, and match the right key. The only things you can go by are in-game signs 
 that direct you to the main rooms of the level, which are mostly useless.
  One other thing that is broken in Curse is the controls; if you dont own a gamepad Id suggest 
 you get one before you play the game. The keyboard-only interface is so uncomfortable its almost 
 impossible to play the game without one.
  
  One gameplay element where the game shines is the saving mechanism; from time to time this large 
 fallow name Abdul with pop out in specific rooms to allow you to save your game and store some 
 of your items (since there is a limit to how much you can carry) . Although its a bit odd for him 
 to appear in a room you had to fight countless zombies and mummies to reach, most of the time youll 
 be grateful to see him (and for the chance to save your game) .
  Another nice touch is the fact that from time to time the control will switch over from Derian 
 to Victoria, and you get to play her. Unfortunately the gameplay experience is pretty much the 
 same with both characters, but its a nice treat for the eyes.
  
  Lets talk graphics. For a game that came out in 2003, Curse: the Eye of Isis look really out 
 dated, with characters that move more like robots and no physics whatsoever, the game is no eye 
 candy. Even the combat is clunky and awkward. Maybe it has to with the fact that its a straight 
 port from the Xbox. Whatever the reason, two years ago the game would have felt right at home.
 
  
  The sound in Curse is the only department in which there is no much to complain about; the only 
 with wrong with it is the music you get every time you open up the inventory. It can drive you 
 insane in a matter of minutes, and since you open up the inventory quite a lot during the game, 
 it can get really annoying. Other then that everything is great; the voices are good, the in-game 
 soundtrack does a fine job, and the sound-effects are well made.
  The major drew back of Curse: the Eye of Isis is the lack of any replay value. Since you cant 
 choose which main character youll get to play during the different levels, and the straight forward 
 gameplay, you wont need a second run; after the first time its pretty much done for.
  
  Bottom line is, Curse: the Eye of Isis is a fun game with a few set backs, but worth playing. 
 If you can get your hands on a copy, you should take the time and check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATH775
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game is only for gamers who like to play adventure games. The goal in this game is that you 
 have to find an old statue and return it to the right duh. The costume in this game is ok because 
 its in the 1800's. The weapon is not so good cause there isn't a lot of weapon. There isn't a lot 
 of bullet either and it takes quite some to reload. So you have to make your shots count. The graphic 
 is kind of bad. Another thing is the menu, it is a little bit confusing and the control is another 
 story. The good thing about this game is that the enemy looks like an enemy you know like scary 
 and the storyline is awesome. If you want to buy this game you should probaly rent it first. But 
 if you are a big fan of games like Silent Hill, Clock Tower and Resident Evil like me then don't 
 think twice buy it for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2005 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game takes place in England in the late 1800's so the character costumes and weaponry is somewhat 
 right for the times. You play Darien or his assistant Victoria later in the game, who is investigating 
 the disappearance of a mysterious cursed-Egyptian statue from a museum in London. Your goal in 
 the game is to find and return the statue to its resting place, a pyramid in Egypt. Not to mention 
 another small goal is to not be killed or taken over by the curse yourself. Game controls are frustrating 
 at times (I would think the Xbox version would be better for this reason) . Game menus are sometimes 
 cumbersome when trying to exchange items between characters. The weaponry leaves much to be desired; 
 however, if the creator's goal was to keep the weapons authentic to the period, they've done so, 
 much to the chagrin of the player. Reloading your weapons takes too long so you must be as accurate 
 with your shots as possible. Any missed targets will cost you greatly. Ammunition is scarce as 
 well. Overall the plot is interesting and the characters and enemies you encounter are entertaining. 
 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
