-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cutthroats: Terror on the High Seas
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cutthroatsterroronths/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 5.7, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 96 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Hothouse Creations
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It feels more like an accounting class than a life of swashbuckling and freebooting. 

 Veteran gamers with fond memories of Sid Meier's Pirates! probably feel inclined to jump at every 
 chance to lead a band of pirates on a ruthless quest for wealth and glory. But their high hopes 
 will probably be dashed when they get their hands on this latest strategy game from the developers 
 of Gangsters. While Cutthroats covers all the bases when it comes to the world of 17th-century 
 piracy, in the end it feels more like an accounting class than a life of swashbuckling and freebooting. 

 You play as a pirate captain, starting with a single ship in the Caribbean between 1635 and 1700; 
 the date you select determines how difficult the game will be. You get to read about the current 
 events involving all the major seagoing powers of the time, but unfortunately this information 
 is presented in the tiniest of print - a characteristic carried over from the manual, which is 
 a Reader's Digest-sized book with a minuscule typeface. Straining to read the light-black type 
 on a gray background is painful, and it takes over 150 pages (excluding history, designer notes, 
 and glossary) to explain what's involved in being a successful pirate. Why all the wordage? Because 
 Cutthroats' interface - a mind-boggling array of icons on nearly every screen - isn't the least 
 bit intuitive.  

 Before heading out on your first voyage, it's a good idea to head into town and recruit a few more 
 crewmen, pick up a couple of extra cannons, and perhaps pay a visit to the governor to try to get 
 on a good footing with him. Once that's done, it's time to set sail, but unfortunately what should 
 be the most exciting part of any pirate game - attacking ships and pillaging towns - is where Cutthroats 
 is least satisfying.  

 You can order the crewmen in the crow's nest to notify you when enemy ships approach, and when that 
 happens, you can switch to an overhead view looking directly down on your ship. Once there, you'll 
 eventually learn how many ships you've encountered and, if you get close enough, what flags the 
 ships are flying and what types of vessels they are. The problem is that there's no way to jump 
 back to the strategic map immediately after you determine you don't want an encounter - only when 
 the sighted ships get far enough away does that option become available.  

 The graphics for both sea- and land-based combat are laughably bad, like what you might expect from 
 a Sega Genesis game from six years ago. What's more disappointing is the combat interface and ship 
 behavior. You should be able to outrun and outmaneuver a "battleship" (a term that wasn't even 
 used in the 17th century) with your sloop. But should an unfriendly "battleship" spot you, you 
 can pretty much count on being hunted down - even if it takes 10 or 15 minutes of real time for 
 the enemy to finally close and engage (why isn't there an "accelerate time" feature?) . There's 
 also no display of wind direction in the battle view, so the only way to determine wind direction 
 is by steering until you find which way you're going the fastest.  

 Battles are drab and boring, but at least you've got a nice variety of options: You can choose the 
 type of shot (round, chain, grapeshot) or whether you want to fire muskets only, to grapple and 
 board, or even ram your opponent. But these again are all represented with tiny icons called up 
 by right mouse-clicks, and in the heat of battle you can easily get confused as you try to navigate 
 and issue battle commands. At other times you'll see some truly strange happenings: Your ships 
 might run aground and sink for no apparent reason, and hostile ships will get locked going round 
 and round in circles.  

 Boarding enemy vessels ought to be a bloody affair, but in Cutthroats all you get for excitement 
 is another miniature display of two guys about eight pixels tall fighting with swords, with numbers 
 on the left and right showing how many men each side has left. Watching these events unfold is 
 thoroughly boring, and the constant chatter of your commanders ("We'll send 'em to Davy Jones' 
 locker!") doesn't help things one bit. There's no real reason to expect a complicated land-combat 
 component when you've got so few men to deal with, but there's also no excuse for the pathetic 
 character graphics.  

 Cutthroats' most interesting aspect is its economic model. After successful raids, you can head 
 to friendly ports and exchange your booty for cash, then use your earnings to buy stuff for your 
 crew (rum and food are high priorities) , buy more ammunition, recruit new commanders and crewmen, 
 bribe officials, and generally work the market. By exchanging information with ships you meet, 
 you can find places where your cargo is in demand and make even more money. The interface for all 
 this is on the complicated side, but once you get into it, it's actually pretty engrossing, and 
 at least the graphics here are utilitarian if not actually impressive.  

 If you're into micromanagement and can stand simplified combat and poor graphics, Cutthroats should 
 provide you with enough to keep you happy for a while. But if you're looking for a game that re-creates 
 the drama and violence of 17th-century pirating, you won't find it here.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Oche
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:55 am PT
Review:  If you were fortunate enough to ever have played Pirates! when it came out in 1987 or at least 
 before the 90's stormed in with all sorts of new adventure and roleplayying games, then i'm sure 
 you would find some satisfaction out playing Cutthroats: Terror on the high seas. 
  
  The game basically is pretty much like pirates but with the bonus of late 90's graphics and multimedia 
 sounds which were nonexistant back in 1987 and you were at the mercy of the sounds of a 8086 pc 
 speaker. You select a certain time period which can range from 1620 to 1700, each time period with 
 its own brief description on what the hell was going on at that particular time both in Europe 
 and in the Caribbean in terms of politics, economy and privateering and piracy. 
  
  You start with a small crew, an able seagoing small vessel, and just enough money to buy some food 
 or other commodity. Crew is formed by ranks of sailors, gunners and marines, these last men which 
 can serve as boarding and raiding parties for assaulting towns. You also need to hire a certain 
 number of officers which have different abilities such as boarding, leadership, sailing, marksmanship, 
 cannon, etc. 
  
  It would be unfair to say that "Cutthroats" has a more "pirate" feel than "Pirates!" but there 
 are some things in the game well placed that really make you feel the pirate sense like for example 
 the linguo from the crew, the sounds, your able sailing master which can always give proper advice 
 at the correct time, your crew needs "rum" to fuel their morale as well as a balanced diet of standard 
 ship food ("ship biscuits") , livestock and fruits which all take space from your ship's hold. Also 
 when you are raiding or capturing a town, sometimes the inhabitants will try to offer you terms 
 of surrender, and after that you have some wicked options such as different kind of methods for 
 torturing the governor, killing all the soldiers, killing all civilians, or just wipe out the whole 
 town... and that's when you really become infamous. You'll have every pirate hunter after you!.
 
  
  What i like the most about the game is the navigation system. It really is innovative since you 
 get a "Crow's nest view" top down view which gives you a sight of nearby land and ships, and you 
 get the map fast travel, and the battle view travel each one suited with particular options.
  
  The game goes on and on, you get missions from governors, appointment letters, recommendation 
 letters, land titles, several other privileges, periodically estipends from the colony system, 
 etc. 
  
  At the end you can retire and try to match up the hall of fame of the most famous Pirates of the 
 Caribbean...
  
  Every Pirate and 17th and 18th century naval enthusiast should take a look at this game...
  
 
  It's a shame that Sid Meier's Pirates 2004 remake version doesn't even match up to Cutthroats! 
 in terms of historical feel of the period...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XadeVD2
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Cutthroats: Terror on the High Seas came out way back in 1999. I hoped it would be the best pirate 
 game since Sid Meier's Pirates! Gold. After buying the game for $50 at EB I found it unplayable 
 until I patched it up to the latest version. Even after all the patches the game only runs for 
 15 minutes before crashing. For 1999 standards the graphics were horrible. Ground combat looks 
 similar to the original Command & Conquer but far uglier. Ship combat looked a little better but 
 the ships move slower than worms. Cutthroats has a lot of depth for a game of this genre. You could 
 sail around on the open sea and fly the flag of any nation you wanted regardless of your nationality. 
 Signal flags could be used to trade with other passing ships or to get information. The game interface 
 is terrible and just loading your ship in port consists of a million different menus. Even with 
 the game manual good luck trying to get your men off the ship for a ground attack on a port. What 
 I liked most about Cutthroats was the choices you can make after capturing a port. You can choose 
 to kill the men, women, children, torture the governor, or simply kill everybody and raze all the 
 buildings. I have never played a pirate game with so many twisted choices before. You can play 
 as good or as evil as you want. After taking over a port you could install one of your fellow crew 
 as the governor. What happens later in the game is not known. At most I could take two ports and 
 get extremely wealthy before the crashes begin. Your game saves crash within minutes and you must 
 start over again. I still revisit this game from time to time to see if I can see more of the game. 
 Even on a modern PC the game still crashes constantly. An actual working knowledge of real sailing 
 is required for this game. You must make repairs to your ship on remote beaches like real pirates 
 once did long ago. It is too complex for its own good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mann_Slaughter
Rating: 4
Date: May 22, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  ... But it's about as stable as a drunken, 3-legged elephant, walking a tightrope while wearing 
 6 inch stilettos.
  
  I loved playing the game, but even after Eidos' official patches, as well as some fan fixes created 
 by a very supportive community, the game was STILL prone to random crashes, and lock-ups.
  
  Pity.
  
  I enjoyed the premise. Loved the fact that you took ALL of the ships in your flotilla 
 into battle, as opposed to just your flagship as some other pirate games have done. (Sure. My lone 
 flagship vs. 5 galleons? More than fair!) Also the town raids have to be played to be believed. 
 Seeing your men marching across the beach pushing cannon and blasting on hapless civilians is a 
 riot.
  
  I would have liked to finish the game, but the crashes became too much. Add to that the fact that 
 my save game became corrupted, and I simply couldn't see myself going all the way back to start.
 
  Ugh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  I started playing Cutthroats through the demo I received when I purchased Theif: Gold. I liked 
 the demo's concept, but I never could save my progress so I had to keep restarting. I searched 
 for the full version of the game after I played the demo, alas with no avail, I could not find 
 the game anywhere. 
  I finally found the game through gamespot's buy it - listed under gogamer. com. 
  Supposidly this 
 game was released in September of 1999, but I never found it during that time period. I finally 
 found it on 11/11/05. The full version is far superior to the demo. The gameplay itself is realistic 
 to the times histortically. The game play varies from 1625 to 1700. The diffculty increases depending 
 on the time period and hence the technological advances (which makes perfect sense) . Depending 
 on the time period determines where your adverture will begin. You play the role of a pirate captain. 
 Your actions influence the life of you, your crew and life in the Caribbean.
  You are given a large variety of choices for your actions. You can use diplomacy, torture, naval 
 raids, or land raids by pillaging or conquering a town. Towns require strategy and numbers to overcome 
 so be sure to manage your men and your supplies wisely. 
  The game play itself has average graphics by today's standard, but for 1999 they aren't half bad. 
 Cutthroats has some amazing still frame shots. The idea of crewman loyalty is highly prized in 
 the game. Also the idea of smaller colonies can easily be bullied by threatening the town (by visiting 
 the govenor) . Your boat may "randomly sink" during a city seige, but the cause of this "randomness" 
 is either the city bombing your boat through cannon fire and with your attention on the land forces, 
 you do not see the attack on your boat (until your officer informs you of the danger) . Your ground 
 forces require micromanagement because pirates aren't too self modivated. Other than that the game 
 play is easy going. 
  Swelling your ranks can involve city recruitment or sea impressment. Either way, you always want 
 extra sailors in order to secure enemy ships and increase your naval power. Good luck in your pillaging. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
