-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cyberstorm 2: Corporate Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cyberstorm2corporatewars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 17, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 6.4, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 35 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Dynamix
Genre: Strategy
Date:     May 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With the introduction of new features emerges a slew of new problems that collectively serve to 
 keep Cyberstorm 2 from surpassing the original. 

 Sierra's MissionForce: Cyberstorm was a turn-based tactical sleeper, a fine game cursed to exist 
 within the confines of a hideous green box and destined to a long life in the bargain bin. Packaging 
 aside, the game's greatest shortcoming was its repetitive single-player campaign that, in spite 
 of a strong back story, felt too similar from mission to mission. Because of Cyberstorm's strong 
 framework, a sequel to the science fiction strategy game would have its work cut out for it. And 
 indeed, Cyberstorm 2 takes its predecessor's compelling and sophisticated tactical engine and adds 
 to it a much more complex campaign and a host of new features. But with the introduction of these 
 features emerges a slew of new problems that collectively serve to keep Cyberstorm 2 from surpassing 
 the original.  

 The biggest change from the original Cyberstorm's tactical combat engine is the incorporation of 
 real-time play, an obvious attempt to attract the more common breed of strategy gamer. But the 
 game moves far too quickly, and is far too complicated in general, to make it worth playing in 
 real time. Fortunately, turn-based play remains an option, allowing you to take all the time you 
 need to plan your attack, fire your weapons in proper sequence, and so forth. Meanwhile, the simultaneous 
 turn-based play mode brings together the worst of both worlds rather than the best of them. It 
 might have worked well for matches between two or more human opponents, but the multiplayer mode 
 only supports turn-based play. Unfortunately, real-time elements occasionally permeate the preferable 
 turn-based mode and bring it down. Often times you can march right up to the enemy, unload half 
 a dozen weapons on it at point-blank range, and walk away behind cover - all in a single turn. 
 Worse yet, you may begin a mission only to find the enemy bearing down upon you from the start, 
 and you may quickly lose your best pilots and vehicles as you try desperately to move them to safety. 
 Even when the enemy doesn't have the upper hand from the start, it is entirely predictable and 
 will walk straight toward your forces as you hold position and wait for it to blunder into certain 
 death. The computer opponent tends to use its weapons in an intelligent fashion and retreats when 
 it's in bad shape, but lacks the discipline of a truly skilled opponent and doesn't make for much 
 of a challenge.  

 In spite of its AI deficiencies, the depth and complexity of Cyberstorm 2 make it enjoyable. There 
 is a huge range of vehicle types that you can purchase, modify, and deploy into battle. In addition 
 to the traditional giant robot Hercs, you can also buy tanks and hover fighters. Hercs are the 
 biggest and toughest of the bunch, tanks are fast on flat land, and hover fighters are the most 
 maneuverable but the flimsiest. You can easily equip your custom squad with an incredible slew 
 of weapons, and a great deal of strategy lies in arming your force according to the task at hand. 
 Some weapons are incredibly effective at stripping away enemy energy shields. Others are near useless 
 against shielding but will tear through the enemy's hull once its shields are down. Still other 
 weapons are terrifically powerful but operate at a very limited range. And even after you're done 
 arming your force, you're just getting warmed up; you still need to equip armor plating, energy 
 shields, and sensors before your machine is ready for combat. You can further enhance your vehicles 
 with targeting systems, land mine detectors, enhanced life support, nano-repair devices, cloaking 
 fields, and much more. On top of all that, you need to genetically engineer a host of pilots to 
 commandeer your combat machines and pair them with the vehicles they'll operate best. Your pilots 
 can be hurt or killed in battle, and while they are replaceable through cloning, they grow more 
 powerful with combat experience.  

 Choosing a mission is no simple matter in itself; certain types of planetary terrain lend themselves 
 better to certain types of vehicles. Adverse weather conditions may weaken your energy weapons 
 even as your cannons are rendered more potent for the same reason. You must also decide whether 
 to slowly expand and maintain a defensive position by securing resource mines and patrolling your 
 vicinity, or approach your objective more offensively and strike the enemy corporations at every 
 opportunity. Special missions that reward you with new technology will become available periodically, 
 and at other times you'll need to defend your base against the enemy, then repair it after the 
 dust settles. In between missions, you can upgrade your facilities, allocate more funding to various 
 research categories, and check your corporate e-mail for any pertinent news.  

 These exciting duties are made all the less exciting by Cyberstorm 2's old and worn-out look. While 
 the battlefield terrain graphics are varied and colorful, the vehicles themselves mostly look boring. 
 While you can zoom in and out of the battlefield as much as you like, everything starts to look 
 ugly and pixelated unless you view the combat from the default perspective. The game sounds understated 
 but pleasant enough, and both the weapon sound effects and the catchy techno music score suit it 
 nicely. Your pilots' soft-spoken acknowledgments are all varied and different according to the 
 pilots' appearances (the cyclopean brain doesn't talk anything like the cat man) and lend a healthy 
 bit of personality to a game otherwise devoid of it. But ultimately, Cyberstorm 2's haggard appearance 
 will repulse those who've grown accustomed to high-end graphics, even as it makes the real-time 
 play mode feel that much more inappropriate in light of beautiful games like Starcraft and Total 
 Annihilation.  

 What hurts Cyberstorm 2 most of all is how the game fails to pull itself together. While on the 
 surface, the premise of the eight corporations battling it out for financial supremacy works well, 
 the setting of the game isn't as pronounced as it should have been. The eight corporations all 
 play differently, thus lending Cyberstorm 2 substantial replay value. But the inability to interact 
 with opposing corporations, to trade with them, threaten them, ally with them, or anything of the 
 kind, stifles any sense that you're dealing with profit-driven companies rather than just a generic 
 host of enemy armies. The nonlinear campaign also seems like a good idea, but there are so many 
 missions to choose from at first that you may well find yourself overwhelmed just trying to get 
 started. And then you get the three half-baked modes of play, the poor enemy AI, and the bland 
 graphics. Yet even in spite of these decidedly serious problems, Cyberstorm 2 remains a well-paced, 
 lengthy, replayable, and, for the most part, enjoyable strategy game with plenty of detail and 
 a great set of multiplayer features. But much like its predecessor, it comes so close to being 
 outstanding that its shortcomings feel especially unfortunate.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, let me explain the very very late review:
  
  I am busy moving to a new place and the other night got the chance to unpack some of my old games 
 - this one came up.
  
  It's an interesting game in the sense that it's really nothing special in virtually any sense, 
 but once you start playing it, one always tends to get hooked for some bizarre reason.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It's rather difficult to come to grips with some of the gameplay and the way that 
 the developers strung the whole thing together. In a sense it can even be somewhat overwhelming, 
 especially for a game dating back to 1998.
  
  Perhaps the many different options and ways of dealing with the opposition is what keeps me hooked 
 once I start, since there's really little else to write home about.
  
  Graphics:
  
  It's almost like two graphic interfaces roled into one game:
  
  There's the HERC factory graphics 
 if you will, where you can configure new HERC types, models, etc. to your hearts content. Here 
 the graphics are actually very good for a game this old.
  
  Then, there's the battle map portion of the game where you take these HERCs from the factory and 
 go and do battle with whichever faction you would like to take over, etc. The graphics here are 
 actually quite bad, even for a game dating back to 1998. It does however get the job done in a 
 very simplistic manner.
  
  Sound:
  
  Well, not much here either - one or two catchy things, but that's it.
  
  Value:
  
  Can't 
 say - the title is probably avaiable for nothing by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redjack443
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It isn't easy to master, but it can't be called hard. Everything works as it is supposed 
 to. It isn't very special, but it IS addictive. The only thing fault that I could find was that 
 the weapon animations go too fast sometimes.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on the map are nothing special but they get the job done. Your Hercs do 
 look great when you watch them in the factory, though.
  
  Sound: Good sounds. The techno soundtrack is rather catchy.
  
  Replay: You can keep playing 
 it but it does get repetitive after a while.
  
  Conclusion: As I said, it's a matter of taste., and I like it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
