-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: CyberJudas
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/cyberjudas/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 12, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 11 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Merit Studios
Developer: D. C. True, Ltd.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jun 30, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Seeing how nations are affected under your command is a very enthralling affair. 

 Every President faces daunting tasks, trying to make the best decision in no-win situations and 
 handling volatile political crises, while struggling to keep on the good side of the almighty Public 
 Opinion Polls. But does he have any fun? D. C. True and Merit Studios think so, and have spent years 
 developing the presidential simulator CyberJudas, a strikingly original game that brings the joy 
 and jitters of presidential politics right to your desktop.   

 CyberJudas is the sequel to Shadow President, and takes the premise of that game to new levels of 
 complexity. As a President who rules the nation from cyberspace, you have a difficult task ahead 
 of you. Just as in real life, the sheer volume of information available and activity happening 
 at any given moment is overwhelming  at first, CyberJudas is harder to tackle than a greased 
 Roger Clinton. But after a few hours of play, this complexity becomes the game's greatest asset. 
 The elegant artificial intelligence makes the world evolve in a realistic fashion, and seeing how 
 nations are affected under your command is a very enthralling affair.   

 The game offers three levels of play. In the first two, your goal is to simply stay in office. The 
 Presidential Simulator requires you to deal with affairs of state, such as adjusting the budget, 
 making foreign policy decisions and even enacting covert operations, all while watching your Popularity 
 and Leadership Effectiveness Rating to make sure you keep your place at the top. Fail, and you 
 will lose the election, be impeached or, in extreme situations, assassinated. The second level, 
 The Cabinet Wars, uses the same premise as the Simulator, but with a new factor added to your decision 
 making process. Each of your six advisors is trying to put forth his or her political agenda, and 
 you must carefully weigh their suggestions before acting. The final level available is the CyberJudas 
 Gambit, which adds a sinister layer of complexity: one of your advisors is making unsavory executive 
 decisions without your approval, and you must investigate and successfully convict this traitor 
 before his or her actions wreak worldwide havoc.   

 This game is deep, and definitely not for those looking for a quick diversion. Even playing at the 
 fastest speed of 2 hours per second (which makes it essentially impossible to properly execute 
 commands) , it takes about 5 hours to complete a single term. But CyberJudas does a good job of 
 keeping your interest. The haunting music and dark artwork lend themselves nicely to the shadowy 
 tone, and the constant barrage of world events makes sure your job is never done.  

 Of course, there are a few problems. At times I wished the interface was a bit more intuitive, and 
 that I had a more comprehensive way of viewing my past actions and decisions regarding certain 
 regions. But the game is so strangely addicting that these issues seemed unimportant once I learned 
 to make do with what I had been given. In a world of games aimed at short attention spans, CyberJudas 
 is a refreshing original.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vinzee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  It is 1993. The Soviet Union has fallen, Yugoslavia mainly exists in name only, and Iraq is annoyed 
 at its losses in the Gulf War. Also, the Ukraine has a GDP per capita of $1.
  
  Welcome to the world of CyberJudas, the sequel to Shadow President!
  
  Now technically still 
 assuming the role of Bush (at least until the 20th of January when he would technically step down 
 and thus Clinton would come into office) , you now start on January 1st, 1993 whereas Shadow President 
 placed you in 1990. It is nice having a map closer to the current world. (with Croatia, Kazakhstan, 
 and so on)
  
  As in Shadow President, you're the President of the United States and as in Shadow President you 
 pretty much hold dictatorial powers over your nation with no Congress or Senate to interfere. The 
 only thing limiting you is your popularity (impeachment) or assassination (I would assume extremely 
 low relations with another nation who attempts an assassination on you) and with that you also 
 modify the budget as in the original. The budget has not changed nor has your options with the 
 exception of the ability to increase diplomatic presence in a nation, which is a fine action to 
 include that helps give the game more of a competing superpowers feel.
  
  Your advisers are back, and now in pseudo-3D! Also, it takes more time to actually exit out of 
 these windows due to said advisers wanting to show off their animations first. Regardless, that 
 part is pretty much the same with some exceptions. (as I shall explain later)
  
  Sound is good, as there is actually music now which is a decent and generic pseudo-creepy tune 
 that repeats itself. Your advisers also talk to you, but they just recycle words. You might as 
 well play with the sound off (but you may keep music on) since there still isn't much in the way 
 of sound.
  
  The interface is general (sans talking advisers when you go to them) is better. The war room has 
 some more options that make doing things easier, and when you conduct an action it switches to 
 the grid view from Shadow President (4 sectors such as army and such) and has a before and after 
 thing which makes knowing what your actions have actually done much clearer.
  
  Perhaps the most jarring thing (other than it appears some bugs concerning Cuba, which has simply 
 regulated and not restricted trade with the US and previously-mentioned $1 per capita Ukraine) 
 is the lack of being able to significantly increase the speed of time. While hitting c and putting 
 it to two hours per second makes it tolerable, the default setting is pretty much impossible to 
 tolerate and also a waste of time. I have no idea why they didn't allow it to go much faster like 
 it was able to go in Shadow President.
  
  Now for CyberJudas's most advertised feature: Cyberjudas playmode! In this mode, your advisers 
 now talk to you while looking at the map and generally annoy you. You are tasked with finding a 
 traitor in your cabinet, and if you fail then the traitor I assume will do something insane such 
 as nuke another nation and thus cause you to lose the game. This mode bored me since I always thought 
 the focus should of been on actually running the US, and not have this idiotic cyber-space concept 
 of the Presidency with a 1996-year concept on what the future will look like (which is both tolerable 
 in CyberJudas and especially Shadow President, but taken to absurd levels in the CyberJudas game 
 mode) Regardless, there is the good ol' Presidential Simulation mode  la Shadow President and 
 also cabinet wars, which is basically the latter with different-ideology cabinet members who have 
 their own views on things but aren't willing to be outright traitors to the government.
  
  In the end, CyberJudas really isn't worth buying. It would get an 8 if it was free (and thus slightly 
 better than Shadow President, which had its own bugs) but for a price, I think you should wait 
 about 10 years or so for it to be truly abandoned like Shadow President and thus have it be free. 
 You really aren't missing much. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
