-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Daemonica
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/daemonica/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A few interesting ideas buried in the tedious gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too much text.
 Drab, uninteresting environments.
 Embarrassingly bad voice acting.
 Mostly simplistic puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.8
Critic Score: 7.1, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 164 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Meridian4
Developer: RA Images
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 31, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its attempts to add a unique spin to the genre, Daemonica is generally a tedious and unappealing 
 adventure game. 

  If you've ever been stuck in a small, boring town with little to do but talk to unpleasant locals 
 and pick weeds, then you have a pretty good idea of what it's like to play Daemonica. This is an 
 adventure game first and foremost, though the puzzles are few and mild at best, and the inclusion 
 of a potion-making element and a real-time combat system -- while laudable in concept -- ultimately 
 do little to abate the tedium.  

          You will do lots of reading before Daemonica is over.     

  You play the role of Nicholas, 
 a brooding tattooed man in medieval England, living the life of a "hunter," someone who uses their 
 knowledge of potions, the afterlife, and the ancient language of Daemonica to hunt down killers. 
 His line of work brings him to Cavorn, a truly miserable village with murky skies, drab buildings, 
 and a borderline-hostile population. Here, a young undertaker has been freshly hanged by a craven 
 bully of a mayor for the savage murder of the undertaker's fianc as well as a reclusive couple. 
 Though the mayor himself summoned you to basically back up his shortsighted, impulsive actions, 
 it's quickly apparent that the undertaker is not the killer, especially once more locals start 
 coming up missing. So, through lots of stilted conversations, randomly wandering the city-block-sized 
 village, some light alchemy, and the occasional swordfight, it's up to you to figure out just what 
 exactly is going on in Cavorn.  

  There is a lot of talking in Daemonica -- too much, in fact. Nearly all of your interaction with 
 other characters starts and ends with a dialogue tree, and the game's not afraid to pack on the 
 exposition during conversation. Even for its paltry size, the village of Cavorn is pretty underpopulated, 
 and you'll end up speaking to maybe a dozen different people over the entire course of the game. 
 Some of the characterizations are pretty pronounced, but there's not much for sympathetic or even 
 mildly likable characters. The actual conversations are usually text-only affairs, though there 
 are also plenty of voiced sequences where an embarrassingly miscast Nicholas drones on and on, 
 almost defying you to find something redeeming about the character. As a story-driven game, Daemonica 
 fails to deliver a very compelling story or cast of characters.  

  The best trick a hunter can perform is to brew up a potion known as soulgreep, which lets the drinker 
 commune with the dead, who are often quite knowledgeable about the details of their own demise. 
 You'll concoct several different types of potions over the course of the game, and they all require 
 you to harvest specific plants you'll find around the village. This could have been a fun and organic 
 addition, but there are only six different kinds of plants to be found, and after a few hours of 
 wandering, it becomes apparent that the plants only have a few different places to grow. Since 
 the game gives you clear and precise instructions on how to make the different types of potions 
 you'll need, of which there are really only three or four, the whole process is just tiresome for 
 most of the time.  

  The soulgreep potion just about kills you when you drink it, sending you into a special chamber 
 in the afterworld where you can request the presence of a specific soul. This happens several times 
 over the course of the game, and it serves as a recurring puzzle, since you need to know how the 
 person died, what motivated them in life, and what sign they were born under. Though working out 
 the kinks of how the system works can take you a few tries the first time, knowing what information 
 you need to be looking out for, plus the fact that your journal will retain any pertinent details 
 that you might not have picked up on during one of those incredibly dull conversations, makes each 
 subsequent journey into death a total cakewalk. And, if worse comes to worst, the number of options 
 you have to choose from in each scenario is so limited that it's not that tough to just brute-force 
 your way through.  

  The game also throws a few swordfights at you, which are always one-on-one affairs that require 
 you to just hold the spacebar to block incoming attacks, then click repeatedly on your mouse to 
 dish out sword slashes. There really isn't any more depth or strategy to the action than that, 
 and it's easily the most tacked-on feature in the game. Daemonica touts that it has alternate endings, 
 but in practice, all you get is some anticlimactic scrolling text, and the decisions you make that 
 affect the ending are so late in the game that you need not alter your gameplay style dramatically 
 to see them all.  

          The village of Cavorn isn't a particularly interesting place to have an adventure in.  
    

  Though there are a few subtle puzzles for you to get snagged up on, it will likely take well less 
 than 10 hours to get through Daemonica, but the game's generally unpleasant presentation will make 
 it feel like much longer. Despite the morbid, supernatural nature of Daemonica, the world itself 
 looks flat and bland, and it's so small that you'll know the whole thing front to back before it's 
 all over. There are only a few different unique character models that get recycled a few times, 
 all of them uniformly crude in design and stiff and mechanical in animation. As mentioned before, 
 the voice actor for Nicholas is quite bad, sounding like someone trying very hard to do a stern 
 British accent and failing miserably. There are a few pieces of music that kick in pretty much 
 randomly. Some of the music is actually okay for setting the mood at first, but it all repeats 
 so often that the effect wears off quickly.  

  There are some decent ideas at the heart of Demonica. The macabre premise of talking to the dead 
 to punish the living, conjuring useful potions out of found ingredients, and mixing adventure-game 
 dialogue and puzzle conventions with real-time combat are all fine ideas, but in practice, the 
 result is something too dull for the average player and too easy for the weathered adventure game 
 enthusiast.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Claudron_Born
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I would like to say that this game sure had a LOT of potential, but ofcorse the graphics and a 
 few other "flaws" taht are simply things that make the game unique, and not "Just another game". 
 But still, I would take 1 out of the score for bad graphics, and -1 for being too short.
  
  "You want to put out the flames,
  yet you come with a torch. Why have you come, hooded man?
 
  
  You want to heal old wounds, yet you keep opening them with your dagger. Why have you come, Hooded 
 man?
  You bring doom, you and your impure blood.
  Leave, hooded man."
  
  This game's best part is the story. The story is amazing, and if you read the background, and some 
 other optional text, it will be even better.
  
  I had this game for a while. At first, I noticed that it had bad graphics, and not much to do, so 
 I quit.
  Then, a year later (I think) I remembered about the game, and decited to give it a second try. Of 
 corse, knowing what it is about, I decited to get me a pen and paper to write down everything that 
 seems to be important.
  The game is close to the modern detective's job, where every detail matters.
  
  After reading 
 the background story, I couldn't stop playing the game, but sadly, it is relatively short, so I 
 finished it in two days.
  
  The game really puts you in the shoes of the Beast Hunter, and I got really attacjed to che characters, 
 and the atmosphere of the game was alive, more than any other game, so I could feel the changes 
 as the story went by.
  
  The Temple of Sacrifice is a very awesome aspect of the game. Not only is it detailed, both the 
 way of speech and the language of Daemonica is buetiful.
  It is not hard to put the right answers if you write down the information, and sometimes you will 
 need to follow intuition, however it never failed me in this game.
  Searching ofr herbs is not so hard. just walk around the areas, one by one, and at the end of the 
 chapter you should have more than enough, not to mention that there is a patch to add more herbs 
 to the game (Although I made it without the patch) .
  
  There are no cinematics, the only cutscenes are the chararter, narrating the story, while a black 
 and white picture of mostly him appears near the text, but I think that is one of the aspects that 
 makes the game unique.
  
  The battle system is simple, and it should be.
  You do not fight too often, and it should not be a challange, because the game doesn't focus on 
 battle.
  
  The endings are limited, but that is enough.
  I was a good guy, so I saved everyone I could, but killed Helen. I combined some information I 
 got during the game, and I understood that she will kill you if you let her live.
  
  So I'd say this game is worth it, and I would pay a lot to get a full story of that world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmasic
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  First of all, as an Indie game it has pretty decent graphics for the first time in 3D. There aren't 
 many 3D indie titles that look good enough to spend more than 10 mins in.
  
  As far as the gameplay is concerned, I agree with everything Gamespot said (yeah, for the first 
 time) . Looks like Gamespot writes the truth only when reviewing Indie titles (just browse their 
 review and judge yourself) . 
  
  The game has interesting premise, and you feel excited about the fact that you can talk to the 
 dead, and learning about the deceased before talking to their soul is an interesting concept.
 
  
  Interesting yes, but the game fails to actually make the process fun. The whole thing feels like 
 a chore. The worst part is that the world is so insanely static, linear and SMALL (really, the 
 whole town can be covered on foot in less than 20 seconds) that you will feel like screaming after 
 exploring the 'forests', the town itself or the graveyard. You end up with noting but another generic 
 location which serves a purpose only when the game designer feels like it. Even then, serves as 
 an another location to hit you with a terrible voice acting and a wall of text.
  
  Now I don't hate reading. I spent ages going through Baldurs Gate, voice acting or no voice acting 
 (infact, you shouldn't have a voice acting if you can't afford good voice actors) . The problem 
 is that there is nothing interesting in the dialogues, except the part about talking to the dead 
 maybe. Even that part gets over really fast and is really unlike what you'd have imagined it in 
 the first place (that is, not a chore) .
  
  What is funny is that this game has more interesting story than Devil may Cry 4 (which I have been 
 playing recently) , but fails in so many areas. Could have used more combat, more enemies, a 'living' 
 world, more town people, more quests, more more more..
  
  
  Oh and the models used are fine, but seem out of place because they are so clean and use blurry 
 textures for some reason. Sound effects are terrible, so is voice acting, and the engine lighting 
 sucks. Artist could have at least faked the normal mapping effects but the textures were just plan 
 and terrible.
  
  
  
  
  IN THE END:
  
  4.0
  
  I would recommend it since it's Indie but I won't recommend it because there is nothing interesting 
 available in the end. You don't feel satisfied with the ending, you don't have the answers that 
 you'd seek as a player (mainly, answers about the history of our hero) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NameIsMilo
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 7, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  I purcahsed the game for $9 dollars at a store and figured it'd be worth checking out. I installed 
 and played 10 minutes giving up as it was dull in the beginning. When I installed again, I actually 
 gave myself the time to get into it and what a story! Don't count on a lot of action as it's mostly 
 dialog and investigating (if you can call it that) .
  
  The idea for the story was good and I felt the game could've been more than it was, but it ended 
 a bit too soon. Once things started falling into place, the game was practically over. The game 
 left me wanting to know more about the main character and his previous jobs to this story.
  
  The art, while not spectacular compared to most, is actually quite good. The feel of the town 
 feels right rather than many games like it. Houses are little more than shacks, but not too shabby, 
 and the characters appearance is like that of what you'd see in a town like this.
  
  Overall, the game wasn't that bad, but definately could have gone further and done something more 
 with itself, but if you're waiting for a new game and need something to pass the time, this game 
 can do that just fine and the story may latch onto you for those few hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  All substance, no flash 
  
  The time when gamespot reviewers really loved computer games has gone for long. You can't get a 
 good review any more, if the budget of the company that crafted the game is not up to par with 
 a star wars production, neither if the game fails to speed up your graphic card close to burst 
 point. Yes Daemonica feels like a garage game. And I like it. Yes, playing Daemonica involves a 
 good amount of reading, and I love it when trying to immerse myself in an adventure game. No, you 
 won't jump off your chair every second because some effect shakes your screen while an air crash 
 sound in dubly ;) tries to explode your headphone along with your eardrum. Yep, the world is a 
 little bland and the voices kind of sullen. But the atmosphere is very good and the story definitely 
 interesting. The programming itself seems good, simple and efficient (just too bad the keys can't 
 be remapped) . The gameplay is smooth and the world is made with a lot of artistic attention to 
 details. But the strong point of Daemonica is its ability to make you feel involved in the story 
 and to put you in the tortured skin of its main character.
  
  So what do we have here ? A game with low budget and then a modest appearance and design, so the 
 gamespot's reviewer rate it low. A game full of atmosphere, of inspiration, and obviously made 
 by a team of talented but penniless people, so the gamers rate it high.
  
  In conclusion, Daemonica is a very, very good garage adventure game, that will please gamers who 
 like to immerse in a dark, mysterious and compelling story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whippet_basic
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Daemonica's strong point is its setting and background. Those alone made me decide to buy it. You 
 hero is a part of a special group who can speak to the souls of the dead. He uses this power to 
 track down the worst killers that humanity has to offer. To do this he needs to use his potion 
 making abilities to brew up a potion that will, essentially, kill him. He can then command the 
 daemon that comes to collect his soul to take him to a special place where he can try and contact 
 to soul. To make successful contact he needs some information about the departed - when they were 
 born, how they died and what their driving force was in life.
  
  All of this sounds fascinating and it is, but soon after starting the game I started to see the 
 cracks. The first is that this game looks like it was made about 4-5 years ago. The graphics are 
 dated and there are no cut scene movies. In place of where you might expect a cut scene movie you 
 get a page for of dialog which is read out by the main character let down. If you demand only the 
 finest in graphics then steer clear. If your imagination is enough to compensate then go right 
 ahead.
  
  The second problem I have with the game is with the simple combat system and herbs. Scattered around 
 the village you are investigating are various herbs that your character can collect and turn into 
 potions. As well as the potion that lets him speak to the dead, you can brew up healing potions, 
 sleep potions and other potions you will discover along the way. Some of these are needed to complete 
 quests during the game while the healing potions are needed to restore health if you get hurt during 
 combat. Combat is fairly simple, you use one mouse button to attack and the other to block. You 
 are forced into a number of fights during the game - its a fairly simple matter of reflexes and 
 timing but arguably it has no place in an adventure game. That leads me to the gripe I have. A 
 number of herbs can be found at the start of the game and at the start of each chapter a new batch 
 will appear. However, their numbers are limited which means you could find yourselves out of the 
 herbs you need to either heal yourself or continue with the plot. That isn't a particularly welcome 
 thing, considering you might not have a save game that will restore things to before the game become 
 impossible to finish. 
  
  Daemonica might look a bit ugly but its worth a look due to its atmosphere if you like adventure 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junk5280
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Classic adventure gaming is dead. Not in the sense of no new games being made - I'd go as far as 
 to say we've had surprisingly MANY come out in the last couple of years - but in the sense of how 
 very few of these games were written with anything like the production values we've grown to expect 
 from every other genre. 
  
  Almost all commercial adventure games nowadays are strictly low-budget efforts from little known 
 European development studios. The reasons? The big studios stay away because these games aren't 
 lucrative enough. The small studios go for them mainly because they're relatively easy to make.
 
  
  And sadly, Daemonica is no exception. The game literally screams "amateur effort", "minimal programming" 
 and "no money".
  
  I'll assume you've read Gamespot's review, and I'll try to provide the feel of the game instead 
 of repeating what you already know:
  
  Graphically speaking, the 3rd person forced perspective reminded me most of a user-made Dungeon 
 Siege module. This feeling is reinforced by the fact that your character is never seen interacting 
 with his environment in any way apart from walking, running, or fighting. You need to pick up a 
 body and put it on a pyre? Click the body and the game will cut to a static screen showing a (rather 
 shabby) picture of your character carrying a body while a voiceover drones about what happens on 
 the way. Then you'll find yourself back in control, with your character standing next to the corpse-laden 
 pyre. Click your flintbox on the pyre - another static screen, another voiceover.
  
  Gameplay wise, combat is simplistic, rare, and feels tacked on. What few puzzles there are are 
 laughingly easy, and about half the game time will is spent looking for these silly herbs. And 
 talking of game time - it's short. Expect to finish it in 10 hours. 12 if you REALLY had trouble 
 finding these elusive "Devil's luck"s.
  
  The game actually does quite decently on the sound front: Music and sound effects are ok. Voice 
 acting is provided only for the main character - the rest of the world communicates strictly via 
 text. While the voice actor is competent enough, you'll notice a couple of gross translation errors. 
 Also, if you need any further proof of the game's low production values - during one of the aforementioned 
 static-screen/voiceover combo the narrator audibly chokes, cough, sips some water, sighs, and keeps 
 reading. That's almost hilarious enough to be worth the admission price...
  
  So why do I feel the game is not a complete failure? For starters - 
  the setting is quite original. 
 The whole summoning-the-dead shtick is done very atmospherically, and the need to find out various 
 details about the deceased in order to perform the ritual makes you take notice of what you're 
 being told by the various characters. You know little about your protagonist's past or abilities, 
 getting just enough intriguing hints to keep you interested. in general, the developers chose a 
 minimalistic approach to the storytelling and exposition - which does the game a ton of good.
 
  
  So the verdict? Considering the paucity of adventure games nowdays... Maybe. If you're really bored. 
 But definitely not for the full 30$ tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  yep thats right i rate it a 9.3 becaase i love this game and i think i rated it right so if you 
 dont like it go play some other game alright because somepeople like alright now ok well i like 
 this game because its just awsome with all the fighting and story mode or whatever you call it 
 i thought this game was great it really depends on what kind of computer you have to have a high 
 graphical computer to play this game the way you want it to and like i said i love this game i 
 play it all the time so keep it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Daemonica was not originally to be reviewed by me, but Michelle had a few problems trying to run 
 it, so I picked it up, and I'm really glad I did.
  
  Point-and-click adventures are a genre that is still alive and "clicking", and Daemonica is a very 
 good example of that.
  
  The story takes place in a medieval setting, where players step into the shoes of Nicholas Farepoynt, 
 a hunter, alchemist and detective. He is also the Haresh-al-Dorem, one who can speak to the dead 
 in the Daemonica language. If it sounds interesting its because it is.
  
  Nicholas arrives to the apparently cursed town of Cavorn to investigate the murder of a girl and 
 the disappearance of a couple. What follows is a tale of mystery and gothic horror as you struggle 
 with unfriendly locals to piece evidence together in order to perform the ritual correctly and 
 talk to the deceased victims. As you attempt to solve the murder of the girl, yet more strange 
 deaths take place.
  
  Daemonica is a 3D isometric view point-and-click adventure that has an RPG feel to it. You do a 
 lot of running around talking to people to find useful information, you do even more running around 
 gathering herbs which you need to create potions, and you do a little bit of fighting (although 
 not as much as I would expect) .
  
  The puzzle component of the game resides in interpreting riddles or putting evidence together in 
 order to perform the rituals correctly, to communicate with the soul of the deceased. This was 
 probably by far my favorite part of the game. A ritual begins by obtaining the body of a victim, 
 preparing a Soulgreep Potion and drinking it. Nicholas then recites a few words in Daemonica and 
 is taken away to the realm of the dead. In the Temple of Sacrifice, you must first observe how 
 your victim has died and approach the correct door. In the room with the altars, you must decide 
 what the victim's life was driven by, what was their birth sign and which demon will you call. 
 What really made my delight (so to speak) was how Nicholas used the altars. A sacrifice of blood 
 is required to operate the altars, so each altar has two spikes where he places his palms to bleed 
 into the basin. For some reason, I thought that was extremely well done, and I was really impressed 
 by that small detail.
  
  Graphically, although it may not seem very elaborated at first glance, when you're actually playing 
 the game you realize how detailed the textures are: murals in the Temple, bricks on the monastery 
 walls, engravings in stone walls, the flowers on the herbs you pick for your potions. The lighting 
 effects also add greatly to the atmosphere.
  
  The sound effects are appropriate, and I especially liked the environmental sounds. Birds, footsteps, 
 rain falling, the river waters running, the blacksmith working, they all sound very realistic and 
 they pull you right into the story. There is nearly no voice acting aside from Nicholas' monologues, 
 which are very well done and tie in the events perfectly, and his words in Daemonica, which I particularly 
 enjoyed. 
  
  The soundtrack is just amazing, very well executed and it's not overwhelming. It blends in medieval 
 melodies and church choirs and helps set the mood throughout the game, be it a grave tone that 
 inspires fear or mystery or a more light-hearted atmosphere suitable for an inn.
  
  The game world is fairly small (there's the town, a little bit of the outskirts, a very small mine, 
 the underground tunnels of a crypt to explore) and I do wish it was larger, but it is just enough 
 to house the plot and relevant characters. There are a few side-quests (if you can call them that) 
 that are completely optional but only add to the main story, for example, finding the injured landlord 
 and clear the way to his house or save the inkeeper from a zombie attack.
  
  The only major downfall is the short duration. If you do all that you can, youre probably aiming 
 at 12-15 hours of gameplay. There are three different endings, but they are only affected by one 
 final choice. 
  
  Daemonica has an engaging and intense storyline balanced by a very simple and relaxed style of 
 gameplay, which makes it accessible to anyone. The medieval gothic horror theme may not be enjoyed 
 by everyone, but murders, demons and zombies never make for uninteresting adventures. I sincerely 
 hope there will be more of Nicholas Farepoynt's adventures in the future. Daemonica does leave 
 you wanting more.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full review and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=daemonica
  
  Walkthrough at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/guide. php? g=daemonica 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a great adventure game, one that any fan of the genre should play and keep for his collection.
 
  
  The atmosphere is great, reminds me of diablo 1 a little bit; perhaps because it was the same time 
 period, or similar (or so I think) . The sound is excellent, the story is just awesome and the gameplay 
 is surprisingly good. The playing perspective is like Dungeon Siege, but remember - this is a quest, 
 not a rpg like that one.
  
  The fights are rare, they are at most necessary for the story; fighting is simple and minimal, 
 you have hit and block and that's it - not that you'd need more - it's a quest after all.
  
  One thing I found peculiar is that the rats are kind of big. I believe that this is intended 
 though, to show that they were many rats in that period carrying the bubonic plague (also known 
 as the Black Death which is mentioned in the game and is part of the story) .
  
  Now let's get to the part where you can hear what's wrong with the game :P
  
  The game has 
 too many loading screens, that even on a high-end system last at least 10 seconds. Here I should 
 mention that you will despise them and get bored to death if you have a slower pc as they'll take 
 a long time and you'll see them very often. Well that's the only thing "wrong", the next to follow 
 could just not be so... enjoyable to certain players:
  
  At first you might walk around not knowing where to go, until you learn the map and discover the 
 locations - but you need to travel a lot anyway, so... get used to it :P
  
  You also have to go hunting for herbs (plants, flowers) to make your potions - again, you have 
 to know the map in order to know where to find them and that means you need to walk around the 
 map a lot. Some people might not enjoy that... but it's sort of expected in this game. It would 
 be weird not to walk and search for them.
  
  There is a bit of reading involved - so if you're just looking for a game where you solve various 
 puzzles - this is not the game for you. The story is in the texts. :)
  
  The game has few bugs, minor at most and just like any fan of the genre would rate this game highly, 
 so did I.
  
  I have to say it but I didn't expect so much from such a small game though. Excellent! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
