-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dangerous Waters
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/dangerouswaters/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Models multiple platforms without skimping on detail.
 Fantastic printed manual.
 Interesting multiplayer options.
 Great campaign mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fair graphics and sound.
 Too much detail for most.
 Printed manual costs extra but is worth it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 12, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 321 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Battlefront. com
Developer: Sonalysts
Genre: Submarine Sim
Date:     Feb 22, 2005 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's enough in Dangerous Waters to keep even the most demanding naval sim fan happy for years. 
 

  The phrase "survey sim" is enough to make hardcore simulation fans run for cover. These types of 
 games, which attempt to cover an assortment of different weapon platforms in a single package, 
 generally are aimed at casual users and rarely have the fidelity of simulations that focus on one 
 thing. Leave it to Sonalysts to create a modern-day naval survey simulation that has the breadth 
 and depth of the oceans where the combat it simulates takes place.  

          The FFG-7 gives you a chance to experience naval combat from the other side of the waterline. 
     

  Sonalysts' last game, Sub Command, let you control Seawolf, 688 (I) , and Akula submarines and was 
 notable for its slavish attention to detail despite modeling multiple subs. Dangerous Waters includes 
 those subs, plus the ultraquiet diesel/electric Kilo class, and it also lets you take command above 
 the waterline by including an Oliver Hazard Perry FFG-7 destroyer, a P3-C Orion reconnaissance/antisubmarine 
 plane, and an MH-60R antisubmarine helicopter. There's enough in this package to keep even the 
 most demanding naval sim fan happy for years.  

  Anyone who has played Sub Command will be familiar with the insane level of detail modeled in this 
 game. Each platform has multiple stations, ranging from radar and sonar rooms to weapon control 
 and navigation consoles, and you are free to skip back and forth between stations to perform nearly 
 all of the tasks associated with operating these subs, ships, and aircraft. Each station represents 
 the one found in its real-world counterpart, so the sonar station in the Akula looks nothing like 
 the more advanced station found in the Seawolf. Each platform also has some unique capabilities 
 that must be mastered, and learning even the basics of how they all work -- both individually and 
 in conjunction with other platforms -- requires a huge time investment.  

  A dizzying array of equipment is modeled, and those unfamiliar with it will be lost immediately. 
 Beyond the myriad torpedoes, missiles, and other weapon systems (many of which are programmable, 
 adding an extra layer of complexity) , there are several types of sonobuoys, sonar, radar, and other 
 equipment, each with multiple settings to worry about. The interface for accessing and programming 
 everything is fairly slick once you get used to it, but that assumes you already know the basics 
 of naval warfare. For example, hunting a submarine in the destroyer requires plotting a route for 
 the helicopter, knowing what types of sonobuoys to employ (along with where to drop them and what 
 settings to use) , and managing multiple data telemetry screens to read the information coming from 
 the buoys. Beyond that there is the ship's own sonar system, towed array, and radar system to monitor, 
 navigation orders to give, and a host of other duties to perform. Once you find the sub, you then 
 have to deal with the problems of plotting a firing solution, selecting a weapon that will get 
 the job done, and launching it at the right time, and antisub warfare represents just a tiny fraction 
 of what this game offers.  

  Dangerous Waters expands on the fascinating campaign system pioneered in Sub Command, and it works 
 very well. The premise is that there is a revolution in Russia, and you can command American, Chinese, 
 or Russian vessels and aircraft in a fairly realistic simulation of war. At the start of the campaign 
 it is important to recon the opposing side to figure out its intentions, but if you get too aggressive 
 or are spotted spying, you can trigger hostilities prematurely. The American units are the most 
 interesting to play in the campaign since it's not clear for a long time which side of the revolution 
 you should support, and it's rare to see a simulation model the real-world complexities of a modern-day 
 Cold War so well. Although the basics of the campaigns are always the same, the ability to play 
 it from the perspective of all of the sides while never knowing exactly how or when events will 
 unfold offers nearly limitless replayability. A variety of single missions are available for those 
 who don't want to play the entire campaign, and a full mission editor is included if you want to 
 roll your own scenarios.  

          Aircraft are included, but don't expect Flight Simulator 2004 fidelity.     

  Multiplayer 
 is interesting in that you are free to each take command of an individual ship, plane, sub, or 
 helicopter, but you also can work cooperatively by crewing different stations on the same platform. 
 This opens up all sorts of interesting possibilities, like one person commanding the FFG-7 while 
 a buddy flies its helicopter and sends data back, or one person classifying targets while another 
 works out firing solutions on the Target Motion Analysis screen. It would take a lot of like-minded 
 friends to crew an entire sub, ship, or plane, but at least the possibility exists.     

  While the subs and destroyer work like most people would expect, aircraft are handled a little 
 differently. The flight model is rudimentary compared to a dedicated flight simulator, and both 
 the Orion and the MH-60R are designed to be flown on autopilot 99 percent of the time so you are 
 free to focus on other, more important stations. It is possible to grab a joystick and control 
 the aircraft manually, but flying these types of aircraft is so much more boring than operating 
 the other stations that we can't imagine anyone would want to spend a lot of time in the pilot's 
 seat. The bottom line is that you won't miss out on anything if you don't have a joystick or gamepad, 
 because the flight simulation aspects of this game are extremely basic.  

          Much of the game is spent looking at displays like this sonar screen.     

  Silent 
 Hunter III set the bar so high for graphics in a naval sim that Dangerous Waters doesn't even have 
 to bend over backward to limbo under it. The 3D graphics are merely functional, with blocky ships, 
 simple textures, weak special effects, and no flair whatsoever. That's understandable considering 
 this game is intended for the type of people who disable the 3D view because it "isn't realistic," 
 but the visuals haven't progressed much since Sub Command was released back in 2001. The individual 
 stations inside the ships are modeled using detailed but fairly low-resolution 2D graphics that 
 add a lot of flavor to the sim. Most importantly, the screens you spend the most time looking at, 
 like the waterfall displays and nav map, are all rendered clearly, so although the graphics don't 
 necessarily enhance the gameplay, at least they never impede it.  

  Considering this game comes from a company that specializes in acoustic research, the sound effects 
 and music are pretty bad. Fortunately the soundtrack can be switched off, but that still leaves 
 you listening to flat crew voices and mechanical sound effects that merely get the job done. On 
 the plus side, if you have a microphone, speech commands are fully implemented, and they are a 
 great alternative to clicking through interface menus.  

  Although it is possible to automate practically every aspect of the game, there is still so much 
 to understand and manage that newcomers to the genre should steer clear. This is the type of sim 
 that caters to people who already know the differences between VLAD, DICASS, and DIFAR sonobuoys, 
 know what TMA is (and how to do it) , and know the basic roles and capabilities of all of the platforms 
 modeled in the game. If Silent Hunter III made your head spin, Dangerous Waters will tear it clean 
 off. It is complex, demanding, and about as far from casual as a sim can get.  

  That said, the 570-page spiral-bound manual included with the deluxe version of the game does an 
 excellent job of covering every aspect of the game in great detail, so Dangerous Waters is learnable 
 if you're willing to put in a lot of reading time. A training section provides newcomers with easy 
 access to everything they need to know about the basics, including the types of sonobuoys to deploy 
 in various situations and a description of the basics of sonar, and Sub Command vets are free to 
 flip directly to the detailed descriptions of any of the platforms they want to try out and dive 
 right in. Those who don't opt for the deluxe edition are stuck with the same manual in PDF format, 
 and the printed version is definitely worth the extra 10 bucks.  

          A full mission editor is included, with assets from a staggering variety of nationalities. 
     

  Even if you are interested only in submarines and already have Sub Command, the inclusion of the 
 Kilo class is practically worth the price of upgrading all by itself. The subs modeled in the previous 
 game were all nuclear-powered, and operating a diesel/electric hybrid like the Kilo offers an entirely 
 new set of strengths and weaknesses to learn. While it can't operate underwater for years at a 
 time like the nuclear subs, running on battery power makes it the quietest sub in the entire game, 
 and it is possible to detect other units in a Kilo from much longer ranges than they can "see" 
 you. The symbiotic relationship between the destroyer and helicopter is fun to explore, and the 
 Orion is interesting enough that an entire sim could be dedicated to it alone. Fortunately we don't 
 have to deal with that compromise, as Dangerous Waters is an embarrassment of riches for naval 
 sim fans who may feel a little guilty about having to pay so little for so much.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ltsabred
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  The phrase survey sim is enough to make hardcore simulation fans run for cover. These types of 
 games, which attempt to cover an assortment of different weapon platforms in a single package, 
 generally are aimed at casual users and rarely have the fidelity of simulations that focus on one 
 thing. Leave it to Sonalysts to create a modern-day naval survey simulation that has the breadth 
 and depth of the oceans where the combat it simulates takes place. The FFG-7 gives you a chance 
 to experience naval combat from the other side of the waterline. Sonalysts' last game, Sub Command, 
 let you control Seawolf, 688 (I) , and Akula submarines and was notable for its slavish attention 
 to detail despite modeling multiple subs. Dangerous Waters includes those subs, plus the ultraquiet 
 diesel/electric Kilo class, and it also lets you take command above the waterline by including 
 an Oliver Hazard Perry FFG-7 destroyer, a P3-C Orion reconnaissance/antisubmarine plane, and an 
 MH-60R antisubmarine helicopter. There's enough in this package to keep even the most demanding 
 naval sim fan happy for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I have played (not really the right term for these sims) Sonalysts' outings since "688-Attack Sub". 
 The follow-ups, "688i" released by Janes Simulations was close to perfect, and "Seawolf" was the 
 crowning glory. The manual bby Janes was huge, like a Midshipman's text book at Annapolis. But 
 it together with the program made a great product all round. Then came "Sub Command". Oh, that 
 was dreadful. What happened? The missions were far more difficult (and not by design for the player) . There 
 was crazy scripting from the first training mission... "Sail within 2 km of friendly cruiser and 
 simuate torpedo attack without firing and without being detected". We had our compasses and rulers 
 out, placed on the monitor to measure 2 km etc. Impossible. The graphics too began a downward slip. 
 Now we have this monster. Nothing really new. Trying to be "Harpoon" in 3rd person mode and with 
 graphics that make the 1st game look goooood! (If you own "Silent Hunter 3", or 2 for that matter 
 don't even look at the screenshots of this) . The gaming experience is even more complicated by 
 introducing 3 more platforms (chopper, plane etc) and ends up an exercise in confusion, and ugly 
 looking at that. Hooeee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HydroShok
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  This game is a hardcore simualtor. Every little detail has to be in there. In the end, all you 
 can do is drive your platform, use your sensors to detect the enemies or neutrals, then either 
 you can blow it up or you can't. Its really a simple game for as hard as they make it to play. 
 I've gotten used to it and know how to play it and have been a big fan of previous SCS games but 
 this one really lets me down. Its the third game they've put out in almost 10 years running off 
 what looks like the same engine. Every game I ever seen in my whole life, by the time it gets to 
 that point, is bugged out pretty hard. And 688 and sub command always had a few bugs and would 
 crash every few hours, so I was skeptical from the start about DW. Sure enough my fears were confirmed, 
 the music is all skippy and botched in this game. Only idea i have is that it doesn't like onboard 
 sound. I even waited almost a year to buy the game in retail instead of mail order and still, bugs 
 haven't been sorted out yet.
  
  688 was just one sub, then sub command gave you russian and american subs and now DW is out. Its 
 the same game except now you can drive a Frigate, P3 orion, or MH-60, or even a desiel Kilo too. 
 But all these units dont go together at once in a multiplayer game, because the weapons dont match, 
 there is no balance or gameplay with them. So people online just go back to the subs only style 
 from ten years ago, sheesh. There are dozens of other ships and subs in the game, but you can't 
 control them in any way and their AI is absolutely retarded to the max. They just wont fire but 
 very little weapons and their sensors are bad, just very weak oppenents and very unpredictable. 
 They cant see you right there up close most of the time, unless its an AI controlled platform that 
 a player could control, all non controllables in the game are totally unimpressive.
  
  FFG-Its torpedoes only have 7 mile range, when the subs torp have a 27 mile range. The subs can 
 hear the FFG miles further away too. The FFG is basically useless without its helo. Only its helo 
 can deal with subs but the FFG helo is not the same thing in game as the controllable helo, even 
 though both are MH-60's. FFG helo is fixed at 300ft altitude and cant go farther than about 35 
 miles from the FFG without losing radio contact and you lose control of it. You can't alter its 
 buoy loadout either. Even more stupid, it takes up to 30 minutes for an FFG helo to land. Its easy 
 for the subs to shoot down with a SAM. Yes... the subs actually have SAM's in this game. The frigate 
 can only shoot 2 missiles at a time, and on top of that it can shoot a max of 4 harpoons with a 
 very slow reload time. Its cannon only has 10 mile range, so its never used. They should have simulated 
 any ship in the US Navy EXCEPT the Oliver hazard perry, undoubtedly teh sux lamest ship they could 
 have picked. Spruance, tico, burke, would have made more sense x10. But this game can't handle 
 those advanced ships. Whenever countless ppl ask for Tico in the boards, theres some loser whining 
 about,"This game is ASW only", like they're trying to kiss ass and get a job at SCS or something.
 
  
  P3- It carries 84 buoys. In most conditions it cant detect subs up to 6 miles from the buoy. Online 
 games dont have any time compression, so you really cant mix subs and the P3 online without having 
 the worlds hugest maps that nobody will ever want to play. A handfull of buoys covers the typical 
 size area you play with subs online. Also, the P3's missiles greatly outranges the FFG's sams. 
 So the P3 outranges everything in this game, both player controlled surface and subs. All other 
 players online cant touch it, without using a modded version of the game.
  
  helo- It only carries 3 torpedoes, so it has to reload often. Problem is, the realism geeks that 
 play this game want quick aircraft launch off. Nobody wants to wait literally 30 minutes or more 
 to reload online (on top of the 30 minutes it takes for the AI to land, for a total hour) . Since 
 its got the same weapons as the P3 already has, it isn't even worth picking. If you use the dipping 
 sonar, a sub will just shoot a SAM at you.
  
  Nuclear Subs- Ok, so you've detected each other. One guy shoots, then the other guy shoots, then 
 you run away from each other. Russian subs can shoot missiles that drop torps in the water dozens 
 of miles away, the US subs launch torps, but you have to be about 8 miles from the target or else 
 he'll just outrun the torp. I just summed up all the gameplay you'll ever find in this game online 
 in one paragraph, especially after you've learned the game.
  
  Kilo- All of its slow torpedos have a max range of 10 miles at best. So its always outranged by 
 all enemy vessels. Its basically agreed amongst everyone that its a total P. O. S. Minus a few obsessed 
 realism nerds that don't care about gameplay, only quote unquote "realism". Definitely one too 
 many know it alls in this community. 
  
  BUGS!!!- The music skips all the time in this game and I've reinstalled it several times. All of 
 a sudden, after the game had been out for a year already, they released a patch that the totally 
 screwed up the subs physics and messed up the torpedoes homing ping. Whenever a sub surfaces, the 
 back end up it raises above the front of the sub, like a chinook taking off, its exactly backwards. 
 The same bug causes the Towed Array to be broken online in some subs, which ruins the game. They 
 still haven't fixed the unlimited missle bug in the FFG. And this was a patch supposedly ready 
 to go, they were just waiting on steam to finish or whatever. For an engine thats been around for 
 almost ten years, you kinda expect that crap like this wouldn't just pop up out of nowhere. What 
 makes me sick, is when the realism nerds who have taken over the game try to say that broken towed 
 arrays are a realistic part of the game. Yeah, like alluva sudden after the same engine has been 
 out for ten years.
  
  MODS- S. C. S doesn't support mods fully anymore. Basically no new decent platforms can be created, 
 only modding of the existing stuff. So most of the gameplay issues I pointed out above cannot be 
 fixed. Im surprised that most of the community in this game hasn't just modded unreal or half life 
 or something because it would be ten times better than this 10 year old rehashed engine from the 
 jurassic age that has more and more bugs as they try to push it harder and harder. People actually 
 try to redo 3d models for the ships, but hey, by the time you do you all that, you can just import 
 into another engine, mod the rocket launcher, and boom, have your own mod. All the time thats been 
 spent modding this game thats so resticted in what you can do, could have been spent making another 
 mod for a different engine. The engine struggles to do very little, its not optimized at all. This 
 game, oooops excuse me i mean naval simulation, at best serves as an inspiration for ppl who can 
 make mods for bigger and better engines, for free.
  
  Online games consist of trading IP's, ICQ, joining fleets, they STILL, dont have a dedicated server, 
 or a master server, or even an all seeing eye. The community basically consists of 40 year olds 
 living in their moms basement who know every little nut and bolt on a Spruance DD, you can't tell 
 them anything, they know everything. 
  
  This game is soooooo old. I don't see how ppl can still play this game. Sub vs. Sub online has 
 been beat into the ground and is now old as dirt. Its older than CS ffs. Its basically 688 w/ a 
 few unbalanced weapons added. The new units in game don't work out online with the subs, realism 
 or not, the air just pwns too much, the FFG is useless against nuke subs.
  
  If you're really interesting in nuclear subs, and haven't played 688i or Sub Command, then you 
 might like this game, but it is very time consuming to learn and has a few bugs. If you have played 
 688i or SC, then this game won't be very different to you, especially by the time you play online. 
 
  
  SCS needs to wake up and give ppl what they demand. 688i III doesn't count. Or else we'll just 
 figure they are crazy for turning down money.
  
  REALISM is not an excuse for BAD GAMEPLAY.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I love anything military related which is probably down to the fact that my Father was 
 in the Air Force when I was growing up!
  
  Now, this really is a very deep and immersive simulation game and you are going to need to put 
 some serious time into playing and learning this game or you won't get the best experience out 
 of it.
  
  So far, I have played for about 30 hours and I have to say that the developers seem to have thought 
 of everything. What will strike you first is the size of the manual, almost 500 pages in total. 
 This really is a complete package.
  
  The game provides a pretty lengthy campaign that will keep you entertained for a very long time. 
 There are a near infinite number of single player missions to plough through, which with the campaign 
 should keep you busy.
  
  You can control surface units as well as submarines and although everything can be overridden and 
 controlled manually, it can also be run by the computer for you. This is invaluable at the start 
 until you get to grips with how it all works.
  
  The graphics are not the best in the current gaming world but they do the job perfectly and in 
 a strange way, contribute to the overall tenseness of the game.
  
  I would definitely give this game a try if you have even a faint interest in the Navy and are looking 
 for a deep and suspense filled strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dillon18
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the strangest games I have ever purchased, after reading the very interesting box 
 advertisment, I picked it up. Let me tell anyone already, it is nothing like it says. I didn't 
 know were to start at first, because I didn't know how to play it.... and guess what? No tutorial.... first 
 time I actually needed one! This game is pointless from the start, just to get the bloody ship 
 out of port takes a half hour! Not-to-boot, if you engage enemies, by the time you get to the weapons 
 platform and manage to try to defend yourself, your ship is sinking. 
  
  Impossible to figure out, and there is only a few surface craft to choose from, this game is dominated 
 by submarines! Not how the box shows it! The box shows a surface-fleet (inner part) , not a fleet 
 of submarines. This game is not a fleet-type naval game, it is nothing like it says, everything 
 is flawed, the targeting, the navigation, the learning curve.... everything. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furia_spain
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  As a long time Naval sim player, Dangareus Waters have brought what we have been looking for since 
 long ago. Multiple platforms that can be controlled by several players at the same time so now 
 we can have a submarine with 4 human crew members controlling it online against a Frigate and its 
 helo also controlled by several players at the same time.
  Each player can control different stations like it is done on real life.
  Realism and technicallity 
 are not matched by other games.
  Although graphics are not its stromg point, it realism and multiplayer possibilities will make 
 it a game to be played for long, long time.
  It has no dynamic campaing, but it does not really need it because the ammount of scenarios already 
 released by the comunity and the always changing multiplayer sittuations make it a sim you can 
 hardy get bored with it.
  Not recomended for thos who want to fire 24 torpedos the last 3 minutes of game. Surely not an 
 arcade sim, but this is the most real you can get without joining the real Navy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Montu5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  If u re a simulation fan, this is the game ti get. It combines simulation with WWII and its great. 
 When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishpunk90
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  The game can be summarized in one simpe phrase: what the hell am I doing? In this game, you are 
 put in command of a helicopter or submarine. Unfortunately, you are not shown how to fly/use these 
 crafts and are stuck figuring out the immensly complicated control systems yourself. You have to 
 control the ships from all different stations, and this makes it tough to do something simple like 
 attack another ship. By the time you figure out how to use your ship (the "tutorial" is just a 
 mission with no instructions) , you will likely have already failed you mission. All in all, this 
 game is only for uber-harcdcore naval sim fans and should not even be considered by anyone else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toaman89
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:26 pm PT
Review:  One thing that is required in this game is patience. Of course I have to admit that I've pressed 
 that "Show Truth" box when I was frustrated, but once I figured out how to operate the sonar and 
 all of the other stations involved in the platform I was using, the game became very entertaining. 
 Those of us "Hunt for Red October" fans just love the idea of being able to sneak up behind a Russian 
 Typhoon and blowing out of the water with out even giving them a chance to know where you were! 
 I do have to say that this game is fun for those of us who invest a lot of our time in video games. 
 This game is not for those who like to just go and shoot something. That is one of the few drawbacks. 
 I enjoyed the authenticity of the stations that are at your disposal, once I figured out how they 
 worked. The game needs to have more ships at your disposal in my opinion. For instance, we should 
 be able to sail around in a Nimitz class carrier, launching fighter jets and supporting huge Naval 
 operations. Thats what I thought and think about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarZebra
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what was on the minds of the developers as they published this demo, but enjoyablity 
 was not an important factor. This was one of the most boring games I have played. I don't want 
 to get all the Naval Sim guys after me, I really looked forward to this as an update of my beloved 
 Jane's Fleet Commander game. It might be, but I remember Fleed Commander being fun, this was not 
 fun. I admit trying to discern sonar was a nice novalty, and yes, life is for the most part boring, 
 that's why I play games, to make it less boring. Maybe I'm just upset because my Comm Tower exploded 
 completely without warning, maybe I just want my life back. I might just head back to Jane's and 
 launch a rediculous amount of Tomahawks at some Soviets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2005 6:26 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, when I first saw this game, I thought, Harpoon 4 finally, but this game isn't 
 even close. Instead what you get is a boring, single platform game that will put you to sleep real 
 quickly.
  First off, the game looks good, real good, the ships and the choppers are very well done. The land 
 area isnt very nice, but the surface water and ships look damn good. The sounds are pretty much 
 what you expect in a sim of this nature, not a lot, but passable.
  The problem starts when you start playing the game. You can take control of USS Oliver Hazard Perry 
 frigate, which is way cool; you also have at your deposal 2 helos that are about as useless as 
 popcorn to the ship. You lunch them, and other then a few things, they just seem to fly around 
 and do very little. You can control them to a point, but during a fast moving battle, the controls 
 are so out of place and useless, I tend not to even bother with them, and they have no AI mind 
 of their own, so they just seem to fly the opposite direction that you need them in. You can also 
 control an Akula class sub, and a P-3 Orion, but I got bored with that pretty fast. The real reason 
 I wanted this game was, for surface action, and its just not that much fun. I felt handcuff the 
 whole time. Like the game was design to piss you off, more then aid you in playing this sim. The 
 one is a big pass to me, and if you are looking for Harpoon 4, keep looking, because this not it!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 19, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  This game appears to be have been developed out of Sub Command, and Im not sure that that it has 
 has moved in the right direction. Instead of focusing resources on improving one thing, DW goes 
 broad, combining several platforms into one game, and allows the user to pick and control one platform 
 during a scenario. I would have preferred more focus in improving the sub platform, perhaps adding 
 more functionality to the subs such as more stations and more detailed equipment, or introducing 
 something innovative with the subs interior. As it stands now, all platform stations have the same 
 look and feel as Sub Commands from several years ago, and indeed the three Nuclear sub interiors 
 are identical to Sub Commands! The exterior view graphics are an improvement over Sub Command, 
 but they are one generation behind todays graphics and are no competition for games like Silent 
 Hunter III.
  
  Although theres nothing revolutionary about this game, it IS a good solid tactics and strategy 
 simulator for those who are interested in modern day Naval warfare. Like Sub Commander, it gives 
 you valuable insight into some of the highly specialised equipment, tactics and combat techniques 
 in use by the Worlds most powerful Navies, but its all a bit too much like playing Sub Command.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 5, 2005 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played this game enough to give a real review but thought some might appreciate some 
 initial comments.
  
  First of all this game is NOT Fleet Command 2. You are not a fleet commander moving all your assets 
 around and playing the big naval battle. With Dangerous Waters you are a platform captain and/or 
 crew. You have control of ONE platform (Oliver Hazard Perry FFG, various subs, MH-60R, P3 Orion) 
 during a scenario. You get TOTAL control of that platform right down to some seriously detailed 
 station displays such as sonar stations, navigation and weapons. 
  
  All stations do have auto-crew and thus you can take on the 'captain' persona a bit and deal with 
 the larger picture of fighting your platform but you'll still need to get down into some of the 
 detail. This is how I've been playing so far trying to get comfortable this way before tackling 
 any of the stations in detail.
  
  If you always wanted to man a sonar display, navigation plot table, or radar station this is the 
 game for you! If you hoped for maybe an improved Fleet Command game (or more of a Harpoon type 
 game) this game is probably not for you.
  
  As in the various Sub Command games from Sonalysts the graphics are good but not great (basically 
 a generation back) but serve their purpose just fine. I am unqualified to comment on the accuracy 
 of any of the displays or functions but they sure seem good. From a game-play perspective the game 
 may be too realistic for its own good. This means you'll have hours of boredom (well perhaps not 
 depending how much you enjoy looking at a waterfall display while listening for noises) interspersed 
 with a few minutes of exciting and fast moving action.
  
  There is a scenario editor that helps immensely while learning the game allowing you to set up 
 known situations so you can see how the various stations react. This also gives a long useful life 
 to the game and many scenarios are certainly going to be made available for download.
  
  Overall Dangerous Waters is probably a very good game for those serious sim fanatics with a solid 
 interest in the subject matter and who are willing to spend the hours needed to learn the game 
 well. For someone expecting a 'lighter' game you should look elsewhere. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
