-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: DarkStar One
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/darkstarone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Straightforward economics and gentle learning curve let you dive into the game.
 Good variety of assignments take you from bounty hunting to outright piracy.
 Moves fast, so you can start making money and upgrading your ship right away.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls are overly twitchy, and there's no way to dial down mouse sensitivity.
 You can't ditch a mission, even if you lack the skill or tech to finish it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.2, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,624 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Ascaron Ent. GmbH
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Aug 14, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
DarkStar One lets you finally take to the space lanes like a Han Solo, not a stockbroker for hire. 
 

  "Keep it simple, stupid" isn't a credo that space-sim developers have subscribed to over the years. 
 While other games have practically beaten players senseless with the complicated economics of buying 
 and selling futuristic space-goods, the developers of DarkStar One apparently realized that some 
 of us just want to be Han Solo. This game "gets" the template of 1985's Commodore 64 classic Elite 
 in a way that many other space-trading games released over the past decade or so didn't, thanks 
 to its emphasis on the mid-'80s classic's simple principles of buying low, selling high, and blasting 
 pirates for fun and profit. It comes with a few minor problems in the fit-and-finish department, 
 but the game is still an outstanding return to the frontier spirit that made Elite so memorable. 

          Hope you like dogfighting with space pirates, because you'll be doing a lot of it here. 
     

  As with all space traders, the story revolves around a man of mystery with a brand-new spaceship, 
 enigmatic aliens on the attack, and a few dozen planets producing merchandise you can haul around 
 the galaxy to make a few bucks. This time out the man is Kayron Jarvis, the mystery to be unraveled 
 is the identity of his father's murderer, the nasty aliens are the biomechanical Thul, and the 
 galaxy is a few hundred star systems with suitably sci-fi names like Pachae and Cloosa.  

  Gameplay options are predictable, too. You can stick close to the main story missions (which spin 
 an interesting tale, if you can endure the after-school-special quality of the voice acting) ; take 
 assignments on offer in spaceports; escort cargo vessels; follow up rumors of illegal activity 
 in certain systems; get into side missions dealing with assassinations, hidden star systems, corporate 
 malfeasance, and more; and schlep goods like machinery, spirits, precious metals, and superconductors 
 from one system to another. Depending on the assignments you accept, you'll eventually become notorious 
 in one of six career paths that range from mercenary to trader to flat-out killer. The basic idea 
 is to follow the main story, make as much money on the side as possible, and outfit your ship -- the 
 DarkStar One, natch -- into one seriously cherry ride.  

  But even though all of the above plays pretty much strictly by the book, DarkStar One feels fresh. 
 The big reason for this is a relatively simplistic approach to everything and a user-friendly core. 
 Missions feature a fair bit of variety, involving everything from covert listening ops to blasting 
 an entire pirate gang to smithereens, but they never stray far from quick, action-oriented goals 
 that keep you interested. Even the routine job of picking up an abandoned cargo container typically 
 turns into a dogfight, as you can bet that pirates will locate the goods before you do.  

  A fair bit of money is on the table right from the beginning, too, so there's no boring grind involved 
 in earning enough cash to buy upgrades for your ship. You can start outfitting Mk II laser cannons, 
 missile launchers, an afterburner boost, an upgraded jump drive, and many more goodies after just 
 a handful of quick missions. This lets you play the game as a gung-ho space sim, as there is enough 
 cash on offer for pirate bounties alone to allow you to skip trading almost entirely.  

  If you do want to get into transporting goods, though, you don't have to jump through hoops and 
 track the value of items in a hundred to make a buck (as was the case in, for example, X3: Reunion) . 
 The market system here is beautifully stripped down to its essentials, meaning all you have to 
 do to turn a profit is buy goods in a system that produces them and sell them in a system that 
 doesn't. There are some variables to consider, such as the wealth and type of government of the 
 system where you're doing business, and whether or not the goods you're transporting are legal 
 (police ships scan you for contraband like drugs or androids on entry to Galactic Union systems) , 
 but trading overall is very easy to manage.  

  With no economic learning curve, you can dive into the game headfirst. Making big bucks in the 
 trading game is as simple as buying crystals at the service colony of Athasho for 40 credits each 
 and selling them at the agricultural colony of Yarie, which specializes in carbohydrates and proteins, 
 for 90 credits each. All the essential information about each system is displayed on the galactic 
 map screen, so you can plan lucrative, multistop trading expeditions in seconds. Devote a few hours 
 to plying the trade routes and you can hoard tens of thousands of credits in your bank account, 
 which is plenty of cash to really trick out the DarkStar One.  

  But you don't always have to add mechanical gizmos to your vessel. Unlike the ships in other space 
 traders, the DarkStar One is a partially organic entity that can be buffed much like the run-of-the-mill 
 fighter or cleric in an RPG. Ancient artifacts found in asteroids scattered all over the map can 
 be absorbed and used like experience points to power your ship in various ways, like growing larger 
 wings so that you can mount dual laser cannons. You also have an upgradable plasma weapon that 
 boosts your ship's firepower and provides the ability to snap up a defensive shield.  

  Just a few headaches interfere with your career as a space rogue. Most notably, we encountered 
 a bug that caused serious slowdowns. Everything would be fine one moment, then we would warp into 
 a new system and immediately enter slide-show territory. Only restarting the game would get things 
 back to the normal visuals, which are smooth-flowing with pretty, if a touch dated, asteroid-strewn 
 space vistas dominated by gorgeous planets and shining suns. These wonderful pieces of spatial 
 scenery sometimes come together into these postcard-like panorama scenes that can be simply breathtaking. 
 Dated as the graphics engine sometimes looks, it's also capable of real beauty.  

  Unfortunately, that amazing scenery suffers due to over-repetition. As great as the game tends 
 to look, the developers reused the same art for many of the planetary trade stations where you 
 do your business. So you see the exact same aliens hanging out around the exact same tables in 
 one system after another, which doesn't do much to promote the idea that you're traveling across 
 the galaxy. Systems overall have too much of a been-there, done-that feel, as almost all of them 
 all feature the same layout of a planet, a trade station, and an asteroid field. Audio suffers 
 from the same problem, with a monotonous musical score and enemies who recite no more than a dozen 
 or so canned threats and screams during dogfights.  

          Trading is an easy, buy-low, sell-high experience that you don't need an economics degree 
 to figure out.     

  The interface could use a little work, too. While it is easy to control the DarkStar One with a 
 joystick or gamepad, mouse-and-keyboard movement is twitchy and there is no way to adjust mouse 
 sensitivity. And although the in-game tutorials and gradual learning curve make it a snap to get 
 into the game right away, some missions aren't properly explained. Sometimes you're left hanging 
 in space without a clue what to do. Compounding the problem is how the game lets you take missions 
 that you have no way of completing at present (for instance, when the system you need to visit 
 is outside of the range of your current jump drive) , but it doesn't provide an immediate way to 
 drop them (you need to leave the system in question to fail a mission and clear it from your roster) . 

  But although the flaws in DarkStar One can lead to some frustration, they never get in the way 
 of that "just one more mission" mojo that can keep you playing the game into the wee hours of the 
 morning. Fans of space traders shouldn't miss out on this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (90 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WildRaven8472
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Generally i trust Gamespot reviews and after playing through Freelancer multiple times and finding 
 it a somewhat addictive (though admittedly repetitive) game i was looking forward to this as a 
 possible replacement for a game which, sadly, is starting to show it's age.
  After launching the game i was immediately put off by the unexpectedly high lag. When passing the 
 minimum requirements and even JUST reaching the recommended requirements you expect the game to 
 run a bit more smoothly on minimum settings. Ignoring this i pressed into the game and after only 
 about 10 minutes or so the game crashed. After a quick 'oh well' i restarted the game and continued 
 from where it auto-saved... only to have the game crash again a few minutes later.
  After installing the 1.3 patch not only does it still crash repeatedly but i also have an issue 
 with the sound. After two hours of going through settings and even reinstalling the game i got 
 nowhere solving the problems and so it's allready been un-installed.
  Bugs aside, the voice acting was terrible and what little i saw of DarkStar One actually looked 
 pretty uninspiring. If you're after a good space-sim then stick to Freelancer. It's 'replacement' 
 doesnt exist yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FyreHeart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the best space sim that has come out in years. It has gorgeous graphics, solid sound and 
 voice acting, an immersive story, detailed universe, and fun gameplay.
  
  Your ship is actually organic, and "grows" with experience, giving you automatic upgrades the longer 
 you play. As the ship grows you can also add purchased upgrades, so there's a level of customization 
 allowed, but not the degree that economy driven games require. The universe is vast, and you can 
 explore freely, though the story line leads you along and exploration is essentially optional. 
 The side missions are pretty minimal, so there's not a big reward for exploring outside the story 
 line. The various races feel alien, too, so it's intriguing and threatening to interact with them. 
 There are lots more story possibilities in the universe they've created.
  
  The story line is solid - a scifi epic that it's fun to get swept up in. The heroine/love interest 
 is just average - not someone to go to the ends of the universe with - but she adds to the overall 
 story.
  
  This is one I'm hoping will have a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f-chopin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  A good space game but very simple compared to some other space games like X3TC and Freelancer.
 
  
  I enjoyed the space fights... you can take on 10 pirate ships with no problem as long as you did 
 the upgrades in each sector. Simple but nice travelling in space and nothing to worry about. 
 
  Travelling to different star systems is very simplistic and needs changing, in fact most challenges 
 in this game seem to be made for people 10 years or under.
  
  There is very little to do in this game apart for a few side missions which are mostly similar.
 
  Basically this is a game to play if you have little time to spare or are waiting for a game and 
 want to pass a few days.
  
  It has possibilities if a future DarkStar One is made with more features but I cannot give it a 
 high score as it needs more side missions and depth to expand the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truecidation
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I remember when DarkStar One was in development, and we space sim enthusiasts were lurking on their 
 forums and asking questions. Of particular interest to many of us was how the game was to be played. 
 Rest assured, we were told, DarkStar One is going to be "Freelancer done right". We were skeptical, 
 because not were all the tidbits so far only dealt with the combat portion of the game, the devs 
 were evasive and vague when asked about the other stuff which makes up a space sim. Space sims 
 AREN'T all about shooting, goddamit.
  
  And whaddya know, they bolloxed it up, just as we feared. Freelancer done right, my ass.
  
 
  - You have a grand total of 1 (one) ship that you will get to fly in the game. Ever.
  
  - The only improvements you make to your ship will be the weapon loadout and a bunch of mostly-forgettable 
 skills. Also, like it or not, you WILL be a combat dog. If you were thinking of, oh, just about 
 ANY OTHER SPACE SIM, you would know that there was the possibility of getting rich by hauling cargo, 
 to mention one of the more common features. Nope, no such luck here. You're a fighter, dawg... 
 get used to it.
  
  - Each star system is an exact carbon copy duplicate of ALL the others: there's a sun in the middle, 
 there's a space station to dock with, there's a useless planet in the background, and oh look, 
 there's an asteroid belt. All the same. In EACH AND EVERY single goddamned system. 300 of them? 
 Puh-lease. If I could recycle the graphics like this and only change the system name, I could think 
 up 3,000 of them.
  
  - Factions. Instead of the realistic factions a la Freelancer, with their dynamic inter-relationships 
 (and not just vs the player) , DarkStar One presents you with the tired, cliched old "good guys 
 vs bad guys", "cops and robbers" style of police, pirates, and neutral merchants. For f***'s sake! 
 This isn't a step backwards, it's an entire goddamn marathon backwards. What is this, 1970?!
  
  - - - - - -
  
  Needless to say, DarkStar One has all the depth of a puddle of rainwater. 
 This is a game as designed by a bunch of shooting game enthusiasts, more likely. If you're into 
 mindless fighting then this game may interest you. For all of five minutes. Let's not even talk 
 about replayability (to get to the point: there's none) .
  
  I'm not going to praise the graphics either. Why should I? Abusing bloom and particle effects does 
 NOT equals good graphics. Imagine if Tetris used 3D blocks, fullscreen antialiasing, and flashing 
 lights to herald new scores. Same goes for DarkStar One. Throwing truckloads of special effects 
 at the player does not make a lousy game better. You can polish a turd, but it's still a turd.
 
  
  This game should be enough to repel you from even considering playing it on it's own "merits". 
 Now toss in one of the more dangerous DRM schemes into the mix, with its potential to truly screw 
 up your computer should anything even remotely go wrong.
  
  Save your money, go look for a REAL Space Sim. DarkStar One is an over-hyped shooter, and an extremely 
 mediocre one at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I give Dark Star One a 7.5
  
  Graphics : Good. Can't complaing with all set to high on my 8800 GT. Custscene are cartoonish but 
 I have nothing to say that's necesarily bad about them so much that they ruin the story. I'Ve seen 
 worst. As others have noted, the worlds and planets ... are repetitive. Same asteroids, planet, 
 stations, ships, etc. So DS1 looses some points here. But it doesn't detract from the game being 
 fun. 
  
  Sound : My ears aren't that sensible so I can't go into specifics. It sounds good. Voice acting 
 needs work, but its not aweful.
  
  Gameplay : I have played half-way through the single player experience and so far, so good. I have 
 explored the planets inside clusters, found all artifacts (not too hard to do, they are practically 
 given to you) , traded a bit, smuggle a lot and killed countless pirates and collected on numerous 
 bounties. Money is easy to earn this way. I've upgraded my DarkStar One ship to my tastes. Weapons, 
 and equipment is good. So I'm pleased. Not big on exploration so this game suits me well.
  
  Side missions (from the board) are rather repetitive though and I usually try to combine them 
 with a trade or smuggling run to make them worthwhile. Great in the beginning, but repetitive after 
 a while. Smuggling androids, Video Games, Luxury Goods and Drugs is currently granting me 200k 
 a pop (about mid-game) . Missions about 50k. Not too enticing.
  
  Side missions from the Station menu are great, sort of like side-quests in RPGs. No link to the 
 main story but a good chunk of money comes from completing them.
  
  I have a feeling though that once this game is done, gameplay will cease to exist. I may re-play 
 it to attempt a different loadout for my ship and hopefully find compabt different enough to enjoy 
 it. Pirating doesn't seem like its worthwhile, with no Pirate bases to reek refuge to and sell 
 stuff, like Freelancer had.
  
  Darkstar One is not perfect, nor is it horrible and so porely rated as other players here have 
 reviewed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gleb_31
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  I think the main problem of this game is its storyline. It is quite boring and too long I think. 
 At first minutes I already knew how will it go. Only few moments of the story impressed. Those 
 side stories... What connection do they have to the main one. This was a bit dull. The creators 
 should really study Freelancer storyline, because Dark Star is a bit childish. Everything else 
 is awesome. Ships look great, evolving is very interesting. The thing that impressed was control- 
 it is so easy and functional. Few games have the same.
  Anyway the story is soul and it really kills the game. There are lots of systems but few planets 
 in it. Lots of missions are really not needed, I even had a feeling that author of the story didn't 
 know what to write so now it's ...
  I dont think that in some time I or somebody else will remember about this game. That was one casual 
 lost of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmccabe01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  I have just 2 not so good things to say about this game so I'll get them out of the way.
  
  1. The game is not really open-ended as you have to do the story line at certain times to expand 
 the nav map ( travel to more places)
  2. There is no way to change the sensitivity of the mouse, which in conjunction
  with the keyboard 
 in my humble opinion is the best way to play the game.
  
  Now that aside I found the game very enjoyable and just plane fun which
  you don't get in many 
 games now days. 
  For that alone and the many hours of gameplay I would recommend this game
  to anyone and I'm 
 sure the gameplay will be extended when the modders
  get hold of it ( I can't wait) .
  
  With that said get out there and give it a try you really have nothing to loose
  except maybe 
 a week or two of you real life or your life in space.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrzej83
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Great game overall, comparing to other space fighters such as Freelancer or Freespace this definalty 
 deserves any space gamers attention. The graphics are good nothing spectacular but what can you 
 ask for in a space shooter. Great selection in ship upgrades which will satisfy any type of game 
 playing style if you are a one on one all power gun maniac or the suttle let the turrets do it 
 for you type of gamer. Great story line which keeps you going to want to now more but I wont spoil 
 it for you. The learning curve for the game is quite quick if you are good with the mouse but if 
 you are a joystick gamer I would not suggest it as it makes the game difficult but doesnt mean 
 you wont like it. Finally if you are a Vista gamer dont download the update it wont let you play 
 the game take my word for it I tried everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Please note, V1.1 of this game is highly bugged, its recommended that you patch the game to V1.3 
 before even starting playing.
  
  Having played most of the great space simulations such as freelancer, freespace 2 and the mighty 
 X3, your reminded that there's much more to just flying around in space and blasting things. BUT 
 DS1 does just that, its simply a space shooter, giving missions, collecting weapons, and doing 
 a little trading on the side.
  
  Your main objective is to follow the story line about some guy being betrayed and having his father 
 killed. You must fly thru 300+ systems to find that person. You'll encounter many different species, 
 and continually get harder and harder ships to beat. Your told about a mysterious green object 
 that when collected can give your ship capabilities to upgrade to better systems, shields and better 
 classes, then you can buy them at the local trade post. Your ship will last longer against the 
 many villains that want you dead. Each system will have a warp gate, trade post, and maybe an asteroid 
 field to search, but most of the time, the story will navigate you thru the large maps. You can 
 mine asteroids, buy and sell different commodities or destroy the local freight ships for money, 
 but I found this unecessary as doing the missions is enough to get you thru. Having spend a good 
 40 hours playing this, there's plenty of playability, although probably not replay value, as its 
 really just a pretty shooter, and that's where the graphics shine.
  
  The graphics on this game are quite stunning and you can check out my gameplay slideshow I did 
 whilst playing. There are many different ships thruout the 300+ systems, all very well drawn, along 
 with the space stations and ship wrecks. Each system can be very colourful, dark, misty as pea-soup 
 or just full of rocks, but external views from your craft are very eye pleasing.
  
  The sound is essential to your attacks as the lady co-pilot you pick up , will tell alot of what's 
 going on around the ship. There's background music to listen to whilst flying around, and the usual 
 laser blasts, and explosions.
  
  I think the game was quite easy once as your ship easy outguns the competition later on, maybe 
 a higher difficulty rating was in order, but I didn't need to trade at all to get all the weapons 
 I needed. Still very enjoyable, go to it space fiends.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alison22000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of space simulator PC games, I feel there isn't any comparision when it comes to 
 space sims. I have played a variety and I own a huge amount of space simulator games and I consider 
 Darkstar One as one of my best. I really feel that this game is a lot like the game Freelancer 
 but with the complexity of the X Universe games, such as X2 - The Threat and X3 - The Reunion. 
 The missions and weapons are very similar to the freelancer game, where the missions are allways 
 got to do with hunting pirates and collecting goods etc. Where the comparison with the X Universe 
 game, I find the complexity and the fact that you can actually build up your ship instead of just 
 buying new beeter ones is similar to X Universe. With X universe games, you can buy a huge amount 
 of weapons and shields jammers etc like darkstar one. I have given this game a great score of 10. 
 the fact that you have to upgrade parts of your ship like the front hull back hull and wings so 
 you are able to get more weapon slots and equipments slots and of course raising the equipment 
 and energy tech levels is so much alike X universe, seeing as though you needed to buy upgrades 
 in that game, but enough about other similar games, my point is, that this game is one of the best 
 I have ever played and I am hard to please when it comes to games. I give this game a 10 due to 
 the quality of the game with the graphics and the ship goods, most of all the upgrading of your 
 ship. The only thing I don't like about this game is that with Freelancer, you could purchase a 
 tractor beam to collect weapons and parts from all the ships that where destroyed by you, where 
 as in Darkstar One, you don't have that ability when I feel we should. It would make the game more 
 realistic if you were able to collect goods that where dropped from destroyed ships. If they make 
 a second version if not already, I really think they should include a tractor beam to purchase 
 from trade stations to collect items in space as they would in reality. Thanks for this opportunity 
 to write a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnagemachine
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a really awesome game but a bit of a let down after freelancer especially because its sooo 
 similar but freelancer is sooo awesome that its hard not to.
  Fun gameplay brilliant gameplay I LUV THE TAUNTS thats just so hillarious nice graphics and sounds
 
  
  But i think the main letdown is the lack of getting into the universe.
  all of the systems are IDENTICAL (from what ive played which has only been about 5 hours) except 
 for the sol system which doesnt count because its the earth system. Also you cant land on planets 
 which i rly dont understand even earth so it means that planets dont bother putting in multiple 
 planets or anything else specky. Also with the subtraction of the trade gates which i personally 
 dont like but it does remove taking ages to travel so it does make the universes even more similar.
 
  So the problem is you cant into the universe which is so kewl about space simulator games like 
 freelancer
  
  at the end of the day this is a hell kewl game fun as hell but lack of universe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SixSigma1978
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Other than a few kinks here and there (like the infamous flak 2 mission and the sometimes repetitive 
 nature of quests/scenery) ... the game is outstanding.... I liked the story line, loved the chemistry 
 between the characters especially Eona - she's SO lovable :P
  
  The concept is also pretty interestingly fresh - instead of throwing bazlillions of ships to pick 
 as you advance - the game goes the other direction - your SHIP advances .. which isn't bad since 
 it adapts to your preferred style of space combat
  
  want to be agile - advance your wings.. want to indestructibe - advance your hull-and so on...
 
  The story line, although not the BEST is interesting enough to reminisce...
  all in all, a pretty good effort on ascaron's part...
  
  Don't miss this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdelaney
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  It's broken. It crashes to desktop more and more frequently as the game progresses. It's become 
 unplayable for me after getting maybe two thirds of the way through. The game is on patch 3 and 
 still not working. To make it realyl ridiculous, even the Ascaron crash reporting tool launched 
 after a the main program has gone belly-up crashes too. It's a pity : the game has nice graphics 
 and good ship customisation and I wanted to finish it. Other bad points: very repetitive missions 
 and voice acting. Without all the crashes I'd give it 7/10, but as it is it's a dead-end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCPsyWarrior
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  New Alliance standard scoring:
  
  Gameplay: 20 / 30
  Graphics &amp; Visuals: 14 / 20
  Sound &amp; Music: 10 / 20
  Narrative / Innovation / Misc: 14 / 20
  Personal Slant: 5 / 10
 
  
  =New Alliance ComNet Score: 63 / 100 (50 is average)
  =Gamespot Score: 7.0 (6.0 is average, 0.5 increments)
  
  Stability: Some issues impairing enjoyment 
 of the game (3)
  
  Darkstar One may be getting on a bit now, but it was only recently that I found the time to play 
 through it from start to finish. When I first picked up the game, it seemed pretty solid. Enjoyable 
 close-range dogfights, good keyboard and mouse controls and easily accessible trading that didn't 
 require me to take a degree in advanced theoretical economics. Voice acting was a little dodgy, 
 but I could live with that. However, after the first quarter of the game, the shine started to 
 wear off...
  
  Graphically, DSO is not at all bad. It's not cutting edge but it's perfectly adequate. There are 
 moments of real beauty with all the standard genre components: Nebulae, gas giants, solar flare 
 and sleek starships. Violent explosions and hyperspace events in vast debris fields. Lighting and 
 shadowing is good, although occasionally light spills through solid objects. However, Ascaron have 
 failed to make the best of the scenery. There are only a couple of ships for each race - two fighters, 
 two cruisers - and only a couple of variations of each type of station (and there are only really 
 two - trade and research) . This is unfortunate, since the 300 star systems you can visit are also 
 mostly cut-outs of each other. With only 2 or 3 exceptions, every system you enter has an identical 
 layout: One warp gate, one trade station (which is the only thing you can dock at) , some planets 
 (one of which you can usually fly into if you want to die) and an asteroid or ice field. Some systems 
 have research stations, but you can't dock there or do anything with them unless required by the 
 storyline. If you're really lucky, there will be a pirate base which you can attack. Individual 
 star systems simply have no personality. Fortunately, combat is quite fun. It uses a very 'freelancer' 
 physics system, so your ship goes where ever you point it, regardless of Newtonian physics. You 
 have a variety of energy weapons to choose from, each of which have different fire-rates and come 
 in either a player-controlled bow cannon or an auto-firing and tracking turret. Firing weapons 
 depletes your weapon capacitor which must recharge when empty and getting hit depletes your shields. 
 Missile launchers are also available to deliver more explosive power in tight battles.
  
  And then, there is the Darkstar One's unique weapon: The Plasma Cannon. The plasma cannon produces 
 a variety of effects, depending on what upgrades you apply throughout the game. It can recharge 
 your weapons and provide extra damage, recharge your shields, down an enemy's shields, make your 
 ship invincible for a few seconds or even freeze surrounding enemies in time. On the default difficulty 
 setting, combat is reasonably easy for most of the game. Starfighters and 'Thul drones' explode 
 reasonably easily, although some pirate bosses may cause you issues early in the game. Cruisers 
 are a greater challenge, but appropriate use of your torpedo launcher and plasma cannon should 
 pull you through.
  
  There are two examples that really stand out in terms of gameplay. A couple of times, you will 
 be called to take the DarkStar One into the atmosphere and fight in the sky, or in a huge base, 
 or even (star wars style) within a vast mothership. These are exhilarating battles, and its a pity 
 that there are so few opportunities to take the ship to the surface. Meanwhile, the infamous second 
 Flak mission which puts you in defence of a research station is so fiendishly, unreasonably difficult 
 that it made me want to just give up. While the standard bounty hunting missions and trade runs 
 (legal or not) become boring (which they will by the end) , each cluster of stars has a special 
 side mission. It's not always made completely clear what you will have to do in order to complete 
 these missions, but they provide a good deal of variety and are mostly well designed. You can also 
 liberate star systems (which yield valuable artefacts used to upgrade your ship) by flying into 
 pirate occupied space and pretty much shooting everything in sight. Finally, tracking down and 
 eliminating pirate bosses will yield special weapons that you can fit to your ship or sell for 
 large amounts of cash. The variety of different activities you can perform is impressive, but sadly 
 it makes the lack of variety elsewhere in the game more glaringly obvious. Ascaron have really 
 tried here, but it's all a little inconsistent. The most interesting and innovative feature of 
 DarkStar One is the ship itself. While it starts off as a fairly average light fighter, collecting 
 organic artefacts left behind by an ancient people and scattered through the galaxy will allow 
 you to improve your ship. The artefacts work in the same way as Experience Points in a traditional 
 RPG, and every time you collect enough you can 'level up' your ship. This allows you to improve 
 fire-power, manoeuvrability or recharge rates, change the appearance of your ship and upgrade the 
 plasma cannon.
  
  But for every innovative or well executed feature added by the developers, there's something to 
 let it down as well. This time it's the sound. Don't get me wrong, sound effects are positive, 
 explosions are suitably... explosive, and the music, while not particularly memorable, is of a 
 good standard. But all of this pales in comparison with the terrible... horrible... atrocious voice 
 acting! The lead character sounds like he was someone pulled off the street at random (as do most 
 of the minor characters) , and while some of the major characters sound like they've acted before, 
 very few of them actually sound good. Occasionally dodgy translation also contributes to the effect, 
 especially when you have the lead character taunting the enemy with phrases like You will SOON 
 fall into obliviON (emphasis in original) . It's poor localisation which is particularly upsetting 
 as the original German version is probably very good. As we all know, character = story. Without 
 characters, your narrative means nothing. The poor standard of voice acting and (in places) translation 
 reduces the characters to nothing more than irritating distractions, deprives them of their original 
 characterisation and so completely and utterly ruins the telling of the story. According to the 
 manual, Kayron (the main character) has a winning personality that everyone finds hard to resist 
 . I find this an odd statement, since he seems to have no character at all! He's not the eager 
 but naive rookie, or the experienced pilot embittered by revenge, or even the enigmatic but gifted 
 prodigy. I expect he does have a character, but it was just lost in translation (and voice acting) . 
 In fact, the only well defined characters in the game are the aliens, and even they are mostly 
 personifications of their race's characteristics.
  
  Still, occasionally a bit of storyline manages to break through the localisation, and the finale 
 is genuinely impressive. However, when you compare it with the generally high standard of voice 
 acting in Freelancer and the outstanding storytelling in that game, you will still find DSO sadly 
 lacking in this area.
  
  Last but not least, there are a few technical issues with DarkStar One. First, I was completely 
 unable to get the game to start at 1680*1050, my monitor's native resolution, before or after applying 
 the latest 1.3 patch. It works at every other resolution, but setting to 1680*1050 produces an 
 immediate crash to the desktop with a Walhalla Error . A couple of other times during the game, 
 I got a crash to the desktop with an unhandled exception for no clear reason. Finally, after finishing 
 the game and obtaining the Zero Point jump drive (which allows me to visit any system instantly 
 - although why would I want to when they're all the same?) , I flew back to the starting system 
 and requested permission to dock at the trade station (which was marked as neutral in my target 
 list) . On final approach, all my automated turrets started to fire on the station for no adequately 
 explained reason. Since you cannot stop them from firing, and since I was surrounded by police 
 and no further than ten meters from a pair of gun turrets, that was where I chose to end my game. 
 Not the best way to finish a game I had mixed feelings about.
  
  DSO is not a bad game, and anyone who says it is is probably overstating the game's faults. Having 
 said that, I wouldn't want to say that it's actually good either, at least not after the combat 
 loses its edge. It's worth a look for fans of the genre, but don't let anyone tell you that it's 
 better than Freelancer, because I'm sorry to say that it isn't. I'm sorry, because Freelancer is 
 an old game now and I think it's time someone actually did turn out something better. After playing 
 this game right through, I am unable to name a single system from the game, because they are all 
 the same - unlike Freelancer's Sirius sector. There's no equivalent for the bustling and optimistic 
 New York system, the vast, empty ice fields of Magellan or the polluted and radioactive wastes 
 of Leeds. It's also worth noting that there is no multiplayer component and only a very limited 
 number of available mods. If there is a recent starfighter-sim that can beat Freelancer overall, 
 I'm afraid you're not looking at it. DarkStar One is just too inconsistent, and the things it does 
 well are offset by the things it does very poorly. DSO could have been outstanding with some adjustments 
 but as it stands it is merely above average. What a poor epitaph for the starfighter-sim genre...
 
  
  =================
  VERDICT: Decent, but let down by some significant flaws
  NA: 63
  GS: 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willmarth2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  If you have been waiting for the the game to replace FreeLancer this is it. You fly by mouse. The 
 game strategy is the same. You fight pirates. You have upgrades through artifacts. The graphics 
 are better. The story is good and the cut scenes are not that long. I will play this game for a 
 long time. Now the bad. I had to download 3 patches for it to work on vista. I have to save a game 
 before I upgrade my ship. Thati is because I will get a display driver crash error. I will reload 
 and it works. It is still worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  Like I said, JUST PLAY Freelancer. It runs and looks completely smooth and bug free unlike Darkstar 
 One. Crappy lame copy protection aside (the protection will bug the game from the start and possibly 
 destroy your PC) , this game sticks you with the same ship for the entire game, even though you 
 can upgrade it with alien artifacts you find which does upgrade its parts and power.
  
  Voice acting and sound is awful, the linear atmosphere looks like pickled poop sauce. Unlike Freelancer, 
 which the world is completely connected almost everywhere, this game each little planet is a small 
 area which you have to warp out of to get to the next area, there is no feeling of being in a actual 
 galaxy. In Freelancer, if you just let you ship fly, it would end up in all kinds of wierd places, 
 if you saw a planet in the distance, you could actually manually fly there and see it getting closer 
 every second. This game is such a huge step backwards. If the storyline was good it'd be ok to 
 accept some of this crap, but its not.
  
  Why even write a review for this game I wonder, just play Freelancer, sure Freelancer has a few 
 annoyances (pretty sudden ending for example) .
  
  Sure play this game than, maybe than you'll be able to appreciate Freelancer more than!!
  
 
  HAIL FREELANCER!!!! FREELANCER!!!! FREELANCER!!!! FREELANCER!!!! Woot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KRM398
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  The game Darkstar One is a good, solid game, but the Company says we can all enjoy it with 1.1 
 shader minimum. Dont believe it, the 1.1 was for advertising, I think, it doesnt run the game for 
 more than a few minutes, if your not fighting or searching caves, then its deadly. The game itself, 
 I like, but the customer suport was terrible to many who asked about the info book and several 
 people on their site swore to never buy from them again. If companys want to sell games, at least 
 tell us the truth about the requirments, minumum should still run the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are very good. There is enough diversity to keep exploration fun for a long time. Ships 
 are modelled nicely, but it's a pain to view them from the 3rd person perspective, especially when 
 in combat. Lots of detail in the different ships, spacestations, etc.
  
  Sound is OK. Bad voice acting, decent music. The weapons and ship sounds are good. Did i mention 
 that the voice acting is bad?
  
  Gameplay is good. Its got some variety in missions and lots to explore. There is a whole lot to 
 trade and side missions can sometimes be fun. The combat is fun but gets repetitive pretty soon, 
 until your ship can upgrade and you can test out some new equipment. Customization is very good. 
 I usually like to have an assortment of ships, but there is so much customizations that one ship 
 does just fine for me in Dark Star One.
  
  Overall, I like the game, but its not the best space sim I've played, probably because its not 
 as deep as a game like X3, but I liked it better than Freelancer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nabeel200
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  well to begin, its pretty basic ,it starts with a good tutorial which will guide u through all 
 the controls you need to know in the game. the story begins with you getting the space ship darkstar 
 one. after u complete the tutorial you r on your own to do various tasks cut out for you. there is 
 an interesting trade feature to get some extra bucks you will be needing to upgrade your ship. well 
 there are plenty of side missions, that you can play other than the main story line. the combat is 
 fairly simple and easy ,you just have to lock on the target and blast them to smithereens .the 
 graphic department its pretty good ,care has been taken to model every system though the trade 
 station are the same from the out side ,but they are differently modeled inside. sound is good but 
 all the pirate looks and sounds the same. the controls are quiet nicely handled and quiet responsive. well 
 you can enjoy the game with lots of exploring to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texan190
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  My first impression of this game is that it tries to be X3 and Freelancer while trying to tell 
 you that you can actually be like Han Solo and smuggle your little heart out. That vision is pretty 
 cool, but this game falls short. First off the positive notes. The graphics i have to say are pretty 
 darn good. Definitely better than Freelancer and maybe better than X3, hard to tell because, to 
 me, they use different art detail. Anyway... the flight engine and physics it pretty good, i like 
 the use of W, A, S, D to strafe, boost and reverse, good detail for all those dogfights you get 
 in. I definitely how customizable the ship is and how you can morph it or upgrade it however you 
 please. Whether you want a fast and nimble fighter or more of a bigger heavy fighter/corvette with 
 turrets and more hull armor. Having all the different star systems, more than X3 and Freelancer 
 is definitely very nice, gives a sense as to how big space can be. The star clusters is a nice 
 touch to navigation and seperating the regions even further.
  
  The optional bounty hunter missions are innovative i think. Gives you info on pirate gangs in different 
 systems and telling the player that anyone who takes them out gets a nice bounty and a new special 
 weapon, typically more powerful than the weapons you have access to. Not really critical to your 
 survival, but definitely makes your job easier when you can take the baddies out in a few shots. 
 The side missions to gain access to hidden systems are also a nice touch that no one has ever really 
 done before. Variety of merc. missions is nice, but there's not too much variety, but its nice 
 to be able to run escort missions for once or even to haul material for a price.
  You can trade goods to all the different systems and earn cash that way or you can try to smuggle 
 illegal goods and try to avoid the patrols
  
  You can pirate yourself and kill innocent transports and take their haul for your own.
  
  However 
 no matter what you do, affects your reputation. If you go the merc way, you get better rewards, 
 etc... and it'll be different for bounty hunters, pirates, or traders.
  
  The controls seem easy enough with a joystick. It doesnt take long to figure out how to operate 
 everything. There are a couple of milk runs in the beginning to help you get familiar with the 
 ship.
  
  I like the music, especially when you get into combat, a nice mix of rock and techno it seems. 
 Very nice though and seems to fit the pace and feel of the dogfights and battles.
  
  What I am dissappointed in:
  It seems too much like Freelancer to me.
  The variety of merc. 
 missions is definitely a let down. Your run of the mill, hunt down these pirates or execute this 
 guy, blown up these satellites, with the exception of the added spying missions, but those get 
 very repetitive. Even the added escort missions lose their touch after the 5th or 6th time you 
 run one, just so you can earn a few thousand credits.
  The way the game plays out seems very repetitive. Travel to this system, continue the story, fight 
 these guys, buy this equipment, then go out earn some money to buy better weapons... repeat for 
 each cluster. Earning money to buy the best weapons can especially get boring real quick. I havent 
 finished the game yet, nor have i explored all the different avenues of what you can do, but i 
 can tell already that this game quickly loses its appeal after about 10-20 hours.
  
  Each system appears to be the same. A planet in the middle with a trade station, some asteroids 
 and maybe some research stations.... occasional battleships and that's about it. It gets annoying 
 when you jump into a random system and there are pirates there waiting. Its nice how the patrols 
 never actually patrol and engage the pirates. I know in Freelancer and X3 they did. The lack of 
 exploration and visiting different planets in a system like in Freelancer is a let down... you can 
 even land on the planets... which seems unrealistic to me. I've been experiencing some gameplay 
 problems, specifically some skipping during dogfights. I think they are framerate drops and slowing 
 the game down making it jittery. Really annoying. My system is well beyond the requirements for 
 this game and even when i toned down the graphics, it still happens. This irritation has caused 
 me to set aside the game for a while, besides the fact that I have to do the same thing every star 
 cluster just to stay on top of the bad guys and get the best guns.
  
  It seems like a lack of imagination and true character and originality plagues this genre and this 
 is why a game like this comes out once every couple years.... its a shame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  There are way too many bashings on this game. I read them all, and they merit only for obvious 
 envy. This is a unique game. Not to mention, it leaves every other wing commanderry type game for 
 dead in the visuals and sound. The customization options of your ship is just awesome. It really 
 forces you to work for your bits and pieces with a little more interest rather than just making 
 space cash to buy different ships in all the other sims.
  
  If you want to break down both Freelancer to this game, then think of this.. They are both identical 
 in structure, design and element. The only difference I've spotted so far is that you fly only 
 one ship in darkstar. I felt that I was flying only one ship in freelancer. Every time I bought 
 a new ship, my internal and external graphics changed. It either went faster, or slower with bigger 
 guns. Darkstar has upgrades as well as an enourmous array of weapon customization. The upgrading 
 of Darkstar for every space artifact you find has already put this game ahead of freelancer.
  
  Oh, and yes. The Darkstar ship changes in looks as well as the game progresses.
  
  Freelancer 
 is old. Yes it's good. But Darkstar is better. Trust me ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eligarak
Rating: 3.2
Date: May 25, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  This game is another shameful space sim that tarnishes the name of greats like Freelancer, Freespace, 
 Privateer and Wing Commander.
  In fact it doesn't even merit an academic style review, I will just write simply - it is boring. 
 Everything about it is. Fighting is boring. Graphics are boring. Missions are boring. In fact what 
 missions? There are like 6 types of missions and all missions are just a variations on the theme. 
 The universe is static, fake, boring and just plain lazy, every star system is like the other one. 
 Every premise of the game is boring, the characters are boring, the trading is boring, the darkstar 
 is boring, the weapons are boring. The dialogue is horribly lame, ye gods bring the dark Privateer 
 2 back! The story line is absolutely dead and non-involving, there is no sense of urgency, the 
 Thul are not scary. In fact this is the first space sim I gave up because it was just too boring 
 to finish, ploughing through the same missions ad nauseam, argh!! I usually trust Gamespot on reviewing 
 games, but this review is absolutely misrepresentative, I do not think the reviewer played the 
 game enough to realize how utterly boring and mediocre it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapy18
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. It has a good story line to follow, but also allows you to go and do 
 your own thing like pirating, trading, smuggling, etc. I didnt find any issues with running the 
 software. As far as getting to new systems, at first it is a pain because you have a very limited 
 jump range. Just spend some time doing the missions and following the story line and you will get 
 upgrades to get to where you want to go. The different upgrade options for your ship is great. 
 You can play this game multiple times and upgrade your ship differently each time.
  
  Thing I didnt like:
  
  The first thing I did not like are the two missions where you are on 
 a Research station and have to shoot these little blue ships that keep coming at you in waves. 
 The first mission is fine, but the second one is very hard and you have to almost memorize the 
 order at which they come at you.
  
  The ending could have used more work. It isnt as much of an ending as they just couldnt figure 
 out what they should have you do and came up with a lame ending that was way easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChocoKat
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Space Flight Sims have been a rarity these last few years. While it is true that Freespace 1 and 
 2 were released to critical acclaim, neither reached their respective sale targets. Plus, the did 
 not other the openness like Privateer or the X series.
  
  Now we enter Dark Star One. The story behind Dark Star One is you're a pilot that wants to find 
 out the details behind your fathers death. Before he left he entrusted you with a ship fused with 
 alien technology called the Dark Star One.
  
  What makes Dark Star One unique is that you don't to fly other ships as you progress through the 
 game. Your ships actually transforms into a much more powerful ship. You transform your ship by 
 collecting artifacts that are scattered throughout the galaxy. With these upgrades you can mold 
 your ship into a fast missile boat or a slow battleship. While this may seem like a great idea 
 it does have it's problem.
  
  The star systems in the game are connected via jump lanes. To reach these new systems you need 
 a new jump drive. Equipment is ranked in levels. As you progress to each level, the guns and missiles 
 are more powerful, the jump drives extends in range as well. One aspect to weapon selection is 
 that each sector of space is home to one of four alien races. Each alien race has their own space 
 stations, ships and weapons. If you choose the wrong weapons, the enemy ships may actually be invulnerable 
 to your fire. The alien races seem to be more of a distraction then anything, you have your typical 
 mysterious race, warlike race and weak race. These 4 different races all come together and form 
 a galactic alliance. This alliance is then threatened by a race of genetically modified women who 
 were ex-members of the galactic. The graphics in DSO can be described as OK . They are no way near 
 the level of X3. The space station models are lacking and to my amazement most of the solar systems 
 seem to have an asteroid containing a artifact. This is another flaw in this game, you get artifacts 
 by one of 3 ways: clearing a contested system, completing a mission, or searching a asteroid. The 
 latter is pointless because as soon as you enter the system your computer picks the artifact up. 
 There is no sense of discovery. Minor gripes aside, DSO is still a game that you should try out 
 if you like open ended space games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikabko1
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Well I installed the game and it crashed my computer! Also it gives a form to answer to these kinds 
 of issues. However the form to send in online Well its not written in another language that I cannot 
 read or understand.
  I had to send it back as a defective product.
  I spent hours and hours trying find the problems and try to solve it.
  Buggy programming and 
 worst case crashing my hardware.
  I bet it has the same bad game play problems as X3 Reunion 2.0
  Cannot shoot down a target and 
 broken targeting system.
  
  Perhaps is got virus and trojen and borken files.
  Spyware and what ever else it dose to kill my computer.
  Well its broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  While the slick introduction prepares you for a great game, after flying the first few missions 
 and getting the hang of it you realise that Darkstar One has very little depth indeed. I'll be 
 comparing this to Freelancer since it tried to measure up against it, so I'll oblige.
  
  Storywise, it's pretty decent, but nothing engaging - there's not very much urgency that gets communicated 
 to you in your role. Pretty average all around, not a bad thing, but not great either. Freelancer's 
 presentation blows Darkstar One away. There's more to atmosphere than just pretty graphics and 
 cutscenes. The timing of things, the way the dialogue is handled, everything counts. Darkstar One 
 doesn't stumble, but neither does it serve up anything interesting. I found myself just playing 
 to finish, not because I wanted to, but because I'm the type who can't stand not knowing endings.
 
  
  You fly around in first-person view, a fact which I hated almost immediately, although I concede 
 that the view outside of your ship (press Q for free-rotating camera centered on the ship) is nothing 
 to look at anyway. However, I'm not one to pass skin-deep judgements so I took all the training 
 missions, flew around a bit, tried to apply different strategies. Well, there's no engine/inertia 
 kill, so forget about strafing (and no, the lame A/D fps-like sidestep doesn't count) .
  
  Space feels a bit arcadelike; there's that rushing-past-you effect when you combat (joust) enemies. 
 It feels more like Tachyon: The Fringe (another space sim which felt too arcade-y) rather than 
 Freelancer. There's no weaving around asteroids, no clever strafing, dodging, and jinking. Just 
 the same tired  I found the idea of hauling loot behind 
 you interesting, but it got tedious quite fast when you had to keep dropping and retrieving cargo 
 every time you got accosted.
  
  Almost all the other factions (pirates, bounty hunters, traders) fly the same old ships. When you 
 upgrade, so do they - so at the end of the game you're still shooting the same ol' pirates as when 
 you were grinding at the early part of the game. You yourself are stuck with the Darkstar One, 
 and only get to mess around with a bunch of upgrades , that in the end don't really open up any 
 different strategies - just the same hit-and-running but with larger damage numbers.
  
  There were no factions either; you pirate, bounty hunt, complete missions, all on your own. The 
 proclaimed 300 systems! were all the same but with cosmetic differences (e. g. different coloured 
 planets, and different goods and prices) . You can't take sides, if you think you want to play as 
 a pirate just shoot up traders, you don't actually get acknowledged as one, your rpg chart merely 
 changes squiggles to indicate you've been pirating more.
  
  And talk about simplistic economics! While I appreciate that some people like it, I don't think 
 most of us do. Buying low and selling high works best when you actually have to use your brain 
 to plot a good route; not merely think buy export, sell import . I daresay Freelancer's model was 
 pretty damn simple enough; any less than that and trading becomes relegated to an unnecessary evil 
 that people put up with between combat. If it's not fun enough on it's own merit to make you go 
 for it and actually avoid doing other stuff, then it's not worth it.
  
  The universe was pretty dead; no scripted flights, no factions meant no random encounters between 
 AI unlike in Freelancer (a simplistic cops-attack-pirates model doesn't count) . In fact other than 
 you moving things along, the other ships seem to be aimlessly wandering around. Sure, people land 
 and takeoff and stuff, but unless you tag along nothing seems to happen. In Freelancer you'll even 
 hear chatter directed by others, e. g. the space station requesting approaching vessels to identify 
 themselves, or a trader announcing his goods, or a bounty hunter announcing his patrol route, etc.
 
  
  I'm not saying that Darkstar One is a bad game - in some aspects it did ok, but it has plenty of 
 problems and doesn't keep the promise of being Freelancer done right (in fact I'd go so far as 
 to say it botched the attempt) . It takes a step forward in a direction any newer game is expected 
 to: better (?) visuals - although I'd argue there wasn't enough variety and they were reused too 
 much, it was only better in technicalities, like new shader effects, etc; not that you'd notice 
 if you were flying around in a REALLY good sim. However, it takes many steps backwards in gameplay 
 aspects: poor enemy AI, linear item progression ( laser 1 , laser mk 2 - come on, ffs) , shallow 
 mission design, predictable storyline, artificial and lifeless universe.
  
  Sadly, by releasing another half-assed game into the genre publishers will shy away even more, 
 thinking that there's no profit in space sims. There is: on the condition that they stop hawking 
 mediocre games, damn it. Freelancer survived the studio being bought over, the lead designer bailing 
 out, and being dumbed down for the unwashed masses, and in fact even emerged as a game to remember, 
 when the venerable Privateer is now too old to hold up as an example. Darkstar One on the other 
 hand brings nothing new to the table, except slightly better graphics... maybe.
  
  Come on! We're not FPS fans, we demand more intelligence in our games. Is that so much to ask? 
 It's not like there's a huge technological barrier to surmount; in fact people are still playing 
 old games in this genre, including the now-over-a-decade-old Privateer. It doesn't take much to 
 make good, but it does require a little effort, more than just pretty graphics and FMVs.
  
  Seriously, please. Darkstar One is a disappointment. My hopes for this genre are now pinned on 
 Space Force 2 (due soon?) , but I fear even that one won't live up to Freelancer standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Incompetent
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  A lot of people have said that this game is supposedly the Freelancer done right. I tend to disagree.
 
  Firstly, this game is nothing more than a mere arcade shooter. If you recall, Freelancer is a 
 wee bit something else, a step in the side of Space simulation.
  Actually, this game only consists of shooting, shooting, shooting, reloading from a CTD, shooting 
 again. Which brings us to the next problem.
  The DS1 is quite disastrously bugged at its release version (but patches like 1.2 have fixed a 
 lot of bugs) . The concept of the game was something that could really work - imagine, a Space simulation 
 + a full RPG... (X3: Reunion vers. 2.0.02 + NWN comes to mind) Instead, they gave us a game that 
 could really do even better without the so-called ship upgrades, as they are almost ludicrously 
 easy to find. As for the gaming-time, you better put it back in the shelf before someone in the 
 shop notices you. Really. The story can be finished in 5-6 hours. then, in 2 hours, you collect 
 all remaining ship upgrades, get to level 20. Then it is a 10 minute work to go to the oh-so mysterious 
 system right in the lower central part of map, and defeat the Ascaron Gang. Game over.
  You can play longer, yes, but then it is just shooting wth no point. The trading system is made 
 for 3-year-olds or serious Counter-Strike zombie addicts.
  Got to give it some credits- the sound is Pretty nice, especially the combat tunes. Shame the weapons 
 sound so bad.
  Basically, this game is pretty in graphics, but there are better alternatives:
  Combat - Freelancer
 
  Trading - X3: Reunion (patched to 2.0.02)
  Graphics- X3: Reunion (patched to 2.0.02)
  Storyline- Freelancer
  Strategic aspect- X3, any other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BangsLiekWhoa
Rating: 1.8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  this game could have seriously used some beta testing before release. it looks like they just let 
 it go without ever checking for problems and hoped for the best. the system travel was jumping 
 around like a classroom of pre-schoolers on crack. you couldn't click on a system so you could 
 travel to it ever. once in a great while you would get lucky and mysteriously get one selected 
 only to realize it was just a little too far for you to travel. this was especially ghey because 
 like the second part of the main quest required you to travel to a system that was just a little 
 too far for your ship to travel and there were no upgrades you could buy to fix this. also every 
 system was exactly the same except the colors and names were slightly altered... a big planet, a 
 space station, some asteroids, and a jump gate... no variety. the graphics were not very good and 
 still caused lagginess on good computers. the changing ship was cool, but since the rest of the 
 game was virtually un-playable and monotonious it wasn't worth it.
  if you want a good game similar to this, but much much better play FREELANCER. it has more variety, 
 a great single player main storyline and more variety in systems. also you can actually travel 
 to new systems easily and you are capable of buying new ships and equipment rather than being stuck 
 in the same one the entire game. also if you use the Freelancer Mod Manager and TNG 2.7.6 Full 
 Version mod, it makes it a wonderful experience shaming DSOne beyond all hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game I had been wanting to try for a long time before I got it and I wasnt entirely sure what 
 type of game it was. Im glad I ended up getting it though, It is a space exploration combat trading 
 game similar to the old Privateer games. The game puts you in control of a spaceship called the 
 darkstar one which is somewhat of an experimental ship that can be expanded upon in different areas 
 and upgraded in various ways. The gameplay in this game has you flying to alot of solar systems 
 spread throughout a large map doing different types of missions for credits to upgrade the weapons 
 and energy equipment on the ship. First you need to collect artifacts from different asteroids 
 to improve upon either the hull, engines or wings of your ship. Upgrading the hull gives the ship 
 more armor and allows for more turrets, engines allow more equipment and faster recharge rates 
 for shields weapons and afterburner, and wings allows more agility and more front mounted weapons. 
 There is alot you can do besides follow the main story missions although alot of the extra stuff 
 can be repetitive. You can trade between different systems, basically trying to buy low and sell 
 high. You can do missions on the terminals at the different trade stations, you can mine asteroids 
 for valuable metals, you can search for artifacts ect. The games default difficulty is too easy 
 so I ended up playing at 3 which is right in the middle. Depending how you upgrade the ship the 
 later parts of the game can be very easy because the ship has become so powerful. THe game took 
 me about 2 weeks to finish, playing alot each day so the game does have a decent length to it. 
 The graphics on the game are good some areas looking especially nice but they could be a bit better 
 for todays computers. The sound effects are all done well and the voice acting can be pretty bad 
 at some points but overall it is pretty good. Overall I would definatley recommend this game to 
 anyone who liked the older space simulation games because this is very similar to them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john0479
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  The game it's self is fantastic! Takes me right back to the beginning of sci-fi space shooters 
 that have always been loved. I even dug out the old CH PRO Flightstick for this one just to get 
 a feel for the experience again. Graphics are great as well and the economy in the game is nothing 
 like X3 where you dread playing it each time... Only major complaint is that the game has an upgrade 
 point system to improve your ship, that left me wanting more and wondering what other people do 
 with their points.
  
  Long story short, I think this genre of games (Sci-Fi space sims) are &amp; have been for a long 
 time needing revival!!! If another Freespace 2 type came out, I'm willing to bet the game would 
 go GOLD in only HOURS after hitting the shelves. WAKE UP DEVELOPERS!! Here's your opportunity to 
 hear from the public firsthand! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimentedduck
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  This game is verry addictive but after a while you realize how crappy it really is. The only good 
 thing is the graphics. This game also steals almost everything from the game freelancer. DONT BUY 
 THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This game would be good on a console like gamecube or the PS2 because 
 it is hard to controll your ship with the mouse. another bad thing about this game is that there 
 is no tutorial to help you out with the basics such as landing and picking up boxes. The sound 
 are also okay but the voices are anoying and the main character is a fool. His grandfather is really 
 cool though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  There are so few space sims coming out these days that every new game in the genre is welcomed. 
 DS1 has some obvious weaknesses; despite its huge gameworld it still lacks some depth, there is 
 no multiplayer and it starts to repeat itself fairly quickly. It has lot of common with Freelancer, 
 but lacks the atmosphere that Freelancer created, story isn't quite as good either and the universe 
 isn't as convincing as it was in Freelancer.
  
  The game starts off as everything but epic, you play as a young man called Kayron Jarvis, who sets 
 off to find out who is responsible for his fathers death. To aid him in this mission he receives 
 DS1, a brand new spaceship implemented with alien technology that allows the ship to be upgraded 
 and to become the most powerful ship in the galaxy. There are some plot twists and towards the 
 end the game takes up some epic features, but all in the entire story is quite bland, especially 
 the end was quite dissatisfying for me. It also left things unfinished in a way that a sequel is 
 possible.
  
  Ironically DS1 itself is also one of the weakest parts of the game, its simply too overpowered, 
 and at least to me it would had been more fun to purchase your own ships as you progress, than 
 to just upgrade and modify your current one. Even tho its possible to develop DS1 either into 
 a big freighter or a small and agile fighter, I believe that most players will end up in the same 
 result as I, which is more or less a compromise between those two.
  
  Weaponry is another weak part of the game, the ads said something about hundreds of different weapons, 
 but this isnt even close to the truth. There are less than 10 weapon types, just with different 
 versions, for e. g. Mark I Laser and a Mark II Laser And the weapons are also too similar, the 
 biggest difference is in the fire rate; they differ from 2 per second to 6 per second. Then there 
 is naturally the missile launcher and secret service weapons that are the same as previously 
 mentioned, just a bit better and can only be acquired through some missions. But if youre longing 
 for e. g. some Minbari type beam weapons, this game wont give them to you.
  
  Special weaponry is an interesting addition and brings variety to combat, unfortunately it also 
 makes it a bit too easy at times. What would you think of an ability to stop all the enemy fighters 
 to their places for 30secs? Yep, you can do that, which leads to some boring and repetitive, yet 
 effective combat manoeuvres. You gain these abilities as you upgrade your ship with artefacts 
 (yet another weak part of the game) , artefacts can only be acquired through few different means, 
 free a system; meaning entering a pirate system and killing 3 formations of pirates. By collecting 
 them inside huge asteroids, which gets quite tedious after a while, or sometimes you get one after 
 completing a mission. And no, one artefact doesnt equal one upgrade, you will need several of 
 them. All this is very repetitive, and unfortunately not even very challenging.
  
  And while on the subject of repetition, lets talk about the missions. Outside the main story the 
 missions just arent challenging or varied enough. You can escort freighters, which leads to fighting 
 off pirates, you can transport stuff, which leads to fighting pirates, or you can just simply go 
 straight after the pirates yourself. You will also be offered some sudden missions, for e. g. when 
 entering a new system someone asks your help in something (usually fighting off pirates) . But 
 even in these there is a strong taste of copy/paste left by the devs. Its just disturbing when 
 a representative of a completely different race asks you to do the exact same thing, with the exactly 
 same voice and choice of words, that the other guy did just a while ago in the other side of the 
 galaxy. You can also mine asteroids for minerals or attack pirate hideouts. So even tho there 
 are many different ways to make money, it gets boring after a while since time after time the missions 
 play out the same way with the same scripted events.
  
  Gameplay
  Luckily gameplay is one thing the developers got right. Mouse control is just as intuitive as it 
 was in Freelancer, even tho this time you are forced to a cockpit viewpoint for the whole game. 
 Still, once you learn all the keyboard commands its a rather enjoyable system. But DS1 doesnt 
 get a 10 for the gameplay either, the unfortunate repetition that seems to haunt the whole game 
 experience is still there. Every fight follows the same pattern. For e. g. attacking a pirate hideout; 
 you will ALWAYS experience exactly the same thing, first a wing of 6-7 fighters comes at you, then 
 there are 2-3 bodyguards, and the boss which after his death is always courteous enough to 
 leave you a secret service weapon. EACH AND EVERY FRIGGIN TIME! The graphics are very nice, 
 but some annoying instability was present, especially turning object detail to High made my game 
 crash frequently. Sounds are decent, a threatening music will tell you when the enemy is around 
 and voice actors do their jobs most of the time. And even tho sometimes an alien will suddenly 
 speak with a human voice, at least it doesnt happen during the main story missions.
  
  In the end DarkStar One is a decent, but unfortunately repetitive game, each system is the same, 
 each space station is the same, combat is the same well, you get the picture. Despite this, at 
 least I managed to enjoy the game, but unless you are a true sci-fi freak, save your money and 
 leave it in the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  I've been a space sim Junkie since the days of Wing Commander and my all time fave Privateer . 
 In all this time I'm still looking for a replacement to those games. Ascaron has provided me with 
 a close fascimile but certainly no replacement. 1. Installation: Was a relative breeze, just be 
 sure to install the latest patch. 2. Visuals: I enjoyed the visuals of the game but there's nothing 
 ground breaking here. Actually the graphics look a bit dated better than X Beyond the Frontier 
 but certainly not X3 or anything on the level of games from ubisoft. As far as resolutions and 
 settings, they offer you plenty of options. But even cranked to the max the game only looks but 
 so good . 3. Sound, sound is adequate and is basically generic space babble. 4 Gameplay Immersive 
 and infectious are two words I'd used to describe how the game can grow on you. The back stories 
 a little lame but the real meat and potatoes is flying around the galaxy, picking up artifacts 
 so you eventually turn your ship into the ultimate bad mama jamma . You can trade, take missions, 
 be a Merc, Bounty Hunter, merchantman or anything in between While the game pretends to be open 
 ended you do have to follow the story line to open up sectors and area's of the galaxy which remain 
 hidden until unlocked. One of the best thing about this game is that you can use a joystick. I've 
 a modded UberCougar rig with Simped rudder pedals and these things make this game a great deal 
 of fun. If they'd have rpovided Track IR support I'd have really been in heaven. Even so, flying 
 this ship is a joy for a while. Then you realize that the game is quite repetitive. Except for 
 the occaisonal story line tirp to a planet or a flak gun installation it's all about go here, get 
 artifact, fight bad guys and move on. In that you've been jonesing for a Space flight sim for a 
 long time you may take this as a small price to pay. Overall I loved DSO and can't wait for a sequel 
 or for the bods to start crankng on it.. I'll be back if they do. Da Worfster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  Darkstar One is nothing like Freelancer and this can be a good or a bad thing.
  Those following reflect best this game :
  1. Hard and difficult to manage combat system - game 
 developers choose the military targeting system, totally inadequate for a space sim . Still is 
 fun and challenging to kill fast pirates , bounty hunters and mercenary.
  2. Limited trading opportunities - getting a higher load is related to ship
  upgrade aka finding 
 enough artifacts to level up energy, weapons and equipment . To load 100 or 200 t you`ll need the 
 proper equipment and is not available in the beginning.
  3. Upgrading Darkstar One - fun while searching artifacts in different sectors, but limited because 
 you can`t buy the best weapons right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodus95
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  One game was the best ever (FreeLancer) . In that game i liked many things like hiden spots, seacret 
 bases. In DarkStar one you cant choose side like in freelancer. You cant work for bandits just 
 smuggling and thats all. Galaxy is realy borring, in each system you can find only one trade ship, 
 asteroyd and some research stations. You cany enter in planet only if you are playing in storyline 
 you will have chance but not to buy something but just to wach cinematic story. Ships are all same (bandits 
 has same type of space ships. Races has same ships too. And what is realy bad that if you will 
 upgrade your ship all ships will be harder to kill. I finished darkstar one and came back to primary 
 system all ships shooted at me with hight class weapons thats realy bad! Bounty missions are all 
 same, you can see in prise like if you will take mission to kill pirates you wil have two choises 
 first is cheaper search and destroy 4+- ships, other cost more its to assasinate boss and thats 
 all. In all systems all mission are same, just different faces and systems.
  Short story line, you can finish it in less than week. Unlimited ships, you cant occupy system 
 for some one else. If you will try to kill police you will see thats its usless, trade station 
 cant be destroyed and police will come from station with unlimited ships. So why its 1dvd? Is this 
 game all in graphics, couse virtual intellect is not so good at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spamc8chr
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  The gameplay and storyline seem to be developed enough to provide interest in continuing the game. 
 There is also enough to do outside the primary plot to keep you busy (and quite wealthy) if you 
 get a little tired of the same jaded main character plot. For that part it is decent.
  
  Where it gets downright horrid is the absolute terrible design of the application itself. Outside 
 of eating memory and rendering itself useless after 30-90 minutes of play, you are left with almost 
 an inability to truly delve into the plot long-enough to develop a sentient attachment before your 
 are cursing the screen due to shaky controls and extremely choppy graphics. This is when you realize 
 that it has eaten through ~4 Gb of your pagefile. This is a space sim, which therefore means, that 
 95% of the graphics are stationary backdrops, why is it so difficult to run on an above average 
 PC? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aubar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  Some will say, ok , another space-thing game where i'll have to sell 1000s of saturn-made 3-toes 
 shoes before getting the first upgrade so that my junk ship is not the most laughable of the galaxy. 
 Others (like me you've guessed) will say : Oh great ! Another space exploration experience ! It 
 was a long long time !
  And it was, indeed. After privateer, or Freelancer, this kind of game was becoming rare. Not that 
 Eve online is not good, but has not the same taste anyway. And for once it is a good game. First, 
 it has some humour, good shootin' at nasty pirates (I know you like that) , some creativity : a 
 living vessel, not bad... The graphics are pretty good and the ambiance quite realistic. But above 
 all : the realisation is flawless ! I don't have a typical PC but mainly a mix of lots of geek 
 stuff that allow me to run games... sometime. But I went through this game from beginning to end 
 without one bug !!!! no crash, no hang, nothing. All went as smooth as in the good all time, when 
 studios had all the time to finish their games and when quality meant something. And from my point 
 of view, there's nothing more annoying that, after 5,455,790 attempts to kill that f*@##g boss, 
 you get it, and on the next split second, right before you grab the save command, crash......... 
 a error has occured ... Should I send your personal ID to Microsoft ?
  I know it has happened to you !
  Ok DS1 has its limits, a quite straightforward scenario, a not-that-new 
 concept but hell, what a fun !! enjoy ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first starting playing DarkStar One, I had mixed feelings. It ran very smoothly (which is 
 always a plus) and was fun but it was missing too many key elements to make it a really lasting 
 and truly fun game. DarkStar One pits you as the rather generic Kayron who pilots the titular ship. 
 The game does a good job of introducing you to the controls as the first few missions are tutorial 
 and also does some story exposition. However, the game's controls are extremely simple, less so 
 than the early Wing Commander games it seemed to me, but the mouse/keyboard dynamic is very intuitive 
 and works well. The game treats you to several movies in the beginning and there is somewhat just 
 wrong with how they look. There is a strange haze in virtually all of them, like the animators 
 couldn't get the lighting right and eventually said screw it, which I found distracting. The characters 
 look detailed and the movies do display some artistic flair, but still I kept feeling like something 
 was missing. The only vague comparison I can think of is how a TV soap opera looks very different 
 than a movie. That is the feeling I got watching the movies. If that makes any sense.
  
  The missions are interesting but not groundbreaking. Generally, they involve blowing other ships 
 up. There are a rare few missions that actually have you going down to a planet and flying in the 
 atmosphere and the like, but you get precious few of these to do. A couple turret-based blasting 
 missions are also present. Overall, it is what you would expect from a space shooter.
  
  You do get to upgrade the ship as you find artifacts and the ship does visually change as this 
 happens, which is a nice touch, and you gradually get new weapons and systems but it isn't as exciting 
 as the gamebox made it out to be. I wanted more customization.
  
  The weakest point in the game is definitely the sound. Your shots hit enemy ships with a very unsatisfying 
 and tinny ping. Compare this to the thunderous sound effects from Nexus: The Jupiter Incident and 
 DarkStar One pales. Voice acting is adequate in most parts to silly in several. There are many 
 points where a single voice, initially voiced by a human, is given to the aliens and it just looks 
 absurd for insectoid or reptellian bounty hunters and space station administrators to all have 
 the exact same voice as a human. The lizard aliens hiss all of their s's and this gets extremely 
 annoying and many times you cannot skip the dialogue. Bottom line, I like the game, but I can only 
 stand it for a few sessions before I have to put it down for a few weeks then come back. A passable 
 game, but it needs much more polish to be a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bireno
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this is a great game; though not without its faults. First off, the graphics are wonderful, 
 as are the controls. If you like space games like Freelancer, X3 - Reunion and so forth, definitely 
 try this. While it might not have the ship/weapon variety the others have, it makes up for it with 
 one cool evolving ship.
  
  It's been a long time since I've played this game so the story line isn't fresh in my head, but 
 it was good up until the end.. I felt short changed. The end left me feeling like there was more 
 to the game, but in reality: there wasn't.
  
  I really, really enjoyed playing this game.. and it led to a fling of trying several space simulator 
 games (Freelancer and X3 Reunion) after I played it, which is a good thing (it means I liked the 
 game type &amp; wanted more) . I'd definitely suggest trying it out if you're in to these type of 
 games... but if you're one who hates semi-shallow story lines, don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatyfrog
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  One of a few games that grabbed me from the beginning. I picked the game up on a whim; the price 
 was right and I was a big fan of other space sims (Tie Fighter, Wing Commander, and Privateer) . 
 This genre just does not have many titles, especially new ones. The gameplay is fun, the graphics 
 are better than I expected, the controls were close to perfect (logitech dual gamepad) , and the 
 sound and music were good.
  
  This game is fun to play and easy to get into. You can slide the difficulty to fit your level, 
 even in the middle of your career. The story is pretty linear and that can be a drag because the 
 rest of the game is open. You can make a name for yourself as a bounty hunter, merchant, mercenary, 
 pirate, etc. The more trade goods you deliver, the better the market prices are for you. You can 
 travel to over 300 different star systems including earth; and they all different visually. The 
 more places you visit, the more star systems open up for you. Some star systems contain secret 
 pirate hideouts or shipwrecks which offer secret weapon upgrades! And that takes us to the best 
 part of the game, upgrading your space ship. You decide how to upgrade your ship and your decisions 
 will affect how well you are able to deal with stronger enemies. You can max out your wings (weapons) 
 but will find that your engines and hull may hinder your overall package. The sound and music is 
 good, but the voice acting is awful. If you can ignore the bad movie writing that went into this 
 game you will be better off. I began to cringe everytime a cut scene came on because the acting 
 made me want to hate my character and his companions. My advice is to use that time to get a coke 
 or use the restroom.
  
  I beat the game after a week of playing. I enjoyed myself, but was dissappointed that there is 
 nothing to do after you win the game. This game has no re playability.
  
  Good game that could have been a whole lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itpontius
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Darkstar One is a very thrilling game. You dont need very much experience- I had none what so 
 ever- to have fun. This game is a blast from the star. The controls take a very long time to completely 
 master, but you can still win out because the game gets harder over time, and you can progress 
 through the story line at whatever pace you deem necessary. There are many styles of living you 
 can chose. A mercenary, which chooses missions from the terminals inside space stations and completes 
 them for money. A bounty hunter, which destroys all pirates in site. You have a reputation, which 
 is improved (or destroyed) by living these lifestyles. If you are a merchant, for say, and you 
 have a large rep. For being a merchant, prices will go down for you. If you are a mercenary or 
 a bounty hunter, each mission you complete are pirate you destroy will add to the value of the 
 next kill or completed mission. The story line gets intense around the time when the battles get 
 harder, which makes the overall game a blast. This is an awesome flight simulation (technically, 
 a space flight simulation) game. There are over 300 planets to visit, and 6 civilizations, and 
 a galactic war to investigate, so the game doesnt get boring fast. But there are some small problems.
 
  
  1 The background doesnt change very often, which is a bummer.
  2 Ground battles are WAY too easy.
  3 Getting money for that 200,000 weapon is very, very, backbreaking.
 
  4 The game will freeze if you get involved with most  there are pirates chasing me, I cant hold 
 out on my own, ****, their hear already! so beware! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grueber
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Having played Wing Commander I-V and both Freelancer games, I was really hoping this game would 
 bring back the good times. Unfortunately the best thing that can be said of this game is repetitive 
 . The designers somehow miss the point of the Freelancer/Elite type of play the following ways:
 
  
  Linear play- The game artificially limits you by limiting travel depending on your hyperspace jump 
 distance. When you pull up the map, you see the galaxy divided neatly into several sectors. My 
 heart started to sink when I realized I was literally making a neat circle since I could only move 
 to the next sector after doing blah blah blah missions and a new jump upgrade was available.
  
  Repetitive environments- Alot more work needed to be put in some original areas. Everytime 
 you move into a new sector it feels the same except there's a new race (which is some cookie-cutter 
 race you've seen in some previous game/TV show/movie) and now you get to improve all your equipement 
 from laser 1-2-3-4-etc. Very poor story- A space sim is not Doom. It needs at least a decent story, 
 and the main plot line in this game is terrible. Like other people have already commented, cliche 
 to say the least.
  
  Uninspired combat- this type of game doesn't need to be realistic. But it does need some type of 
 engaging system where some actual skill is involved. For example in Wing Commander you had to use 
 different tactics depending on the ships you faced. Some had turrets or weapon outloads requiring 
 you to approach from the sides/top/bottom instead of rear. There were plenty of capitial ships. 
 In DS I combat feels all the same. The only difference is when you move to a new sector the enemies 
 hit much harder with the same weapons requiring you to regrind for the same weapons except more 
 powerful. Bottom line, I would recommend you trying to get the other games i mentioned, and I would 
 toss in Freespace 2. All these games are older than DS I, but you will instantly notice the difference. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  Not yet finished but what a great game!! Very difficult too but with a lot of patience you will 
 finish the flack mission 2 after a while. Fantastic graphics, excellent sounds and very good game 
 play. It's a breeze to control your ship. Let's hope their will be add-ons soon because this game 
 can really be addictive like all the other space sims on the market, I think that Space Force 2 
 will even better and greater. This genre is not dead indeed and that's a good thing to see because 
 it was very silence about this genre anyway. The search for Artifacts is really easy al thoughts 
 you have to liberate several systems from pirates and that will not so easy when you are leveling 
 up with your DSO because the enemies will be level up also. So you have to deal with stronger enemies 
 when you proceed to higher levels and missions. Good work out there and let's hope this is not 
 the last one we see!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raffid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy space sim/action games, and I find that there aren't enough of them out there. This 
 game was a lot of fun, but seemed kind of long and repetitive at parts.
  
  The Good:
  - Different races and cultures, new worlds to explore.
  - Can upgrade your ship any which way 
 that you want to
  - Great action. The fights are a lot of fun.
  - Good storyline
  
  The Bad:
  - Kinda repetitive
  - Can only upgrade your ship to a certain point. I wish after 
 the game was done, they would let you upgrade it further on a 2nd replay or something.
  - Good AI, but dumb at the same time. Once you figure out a trick, you can use it over and over 
 again.
  - Why did all the enemies all over the universe get better at the same time? If my ship is now 
 a level 10 fighter, why is everyone else a level 10 fighter? Even the people that I first fought 
 in the first level.
  
  That's about it. If you're a fan of space sims like Freelancer - check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I didn't quite know what to expect from DarkStar One when it arrived, mostly because I thought 
 this wasn't my type of game at all. But since I've been slowly getting into games that aren't my 
 type at all, DarkStar One knocking at my door wasn't necessarily a bad thing.
  
  The game tells the story of Kayron Jarvis, a young space pilot who has just inherited his father's 
 ship, the DarkStar One. Kayron is mostly motivated by the mystery surrounding his father's murder, 
 wanting to discover what caused this unfortunate death.
  
  The ship will be your sole companion until you eventually get a crew member, so getting acquainted 
 with it is a must. The game does this well by offering you a series of tutorials to get you started 
 in navigation, income and combat.
  
  The DarkStar One isn't just your regular ship though. It's built with some strange alien technology 
 that allows you to upgrade and customize it, provided you find the ancient artifacts hidden all 
 over the galaxy. With these artifacts you can upgrade your engines, hull and wings to make your 
 ship faster, more agile and stronger. It's a bit like leveling a character in an RPG.
  
  You can also purchase new equipment for your ship, and that doesn't really come cheap. So how do 
 you earn money in this game? By doing any missions you want.
  
  Aside from the main storyline missions, there are several side quests that appear randomly all 
 over the universe. There is also a computer terminal where you can pick and accept a number of 
 different tasks. These missions range from scanning satelites, taking photos, picking up cargo 
 containers, escorting a ship to another system or shooting down some pesky pirates. Then there's 
 the added bonus of transporting some cargo while moving from system to system, so you can earn 
 extra income on the way. Buy goods here at a lower price, sell them over there where people pay 
 more for them. You can engage in Black Market trading as well, but watch out for the space police 
 as they will randomly scan you for illegal goods.
  
  Completing certain missions is also how you receive keys. The keys are used to activate the hyperspace 
 gates, so you can hyperjump to other locations. Your hyperjump range is fairly limited at first, 
 but it will increase as you upgrade your ship.
  
  So as you can see, DarkStar One is a space trading and combat game that allows a great freedom 
 of choice as far as gameplay goes. You can be a mercenary, a pirate, a smuggler, a merchant, an 
 assassin, your reputation depends solely on your actions.
  
  I was surprised at how easy it was to get into this game. The ship controls are fairly easy: you 
 turn with the mouse, strafe with A and D, change speed with the mouse wheel and use the thrusters 
 with W and S. I am pretty bad at docking though, since I am always trying not to bang my ship around, 
 and take forever to get to the station. There is a time limit spanning from when you request authorization 
 to land until you enter the dock, so most times I will have to try at least twice before actually 
 getting in.
  
  Combat is fairly intuitive and everything happens so fast. And since most of the time you aren't 
 fighting just a single ship, you need to learn how to move and turn quickly, shooting at all times 
 and use your shields strategically. I love the combat situations, they're really fun and the enemy 
 AI is very good, since they will work as a team to take you down.
  
  The visuals in DarkStar One are quite attractive. The different systems have quite a bit of activity 
 and you will see ships congregating around the space stations, some docking, some leaving and sometimes 
 colliding with you in the process. There are also asteroid fields that look very intersting and 
 realistic. Not that I've ever actually seen an asteroid for real, but you know what I mean. It's 
 probably the way they move, very slowly but threatening to change course and hit you at any second.
 
  
  The particle effects are very well done in the explosions, there is a good variety of ship models, 
 and the colors and lighting effects are really good. I especially liked the hyperjump sequences 
 and the cut-scenes that happen when you reach a new system. Plus, the story-based cut-scenes have 
 excellent animation.
  
  The music is great and it's very peaceful when you're just cruising around, but it conveys a sense 
 of urgency during combat. It really sets the right mood, but you can basically predict what is 
 about to happen by paying attention to the changes in the soundtrack. The voice acting and sound 
 efffects aren't that impressive but they're not bad either.
  
  For those who love to customize their games, DarkStar One offers some mod tools that can be downloaded 
 at the official site. This package allows you to modify any existing element such as weapons, ships, 
 solar systems, and it goes as far as letting you add your own voice acting and custom-made missions. 
 Overall, DarkStar One is a fun game that offers something for everyone. You can explore the vast 
 universe, dedicate your life to buying low and selling high, or you can just concentrate on space 
 combat and spend every bit of money upgrading your ship and weapons. And with so much to see and 
 do, the replay value is quite large.
  
  If you like variety and freedom of choice in the games you play, then DarkStar One is definitely 
 for you.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screens at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=darkstarone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydras808
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most repetitive games I've played. Sure it boasts 300 start systems, but really 
 they're just the same system with a different colored planet.
  The side quests are all the same over and over, and usually you'll just go and blast a pirate or 
 criminal.
  There's no depth in the game - you'll do the same things all the time: 1) Complete side quest, 
 2) Free a enslaved system 3) Get the artifact
  Basically that's what this game is about. There are some unique side quests (one per star cluster) 
 and the story brings some unique missions, but it's not enough to make it interesting.
  
  There are some good things about Darkstar One. The combat is good, the mouse control works very 
 well. The combat could need more variations though, like more lasers and missiles.
  Also, the increase time feature is really useful and saves you a lot of time.
  
  Darkstar one 
 is a game that tries to do a lot of things, but fails on most aspects, but it has some strong points 
 like the combat, and if you want a shallow space shooter it can be fun, at least for a little while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itay390
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  i just finished dark star one .. story just sucks. extremely bad voices, stupid and overloading 
 engine which can get to 1-2fps, and ideas that all came from freelancer and nearly renews anything. 
 what a shame..
  
  to freelancer i give 10 , for comparison for this.. low-grade copy of freelancer i give 6 to 7
 
  
  I will divide the worst concept to several topics : repetitiveness, graphics engine and bugs, story, 
 childishness, conclusion.
  
  repetitiveness
  ============
  the worst concepts is the repetitiveness. you can see this each time you move to a new cluster. 
 because you have to pick up the artifacts. in overall when you move a cluster because of the story 
 you have nothing to do except :
  1. getting money (only applies in the lowest parts of the game) which contains : doing missions, 
 doing trade, smuggling.
  2. destroy pirate gangs to get stronger weapons
  3. get inside asteroids and get the artifacts or ask from smuggler in the trade station to get 
 it for you.
  4. liberate occupied systems
  5. do a side mission.
  
  all these things is not an option. you must do them or else your'e be killed when you advance to 
 new clusters. you don't do it three , or four times. you do these things for about 20 times! and 
 each time takes half hour. the time spent on the story is much less time than spent on this time-spending 
 mechanism.
  also, after you finish the game . you have nearly nothing to do. you can still experience as being 
 a pirate , or .. smuggle.. or.. well, that's it! end of possibilities. exploring is useless here 
 because you don't have any world to explore! each system is like in X3 the reunion and eve online 
 - dull and not interesting. the difrence between those systems is the shine or the fade color, 
 the planets around and the type of asteroids. you won't get any.. strange looking anomalies .. 
 or interesting spots to find high class weaons or new abilities or even artifacts. it not hidden 
 so the game has lost its potential for after-story play right after you finish the story.
  
  graphics engine and bugs
  ======================
  the engine is heavy, un-optimized. for 
 medium computers, in the busiest systems you may get 1 to 2 frames per second on the lowest configuration! 
 the configuration is also not affecting much. even if you turn down everything to low from everything 
 to high, you won't be seeing a lot of diffrence except new resolution textures. the developers 
 of the game haven't taught about the old computers there are in this world , because the minimum 
 resolution is 1024x768 !!!!
  loading times are very slow. in freelancer when you had much more enviroment, routes, areas, fields, 
 debris and it took 0.5 seconds to load, in here it takes between 5 to 20 seconds to load - and 
 you will find here nothing more than few stations , fighters around it, maybe a crusier, and asteroids. 
 yea and also planets. loading the game itself will take between one minute to 5 minutes - and what 
 do you have to load? few textures? few models?
  bugs - more than one time you will find the game suddenly quiting without any warning. and there 
 was one flak mission you couldn't re-try when you got killed ! you had to search with the mouse 
 all over the screen until that button was blinking - or even restarted the game! i mean, what - 
 didn't they done a beta-test before they released it?
  
  story
  =====
  but what really got me angry is the story remained stupid all the game, only one scene from 50 
 diffrent scenes of the game got me excited. only once! and the story is so weak. i mean the story 
 has barely 3 points of tense , and between is all submissions (that's how i call them) which you 
 need to rescue someone, or fight some crusier, some boring stuff.. so the story don't get to one 
 line instead its splitting up at
  each tense point to submissions and mini-submissions instead of pushing the story in one line. 
 and the story itself is really childish like a game suited up for 10yr boys, on the other hand 
 they do know to make woman's beautiful on the cinematics which should be completely the opposite.
 
  the story is dull and your'e always expecting Eona to contiune , without solving any misteries. 
 there are almost no crisis in this game. you won't feel any emotions towards the characters unless 
 your'e 3 years old baby. you are not even getting some background information about what is this 
 universe, where's the skra came from, your'e just getting involved right away and it's not getting 
 described later either. the characters themselves are dull and nearly won't express any of their 
 own emotions. all the story geting described in a question- answer - question - answer the fact 
 that the story is childish makes you not even raise your eyebrow when you discover that jack forrester 
 is friendly in overall, the story won't make any interest. childishness
  ===========
  if your'e older than 13 years old, don't even look on this game . if your'e 10. so youv'e got a 
 little treaty to play! from the start you can see this game was meant to children. the really bad 
 voice-actors . what really embarrased me was the tutorial. in the third combat tutorial he started 
 to laugh , but instead of real laugh it sounds like its being forced! like this : ha, ha, , ha, 
 ha obviously they haven't payed a lot to the voice actor because he sounded really bored.
  the childish concept also come almost everywhere on the game. for example , when the pirates are 
 attacking you they say i will destroy you! . i mean, who's gonna say that these days? a better 
 sentnece would be im gonna kick your ass and, instead of saying bastards they replace the word 
 with the word scoundrels . another example is when the boss is saying each time he will destroy 
 you even if he sees that your'e winning. that's so annoying. to experience his ego again and again. 
 another example of childishness is when your'e being scanned by the police and then immideatly 
 dock and they say he won't escape the next time! only children would believe that sentence. in 
 real-life the police would turn-over the station , break it apart and burn every piece just to 
 find you. another example is the flak-cannon story missions at the stations, they almost similar 
 to children hit and destroy flash-games except the 3d part. there's so much more examples, that 
 i don't want to write down and waste my time.
  
  conclusion
  ==========
  this game is very dull, un-interesting and childish. freelancer was great , full of enviroment 
 and swooping story . this one barely has few stations and fighters around it. im giving it 6 - 
 why? because the little children will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martial-law
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  darkstar one is space-based action adventure title that delivers fast-paced action within a vast 
 and authentic universe. as kayron jarvis, the youthful commander of the darkstar one, players explore 
 the immensenses of space,. encountering a variety of aliens, both friend and foe as karyon aims to 
 bring peace back to the galaxy. gameplay adapts dynamically to the player's preferences and allow 
 both tactical and strategic decision-making to overcome the myriad of challenges presented. so if 
 you're thinkin to buy this game do it right now hasta la vista baby. the games name is obviously 
 strange but you'll figure it out when you play it.
  
  
  
  try not do or do not there is no try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tolderian
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 28, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  ARGH! Ok... this was the last straw. This has become about MORE than just Darkstar One.
  
  It's been a sad and slow decade for games as of late. All game-engine bang and no substance (save 
 for your few grand exceptions in contrast to the hundreds of hairballs coughed up daily) . These 
 playground games of check out my gravity guns are getting on my nerves! What happened to all the 
 depth once put into Multiplayer? WHERE'S THE MULTIPLAYER?! And if there is Multiplayer, why don't 
 they understand there's MORE to life than Deathmatch? I was hoping for a seriously improved Freelancer, 
 considering Freelancer had a lot going for it. Reminds me of Nexus (Imperium Galactica 3) , which 
 was basically the sequel to an AWESOME game with everything interesting stripped off of it but 
 a better engine. But now we all have Space Force 2 to look forward to... which is Darkstar One only 
 different, also not supporting Multiplayer, and might have Deathmatch in a future patch... oh joy 
 (note sarcasm)
  
  I'm a person who can enjoy a good single-player storyline, like F. E. A. R., but am still a multi-player 
 purist. Simply because, more-often-than-not, the replay value lies in a well designed Multiplayer 
 environment with tons of content and free-range.
  
  Just so you know, I've figured out the conspiracy folks... game companies release a worthless game, 
 with a good engine, and mod tools so that the mod community will make their worthless game worth 
 buying, JUST for the mods. It's the only reason I can fathom WHY things have gone the way they 
 have. Come on people, let's raise our standards! Let's take the power away from Consoles and their 
 designed obsolescence, stop paying these companies for their half-hearted efforts, and make them 
 WORK for the non-refundable $50-$60 we have to shell out per title.
  
  All you companies out there... you know who I'm talking to... Stop it, ok? Just stop it... you're 
 not fooling anyone. Well maybe some, but not me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonrex
Rating: 3.1
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game a lot at first. It's been a long time since anyone has made a good space fighter 
 sim, and I can only replay Freespace 2 so many times. Unfortunately this game won't scratch your 
 itch.
  
  It's got beautiful graphics and the ship you fly has a lot of appeal since it grows into customized 
 forms. But the gameplay is very tiresome. There isn't much point to trading or bounty hunting. 
 All you ever do is find a new cluster, fly around to collect crystals to grow your ship, and knock 
 off the occasional pirate gang to get the Secret Service weapons that make all other weapons superfluous. 
 DarkStar One tries to make open-ended gameplay its selling point but it completely fails. There 
 really is no point to do anything but follow the tightly-scripted story missions.
  
  The story missions are a problem, too, particularly the flak missions which interrupt the game 
 to play a simplistic and bugged minigame which you must pass to continue the game. Many people 
 are simply throwing the game away once they get to this point. There are bugs which prevent proper 
 targeting in these missions unless you drastically lower your screen resolution. Worse, if you 
 fail, you can not click the ok button and proceed. Instead you must manually exit using alt-F4 
 and reboot the game. And you will fail, dozens of times, until you either get spectacularly lucky 
 or give up the game, even on the very lowest difficulty.
  
  How can something like this happen with a large game development company? Did anyone playtest the 
 final version of this game? It's the most amateur, shoddy quality control I think I've ever seen. 
 Not only can I not recommend DarkStar One because of it, but I will never again purchase any product 
 from Ascaron until I hear from a friend that they completely finished it and there were not game-stopping 
 bugs. A shame that so much development effort was wasted due to a few truly bone-headed management 
 decisions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyb47
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Even though not a bad title to reinvigorate the space-sim genre, Darkstar One doesn't really excel 
 at anything. It's by no means original, nor does it re-do what its predecessors did with overwhelming 
 success. Nevertheless, these shortcomings don't stop it from being fun.
  
  The best part of Darkstar One is its gameplay. Reminiscent of the space sims that appeared throughout 
 the '90s, the ship control scheme is very arcade-like, while still placing the player inside the 
 actual cockpit. Space combat in this game is fun, easy and features a pretty scalable difficulty 
 level.
  
  Apart from the several settings to choose from at the start of the game, the more powerful opponents 
 you'll face will be relatively out of the way, so you won't bump into them unless you go looking 
 for trouble. Such examples would be the liberation of occupied systems, or the hidden pirate gangs 
 that litter the star systems' debris fields, who will throw waves of increasingly strong ships 
 at you, culminating with you fighting the boss, and, upon winning, receiving a secret service weapon. 
 While you will certainly encounter a number of more difficult missions in the story missions, these 
 rarely present a real challenge on the lower difficulty levels, maybe at times too less of a challenge, 
 so you might once in a while increase the setting only to get your adrenaline running.
  
  The optional missions aren't very varied, and from the bore they proved to be in Freelancer, I 
 would have expected greater variation apart from the cargo transport / kill some guy / kill some 
 pirates / sneak on some ships lot of so-called dynamic missions that you can take on at any time 
 to increase your credits. Fortunately, after a while, you own so many credits, that there's no 
 point in doing these missions any longer. On the other hand, you can choose to go on a number of 
 more interesting side missions after landing on a number of stations, though these are pretty scarce, 
 generally no more than one per star cluster.
  
  There aren't too many storyline-altering or in-mission options in Darkstar One, the missions are 
 purely linear, there's not one decision that can go either way, and the sandbox mode is there just 
 for background activity. If you're searching for the freedom of a truly open-ended game, look towards 
 X3 and be prepared for a major headache learning the ins and outs of that one.
  
  The mouse control scheme is solid, and works generally the same way as in Freelancer when it comes 
 to moving your ship. You can also access the HUD buttons by pressing keeping space pressed. As 
 a matter of personal preference, I still wouldn't give up joystick control in space, or flight 
 sims, for that matter, so if you have a joystick, dust it off and put it to good use. Alternatively, 
 a gamepad, such as the X-Box 360 one would work as well.
  
  Graphics-wise, Darkstar One doesn't impress. Nexus: The Jupiter Incident looked better, being released 
 one year ago, featuring roughly the same in-system game world size, and most importantly, not causing 
 framerate drops. While far from sporting old technology, Darkstar One has them all: bland or blurred 
 background textures, stuttering, especially during firefights, which is a real nuisance and will 
 significantly contribute to your decision of outfitting your ship mostly with turrets, as well 
 as overly repetitive planet textures. The graphic effects are pretty underwhelming as well, apart 
 from self-shadowing, dynamic shadows and a thick, volumetric fog, there's not much to say about 
 effects in Darkstar One, that we couldn't see way back in 2001, when playing Independence War 2.
 
  
  In game sound effects and music are good, but don't manage to stand out from the crowd. Apart from 
 the albeit pleasant, pew-pew of the lasers and the engine rumble there's not much to talk about. 
 Of course, it would be odd to hear the wind blowing through trees and birds singing in the morning 
 sun in a space game... The music helps immerse you in the game, with seamless transitions between 
 calm and battle music, which generally is either pseudo-orchestral, or rock. The voices, at least 
 in the UK version, even though not well-acted, have a distinctive British accent, and the pronunciation 
 sounds a little forced for a number of generic game characters. Battle chatter is also somewhat 
 repetitive, but that is easily overlooked in the heat of the moment.
  
  The story is unfortunately pretty cliche. Not wanting to go into details as to avoid spoilers, 
 it becomes pretty evident where it's all going at some point in the first quarter of the game. 
 You will recognize a whole lot of stereotype characters and alien races, from the Mortok which 
 are basically Star Trek's klingons, the Raptor which appear to be pretty much a rip-off, or shall 
 we say, a tribute to the X series' Paranid race, and the list doesn't stop here. Moreover, some 
 missions seem oddly inspired from a number of more-or-less known movies or games, and if you play 
 the game to the finish, you'll certainly notice what I mean.
  
  The save system in Darkstar One is one of the most forgiving, and best, in my opinion, of all. 
 There are autosaves when landing on any station, separate saves for various checkpoints during 
 story missions, a separate save when entering any side mission, as well as the option to make your 
 own saves at any point in the game. This eliminates the frustration associated with the uncommon 
 death, which generally happens in the start phase of the game, as well as with the accidental ship 
 destruction that may occur when bumping into things or shooting torpedoes while using the afterburner.
 
  
  All in all, Darkstar One is a fun game to play once, and most probably only once  even if it can 
 get you hooked and have you play it for hours on end, it becomes old news as soon as you finish 
 the story missions, as there isn't anything in it that you haven't already done a number of times 
 already. Therefore, if you are not a space sim afictionado, and you don't think that the genre 
 deserves your support, this is most probably a game good for renting, or buying next year when 
 the price will surely drop a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 22, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  For me, it is difficult to review this game, because I am more of a veteran space combat sim player. 
 I mostly get into those sims that provide a deep story in addition to a non-linear type of play 
 and a vast, strange world to explore. Dark One fell short with regard the vast and strange world 
 as well as the ability to create a unique ship. The interface is simple and great for the casual 
 gamer. The story was somewhat involving but a bit boring. The environments were not unique. I felt 
 like I was in the same system every time. This is where the game really falls short or games like 
 Freelancer and X3. In Freelancer you may be flying through the remains of a planet while trying 
 to battle your foe. It is dangerous and sometimes visibility plays a crucial role in the battle 
 (realistic fog and clouds) . There was really none of that in Dark Star. One of the key features 
 advertised is the ability to create a unique ship by continuously upgrading it. Well, the ship 
 building is a bit building with very little in the way of options. Most of the weapons do about 
 the same damage. I dont know, I just dont think that the game is very exciting. It just seemed 
 like I was in the same system all of the time and the enemy posed no real challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partytimekegs
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Hey hey, this game is pretty nifty. You go and buy it, drop thirty nine dollars and you have a 
 1/10 chance that you just bought a CD holder, drink coaster, and a colorful coloring booklet. Obviously, 
 im a little more than dissapointed. I saw the reviews, screenshots, videos, trailers, even played 
 the demo. Yet the retail version doesn't even start. Kudos to Ascaron for another job well done! 
 Really! Xpand Rally doesn't start either. Seems numerous people are reporting this very same problem 
 in also. So if your feeling lucky, go ahead. But be warned that you may very well be the just like 
 me and many other people who are shunned in this whole situation and have no help whatsoever but 
 from other folks over at the DS1 forum. Might I also add that they don't work with the studio, 
 nor do their suggestions help. I've spent almost five hours now trying to run the game.. and through 
 many hoops and hurdles.. still cannot play it. Good luck to those who buy it. This is suppose to 
 be a video game, not a headache. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  For fans of space sims, DarkStar One provides a solid presentation. With a myriad of missions to 
 take, several races to meet, and an arsenal of weapons and combinations to go with, DarkStar One 
 provides approximately 100+ hours of fun.
  
  In this space simmer, you take control of Kayron, a young pilot who takes control of a unique spaceship 
 known as the DarkStar One. News of his father's death is still fresh, and there are rumors of conflict 
 brewing forth in their part of space that threatens to plunge the six races and the Galactic Union 
 into war. As you go through the story missions, and the myriad of side missions and optional missions 
 you can take in trade stations, you can beef up the ship and try out a combination of weaponry.
 
  
  Fans of Freelancer will find some similarities with this one, although you won't be able to try 
 flying other ships in the game. However, you can take up different free mode paths in the game, 
 and in between story missions. You can be a mercenary by taking up side missions and terminal missions 
 and completing them, be a bounty hunter by taking out pirates and gangs, and/or learn the univeral 
 marketplace by selling high and buying low to become a merchant. You can also go the other way 
 by being a smuggler, a pirate, or a flat out killer, killing anything in your way. Keep in mind 
 that system police will scan cargo for illegal goods, which vary from system to system, and either 
 the Galactic Union, Rebels, or the Neutrals, will know of your criminal record and act accordingly. 
 Unlike Freelancer, where there were four different groups of humans, you will find six races, which 
 includes the humans. There are the warlike Mortok, the fish-like Raptor, the snail-ish Oc'to, the 
 spider-like Arrack, and the Amazon-like supremacists of the Thul.
  
  GameSpot's review are in touch with the feel and sight of the game. There are the reused arts that 
 are, at times, modified, to go with the feel of a system. There aren't much in the way of varied 
 voices except for major players like Kayron, and his eventual co-pilot, Eona. At least you do hear 
 other pilots speak to one another, and to various space stations, and hear your victims scream 
 when their shields are down or are doomed to become space dust. Capital ships blow up spectacularly 
 and leave shipwrecks, and asteroids and other space debris shatter when shattering them to clear 
 your path or to mine for resources, which you'll have to do on one of the story missions. The bright 
 spot is the intriguing story, which brings twists and turns as you go.
  
  Technically, most players have or will find that they'll have to do some technical tweaking to 
 lower the risk of constant crashes that forces some of them to completely reboot their systems 
 manually. A combination of that and patching to the latest version should help, although others 
 may find that they'll need to make hardware upgrades.
  
  Despite all this, the game gives a solid presentation of story and gameplay. The graphics, though 
 redundant in the long run, are nice, and the cinematics help move the story on. At its starting 
 budget price of $40 USD, it is worth a try, even if you don't have much space sim experience or 
 are more familiar with Freelancer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scootman
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I have not gotten far into the game yet . When I started the game it was very choppy in spots. 
 I have since added a gig of memory, a Viewsonic 20 widescerreen and a eVGA 7800 gs (I am still holding 
 onto my old ASUS mb and only have 4X AGP. These upgrades have helped. Now, onto the game. I like 
 most of it. It is not as intuitive as other space sims in the past. The contols are a bit um, similar, 
 but react differently. Maybe as I get more into the game and upgrade the ship It'll get better. 
 The space jump thing is great. Nothing more boring than flying, flying, flying to get somewhere. 
 There is a bit of it, but not bad. I look forward to getting more time to spend on this sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of space simulators, which is probably why I gave this game the score 
 I did. There were some flaws, the game does crash at times, and certainly it could have been a 
 bit better. In the desert of space simulator games today, Darkstar One is a rainstorm of fun and 
 excitement that I haven't seen since Freespace. First of all I will say that the game does not 
 run perfectly. If you want to run a joystick odds are you will have to download a patch from the 
 game website to do it, but it is easy to find, as well as the beta patch for the game. After I 
 got these installed I had few problems. An occasional crash marred the game, but your progress 
 is saved often so you never really loose any progress. I was more than willing to overlook these 
 minor things as I was having too much fun to worry about them. The graphics are one of the highlights 
 of the game, they are truly awsome. The systems that you will visit are elaborate and filled with 
 varied environments. Everytime I jumped into a new system I would marvel at the new sights before 
 I continued with my mission. The cutscenes that move the story along are also very well done and 
 added some depth to the game as well. The storyline was interesting enough with twists and turns 
 that made you continue to play the game into the wee hours of the night to see what will happen 
 next. The voice acting I thought was also very well done, leading to a realistic environment. The 
 game itself is expansive, the first time you look at your galactic map, all that you notice is 
 how big it is and how much of it you haven't seen yet. You don't need to explore every system on 
 the map to finish the game, but the desire to trade and run missions to get cash to upgrade your 
 ship motivates you to explore much of it. I felt like I was constantly playing this game and still 
 it took me weeks to finish it. There are many ways to play the game as well, you have tons of choices 
 of how to upgrade your ship, and what kind of ways your going to make money, which can change the 
 way the entire game plays, leading to some reasonable replay value. Overall I thought this game 
 was well worth the money and well worth the time as long as you are willing to get past the few 
 technical flaws, but if your like me, you've been waiting for a game like this for a long time, 
 and Darkstar One delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: behony
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  well its good if you are boared with oblivion and cs and such. its a bit one sided but i find it 
 fun killing pirates and upgrading the ship. its pretty glitchy but not enough to make it un playable. 
 has crashed a few times so when in the heat of battle make sure to save often.
  the missions are fun but sometimes its really hard to understand what they want you to do and how 
 to do it. some of the fun is trying to figure out how the hell you are supposed to complete missions 
 if you like that kind of puzzle elements in games. the directions are not clear and the manual 
 isnt very helpfull. if you get stuck, the gamespot ds1 forum is great.
  it is defenantly a nice change from the 1stPS.
  
  i give it a generous 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Err... Freelancer this ain't.
  
  The graphics are pretty, the combat well balanced, but there's so much that simply isn't what it 
 should be. The space trade genre should be massive in scope, whereas this is shallow and repetitive 
 in the extreme. What's wrong? Here goes, ahem...
  
  All the action in each system takes place in a TINY area, All artifacts, shipwrecks, stations, 
 are shown to you upon entry to the system (the artifacts are shown to you on the general map!) , 
 meaning there's NO excitement of exploration. These systems all look near enough identical, save 
 for different races inhabit them as you progress. There's no running away from a fight; I like 
 to choose whether to tackle a foe and not have them foisted upon me regardless. The space stations 
 are simply one screen, no rumours, bars, or any feeling you're in a bustling hive of activity. 
 The game slows down at a simply unacceptable level, I'm playing this WELL above the recommended 
 spec, and this is stuttering continually. And, to top it all, the Worst. Voice. Acting. Evar. Really. 
 Makes the stupid kid in The Phantom Menace look good!
  
  Simply put. Freelancer did this so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvermyst
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 9, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm. Not sure how to write this. Guess I am trying to look on the bright side of things (which 
 implies I am not overly happy with the title) . Ok lets start with the fact that the space flying 
 blow-em-up titles have been lacking (what can I say I am still an addict of Freelancer) . So this 
 title was much looked forward to (if only by me) . The graphics are good (actually better then good 
 on the average) FPS pretty good save for spots (at least with a 9600gt) audio about average. So 
 what to complain about you ask? Well the game got the point quickly of being mind numbling repeative 
 and boring.... sigh.... The trading is so simplest at be pointless (oh wait maybe I should play 
 again and run contraband.. rofl) Not sure how the heck those silly pirates took over and incured 
 the fear of god in many systems until I freed them in a single ship (excuse me but yes yes I know 
 its game and not real and such but what the heck is the military doing? ) Oh and wait the core 
 of the game. Hunting for alien artifacts. Ok lets see other the fact that there was exactly 100 
 in space (what an odd number) but your map shows you where they are before you even get there. 
 I would like things to be a bit more challenging (if only for a reason to enter every sector of 
 space) and have to search for them. And then there was my favorite parts (sarcasm intended) of 
 sitting in a fixed gun and trying to fend off waves of robot fighters... (had to reload several 
 times) which got frustating to the point where I have to set the game on the easiest setting just 
 to get past those sections. Sigh
  
  Ok lets sum this up:
  
  The graphics are good.
  Gameplay is also good (save for the turret bits)
  Audio average.
  The ship handles well Replay 
 value.... low.. Maybe in a few months if I get bored
  
  The game leaves you with the feeling of "Ok did that and got the shirt time to move on"
  
  
 Maybe the Mods option will make breath life back into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiendling
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Dark Star One started out as a very promising game continuing in the same fine tradition as Elite, 
 Wing Commander: Privateer 1 & 2, Independence War 1 & 2 and to a lesser extent Freelancer. I thoroughly 
 enjoyed the first 5 hours or so but then it became glaringly obvious that every non-story or non-side 
 quest mission available in the game can be broken down into 4 distinctive generic categories: 1) 
 Escort a convoy for A to B
  2) Kill Person/Persons C for violation D
  3) Sabotage party E for whatever reason
  4) Espionage on behalf of F on party G
  
  Unfortunately 
 the only variations in mission categories seemed to be the setting of the missions. Never in my 
 experience with previous open ended space simulators, of which a notable few are mentioned in my 
 opening, have I encountered such a repetitive feel to the missions. It reminded me, more than anything 
 else, of the supremely generic quests in the initial Elder Scroll games, Arena & Daggerfall. After 
 progressing halfway through the storyline the missions seem to blur together as an insubstantial 
 pastime necessary for acquiring money. This came as a severe disappointment to me since I am a 
 big space flight simulator fan. I must say, in defence of a pretty decent attempt at a space flight 
 sim, that the side-quest and plot missions were varied and extremely well done. This and the pretty 
 good storyline kept me playing the game to the end.
  
  Now that I am done with the negative, lets move to the positive aspects of the game. The graphics 
 are some of the best I have seen recently in a simulation game and the plot and storyline, though 
 left a bit open at the end (a clear indication of possible sequels) was interesting and engaging. 
 The physics of manoeuvring through space and reducing your enemies to component parts is quite 
 well done and provides a satisfying diversion from the repetitive and generic feel of the normal 
 missions.
  
  I would recommend this game to people who enjoy the space flight simulator genre but with the warning 
 not to expect too much. It is an ideal game to introduce people to the space flight sim genre in 
 general, but veterans may not find enough substance for prolonged interest.
  
  Overall I have to give it a 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Space sims are not only rare these days, but also very difficult to pull off. There has been a 
 notion, as of late, to keep them simple. I can agree with that. In the past there have been sims 
 based fully on economy and trade and not so much on combat. DarkStar One took the opposite role 
 on this. The action takes precedence in the game. 
  
  However, in the end it comes up with the same problem: it's repetitive. Make money, kill this pirate 
 and his buddies, trade this, do this mission, transport this, kill this pirate and his buddies, 
 blow this up, go here, kill this pirate... and on and on. 
  
  I first got into DarkStar because of the potential of the ship upgrade system. A tech tree like 
 ladder that customized not only the appearance of yore ship, but its abilities. I'm all about customization, 
 so it hooked me right away. In the end, however, no matter how hard I tried, I ended up with the 
 same ship. You need to upgrade the hull for weapons, you need to upgrade the engines for the hull, 
 and you need to upgrade the wings for the engines. For the best possibility of a ship you need 
 to bring it all to its max. I was under the impression that you could make an awesome corvette 
 class ship, a fighter, or a cruiser depending on your likes and dislikes, but really in the end 
 it's all the same result if you want to do well in battle. 
  
  The plot didn't thrill me. Not a bit. Wooden voice acting and characters I didn't get attached 
 to left me skipping through the dialogue like the articles in a dirty magazine. Whatever, let me 
 get to the good stuff! But the good stuff was just the same as it always has been. 
  
  Repetitive. There are a few original side-missions throughout the game which add some spice to 
 it, but these missions tend to be more annoying than good additions, and with the save system that 
 DarkStar has you may be stuck with them if you're not careful.
  
  What does the next GREAT space sim need? It needs to get away from the old stuff, the circling 
 battles, the pirates and jump gates, and planetary trade. What are you left with then? Well, if 
 someone figures it out and does it right, they are freakin' geniuses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudbuAL
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  DarkStar one is definately the best space combat sim since Freelancer (exluding X2 and X3 which 
 are less combat-specific oriented) . It plays in a manner similar to Freelancer and the combat mechanics 
 FEEL like Freelancer. And while the graphics are wonderful, this ain't quite Freelancer. I personally 
 didn't mind the fact that you must stay with one ship (which you can upgrade to the nines) but 
 the systems themselves don't feel very unique and the races you combat are few. It is a wonderful 
 effort, one of those game where you think to yourself, "if they work out a few of the kinks for 
 the expansion or version 2 it will be a classic." Personally I'm hoping they will. In the meantime 
 its still fun to play and if you are a fan of the space sim genre, certainly worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Now why couldn't Egosoft try something like this. The game is exactly how Brett Todd described 
 it in the Gamespot review. Unfortunately Egosoft chose to make a repetition of X2 just tweaked 
 a bit for graphics. And of course they never delivered on their multiplayer claim for X3. Unfortunately 
 this game has the same issue - no multiplayer. This part is disappointing given the quality of 
 the product - it already makes a great game and could have hit the top with multiplayer. Another 
 thing that it lacks is joystick support. While you can play with the joystick many times you find 
 it easier with the mouse. X3 wins in this regard - excellent joystick compatibility - but thats 
 all it wins in.
  In Darkstar you don't have to spend time jumping from system to system just to find one or two 
 numbers of a ware - or usually none at all. Ok, if the economy is dynamic so be it - but don't 
 expect me to babysit it all the way - specially from the very beginning. Thats what makes the initial 
 time spent so long in X3. In Darkstar you can get into the mission right away and the credits you 
 get for side missions, bounty hunting, etc aren't that measly either so if you don't want to trade 
 then you don't have to. There is a lot more enemy activity in the game and so you're never bored 
 just hauling from one system to another and staring out into space. Side missions are a lot easier 
 to find too. Another major thing to note is that you can only fly the darkstar - no other ships 
 are offered. But you won't be bored with this. The ship is a beauty. You can upgrade the ship from 
 time to time based on these "artifacts" that lie scattered across the system (no, its not a pain 
 looking for them - they're all over the place) . So your ship grows, gets better weaponry, agility, 
 hull, engines, etc. This "organic" ship concept is great - I love it.
  Graphics are awesome. The explosion effects are a great job on the part of Ascaron - kudos to them. 
 Sound effects are phenomenal too which they deserve credit for. The campaign alone is worth the 
 money. It is loooooooong. But this is one game you wanna be prepared for - I have had my attention 
 kept by some campaigns but this one is very addictive. So be warned because you may want a nice 
 long weekend dedicated to it and its not like you're gonna finish it in a couple of days - at least 
 I couldn't. Perhaps its long to make the lack of multiplayer worthwhile but its there anyway.
 
  Finally, a note of thanks to the community. Other people playing this are very helpful - a really 
 cool bunch out there. I spent most of my time on Ascaron's forum for the game instead of here on 
 Gamespot but I'm sure they're great here too. Its just that I found a lot more postings there so 
 if you get the game then check them out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tfujiwara1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game. A little too easy with cheats enabled. Gameplay definately reminds me of the old 
 wing commander series. I'm using a trainer to play the game, but have to admid having the cheats 
 definately reduce any fun in the game.... Plus the game's challenge level is just enough to get 
 by without any cheats.... Definately a game worth playing. First space sim i've played since the 
 wing commander series! FreeLancer
  While it's not the revolutionary title it initially promised to be, Freelancer delivers the exact 
 combination of addictive and accessible gameplay that the genre has needed for a long time. OK 
 are we at 100 characters yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave_gene_pico
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I am personally a fan of games like Freelancer, and when I read about DarkStar One being released, 
 I waited for it's release, pre-ordered, and rushed out to buy it. For all the trouble I went through 
 for this game, from waiting to finding a vendor who sells it, I honestly believe it was absolutely 
 worth it.
  
  The game starts off as you play a young pilot name Kayron, whose father was recently involved in 
 a shady death, and Kayron eventually sways to avenge his father's murderer. He accomidates a ship 
 called the DarkStar One, which is a highly sophisticated ship. Honestly, the basic plotline isn't 
 very original, and the cutscenes were a pain to watch occaisionally, because the cinematical graphics 
 were poor, at best, and they were very fast and poorly voice acted. Not so bad that it ruins the 
 game, however.
  
  Although the cinematics are poorly made, once you jump into the DarkStar One, you can go into the 
 options menu and fly with a joystick or mouse, which leaves it ultimately up to the preference 
 of the player. Freelancer only used the mouse, and Privateer only used the joystick, but DarkStar 
 One lets you choose. If you lack a joystick, I would suggest using the mouse, because good joysticks 
 are very hard to find these days.
  
  Outer space in this game is very well-detailed and the models for the ships, stations, asteroids, 
 and planets are simply amazing. Inside the DarkStar One, it is very impressive as well.
  
  The gameplay is addictive, but does get repetitive. A lot of the missions are the same, with the 
 same motive and ending, but that's why there's multiple types of missions. You can either do the 
 basic bounty hunt, or listen in on a secret meeting and spy for a certain trading company or government 
 agents.
  
  The economy system is very interesting, and each system is unique. Sometimes, a disease can outbreak 
 in a system, and the price of medicine could skyrocket, which you could capitalize on. Some systems 
 are poor, some are rich, and each is owned by a different faction. You have the Galactic Democracies, 
 Federations, Dictatorships, and Anarchists, to name a few. Each system will have certain commodities 
 considered contraband, amount of police in the area, and quite a few other factors.
  
  The DarkStar One is an upgradable ship, and you upgrade it by flying around in asteroids and collecting 
 enough artifacts to upgrade your ship. You will eventaully need more and more artifacts to upgrade, 
 and if you're feeling a little lazy, you can just fly to the Trade Station and pay someone to get 
 it for you.
  
  There are a wide assortment of gadgets, gizmos, and guns that serve many different purposes from 
 the life-saving the mundane. Each weapon and item is unique in it's own way, and it makes it very 
 fun to mix and match with weapons, to find the correct loadout to suit your ship.
  
  One thing that I enjoyed very much was the ability to change the difficulty setting in the options 
 menu. You can have it on very easy, or give yourself a big challenge. You don't need to be the 
 greatest pilot to play the game - you can set the difficulty right to where you need it.
  
  Although, DarkStar One has it's own share of glitches, errors, and gameplay issues. The frame per 
 second rate can get unstable, and even cause the game to crash on rare occaisions. The game has 
 a $40 USD pricetag, so it does come with a few errors that will cause the game to unexpectantly 
 crash. However, these errors can be fixed by further updates, and the folks at Ascaron already 
 have fixed some with the update.
  
  Overall, it's a good game for space sim fans, and savor it while you can, because although there 
 are hundreds of game studios, we rarely see a space sim, and definetely not one that's a good as 
 DarkStar One.
  
  This game looks good, sounds good, and plays good, if you'll pardon my English. If you're a fan 
 of space sims, or even if you're new to the flight sim genre, this game should definetely be in 
 your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necbone
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Once I got the hang of the game, I really got into it.... Some things could be better, but I enjoy 
 the simplcity of the game... It's worth a play, and remember upgrade yur WINGS twice asap!!!! Theres 
 a couple bugs and sometimes crashes, but you should be saving alot anyways..... Some parts are alittle 
 complicated, like finding the sidequests to open up systems... Even the story is slightly interesting 
 and it seems the game can be "open-ended", by either being a pirate of sorts or to being a law 
 abiding mercenary
  
  This game is addictive and I would suggest this to anyone who needs a break from their other games. 
 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow1jr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game rates up there with Starlancer and Wing Commander series. Smooth play and best of all 
 they got the mouse controls down pat. I understand they had a lot of work to do but the repetitiveness 
 of the space stations and getting the artifacts was sometimes boring. Hopefully now they are working 
 on expansion packs. Now that the base worlds are set they can concentrate on more missions and 
 expand on different story lines and maybe modify the worlds a little. It is an awesome set up. 
 If you never played this type of game then it is a must!! The number of worlds is amazing. A 9 
 out a 10!!!!! Game difficulty is very scalable. Good for newbies and experts alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crxhf
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Everything in this game has hits and misses. As far as the gameplay its alright its about on par 
 with freelancer or starlancer for dreamcast. The graphics are great but the sound on some of the 
 weapons all sound the same even though they are a different level but the sound from firing almost 
 sounds like what the lasers sound like on Mk1. The flight manuvering doesn't really require any 
 skill just use the reverse thrusters and straft i find to be almost usless. The game is very easy 
 and repeative. Buy upgrades come back to station do mission and the missions are nearly all the 
 same. Take pictures of stations to earn credits, kill pirates etc.. the really only thing that 
 changes in playing is the main quest. Following that through is easy and fun. Finding artifacts 
 are super easy just look at the diamond like green stars on the navigation map. No skill or hunting 
 for them just fly there and upgrade your ship. You only have one ship which makes this game really 
 loose its variaty in gameplay. But the ship has alot of upgrades but it just seems to loose intrest 
 after awhile. Don't get me wrong this game is very fun to play but iam finding myself playing it 
 for 20mins at a time cause its the samething over and over unless you follow the story. The enemies 
 all look alike when they show up on your display screen. And taunting them is pointless as it doesn't 
 seem to increase there agressiveness in combat. Missles are pretty easy to dodge also. I know this 
 is kinda ruff review for giving this game a 8.5 but its worth atleast to pickup if you haven't 
 played freelancer. There are still some issues after the patch like choppy gameplay or skips when 
 entering and exiting the stations or warping to different systems and even in combat. But hopefully 
 they come out with a patch soon cause it does get anoying after awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GPAddict
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  First off this game reminds me very much of Wing Commander: Privateer which was made by Origin 
 Systems back in 1993, before they went to making only Online games, which was a mistake in my opinion! 
 Also very similar to FreeLancer.
  
  One cool feature of this game is your don't even need a joystick to play it and enjoy it! The graphics 
 are very nice and sound is good also. Gameplay is very challenging, many missions available and 
 even side missions pop up on occasion. I highly recommend this game.
  
  My only complaints is that I wish it was possible to interact with people on the stations, and 
 that different ships could be used/acquired.
  
  Other than that, great game that delivers!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mszpirt
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Darkstar One promises a lot from the start. Fast paste action and role-playing system that lets 
 you choose your own destiny, whether it be Bounty Hunter, Trader, Smugler or Mercenary. In some 
 ways it does let you do this, but in alot of ways, it doesn't.
  
  The Darkstar One is the newest creation in spaceship technology. It combines ancient organic artifacts 
 with top-of-the-art computers, to create the latest in security meassures. And its all yours, given 
 to you by your recent dead father. With the name of his murderer, you set out not only to revenge 
 his death and seek out the mysterious organic artifacts that upgrades your ship, but also to besige 
 the universe with your doings. This is how Darkstar One starts and even though it sounds a little 
 clich, it works for the game.
  
  However a truely free RP system would let you make your own choice from this point, along side 
 the main story. Start out as a trader by buying stuff. Or become an lawenforcer by taking jobs 
 from the local police. Want to be a pirate, seek out the nearest piratenest. However this is NOT 
 how it is done by Darkstar One. Instead the game throws batch after batch of pirates in your face 
 from day one, which makes it hard for you to become anything else than an bounty hunter (and makes 
 the game very repititiv) . It undermines its own system by making a world where you can't choose 
 sides (with the pirates) if you want all your upgrades for you ship.
  
  Another let down is the trade system. The developers were oviously aming for a very simple and 
 easy accesible system which they have succeded, but they also made it alot more boring to be a 
 trader. All systems create four different products and have max two products they find illegal. 
 So all you need to do is to find a not so wealthy system and transfer these products to a wealthy 
 system that doesn't produce the same goods. Its as easy as that. And boring. You dont know what 
 the price is in the system you want to sell too. Also as the all the sectors pretty much makes 
 the same stuff, you don't get extra credits for making long journeys with exotic goods. Smugling 
 is a way to make the hole affair a little more exciting, by having to avoid the police in the systems 
 were the goods are illegal. But again, you don't know the how much can sell the goods for in the 
 different systems, so it a guess a best where to go. The wealthier the system, the more you earn 
 but the more police will be patroling.
  
  With this said, i most recommend the game to all space loving gamers. The handling og the ship, 
 and the ability to strafe, makes the dog fights more alive. The opponents are very well match. 
 The stupid bodyguards are easy to take out, and the pirate leaders dont just have better gear, 
 but are also more versatile in their fighting which keeps you on your toes. The devolpers have 
 also used a lot of time to incorperate the story into the game. So if you can live with the not 
 so free RP system and the very simple trade system, my advise would be to give this game a good 
 try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOTRKID
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  i just have to say first that the controls are easy and fun. just like a first person shooter. 
 the storyline kept me occupied for 5 days. there are ppl on the forums for darkstar one that **** 
 and whine about "how do you (insert whatever here) ?" easy to find out. CLICK THE DAMN BUTTONS!!! 
 trial and error ppl and if you say it's "easy" tweak the difficulty for your desired level. the 
 only bad thing is that you get the rare frustrating mission where you have to protect something 
 there are 2 that i got fed up with of that sort. thats it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackliu239
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game, the only reason I brought it is because of Freelancer. Freelancer 
 was a very good space combat game and this review is a comparison of Darkstar One (DS1) with Freelancer 
 (FL) .
  
  At first glance the game looks great, the graphic looks much better than FL, but sometimes the 
 frame rate can drop a lot during the middle of the battle or in the asteroid field.
  
  The ship handling and customization is great, probably better than FL. And if you really want to 
 make this game easy, just keep upgrading your ships Hull and get the best turrets. Turrets automatically 
 targets enemy ships, with the full hull upgrade, 5 turrets loaded with the best weapon available 
 you can be almost invincible, all you have to do is to afterburner toward the enemy formation while 
 strafing to avoid fires. You will be racking up kills all around you without you actually pointing 
 your noise to them (I'm not kidding)
  
  The idea of upgrading your ships instead of buying new one is actually pretty good, but sometime 
 it can be somewhat frustrating flying around just for the purpose of finding upgrading material 
 (artifacts)
  
  The game environment is really nothing to brag about. Although there are suppose to be 300 systems 
 in the game, but they are all pretty much alike; with background color of: blue, red, purple, green 
 added with features like asteroid, ice crystal. And there can be only so much combinations of them 
 before you see it all.
  
  Alas the story. I feel like DS1 tried to expend too much on their in game characters while at the 
 same time attempting to write an explosive storyline. However it fall flat on the letter. The story 
 felt flat, sometimes you really don't care what happens to the AI NPC and sometimes the storyline 
 gets somewhat confusing (I think its due to the awkward translation from Germany to English) . In 
 the end when you finishes the last mission you don't really get excited and feels accomplishment 
 the way you felt when you finished FL, it was just a mission, perhaps longer. And in the end you 
 really don't cares what happens to the NPCs in DS1 as much as you could felt for FL NPCs. I really 
 want an expansion for FL the movement the game ended, but as for DS1, I wouldn't wait to uninstall 
 it from my hard drive to free up the 4.5GB of space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makanai
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  This game is, for those of you that love them, no Elite or Privateer, but it's still a pretty good 
 game in that vein. I find it more enjoyable than Freelancer, which was a disappointment to me after 
 all the hype. The three major downsides to this game are that there are no purchasable ships, a 
 simple equipment path, and horrendous voice acting. You're stuck in the Darkstar One the whole 
 game. However the games makes up for this by allowing you to "evolve" your ship with organic upgrades. 
 So, you can make a massive tank of a ship, or a light agile gunship, or a number of variations 
 inbetween.
  
  The other downside is that the equipment upgrade paths are pretty much completely linear and aren't 
 as sophisticated as those found in Privateer. It's pretty much just a standard "level your ship" 
 and then buy the next highest piece of equipment in each path. Maybe if you take a different evolution 
 path you have to be more strategic about your selections, but I haven't seen much strategy than 
 "buy the most expensive weapon."
  
  The voice acting is so bad it actually add an unintended comic interlude to the game. The story 
 might have been more compelling if there weren't voice acting, and just subtitles. However, the 
 game is nonetheless quite fun. Combat is simple and straightforward. The method used to advance 
 the storyline is decent, and moves quickly enough to keep you playing.
  
  Despite the openness of the universe, there's really no reason to do much other than advance the 
 storyline and take missions to make money to upgrade (money is plentiful though, so this doesn't 
 take very long) . While this makes the game easier, it also reduces the tedium that is found in 
 other recent space sims (think the X series) .
  
  Overall, I found this quite enjoyable. I recommend it for those of you looking for something more 
 like a space sim than Freelancer, less like an economic sim like X, and more in the vein of good 
 shoot-em up fun like Privateer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EatU4Lunch
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  First, if you are looking for true freedom, ship variety, weapon variety, or variety in general, 
 look elsewhere.
  
  You start and finish the game in the same ship. Yes it becomes better as you fly it and 'upgrade' 
 it - but it's the same ship! It's dumbed down to the point that it hurts. Want to fly one of the 
 many cool looking ships in the game? Sorry. You're stuck in Darkstar One! That pretty much takes 
 any sense of true freedom right out of the game for me.
  
  Guns offer very little variety. Yes you get stronger guns as you progress, but they all feel about 
 the same. In fact combat in general is extremley dull and tedious. The AI simply flies in circles 
 around you taking periodic shots at you. The guns are partially auto aiming, which is inevitable 
 considering how quirky the combat feels; without it, you'd never hit a thing.
  
  Space all looks the same, stations look the same, the distinct variety that Freelancer had isn't 
 to be found in this game. I could find no desire to continue playing the game after about 5 hours.
 
  
  The sound, just like the graphics, while amusing at first quickly becomes dull and then annoying 
 as you hear the exact same taunt again and again and again.
  
  There are no surprises in this game. The missions are dull and exactly what you would expec them 
 to be from the description. Trading is as simplistic as it is incredibly borring - and pays horribly 
 compared to missions. The combat feels exactly the same no matter who, what, where you're fighting. 
 Freelancer was vastly supperior and this game is a huge step back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turbo2076
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  I thought I would give my 2 cents about Darkstar One. What and excellent game! I would say it is 
 even better than Freelancer! There is always a variety of missions to take at every station, from 
 bounty hunting, collect cargo, defend cargo, and even take pictures!! If you get tired of these 
 missions you can always trade goods for awhile. The only problem is is that you can't haul that 
 much at first, so the return on your trades is a bit slow.
  
  It is a some what a graphics-heavy game. I have a pretty good PC, and I have to crank it down a 
 bit or it gets to choppy. The other issue is that it currently has a joystick bug. It won't recognize 
 the X-axis, therefore you have to play using the mouse until the devs fix it.
  
  The whole upgrade system for your ship is pretty good. The shape of the ship starts to change as 
 you upgrade it. Very cool!!
  
  All in all, plays great and looks great. Highly recommend it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obzy77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Now the 1.2 patch has been released, this game provides plenty of short to medium length, fun gaming 
 sessions. Fans of the X series may be disappointed, as there is nowhere near as much depth - especially 
 as far as trading is concerned. On the other hand, it doesn't take you a week of solid play just 
 to get used to it. After about five hours with x2 and x3 I took them back. Just too damn complicated. 
 I'm an avid gamer, but these games were more like work than actually going to work. 
  
  Some nice (although pretty shallow) rpg elements are thrown in for good measure, so you can decide 
 what form and function your ship takes on as the game progresses. 
  
  As far as looks go, this game is more than passable. Just don't expect to be as blown away as you 
 were the first time you set eyes on EvE though.
  
  So, highly recommended as long as it's played in short one to two hour bursts.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asuka-Langley
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Darkstar one is a space sim in which your character and his father are trade convoy escorts, the 
 main characters father dies in an escort mission and your character later finds out his ship was 
 sabatoged by someone working in the same company, through the rest of the game your character will 
 spend his time tracking down this person to get revenge for his fathers death, but before your 
 father died he leaves behind a new type of ship to you as inheritence, this new ship actually evolves 
 as the pilot finds artifacts scattered around the galaxy . Many of the artifacts are located inside 
 of asteriods and others you get for doing special assignments such as liberateing star systems 
 from pirates who have taken over the system, there is a total of 100 artifacts and you need two 
 to gain 1 level the first 3 levels, then the next 3 lvls you will need 3 per lvl, then the next 
 3 levels you need 4 per lvl etc etc. Each time you gain a level you can upgrade one of the 3 parts 
 of your ship 1. Hull 2. Wings 3. Engines, and you gain extra skills for your ship like "overload, 
 shield boost, EMP, etc. Most of the game you will find yourself fighting pirates and flying all 
 over discovering new star systems in search of the person who killed your father, along the way 
 doing some side quest and missions found on the spacestations for extra cash (usually hunting down 
 pirates, protecting trade convoys, or spying missions) . I like the idea that you can keep one ship 
 and keep improveing it to be more deadly without sacrificeing power/weapons/cargo space/armor for 
 speed BUT I do find the battles a little boreing sometimes because the ship is just so powerful 
 and its so easy to make millions of dollars after only a few hours of playing that even when your 
 seriously outnumbered like 20 pirates to your 1 ship they bearly scratch your shields and your 
 just spinning around in circles for like 10 minutes trying to see who can shoot the other person 
 from the back, which also brings up another point, spaceships completely stop if you press the 
 breaks but in real life they would keep on going. I also found the targeting system a little bit 
 annoying at first because you have to hold the spacebar and select a target from the menu to make 
 contact with it (EX: when docking at a station, to plot your destination, and to select friendlys) 
 but at least it offers hotkeys to find closest enemys and next enemy targets so you get used to 
 the other stuff not haveing hotkeys after a while. The Shielding system on your ship is very innovative 
 as well, you can transfer shield energy from one part to another (front to back, side to front, 
 etc etc) and you can also transfer power from sheilds to weapons and vise versa, most other space 
 sims make it so your ships shield system is one whole section instead of seperate areas and they 
 dont let you have as many options as darkstar one does. Overall I would say its a good game but 
 your ship gets too godly, the story could use some work, and it gets a little boreing fighting 
 only pirates the whole game every time you enter a new system
  
  also you could add something to simplify tradeing, when I first started playing the game I didnt 
 even know how to sell my old weapons because if you go to your inventory it says how much the selling 
 value is but it has no sell botton, I found out you had to goto the "equipment" section of the 
 station then click the little "goto ship" botton to sell your old gear. One other thing I would 
 like to suggest that would greatly help players is something that tells you the value of goods 
 in other systems to help people find out where to buy and sell goods and how much profit they would 
 make, currently the game has nothing that tells you how much goods cost in neighboring systems 
 so you have to look for yourself and write it down which is a huge hassle with tons of different 
 systems in the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: manxe
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  The local space travel engine is pretty good. Not quite as good as the old standard, X-Wing vs. 
 Tie Fighter. But the scenery is phenomenal. The controls are difficult when dog fighting, but I'm 
 getting used to it. The flight parms could use some tweaking. The trading scenarios are infantile. 
 The star map is funky. These areas could use some serious upgrades. Money to be made if they come 
 thru and make Darkstar Two the new standard for space combat.
  
  The AI charactors are targeted for a ten year old audience. And the plot line needs serious work. 
 But I'm just playing the demo. Maybe the game itself is an improvement. Not!!
  
  There is no manual, instruction set, introduction, hint book or clue for beginners. You have to 
 play the plot to learn how. I prefer anything free form. I follow my will.
  
  Why is it that none of the space combat engines we see are true to the physics of space travel?! 
 When you turn off the engine in space, you don't stop! You keep on going forever!!
  
  BOTTOM LINE: addicting. Good for a quick hour or two of Zen like departure from reality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misinformed2
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  
  Darkstar One has done a lot of things right, most notably in short, the cockpit looks gorgeous, 
 numerous view angles, good ship graphics and station interiors and an upgradable ship, some nice 
 special effects and explosions and well rendered environments (with the exception of some planets) , 
 and excellent cinematics and combat music.
  
  However it stumbles on a lot of things one would take for granted in a space sim, for instance 
 most systems out of the 300 or so comprise of a trading station (each race seems to only have one 
 model for a trading station) , a few planets (which cannot be interacted with outside the story 
 if at all) a research station which cannot be docked at more often than not, a asteroid belt/nebulae/debris 
 field, a few pirates of varying types, some police and the odd cargo vessel with its escorts. With 
 the option of finding the odd pirate base (which the sole purpose of is to kill a gang of pirates 
 to recieve better equipment) and/or shipwreck. None of which reuires any searching because its 
 all on your radar or target list of every object in system from the moment go.
  
  So much for variety being the spice of life.
  
  Missions given at the homogenous trading stations 
 in each system offer far better monetary rewards than trading. Which consists of practically towing 
 your cargo behind you from one trading station to another buying low and selling high. Apart from 
 the occassional side mission and storyline missions there is only smugerling which is basically 
 trading in goods considered to be illegal in any given system. There is no mining of asteroids, 
 or interacting with any objects in space on the fly apart from pirate hunting that will earn you 
 any revenue. 
  
  Combat is pretty stiaght forward and only really provides a challenge when a large group of targets 
 are firing on you or on the odd occassion missiles are fired and mines are dropped by the attacking 
 pirates/bounty hunters.
  
  All in all a very simplistic game that delivers a bit of solid shooting action that will please 
 space starved fans, even if only untill the story is finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beowulfs
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  It really was an enjoyable game. the ending was a little cheesy and cliche, but other than that, 
 I'm happy with it. We needed a game like this. It's been too long. I'm hoping they'll continue 
 the series, or at least the modding community will. 
  
  I liked both the mouse and joystick functionality. I've got a logitech freedom cordless and it 
 worked perfectly. just remember to turn the joystick on in options.
  
  I'll give you a hint. You can't get all the artifacts until after you finish the game. There are 
 3 to be precise. This was bugging me, so I don't want it to bug you.
  
  If you like space sims, then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalleema
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This game took me by surprise - I liked Freelancer, and absolutely miss the days of Freespace, 
 Privateer, and Wing Commander. So yeah I like space sims. I didn't enjoy any of the X series, for 
 the same reason I don't play MMORPGs: I don't have a ton of time to devote to it.
  
  But this is a nice blend of Freelancer type interface and Privateer type of game. It's almost an 
 RPG and you can do whatever you want.
  
  There are some bugs but they will most likely be worked out, and I hope to see a large modding 
 community pop up for this title.
  
  I was able to have the game run with no problems on :
  
  Athlon 1900+, 512 DDR 266, and a Radeon 
 X700
  
  which isn't a lot of power. 
  
  I had to set the res to 1024 x 768 at 16 bit, with textures and detail set to medium, but the game 
 still looks good, and is perfectly playable.
  
  Load times are long for this game so don't get frustrated and think your computer has frozen, it's 
 just a slow loader is all.
  
  With a good patching, this could be a great game, and could even be the game that Freelancer was 
 supposed to be.
  
  Keep your eyes on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchyRising
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Darkstar One is a tight game over all although it has some quirks many players will find annoying 
 to say the least.
  
  The game already suffers from a severe slowdown, right out of retail, due to copy protection errors 
 where the game reads from the disc repeatedly causing frame rates to plummet. Ascaron has a Beta 
 patch out at the time of this review that claims to fix it, however untested by myself.
  
  The graphics are a bit dated, but it doesn't take away from the fun of DSO like you might think. 
 The sounds are nice and ambiance is descent so its not a total loss as far as overall enjoyability 
 goes.
  
  Soon after a fun start, however, the game seems to slow to a Freelancer style pace. The mission 
 selection panel even seems to almost mimic the one in FL. You will fly around to different systems 
 completing different types of missions (i. e. Sabotage, Piracy, Smuggling, Trading) which can become 
 kind of boring if you want all the time action. Thankfully, in the true style of X3, Darkstar gives 
 us a Time Accelerator option which cuts through some of the long runs.
  
  One thing that bugged me personally, is the total lack of economy which would have pushed the game 
 up several notches if it was more in tact.
  
  Right now, there are maybe 20 total objects to buy/sell at one station type (as far as I've seen) . 
 There are trade stations in every sector, and thats about it, aside from special mission items/people 
 and a research center asteroid.
  
  Economy buffs probably would not like this game.
  
  Otherwise, the game play is fun aside from it being repetitious sometimes. I use the mouse and 
 keyboard but have tested the joystick / gamepad support, and it's just bad.
  
  This may seem like a bad review but I actually have enjoyed the game so far. Lets hope there are 
 no show stoppers later in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: in-somnia
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 17, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Darkstar One is a fun game. The 'get me into the action' feel to it is well done and its going 
 to stay in the D drive for a while. Admittedly if you've enjoyed Elite (started on the BBC Micro, 
 not the C64 btw) , Freelancer and Earth and Beyond then you're going to slot right into the target 
 group of this game. Graphics are good, but do slow down (almost to standstill if you've ALT-TABBED 
 the swine a few too many times) when a battle boots off. Whilst the organic upgrade elements to 
 the game make sense, but i personally always like the ability to buy a new ship and show it off 
 to someone who NOW doesn't deserve to mess with me!
  
  The sound and voice acting are so so, not enough to detract and all 'skipable', and the storyline 
 benefits enormously from its take it or leave it approach. 
  
  What more does it need? Well, with its fairly simplistic approach to life then MMORPG'ing the game 
 would be great, although as we all saw with EnB then you need a commitment to support that was 
 never given to this genre really post Beta stage. Freelancer (probably its nearest suitor) and 
 Darkstar One would both be great if properly handled online but from experience lets agree that 
 if you cant be arsed to support it then dont bother in the first place!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephy_04
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 17, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Although DSO kept me very busy for a whole 7 days, I just started to play it through again this 
 morning on the other side of the law, as is my habit with any game that offers a good/bad path. 
 Piracy is very challenging but completely fruitless and un-fun, smuggling is a waste of time (much 
 like regular trade runs) due to the fact that killing a formation of Pirates can easily net you 
 as much as several trade runs. 
  
  If you're anything like me, you'll play it through once and then desperately attempt to get a refund 
 from the local shop, before resigning yourself to the fact that it was a waste of money that will 
 remain on your shelf for years to come. 
  
  Freelancer is easily a far superior game with near-equal graphics, sound and the SP campaign is 
 one you'll play through several times; and after that you can download a total conversion and/or 
 play the game online in all it's sweet glory.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfBain666
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I have bought the game & had nothing but trouble.. If you got the chance see their website first..
 
  Driver problems, Keybinding, The game stutters even when you have the most up to date draphics 
 & dual core processor? I have tried all kinds of tweaks, updates & so on. you name this game has 
 it..
  
  Game play itself is excellent & story lline is good to go.. The one thing you may need though is 
 patience.. lol I bought the game on the first day it was released & im still not able to play the 
 first mission due to laggy movement & cinematics that take me back to the 80's with their jump, 
 jump, jump.
  
  All I say is think first & maybe wait for a newer version or a patch. i still cant play mine & 
 still waiting for help from them..
  
  Good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharonXeno
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  When I first got my hands of DSO I was quite happy, good controls even for those without a joystick, 
 crisp graphics, a somewhat interesting (if already quite used) story plot, and the ship-upgrade 
 system was good as well.
  For the first few hours the game consisted of entertaining fights with pirates, completing various 
 missions, trading goods in between, buying new, more powerful weapons and equipment, upgrading 
 the ship and following the storyline.
  
  Sadly not much changed. Sector for sector one would amass enough money to get a new drive, collect 
 all artifacts to upgrade the ship, hunt down the pirate gangs for improved weapons, and then complete 
 the storyline mission, moving on to the next sector.
  
  Once there one would amass enough money to get a new drive, collect all artifacts to upgrade the 
 ship, hunt down the pirate gangs for improved weapons, and then complete the storyline mission, 
 moving on to the next sector.
  
  Wash rinse and repeat. When the research station contacts you for the 7th time to "check out odd 
 readings from that satellite" one just wants to scream "its two pirates, hacking the sat, they 
 will have data that leads to a depo and more pirates" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shimo1989
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of Darkstar One, I'll admit, i was a bit skeptical. I mean, who'd expect people 
 to play a space sim, one of the genres that has been loved by only a small elite community of gamers? 
 But of course, I was proven wrong. Rather than trying to please the hardcore space sim fans, as 
 the X series has done, especially with their extremely unappealing (to the general masses, of course) 
 sequel, X3-The Reunion, Darkstar One is made into a game that everyone will love, (with the exclusion 
 of hardcore space sim purists) .
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. The game plays just like any other space sim, with jumpgates between 
 systems and space stations and the inability to land on planets (something I really loved in Freelancer) . 
 You can trade cargo between space stations to earn money, something the genre of space sims have 
 traditionally put emphasis on, but the main focus is on space battles. While you can haul cargo 
 through space and earn a decent amount of money, it is much funner to take on missions (like a 
 mercenary) and earn money through performing a variety of tasks for your employers. These missions 
 are generally very simplistic (although combat may get harder) , and is a very good source of money 
 for the people who just want enough money to get on with the main mission. With this money, you 
 can buy upgrades for your ship, Darkstar One, the only pilotable ship in the entire game, with 
 different weapons. It is not boring, however, to have only one ship to fly, as you can change the 
 appearance of the ship itself using alien artifacts found throughout the game's many systems. The 
 more of these artifacts you have, the more you can make your ship grow in one of many areas, such 
 as wings and engines. Luckily, you are the only person in the entire universe who has a ship like 
 that, so don't worry about competition over these artifacts. There is a mysterious story behind 
 your ship as well, a story that you will have to unravel as you progress in the main story missions. 
 Space combat is relatively simple: you have weapons energy, and you have your ship energy. Most 
 of us know how that works, so I won't go into detail about it. But should you ever choose trading 
 as a source of money, the game keeps track of the prices of goods in each station, so you can plan 
 rather complicated trading sequences easily. Once you finish the main game, you can still keep 
 playing, exploring the seemingly endless amount of systems in the game that are not part of the 
 main mission. The main difference that really makes this game shine is the game's controls. It 
 uses the tried-and-true (although not in the space sim genre) WASD control keys for moving the 
 ship, and the mouse is used for changing directions. Sounds like a modern FPS? Well, that's clearly 
 what Ascaron Entertainment has been trying to achieve: to give this game the ease of control in 
 order to win over the hearts of hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of FPS players worldwide. 
 If you have played any relatively new (made after, say, 1999) FPS games before, and was comfortable 
 with its controls, you will find yourself right at home with the simplistic controls of Darkstar 
 One. Many of you will recognize the similarity of control methods between Darkstar One and Freelancer. 
 There is a difference that makes the Darkstar One really beats Freelancer in this aspect, however, 
 and that's the fact that in Darkstar One, you can actually roll the craft that you're flying, something 
 I only wish was in Freelancer, one of the best and newest space sims designed for the masses, but 
 present in practically all the other space sims. Of course, this game plays great with a joystick 
 as well, since it's a space sim, but a keyboard and a wheel mouse does the trick easily. The controls 
 are a but twitchy, but isnt too bad. The game is still easily playable and enjoyable.
  
  The space sim genre has always been known for its graphical beauty, and this game is no exception. 
 The space in Darkstar One is filled with magnificent planets, detailed astroid fields, varying 
 amounts of ship traffic, and huge space stations. The skybox background in the game is also incredibly 
 detailed, and is astonishingly beautiful as well. However, this wonderful view is repeated many 
 times in the game, as most systems look overly similar. A similar problem exists for the space 
 stations, as they look pratically the same in almost every system, even the interior. As well, 
 you are not allow to walk inside the stations, something I only remember Freelancer doing as a 
 space sim, but only watch it from a distance. One will not have to worry about the system requirements 
 of the game, as a half-decent video card (eg. my Radeon X800 Pro) and half a gigabyte of RAM can 
 run the game smoothly at maximum detail.
  
  The sound in the game is not all that great compared to the other aspects of this game, especially 
 the voice acting, which sounds very fake, although not to the degree of games such as Rise of Legends 
 (*shudders*) . The special effects are pretty dull too, with noises for the weapons that sound like 
 they have been ripped right out of Star Wars, never mind the fact that lasers don't make noises 
 anyways, especially in outer space. The music for the game is pretty good, however.
  
  Overall, Darkstar One is a breath of freshness into a genre that has been steadily declining, although 
 it does change a few things from the typical space sim (albeit good things) to please the masses. 
 Save for a few space sim purists, I sincerely believe that everyone, no matter the age or experience 
 with space sims, will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickstar28
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 15, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Here's a game where I totaly knew what to expect from before I even put the DVD into my drive. 
 The reason why is because Space Sims have turned into a very generic genre. 
  It's been 7 years since Freespace 2, and since then nothing has been able to top it, unfortunatly, 
 nothing has even tried (apart from maybe the Rogue Squadren series, but that don't count) . Big 
 developers/publishers often 'play it safe' with Space Sims, and it's that reason why they have 
 turned to the generic. The basic formula for a Space Sim is to have an expansive universe with 
 no real variety in it where you can do what you want, trade, fight, mine whatever (I know, yaaawn) . 
 GTA in spaced essentially. Eve online is quite good, infact probably the best if it wasn't for 
 the fact you can't directly control your ship, which is why I don't label it with other games like 
 it (X, Freelancer e. t. c) .
  
  Anyway I'm drifting off point. 
  HERE'S WHAT DEVELOPERS SHOULD DO:
  Stop bloody making GTA in space games, I don't really care 
 about trading, econonmy, mining and bad voice acting. Let's think of the whole reason why we all 
 still go back to Space Sims every now and then... Starwars. Ever since you first saw the attack 
 on the death star you thought 'wow, I wanna do that'
  
  Space Sims should be about the dogfighting, the feeling of actually controlling a ship, the cockpit 
 flashing arround you and MASSIVE capitol ships and space stations which you and your mates take 
 down in your fighters. You can have all that and still maintain a high level of intelligence and 
 deepness. Something else I'm annoyed with, with the current batch of Elite wannbies.
  
  I'd love to see the return of the liniar Space Sim, Freelspace 3 would be too much to hope for, 
 but imagine a game the quality of Half Life 2, with the same production values and narative and 
 brilliant design, in space. I want to be able to take on ships bigger than planets where I can 
 weave in and out of it, taking down it's vitals. LIke Shadow of the Collosuss but with no gravity 
 and lazers.... AWESOME. Give it to me!
  
  Anyway, Darkstar One:
  
  If you liked Freelancer you should like this, here you have the same old stuff although simplified, 
 which I apreciate (let's face it playing X is like watching paint dry, then chip off a bit and 
 get scraped off by a redecorating team and then thrown in the bin) .
  The best aspect in this game is the fact that the dogfighting is brilliant fun, it almost feels 
 like Freespace, it would have been nice to have some bigger ships but I suppose bigger isn't always 
 better.
  As usual the plot is the same old jazz and the voice acting makes me want to get my dog into voice 
 acting because even he'd sound better, but this game is quite addictive, and once you get into 
 it you start to like the universe and the story is good enough to leave you wanting to find out 
 the resolve.
  
  Personally I find the graphics to be too cartoony. X3 has hands down the best graphics for this 
 genre, I wish this game had some of the cold beauty of X but it dosn't, it can be pretty at times 
 though.
  
  Essentially, it's the same old crap, but that crap is quite good and I did really enjoy playing 
 this game but unfortunatly it just made me realise what is lacking in this genre of PC gaming. 
 I want a game that has the assults of Starwars, the mechanics of Freespace 2 and some crazy 2001 
 style sci-fi sh*t thrown in too, I mean, you're in space, it's not going to be normal. A lot of 
 these games are more normal than sunday afternoon TV, I wanna see some mad stuff, come on guys, 
 you can do it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ishalan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  First space sim game I have enjoyed since Tie-fighter .. I love the simple economy, doesnt get 
 near as boring as some games. The fighting with a joystick is fun and easy to learn. I have played 
 the demo so much just trying to save up money for when the main game comes out to blow on my ship 
 when we can upgrade. I cant wait for this game to hit the shelves .... been by EB games 2x already 
 this week looking for it and I have my copy reserved. Brooke the local manager is going to flog 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkGord
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Right from the very start you are tossed into a lively universe that is not revolving around you. 
 There are many ways for you to interact with your surroundings and NPCs e. g. police scans for smuggled 
 goods, and fly non fixed patrol routes, so you have to react accordingly to not get too close to 
 their ships and risk a scan if you are carrying contraband. Sometimes you jump into a system and 
 find pirates fighting mercenaries or police and are totally preoccupied by that , so they don't 
 pay attention to you, but of course as you get a bounty for every kill you are most likely be the 
 one going after them. On other occasions you jump in and find a welcoming party just for you! ;)
 
  Fighting compares well to freelancer in my opinion, same mechanics and all. Regular fights against 
 pirates shouldn't be too difficult, but throughout the game you have the possibility to go after 
 different groups of pirates where a fight can get quite interesting vey fast, especially if they 
 use weapons you are confronted with for the first time.
  There are many things you can do, you can go against the authorities or start your own mining operation 
 or be a regular trader, maybe a smuggler? Or a Jack of all trades? Basically you are free on how 
 you play the game.
  
  You don't need purchasing ships here. It made sense in Freelancer cause that was the only way to 
 get a stronger more powerful ship. Here on the other hand you get exactly that by absorbing alien 
 artefacts. After you absorbed a number of those you can basically choose in what way your ship 
 is upgraded, go for weapons and you end up with more gun placements, maybe you need a stronger 
 hull to withstand more punishment? Or faster engines to get out of trouble fast? So there are basically 
 three groups of ship characteristics that you can upgrade and each of the upgrades results in changing 
 the shape of your ship in a certain way.
  So do i miss purchasing ships? not really!
  The cash that you make can be used for buying goods as well buying weapon systems and what not 
 for your ship. See the upgrades through the artefacts only decide how much of a certain and what 
 level of it you can equip your ship with, so you still need cash to buy the weapon system that 
 you can mount in your new slots.
  
  All i can say is: it is nice to see a competently made space sim after such a long time!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
