-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Age of Camelot
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/darkageofcamelot/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 26, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.7, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,241 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Mythic Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Sep 1, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This impressive online role-playing game marks the dawning of a new era in a gaming genre that has 
 steadily gained prominence since Ultima Online made national headlines in 1997. 

 You don't need 20/20 hindsight to see why the successful early-October launch of Dark Age of Camelot 
 was such a significant event in PC gaming. It's safe to say that this impressive online role-playing 
 game marks the dawning of a new era in a gaming genre that has steadily gained prominence since 
 Ultima Online made national headlines in 1997. Developed by the experienced but heretofore little-known 
 Mythic Entertainment, Dark Age of Camelot squarely takes aim at other popular online role-playing 
 games -- namely, Sony and Verant's definitive EverQuest, Microsoft and Turbine's Asheron's Call, 
 and Funcom's recent sci-fi-themed Anarchy Online -- and, by and large, it blows them away. Even if 
 you've already invested hundreds of hours into one or more previous online role-playing games, 
 you'll find that a brush with Dark Age of Camelot -- let alone countless sleepless nights with it -- will 
 justify making the switch to Mythic's game. That's because, through and through, Dark Age of Camelot 
 is solid, well designed, interesting, and rewarding. It's not for everyone -- like most online RPGs, 
 it demands much more of your time than the average game, and you won't enjoy it as much if you 
 can't commit yourself to spending hours on end in its sprawling world. Regardless, Dark Age of 
 Camelot has a great concept, is already teeming with tens of thousands of players, and promises 
 to keep getting better.           See what remains of Camelot in the realm of Albion.    

 Those thousands have no use for this review -- they're enjoying the game already. This long review 
 is best suited to those who've yet to decide whether Dark Age of Camelot is worth its retail price, 
 the time commitment, and the monthly fee (approximately $10, payable by credit card or numerous 
 other methods) for the service after the first free month. Based on extensive research and play 
 time, this review is intended to empirically evaluate every significant aspect of Dark Age of Camelot, 
 and, in doing so, to imply the broad scope of the game. Rest assured, you wouldn't have spare time 
 for too many other games if you get into Dark Age of Camelot -- but we'll suggest that such a sacrifice 
 would be worthwhile. Furthermore, note that this review is based on Dark Age of Camelot as it exists 
 to date -- less than a month after its release. The nature of online games is one of constant change, 
 which means that, over time, some of the following statements may no longer be applicable. In light 
 of this, it's important to try to anticipate how a game like Dark Age of Camelot might change over 
 time, using all available evidence to support the predictions.   

  Dark Age of Camelot takes place during a period of turmoil after the death of the legendary King 
 Arthur. The people of Camelot are being called upon to defend their nation against its encroaching 
 foes. Interestingly, the game presents this conflict from three different angles -- not just Camelot's. 
 That is, in addition to the realm of Albion, whose capital is Camelot itself, the game focuses 
 equally on her two rivals: Hibernia, a magical land based on Celtic folklore, and Midgard, a harsh 
 land based on Norse mythology. Dark Age of Camelot invites you to play as a character in any one 
 of these three realms and eventually grow so powerful that you can invade the lands of your opponents. 
           Hibernia is home to elves and other magical races.    

 To become powerful enough, you'll first need to gain a lot of experience by defeating countless 
 evil creatures in your own realm. And regardless of whether you choose to be on the front lines 
 against enemy players, Dark Age of Camelot's unique setting still creates a real sense of camaraderie 
 between players in the same realm, who know that they have a common foe. Furthermore, the inclusion 
 of features designed to help you find groups of other adventurers (or other adventurers to join 
 your group) and organize large player guilds means that there's a very strong social framework 
 in Dark Age of Camelot. It's easy to meet friendly people in the game, and playing with them generally 
 makes the game much more enjoyable.   

  When it launched, Dark Age of Camelot offered 10 different game servers -- sometimes known as shards -- for 
 players to choose from. These host several thousand players at peak hours, and Mythic has already 
 added no less than half a dozen more servers in the few weeks since the game's release. Take note 
 that if you wish to play the game with some of your friends, then you all have to play on the same 
 server and within the same realm. As it is, in Dark Age of Camelot, the only thing you can do with 
 players from other realms is to try to kill them. The game features an innovative, interesting 
 player vs. player (PvP) system centered on the conflict between the realms. The dramatic notion 
 of realm vs. realm combat between armies of players is completely realized in Dark Age of Camelot. 
 If this notion sounds intimidating, it is. But it's important to emphasize that Dark Age of Camelot 
 isn't strictly about PvP combat -- not unless you want it to be. Though there's no penalty on players 
 that get defeated, PvP combat is still best suited for seasoned players of higher experience levels, 
 and it's relegated to discreet (but large) frontier areas on the outskirts of the realms. It's 
 a very intense and carefully designed part of the game, but it's completely optional, and it isn't 
 the focal point of Dark Age of Camelot. You could just as easily play and enjoy the game for hundreds 
 of hours and never take up arms against another player.    

 Likewise, you could easily spend all your time in just one of the game's three huge realms. Dark 
 Age of Camelot really is like three online role-playing games in one. Granted, many of the differences 
 between the realms are superficial. The realms themselves are also rather spare -- all lush, rolling 
 terrain with scattered landmarks that are far apart from each other. Unlike EverQuest's various 
 colorful zones, the realms don't have distinctly different environments. Still, the superficial 
 differences within and between Dark Age's realms are plenty interesting, and playing in the different 
 realms invariably leads to different kinds of experiences. You'll undoubtedly want to at least 
 take a look at all the realms. They're equally appealing, though their respective mythological 
 source material doesn't always come across -- at a glance, they all seem like traditional high-fantasy 
 worlds.           Midgard's trolls are among the best fighters around.    

 If you've ever played EverQuest, you'll find that much of Dark Age of Camelot will be immediately 
 familiar to you. The deliberate pacing (it takes lots of time to run about the expansive environments) , 
 the emphasis on combat and gaining experience levels, the various character classes, and even some 
 of the graphics are reminiscent of Verant's groundbreaking game. That doesn't mean Dark Age of 
 Camelot is a copy -- it simply acknowledges that certain aspects of online role-playing games are 
 already well defined and doesn't try to reinvent the wheel in these cases. This is much the same 
 as how brand-new real-time strategy games or shooters still tend to use certain conventional mechanics 
 that make these games intuitive for players who've played other games like them. This also means 
 that Dark Age of Camelot isn't an outwardly innovative game -- it's clearly inspired by the games 
 it's competing against, and offhand, it bears a striking resemblance to them. But as you delve 
 deeper into Dark Age of Camelot, you'll take notice of and gain appreciation for both its subtler 
 features and how generally refined it is.   

  Dark Age of Camelot lets you play as many different types of interesting characters, and it offers 
 a streamlined character creation process so you can jump right into the game without delay. Each 
 of the three realms has four different playable character races that vary in physical appearance 
 and in their natural talents. You can choose male or female versions of any of the races, and you 
 can select from several different faces and hair colors for variety's sake. Each realm also has 
 four or five starting character classes you can choose from, not all of which are necessarily available 
 to each race. These classes roughly fall into the typical archetypes for high-fantasy adventurers: 
 You can choose to be a basic fighter, magic user, healer, or rogue.           Death literally takes 
 its toll -- it's a part of life in the realms.    

 Later, based on your initial choice, your character will be invited to join one of various specialty 
 guilds. For instance, Albion characters who begin their lives as fighters may go on to become paladins, 
 who can use holy auras to bolster themselves and their brethren in battle; armsmen, who can wield 
 deadly polearms; or mercenaries, who are experts in using weapons ambidextrously. In this fashion, 
 every basic class of every realm branches off into at least a couple of different specialized classes 
 distinct to that realm. This gives you some room to grow into a character you'd like to play, and 
 it also helps make character creation a simple process initially. Still, you'll have best results 
 starting out with a specialty class already in mind -- you probably will, since the game tells you 
 up front about which of these will be available to your race/class combination. The three realms' 
 respective classes are in fact all different, though some of them are analogous -- for instance, 
 Albion's minstrel, Hibernia's bard, and Midgard's skald all fill the same supporting roles in their 
 respective realms.   

  Dark Age of Camelot is a deep, complex game that can take a while to learn. Still, the game does 
 a fairly good job of holding your hand through the first several hours of your character's life. 
 You start out right in front of a trainer character who will send you on a series of simple quests 
 that are basically the same for every class. These will teach you a little about the lay of the 
 land, how to form groups with other players, how to converse with non-player characters, how to 
 fight, and so on. You might get killed in your initial encounters with enemy monsters, but for 
 the first few experience levels, there's absolutely no penalty associated with death. You just 
 reappear at the last area where you "bound" your character -- typically some sort of friendly town 
 or outpost. Later, the penalty for dying starts to get more serious. You'll lose up to 10 percent 
 of the experience points necessary to get to the next level (though you can never lose your current 
 level due to death) , and you'll also lose a few of your character's constitution points, which 
 can be restored by paying an NPC healer. The price for recovering constitution (which influences 
 your total number of hit points, among other things) starts to get very steep as your character 
 gains in levels. Fortunately, healer player characters can resurrect dead players, thus saving 
 them the high cost of restoring constitution. This is one of the reasons healers are so important 
 in Dark Age of Camelot, and it's also one of the many reasons it's not really a good idea to venture 
 out on your own.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Vispyr
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  While I have since stopped in hopes of recovering the remnants of a life shattered by the world 
 of Arthur, for six years I lived DAoC.
  
  The central conflict in DAoC is the war going on between Albion (the kingdom of King Arthur) , Midgard 
 (Norse/Viking lore) , and Hibernia (Celtic/Elvish lore) . Unlike many newer games, DAoC is not designed 
 around the EQ/WoW framework, and does not seem to share the Tolkien influance which seems almost 
 omnipreasant in the fantasy genre.
  
  Upon starting, players will have the choice of playing one of the three realms which I named, each 
 realm bearing a hugely differant feeling and having an assortment of unique races and classes, 
 which will then be personalized further once the player levels up and picks the spec line which 
 he is interested in.
  
  The games PvE content is free form, rather than quest based. There are task dungeons and kill tasks 
 which will provide some level of quest based experiance, however the majority of the time you spend 
 leveling will be grouping other players and finding new challenges and monsters to kill for loot 
 and experiance.
  
  The best part of this game is the PvP, which is called a RvR (realm vs realm) system in daoc. While 
 you may never attack someone from your own realm outside of a dual, the pvp system that daoc boasts 
 strongly directs you to group with other members of your realm in order to attack enemy keeps and 
 castles. However solo play is also very viable for the daring and skilled cyber tactician, yielding 
 increased realm and bounty rewards for thoes who are able to sucessfully attack and destroy enemy 
 players without the aid of allies. As mentioned, realm points and rank are the key rewards to engaging 
 in RvR play. Realm points are points that you get for competeing in RvR play, and can be spent 
 on new skills, or passive abilities which increase the power of your character.
  
  In daoc, the endgame is pure, glorious battle in so many forms. If the epic pve encounters are 
 not enough to satisfy you, the pvp will be.
  
  Assuming that it maintains a player base, daoc will continue to rule the MMO pvp scene untill the 
 day mythic pulls the plug on the servers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjfuka
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  I never had more fun in a 3-D game then DAOC except UO =)
  Playdoh fun factory games like WOW wrecking the sceen. Not sure about Warhammer my PC can't handle 
 it but the simplicity of DAOC with unique dungeons and free open space to space out your eyeballs 
 made this the 2nd best game to Old school Utima Online. THis game leaves alot to the imagination 
 where more current RPGs have too many elements leaving nothing to the imagination. You feel helpless 
 in this game at first killing small stuff. I didn't care for Darkness Rising but I liked Darkness 
 Falls
  never was a big fan of PVP it was fun for a while but it was more complex in Ultima where your 
 skills were more customize and environments actually were melded with the characters fairly well.
 
  
  
  I think the actions of 3-D games now are too fast while DAOC was slow trance like meditation which 
 is lacking in basically every game there is no soul for alot of the newer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkeval
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  I used to play a different game or two every month until I discovered Dark Age of Camelot about 
 4.5 years ago. Then I totally stopped playing other games. It was no longer need for other games, 
 because I had found the ultimate game.
  
  
  Step into the virtual reality world of Camelot in the Dark Ages, and choose your side at the war 
 between Midgard, Albion and Hibernia. In Hibernia, which is now called Ireland, you will find nature 
 and magic hand in hand. It's where the Elves live and all sorts of magical creatures, and it's 
 also where the pagan Celts have settled. If you join the Hibernians you can for example become 
 a powerful eldritch, enchanter or perhaps a blade master or a ranger. If not then you have Albion, 
 Britain, the land of the Christians, the realm of King Arthur after his death where the powerful 
 magic of Merlin dwells. In Albion you can become a wizard, sorcerer, paladin or armsman among other 
 possibilities. Else you can join my realm and the vikings of Midgard, in the cold and barbaric 
 North also known as Scandinavia where the Norsemen, Dwarfs and Trolls live. Then you will become 
 a berserker, valkyrie, thane or rune master for example.
  
  We fight huge battles over land, controlled by fortresses and outposts, and there are many ways 
 to participate. Either you can be a master of shadows and lurk around hidden to spy on your enemies 
 or kill them when they least expect it, or you can destroy walls and towers with a trebouchet and 
 knock down the gate with your hammer. Also you can run around with a group to hunt reinforcements 
 or other groups. Actually fights can take place anywhere in the frontier, be it on a bridge, in 
 the water, on a hillside or inside a castle. If you prefer solo combat, you can challenge some 
 of the other realms' finest champions for a duel, or if you're more of a pacifist you can always 
 fight computer controlled monsters instead and leave the war to someone else. There are also a 
 lot of quests if you get tired of the fighting, and there are many dragons that require you to 
 bring an army if you want to have a chance. Also a lot of other monsters that are equally powerful 
 in many different places. You can become a crafter or trader, for armour or weapons, and sell them 
 in the player market. You can get rich and buy a mansion where you can put all your trophies and 
 special equipment, or form your own guild or even create your own alliance.
  
  The graphics are very realistic for a computer game, unlike mostly anything out there, and you 
 can create a character that looks almost like yourself. The stories told in the various quests 
 are based on the true mythologies of the realm you choose, so in Midgard the quests are based on 
 the Norse mythology and you will learn a lot about viking history and belief. The worlds are huge, 
 and you can travel far to distant places like Atlantis, and visit the underworlds with a labyrinth 
 which is the largest dungeon ever seen in any game by far. There's a lot of other dungeons too, 
 and each is unique in size and art.
  
  This game is so huge I didn't know where to start, and I don't know where to end. What I've told 
 you so far is very little, after playing this game for more than 4 years there's still a lot of 
 places that I haven't yet discovered and a lot of things I haven't accomplished. And that's only 
 in Midgard, still most of Albion and Hibernia is totally undiscovered and unknown to me. The game 
 evolves and there's a new expansion every year with new content and new lands to explore. I give 
 this game 10/10, and no other games comes close to that rating in my book.
  
  Kimkasper, Viking Skald of the realm rank 9. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lourker1
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  My time spent with DAoC began as a beta tester shortly before the game's release in late 2001 and 
 ended one year later.
  DAoC consists of three completely unique and warring realms. Each of these realms is a fully realized 
 game-world of if its own with unique races, classes, and topography. Players can level up and explore 
 within their respective realms without the risk of being killed by enemy players from the other 
 two realms. To truly experience DAoC for what makes it unique, the player must step beyond the 
 heavily guarded fortifications of the inner-realm and into the frontiers.
  Best RvsR based mmo ever made. Really good skill based combat system, exciting rvsr fights. The 
 game got worse after new frontiers. The game got a decent gfx engine. Three different fraction, 
 good balanced fractions 
  Ellemieke Vermolen also spent her time playing this game in her spare time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: error404_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  First off, I like the concept of PvP,
  main reason I started playing this game is because of that.
  
  To start off with, you need 
 to download ALOT of update patches etc that are like 2GB total. I bought the CD so that I don't 
 have to deal with downloading million GB of file, I still had to update the game (which is normal) 
 but surprisingly the patch was like 1GB or more.
  
  Game itself is good, nice graphic, nice sound, great choice of character / classes.
  
  But 
 its definitely NOT newbie friendly.. I love the pvp part of it but I HATE the quests in this game.
 
  The map in this game is so huge and will take you a while to get familiar with,
  and it's almost impossible to memorize what enemy lies in which part of the map (since lots of monster 
 looks the same with different name) , and usually quest asks you to kill very specific monster that 
 lies in a region.
  
  What pissed me off, for most quests I just end up running around like an id1ot for 30minutes just 
 to look for this 1 quest monster,
  asking ppl on where these monsters are no use because not many remembers the name of each quest's 
 monsters.
  
  Not only monsters some quests will tell you to find or talk to someone in this specific location, 
 and it is a pain in the back to find those NPCs. (yes I know the /where command, still)
  
  When I first play an RPG I usually try to play most of the quest to enjoy the plot of the game, 
 once I beat this game I'm just going to grind Lv and go pvp but as far as quests it is really irritating.
 
  
  Besides the irritating traveling system where you have to spend 10minutes to go to about anywhere 
 the game is good, good gameplay.
  
  A bit overpriced almost 15$ per month..
  
  I just wish they implement something like a 'dot' on the map to show where the next destination 
 is on the map so that all the noobs like me won't quit this game before getting into the fun part. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  I played it for maybe an hour after getting my character set out. I played and got so bored with 
 the lag and not being able to complete quests because some how even though I had ten times what 
 the person asked for THEY WOULDNT ACKNOWLEDGE I HAD DONE ANYTHING. I let my partner have a shot 
 at it and though she did play it for longer, not minding the lag or inconsistent graphics, she 
 to grew weary of the bad programing and uninstalled it then threw it, box and all, out our kitchen 
 window at some singing man united fans who picked it up and walked off, thus the saga continues. 
 Ohh and the monthly fee is over priced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erebus
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Living the Legend - absolute final revision - Oct 28, 2007.
  
  Note: Small formatting errors may still persist.
  
  ABSTRACT:
  
  If you are unfamiliar 
 with Dark Age of Camelot, it is recommended that you first read and/or watch the Gamespot review 
 with Greg Kasavin. This will help you to better understand the game's play mechanics and overall 
 structure.
  
  When Dark Age of Camelot (DAoC) was released back in October 2001, it was quite an interesting 
 re-visioning of the Massively Multi-player On-line Role-Playing Game (MMORPG) genre. While the 
 game broke North American sales and subscription records for an on-line game in its time, most 
 of its potential player-base had no idea of DAoC's existence. However, for its niche market of 
 about 500,000 subscribers, DAoC offered a sense of awe, exploration, and epic conflict.
  
  My time spent with DAoC began as a beta tester shortly before the game's release in late 2001 and 
 ended one year later. The following review, story, and epilogue are written in hindisght.
  
  PREFACE:
  
  For its time, DAoC was the clear next-gen MMORPG succeeding the likes of Everquest 
 and Asheron's Call. While the aforementioned games each include similar end-game encounters of 
 slaying great foes and hoping to score their loot, DAoC does not focus solely on this aspect. Instead, 
 it also hosts an amazing scenario for massive Player vs. Player (PvP) and Realm vs. Realm (RvR) 
 conflict -- more on that later.
  
  Regrettably, DAoCs decline was the result of its subsequent expansions that served only to knock 
 the original game from its impossibly-high pedestal. The expansions focused on high-end player 
 vs. environment (PvE) content such as beast-hunting and dragon-slaying. These types of encounters 
 are fought solely against scripted and computerized foes.
  
  The expansion sets also added tedious grinds to power-up weapons and equipment. These grinds were 
 intended to keep the players continually paying a monthly subscription fee, but it backfired. Players 
 who suffered through the grinds would be the dominant force in PvP or RvR conflict. Meanwhile, 
 the concepts of RvR were more or less forgotten as the retail expansions never deeply expanded 
 on the player conflict.
  
  However, the decline of DAoC did not become apparent until nearly two years after its release. 
 The events that happened before then were nothing short of amazing. While it is possible to play 
 DAoC on a classic server (which takes place before its catastrophic expansions were ever released) , 
 significant revisions to the core game have been made.
  
  REVIEW:
  
  DAoC consists of three completely unique and warring realms. Each of these realms is a fully realized 
 game-world of if its own with unique races, classes, and topography. Players can level up and explore 
 within their respective realms without the risk of being killed by enemy players from the other 
 two realms. To truly experience DAoC for what makes it unique, the player must step beyond the 
 heavily guarded fortifications of the inner-realm and into the frontiers.
  
  Epic battles, siege equipment, keep assaults, armies of war, and an endless struggle against enemy 
 players await all who dare to set foot into the frontiers of DAoC. The frontiers are literally 
 where everything that is epic and memorable about DAoC takes place. They are the untamed landscapes 
 between one's inner realm and the distant enemy strongholds. Much like the inner realms, there 
 are places to explore and monsters to hunt. However, there are also enemy players in an oft kill-or-be-killed, 
 fight-or-flight situation. The ultimate objective for any of the three realms is to assault the 
 enemy realms and capture their relics, of which each realm starts with two. If a realm is able 
 to successfully capture an enemy relic and return it to their own relic keep, the relic will increase 
 the strength or magic of every player in the victorious realm. To complicate things a bit, if a 
 realm's relic is successfully taken back to its captors' territory, the felled realm has to go 
 there and get it back. Finally, it is possible for one realm to hold all six relics, and the relics 
 themselves never reset back to their original owners. In other words, prepare for some virtual 
 bloodshed.
  
  The capturable keeps and seizable relics fuel the never-ending battle between realms. Players can 
 choose to invade an enemy realm or defend their own, though a high-level character is recommended 
 to venture into an enemys frontier territories. Contrary to a description fitting for glorified 
 capture the flag, the sheer depth of it all is immensely engaging.
  
  Players can teleport to an allied stronghold on the outskirts of one of their opposing realms via 
 a ceremony repeated once every ten minutes. The ceremony is conducted only from a single location 
 within each realm. This game mechanic adds an element of risk to PvP, as penalty for death from 
 enemy players varies considerably by situation and location. This adds tremendous value to player 
 self-preservation as well as resurrection spells. Since each realm has multiple unique races and 
 classes of its own, a player would never fight against an enemy player with all (or even close 
 to all) the same abilities. This means that a Sorcerer of Albion will never cross paths with an 
 enemy Sorcerer, because the two other realms simply do not have the Sorcerer class.
  
  There are many types of epic battles that play out in DAoC. Many involve hundreds upon hundreds 
 of players warring with one another, while others entail smaller skirmishes near a point of interest. 
 All-out blood-lust from all three realms congregating savagely in the frontiers is common as well. 
 Or, a truly organized raid would venture out (or arrive, unexpectedly) in the wee hours of the 
 night seeking the powerful relics. Two realms, looking to obliterate the dominating realm, can 
 even attempt to team up for an attack unmatched in glory and destruction. The combinations are 
 many, and DAoC brings countless epic battles into the frontiers.
  
  Ultimately, my review ends here, though this is also where my story begins. LIVING THE LEGEND:
 
  
  Welcome to what would be a handful of pages torn from my adventure, and then re-written for brevity.
 
  
  I created an Avalonian Sorcerer on the Percival server and named him Erebus, a name derived from 
 the Greek legends. He was the first and only character I ever created in DAoC. As it turns out, 
 Sorcerers were not all that useful in groups when attempting to level-up. More often than not, 
 my rank was better suited for nearly any other class. As such, the Sorcerer was extremely difficult 
 to level, and very few players stuck with the class. I nearly gave up on him altogether, though 
 an inner-drive pushed me forward.
  
  Unfortunately, my tenacity and enthusiasm were not reciprocated by my guild-leader. I tried vehemently 
 to convey my tactics and ideas, but was bluntly told, You are not the savior of Albion, Erebus. 
 
  
  I can be, I replied, to which I was met with her usual arrogant mockery. Within a few days, I left 
 the guild.
  
  With further exploration into the frontiers, I found solace in PvP. I soon discovered that fighting 
 against other players was my reward for the difficult trials I faced when attempting to group and 
 level-up my character. To top it off, I could PvP alone, and I enjoyed it immensely. I still had 
 no idea of the ultimate power I would soon wield.
  
  Weeks pass, and my presence on the battlefields was commonplace. While I always suspected it, I 
 would find out later that players in both opposing realms feared my name. I rarely saw defeat, 
 and earned a sincere respect from my enemies.
  
  NERF EREBUS! AND DO IT [RIGHT THE (explicit) ] NOW! the Camelotvault forums were abuzz, and the 
 cat was out of the bag. Conversations were spun about me on many occasions on these forums. Every 
 now and then, I dropped in to say a few words. The strange thing about the Sorcerer class was that 
 almost no one played it. Its extreme difficulty in leveling and its deceptively feeble abilities 
 made Erebus stand out as an entity unto himself.
  
  More weeks pass and the Camelot Herald is introduced! The top ranking players throughout all three 
 realms were suddenly known to all, and I debuted at #3. Just as quickly, I began receiving praise 
 and compliments from friend and stranger alike on the battlefield. You are an asset to our realm. 
 You play an inspiring role, Erebus! 
  
  One week later, I jumped to #2. I was pre-congratulated on earning the #1 rank by the Scout who 
 currently held it, citing his forthcoming vacation. Indeed, the following week, I ranked #1 on 
 the server. I had stood successfully against more enemy players than anyone around me, in any realm. 
 My curiosity had me, however. I meticulously checked every server in the Herald to find the highest 
 ranking Sorcerers in the game, and indeed, I stood above them all. My feeling of accomplishment 
 was grand, but the war was just beginning.
  
  It was Super-bowl Sunday, 2002, and while many Americans were watching Football, I was playing 
 a video game. DAoC had been released for nearly four months now, and I was well-known to those 
 in all three realms. That day was to be remembered as the server's first relic raid. My realm, 
 Albion, would be the unwitting host of this occasion.
  
  Information was leaked that Hibernians (often called Hibs) were amassing near their outpost in 
 the far reaches of our frontier. A few allies and I were out scouting such claims. As we approached 
 their outpost, I felt an ominous tranquility.... Suddenly, I spot a few, then ten, then at least 
 50 Hibs charging from clip-range at me! I quickly turn face and sprint for the wall -- our first 
 line of defense. While running, I'm speedily typing, Hibs coming for our wall!! As I approach the 
 wall, I begin to suffer damage, knowing that I would soon perish.
  
  If I died on the Hibernian's side of the wall, I knew there would be no chance of resurrection. 
 Such a death would require me to run back though the frontier to rejoin the battle. It would have 
 been too late.
  
  Amazingly, I was killed atop our wall while trying to escape with my last breath. Looking down 
 upon my corpse and its surroundings, what seemed like just a small handful of allied players turned 
 into an army of our own. The war was on. Within two minutes I was resurrected by an ally and quickly 
 hid to replenish my health and magic.
  
  We held them at our wall for an hour, maybe two. The Hibs begin to push through, ever so slowly, 
 and I was getting restless. I knew they outnumbered us.
  
  I climbed to the top of the wall and glimpsed over it to see no less than 100 Hibernians swarming 
 our barrier. I held my breath and prayed for a bit of luck...
  
  I leaped from the wall to the flank of the swarm of Hibs and just kept running. I saw Rangers turn 
 to face me while nocking their arrows. I just kept running. I saw a few Hibernian players break 
 from the formation and give chase. It did not matter; I ran for a good minute and eventually lost 
 them. With my heart pounding, I knew that I was on their side of the wall, alone. I hid out in 
 the brush and trees far from the action for about five minutes, though it felt like a half-hour.
 
  
  In a nearby camp, I used a charm spell to capture a Templar (which in game-play terms is similar 
 to a Warrior) NPC. I now had my favorite pet and was ready to battle.
  
  I began to inch my way back to the action keeping to the tall grass and looking in every direction. 
 The wall eventually came into periphery, and the hordes of Hibernians were meticulously lined up, 
 making a 'T' shape with the wall. By now there were about 150 of them, and it was clear to me they 
 were organizing a charge.
  
  With very little time remaining, I said to myself, I'm going to die, and sprang forth from my cover. 
 I targeted the entire mid-section of the Hibernian line and began casting mesmerize spells. After 
 a few moments, the entire mid-section of their army was stunned for the next several seconds. I 
 immediately followed-up by sending my mind-controlled zealot into the fray.
  
  Now, I just had to make it back through to our side of the wall with half the Hibernian army staring 
 at me in disbelief. I sprinted towards the wall knowing I was still quite vulnerable. I was immediately 
 hit with a fierce spell from a Hibernian Champion that drained my maximum health to the point where 
 I would die in a single, forthcoming hit.
  
  In a flash, my intuition told me who was responsible. As I sprinted for the contested passage through 
 the wall, I thought to myself, Rondel. He, however, is a completely different story, and one of 
 my most skilled adversaries.
  
  Somehow, I made it through to the Albion side of the wall -- alive. Touchdown, I whispered as I 
 thrust my hands into the air.
  
  My Templar continued to wildly attack the Hibernian forces as I typed Charge them! They're mesmerized! 
 completely fueled by adrenaline. I called my Templar back to my side to prevent it from being killed. 
 After only a moment of hesitation, the Albions began to strike more aggressively against the Hibs. 
 They began to spread the Hibernians out from their battering ram formation.
  
  In an attempt to keep the situation chaotic for the Hibs, I sent my Templar into the back of their 
 army. Unfortunately, my pet was quickly killed. For a few moments, I was able to cast life-draining 
 and damage spells on my foes in an effort to prevent them from getting through the wall. I, too, 
 am killed in a matter of seconds.
  
  However, in that final moment at our wall, we drove the Hibernians away. Their raid against us 
 was unsuccessful, leaving the Hibs empty-handed. I later learned that not only was Rondel the leader 
 of the Hibernians assault, but also the leader of the massive guild who executed it. EPILOGUE:
 
  
  That was merely one of countless epic adventures I experienced while playing DAoC. While a fun 
 story and easy to tell, it was more of a tale of subtlety than a moment of glory. That day inspired 
 and compelled me to push the limits on what was possible.
  
  I've been the sole guardian of keeps, the slayer of entire groups, and even the love interest of 
 a woman who played in an enemy realm..... I've been trapped inside a captured enemy keep with a 
 few allies as we staved off an entire army -- twice. I've been accused of cheating (never have, 
 never will) , though those claims were quickly withdrawn. I have been among the ostracized and the 
 elite. I have lived the legend.
  
  For a wealth of complex reasons, and a few simpler ones, my adventures ultimately end in decline. 
 Never did I find happiness in a guild, and the lack of new PvP content grew tiresome. In the end, 
 I sold my character to a person who never played it. I never returned to DAoC.
  
  Dark Age of Camelot has brought me joy, sorrow, fame, loss, love, tears, and glory. It was incomparably 
 the greatest gaming experience I have ever had.
  
  REFLECTIONS:
  
  I have always hoped that the latest and so-called greatest MMORPGs would live up to the masterpiece 
 that was DAoC. Unfortunately, they have yet to even come close. I feel this is the direct result 
 of trying to make MMORPGs accessible to the masses. Indeed, World of Warcraft set the standard 
 in both its relative simplicity to learn and complex competition in both raid and player arena 
 settings. However, in this transition, much of the subtlty in the MMORPG game experience has been 
 lost. Guild elitism has long since replaced realm pride. Objectives of significence with world-altering 
 effects have been reduced to one-note instanced minigames with a negligible impact on the game 
 world as a whole. The list would continue, but I have written a blog entry on the Gamespot site 
 that you can read.
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/users/Erebus/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25196312 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aama
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  Daoc has been out for a long time now. While some expansions where not that great, Mythic worked 
 to fix these issues (even if it took them a long time) .
  
  Fighting style- awesome... you choose your target walk up to it and attack. When you level up you 
 get powerful skills that add dmg, add effects, and so on. Game takes some skill when fighting... 
 you block you can pull of styles to stun... some mobs you have to kite...
  
  PvP... the best in any game to date. While DAOC started the PvP was random... you would get into 
 big fights with the other realm... 60 vs 60... massive fights... as the game progressed it became 
 more about 8 vs 8 and sometimes 8 vs as many as you could take.
  
  PvP along with the awesome fighting style simply made this game Fun to play. Along with frustrating 
 at times. Population balance has always been an issue with DAOC.
  
  Lots of Mobs, lots of weapons, armor and so on. Because DAOC is a MMO the updates made this a long 
 lasting game.
  
  Very well done. This is my thanks for many years of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnGrYpHiL
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  this was my first mmo I ever played i dont know how people dropped it for WoW when the RvR system 
 is the best pvp system ever made : (. Ok where to start. you log on and you get to pick one of the 
 three realms (not two!!!) ok then once you are in you can create a charactor each realm gets 7 
 races to chhose from and 11 classes (not to mention unique classes) ok then your in the starting 
 town go out and kill like 5 yellows or 10 blues wow ok your level 2 now kill some more now your 
 level three. ok once you get level 5 you can go to the main town and choose a class once you choose 
 a class do quest and kill mobs and in between go to the battlegrounds. Unlike wow in this game you 
 can jsut kill mobs for fun and get good exp still :) Unfortunately now the game is horrible : ( 
 but back in the day thats what it would be like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girlgam3r
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm a girlgamer. I love to journey into new lands and discover new and exciting adventures through 
 quests and exploration. It's a fantasy mindset that carries me away from my 3 screaming toddlers 
 and busy motherhood lifestyle for even but a few hours. And Dark Age of Camelot was my first taste 
 of such a world that when my children were in bed and the quiet calm of the night took hold, I 
 could emerse myself among friends and be that Paladin or Minstrel I loved.
  
  Dark Age of Camelot is a world during the Celtic and Scottish era that simply put, is straight 
 from the Arthurian Lore. Mythic Entertainment definitely made sure that the Lore fit with the RPG 
 aspect from the tip of the Snowdonia Mountain Peaks to the bottom of Darkness Falls. As I ventured 
 through Dark Age of Camelot as an Albion Human and then onward as a Hibernian Celt, the world mystified 
 me with intense excitement, but that was just the beginning ...
  
  Once I became familiar and comfortable with all areas, I tread deep into the outskirts of the Battlegrounds 
 and became addicted to the ever-so-fast-paced player versus player (pvp) / realm versus realm (rvr) 
 settings. It was the most active place to be in all of Camelot, Hibernia, and Midgaurd, not to 
 mention the most fun place of any MMORPG of its time.
  
  I would recommend Dark Age of Camelot to every gamer so s/he can feel the glory of being in such 
 a Legendary game and feel the lore which will carry over into many more MMORPGs to come.
  
  Though the lands of Dark Age have become quiet and the battlegrounds dormant since the rise of 
 the new MMORPGs, Dark Age of Camelot is still a favorite of mine, for it was the first online game 
 that made sense to me and had a reason to come back again and again. Every now and then I return 
 to these lands and savor the moments of being an Arthurian Legend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipercomplete
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  i love this game, had it for about 3 years, then went into financial prob so i canceled, but got 
 back into it and am lovin it. with the new patches, the graphics look about like css, and the gameplay 
 is still great as ever. it has stuff to do after you hit max level, like get master levels and 
 realm skill, and take artifacts and all that. does WoW offer that? nope. but this game is very 
 small now. rarely do people play it, and there are only 948 at max usually on servers i play on 
 at least, and the quests are more like tasks. but so far it has 6 expansions, and more will come. 
 i have to say this is a long enduring powerfull game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelderon56
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  With three distinctly different and fun to explore worlds with different classes and races in each 
 Dark Age of Camelot has more then enough replay value in the PVE section of the game alone. The 
 three worlds not only look distinctly different, but they feel different. The harsh realm of Midguard, 
 the Arthurian Albion, and the Sylvian Hibernia all give a different experience to play through. 
 But even more that the leveling part of the game the player versus player aspect of the game is 
 well worth the monthly fee alone. With keeps to take and defend, and relics that grant bonuses 
 realm wide to steal the realm versus realm combat is more than a bit competitive. Truly mastering 
 the PVP takes not only a lot of skill from you. It takes a properly balanced group of players who 
 know how to work together to survive in the frontiers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  Dark Age of Camelot is Mythic Entertainment's venture into the world of massive multiplayer online 
 RPG's. Considering there are a copious number of these types of PC games readily available, I thought 
 it would be interesting to see if Mythic was going to offer gamers anything that would take the 
 $10/month fee away from other online RPG's and make gamers want to spend it here. After playing 
 the game for a considerable amount of time, I can say that Dark Age of Camelot is well worth the 
 fee and is probably the most polished and complete online RPG available right now.
  
  Choose your world!
  
  What gamers will notice first is that Camelot offers three distinct worlds 
 to choose from: Hibernia, Albion, and Midgard. All three worlds are completely different, and offer 
 different classes of characters, races, items, etc. Each of the worlds is no small time offer, 
 either; I spent most of my time wandering in Midgard and still didn't see the whole land. The inclusion 
 of such a grand world impressed me thoroughly; with so many options and places, this game would 
 take a long time to grow repetitive, if ever.
  
  The character creation system is basically the same as most other online RPG's, though, with little 
 difference. Choose a race, class, etc., adjust some skills, and you're set. Specific abilities 
 are learned through training with masters littered throughout the lands.
  
  The case with most online RPG's is the lack of an intricate plot to follow; after all, these games 
 are completely non-linear and the implementation of a linear plot with development would make little 
 sense. Camelot is based mainly off Norse mythology; the influences of such works can be readily 
 seen. The basic plot, though, involves the death of King Arthur, and the ensuing darkness that 
 is enveloping the worlds of Camelot. The three worlds are at war, and this is where the fun jumps 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Having played multiple MMORPGs, all of them earlier titles thus far including Asheron's Call (my 
 first one) , EverQuest, Anarchy Online, Asheron's Call 2 and winding up sticking with EQ for almost 
 5 years, I would say DAoC clearly exceeds all of these. My experience with DAoC was limited and 
 I did not get to see RvR, which is said to be a big draw for the game but I heard enough from ingame 
 players to imagine its quite fun and offers pvp that far exceeds anything in the former titles 
 mentioned. The graphics while now behind the times somewhat, are still quite good looking and thus 
 the immersion I found to be very good and very fun while there. The community is an aged one like 
 you would find in EQ and other older games and that has both good and bad sides to it. The jaded 
 tend to complain bitterly at times about how the game devolved into its present state and lower 
 numbers on one hand, while many others swear by it as they one they have repeatedly returned to 
 after finding other and newer titles lacking. I can see why it got a 9.1 from GS when it was new. 
 I'm sure it blew everything else at the time away. Even today, I think it competes pretty well 
 overall with many titles. I am liking to purchase the bundle with all expansions sometime and play 
 this more, as the lore and world of WoW turns me off personally and no other game on the horizon 
 appeals (Vanguard will be EQ with a pretty face is my guess and that is not a compliment sadly) .
 
  
  So while I am less than qualified to write a comprehensive review, I think reading about the game 
 should fill you in well enough to make your own call. I will just add that I saw it and thought 
 well of it because it improves upon what I experienced in the games I've played substantially, 
 looks good, has good sound and music and offers fun gameplay with a mature community of devoted 
 fans, who in my experience were very welcoming and friendly to someone brand new.
  
  I should add too that the richness of the world, its lore, the many classes to choose from and 
 three unique kingdoms to experience as well as arguable the best pvp in a game of this kind to 
 date, all add up to a fun gameplay experience that I recommend checking out.
  
  The game has a nice tutorial that introduces key concepts well and had me ready to play and learn 
 from there within an hour easily. Obviously, games with this sort of depth have deep learning curves 
 too but I think its a gentle enough one in DAoC as you get enough to being having fun early on 
 and the rest comes over time and with experience and info from other players in game, The Camelot 
 Herald Web site and other Web resources, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elko75
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Since its release this game has been top notch quality game . with its developer Mythic constantly 
 working to bring its subscribers the best online experience possible. The scope of the game is 
 something more familiar to rpg fans and even poeple just trying rpgs for the first time as it deals 
 with legends like Camelot and King Arthur to Merlin and Morganna in this game u have three realms 
 Albion (England and Scottland) Hibernia (Ireland) and Midgard (Norway/Finland?) all with they're 
 own unique races and classes. From the very beginning you'll be immersed in the story as u take 
 quests to help your chosen realm and learn trades to better yourself and others. The Graphics r 
 great maybe not WoW like but the game came out years before WoW craze which i might add i took 
 part of until recently:) . The introduction of seige warfare where u can purchase rams, ballistas, trebuchets 
 just intensifies the pvp and works well with the game i really cant say anything bad about this 
 game. You can purchase a house to sell your trade goods or to show off your trophies even customize 
 the look of your house from bushes to fences to birdbaths u have a npc seller at your house that 
 sells your wares at whatever prices u set them for 24 hours a day so u dont have to be longed on 
 to sell. The Shrouded isles expansion introduced artifacts to the game a where the u can do quests 
 or fight monsters to obtain weapons or armors of great power that gain exp as u use them and when 
 they lvl they get stronger which is something that gives end game players that have capped there 
 lvls a reason to keep pveing.
  
  Graphics i give a nine taking into consideration that its been live for almost almost 5 yrs
  
 
  gameplay a nine for know other reason than that i cant remember anything sticking oujt tomake it 
 a ten
  
  sound a 9 same reason nice original scores but maybe not quite as good as the original EQ music
 
  
  Value 10 cheaper subscriptions cheaper retail prices and a lot of bang in each expansion
  
 
  Revierws tilt 10 cause this game pwns any other pvp on the market ......
  
  enjoy this one i know i did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hall0559
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I really dont know what happened to this game, I played it during beta and about 9 months into 
 release, I thought it was a fantastic game, with a super community, but now its just ... old.
 
  
  Its not that it isnt fun, and that the community is lacking. Im sure this game has its devoted 
 fan base as well, but it really seems like somethings just didnt grow old well.
  
  The animations and frame rate of the game are horrible. Skin textures are amazingly good, but since 
 animation is down the tube as soon as your character moves at all the spell as they say is broken. 
 Also the world is gobsmackingly empty.... empty... empty.
  
  The new tutorial is nice, no scratch that its better than nothing, but really does nothing to help 
 people get acclimated to real game play... just how to target and... right click.
  
  Maybe Its just me, maybe Im too spoiled with games like EQ2 (which im convinced people dont like 
 because its too hard) Eve Online (which people dont like because its too complex) or World of Warcraft 
 (which people dont like because its too trendy) , but none of those existed... I think I'd play 
 EQ1 or UO.
  
  It really makes me sad that this game just couldnt better itself more over the years, maybe nothing 
 will prove its as long lasting as UO and EQ.
  
  Sorry DAoC!
  
  Overall score = 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  This was my first MMO game. And well, it got me hooked. The graphics where great and being my frist 
 MMO it really caught my attention at how the lag was not as bad as I would expect. The characters 
 where great and I enjoyed the variety. I must admit it took me a while to catch on but with help 
 of people you can really enjoy and go out on Realm vs Realm battles.. now those where/are fun. 
 And going into the wilderness with party members was great, the game really got my going on Online 
 games, so I would recomend it to anyone who likes Role Playing Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironmike1981
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok I have played WoW, COH, and several other MMORPGs. I will start with the bad... This game has 
 good graphics but not up to speed with WoW. There is no mail system. The first 20 levels can be 
 boring if you dont juice it up with alittle PvP, but they let you grow twice as fast levels 1-20. 
 Also alot of reading in the PvE lower levels, gets old. There is a huge curve for a brand new player, 
 because you wont be the top of the kill list except maybe for the day or week. Also the PvE (player 
 vs environment) side is really lacking. 
  
  Now to the good......... You can build a house, the PvP is indepth, you can use siege weapons, there 
 is a HUGE amount of classes to choose from and more races than most games, you can truly specialize 
 a character as far as his skills, you gain experience from doing PvP!!! That is huge. WoW does 
 give you some but come on, where else can you get to a decent level and spend the rest of your 
 days playing PvP if you wanted to and you would gain levels........ This game is not for everyone, 
 but it is indepth. You have dungeons, castles, siege weapons, tradeskills (could have more of those) , 
 tons of classes (so u dont have 200 hunters and 300 warriors online) , houses, clans, true skills 
 that you can really develop, mounts, experience for killing human beings and not just the computer, 
 plus you get realm points for that too, which let you "pimp out" your character, true war (not 
 the WoW version) . To be honest this game will give you alot of playing time if you truly look into 
 it. The Epic Edition costs $20.00 and gets u started with everything you need and you get a free 
 month to try it. If you are bored and want somethig more than spending a day killing people in 
 WoW Battlegrounds and gaining nothing but some armor or a special weapon, then give DAoC a try. 
 The worst thing you are out of is 20 bucks.......... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun Specing your character like example you could spec a ranger to do melee or 
 to use bows. I played WoW ( which i really thought wasnt that good could of been better) but Daoc 
 is so much better the RvR is so fun and Task Dungeons are fun to do the armor looks awsome the 
 graphics good (If u have Catacombs Expansion pack there good if u dont there not) .
  
  But overall this game is fun and addicting and is worth to buy. Just if your planning to buy it 
 be sure to pick up the EPIC edition or The platnuim edition and get catacombs expansion because 
 without catacombs the game isnt really that good.
  
  ------The ratings I did are for Dark age of camolet with catacombs expansion -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  I remember having preordered the US-Release overseas just to get hands-on as soon as possible.
 
  
  I never was into Everquest and Asheron's Call, but i had alot of fun with DAOC. The Races, Classes 
 and Abilities are pretty balanced. 
  You will be able to emerge quite easily into the world of Avalon...
  
  And the graphics are 
 suitable. Although you always move around to completely different looking place when being on the 
 search for harder crits, corresponding to your level.. i found the visual design to be a little 
 bit "cartoony".. But the world is still compelling. I guess it's a matter of taste.
  
  I've never been into the whole PVP of DAOC as i'm generally not very interested in MMORPG-PvP. 
 From what i have heard the classes seem to be balance, but if a lvl 37 for instance is fighting 
 against 39 for instance (same class) he wont stand a chance. Which prooves the Standard-MMORPG-Style 
 of this Game, as its more about Levels, Experience, and Equations rather than Skill or Technique.
 
  
  Nevertheless the Overall impression of this game remains very solid. Although it has to be said 
 that it is very standardish, and wont offer much Surprise to the more experienced MMORPG-ers. Even 
 if it was the first game to introduce Siege-Gameplay.
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  This game had potential to say the least until they went to the direction of trials of Atlantis. 
 Alot of my friends quit because of it. It was like a copy of EQ when they went to SOV I believe. 
 Been a bit you know. I never did like the character mod ureally aweful lookin to me. The world 
 was and probaly still is difficult to get around. Character balance on the game was and prob still 
 an issue. I could believe while in PvP how imbalance a game gould be. Why the nerfs anyway why 
 can't dev make a positive move for balancing?? But anyweay this game is also off my HD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: italstal101
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Dark Age of Camelot... one fun game to play also very addicting its one of those games you dont 
 want to pass up when i played this game it became like a part of my life for a while.
  This game has a lot of intersting points to it... everyone has heard of trolls, dwarves, elves, 
 banshees and other monsters from mythology this game has just about all of them. Atlantis the city 
 of Camelot places everyone has heard of are just some of the great place in this game. It has many 
 different classes and three different realms to play in and fight for. RVR or realm versus realm 
 is another fun fact about this game.
  Dark Age of Camelot: Catacombs is another addition to this great game... it added depth to the many 
 mysteries inside this great game that under each city a new evil is rising to take over the lands. 
 And three new areas were opened up for everone to journey to underneath the great citys. The Iconnu 
 Crypt (for Albion) , the Shars Labrinthe (for Hybernia) and the Kobold Undercity (for Midgard) .
 
  All in all i would have to say this game is very fun and great to play even if you have to pay 
 for a subscribtion to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keorshie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  i have alwase love this game and i agree after 3+ years it is still one of the best out there for 
 a pvp based MMORPG it really does show how well games can be made it has been one of the top sellers 
 at my work since it came out and still is going fast with today gamers young and old. This will 
 alwase be a favoret of mine and my friends. If i could sum this gmae up ina few words it would 
 be this. 
  
  Amazing, Fun, Addiictive
  
  other then that just play it there is alwase the 14 day trial of it to play and i give u my personal 
 gaurntee after that you will never want to stop for anything ever again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealFrek
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 23, 2005 6:58 am PT
Review:  Important Considerations: The following review is based on DAOC + its 3 expansions as of 04/23/2005. 
 I only note this because the game is constantly changing so please keep in mind that this review 
 is based on the state of the game as of this date.
  
  It should also be noted that I have extensive playtime in DAOC. I have played my original character 
 from day one of release right up to this review. My current main character is a RR9 Druid and I 
 have experienced every aspect of this game possible including master levels, leading a relic raid, 
 and just about every PVE encounter in the game.
  
  System Specs used for this review:
  ASUS A7N8X-Deluxe
  AMD 3000+ (overclocked to 3400ish speeds)
  1 Gig Corsair XMS DDR @ 420 MHz 
 effective speed
  BFG 6800 GT OC (overclocked to 390/1.2 GHz)
  Game Settings: Usually 1280X1024 2XAA 4XAF, shadows and water effects on highest settings
  
 
  Gameplay: 7/10 - PVE, personally I find that when compared to other MMO's such as EQII or WOW 
 the PVE game in DAOC tends to be found lacking. By that I don't mean to say that there is a lack 
 of variety in PVE experiences to be found. But where it falls short is that it has a "forced" feeling 
 about it. The Catacombs expansion has certainly helped to cut down the time it takes to level your 
 character. Some of the quests in Catacombs can give as much as a half a level in experience. There 
 is also a very nice mix of solo/group content and you certainly won't ever be in a position where 
 you can't find something productive to do. If you choose an underpopulated realm to play on its 
 also possible to receive a free level every 2 days (This free level is also available on other servers 
 but can be as high as every 7 days) . DAOC has made excellent strides in cutting down on the time 
 it takes to get your character to maximum level. Where it does lose points though is that compared 
 to WOW or EQII the PVE can get very repetative.
  
  RVR - This is where DAOC makes up for its lack of truly engaging PVE. There are special battle 
 grounds for all levels to go and try out their PVP skills. The most popular ones though tend to 
 be the level 20-24 and level 35+ ones. And of course the end game which is the frontiers which 
 is generally only playable for level 50's. On the bright side the RVR can be very engaging at times 
 as by and large it is a team based event. There can be problems with one side having more players 
 than the other but in the 8-man group that I ran with it was always possible to find opponets to 
 fight with similiar numbers. Some nights could be frustrating but overall it was a positive experience 
 on most nights. On the downside though to really be effective in RVR you are pretty much forced 
 to spend quite a lot of time in the PVE part of the game. You need to complete master levels and 
 aquire artifacts (which also need to be leveled) as well as you need to spend quite a bit of time 
 and energy into designing a "template" for your character in order to be really effective in RVR. 
 If your brand new to the game then be forewarned that RVR will by and large mostly be a frustrating 
 experience unless your willing to put in the effort into getting the best equipment available for 
 your character. Another negative is that you will also go through a "training" phase where you 
 will be trying to climb the realm ranks and in the early part of your career you can expect to 
 be underpowered against players who have been around alot longer.
  
  RVR includes territory control and there are keeps, towers, and outposts that can be claimed by 
 guilds for their realm. The system also includes "relics" that can be captured that give bonuses 
 to your entire realm. The interface in the game also helps you to locate where any action is occuring 
 and through the teleport system in the game is it quite easy to join in on the action.
  
  If I was basing this review solely on the RVR aspect of the game I would have given it a 9/10. 
 However it drops to a 7/10 when you factor in the PVE experience and the time and effort involved 
 to make your character RVR ready.
  
  
  Graphics: 7/10 - If you have the Catacombs expansion the graphics engine in the game will be upgraded. 
 The graphics are not going to blow you away with amazing eye candy but they also aren't going to 
 make you frown upon them either. There are very nice spell animations and in the thick of battle 
 there is plenty to see. Tanks have several different animations for different attacks, casters 
 have very unique spell animations, archers go through the whole range of drawing their bows. The 
 animations are all very smooth as well. Compared to sum of all other mmorpg's out there I would 
 have to rate the engine in DAOC above average, or another way to say it, DAOC would be in the top 
 10 games with regards to graphics.
  
  Characters underwent a complete redoing in the Catacombs expansion and some of the character models 
 are very realistic looking. However on the downside there isn't a huge amount of variety to choose 
 from to disquish your characters face. That said though the game makes up for it in the huge assortment 
 of different equipment looks and the ablity to dye just about anything you can wear. Generally 
 speaking I am able to pick out my closest friends in the game simply by looking at their character, 
 so it is possible to make yourself distinquishable from everyone else.
  
  
  Sound: 6/10 - Sound is a category where Mythic has greatly improved upon over the years. There 
 are background battle sounds (which sometimes do sound out of place when your in a very small group 
 fight) . Environment background noises, footsteps, water splashes, unique music by zone and town. 
 What prevents me from giving it higher than a 7/10 though is that there are no npc sounds at all. 
 Considering that similiar games have npc's that actually talk or even say a "one-liner" when you 
 interact with them I simply couldn't give DAOC higher than a "fair" rating. That said though Mythic 
 has made great strides over the years with regards to sound in their game compared to what it was 
 when the game first went live and don't take my comments to imply that the world isn't filled with 
 a wide variety of sounds. The area that needs improving is making the npcs feel more alive.
  
  
  Value: 9/10 - There is simply an amazingly huge amount of content to experience in this 
 game, yes some of it is very repetative and most of the quests have the same feel but in terms 
 of stuff to do and places to see there is quite a bit to see and experience. Yes it can very much 
 have a "grind" feel to it but I was kept interested in this game for 3+ years now and it would 
 hypocritical of me to not give a 9/10 on value. On top of that I also have to comment that the 
 "end-game" is what really sets DAOC apart from its competition. The RVR in DAOC does have its balance 
 issues but compared to the competition the end-game will be what keeps you playing for years.
 
  
  
  Review's Tilt: 9/10 - As I previously mentioned I have played DAOC now for 3+ years. I have a lot 
 of fond memories from this game. Although I do feel that my time in DAOC is coming to an end I 
 believe I will leave the game on a positive note. Although it would be quite an undertaking to 
 start in this game as a level 1 and work your way up, I do feel that in its present condition this 
 game could still be a rewarding experience for the new player. There are guilds on every server 
 that are very open and helpfull to new players. I have no problem with recommending this game even 
 to brand new players.
  
  Final thoughts: If you are really interested in this game then I suggest you check the official 
 site for information on the different classes available in the game and a much more detailed coverage 
 of the games features. I only covered the basic feel on the game in my review. I will add that 
 I think this game will largely appeal to the gamer who is looking for a team-based PVP type game. 
 If your the type of gamer who largely likes to avoid PVP in any form then I don't think I would 
 recommend DAOC to you because the PVE part of the game just isn't as engaging as the competitions. 
 But it should be mentioned that you aren't ever "forced" to engage in any PVP unless you play on 
 the PVP anywhere server.
  
  I'd also like to make a special comparison to WOW. DAOC has had a lot more time to develop the 
 RVR aspect of their game and it shows. DAOC's RVR end game certainly has alot more "meat" than 
 the current state of WOW (for example reasons to engage in PVP and rewards for winning) . I'm sure 
 that at some future point WOW will catch up in this regard but for the time being DAOC simply has 
 a way of pulling you into the 3-realm war and gives you real reasons to engage in the "fight". 
 While overall I do feel WOW is a stronger game, in terms of just the "end-game" DAOC has a much 
 stronger play experience in the "end-game".
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodyJamesVarty
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2004 12:05 am PT
Review:  I will start with the bad. Like most online rpgs, this game will suck alot of hours out of your 
 life. Graphics are nothing compared to these new games, such as EQ 2 and others. Some of the people 
 you meet are not going to be the nicest of people. Ok now for the reason this game is very good. 
 It is flat out fun, compared to the other games in it's class. It's RVR (the PvP system) is amaizing. You 
 Choose a Realm (country) from three, pick your class/race and you level up, get new armor and weapons, 
 then you transport into what they call BG (battle grounds) a zone in witch there are three Armys 
 all competing for the center castle (A big castle in the center of the zone) . At the highest level 
 of the game, comes a new RvR system called the New Frontiers, which is a huge zone, that contains 
 three giant lands, one for each realm. Each land has 7 Castle and each castle has 4 or 5 towers. 
 Now the point to this, is to capture as many Castles and towers as possible and the Realm that 
 controls the most Castles gets the access of a special dungeon called DarknessFalls. This is what 
 makes this game shine, and the other parts are good as well, but if you are a PvE kinda guy/girl, 
 you prolly should find another game. This game prolly wont change your mind on online RPGs but 
 if you are looking for a fun and competive game, look no further than DAoC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrackZero3369
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 3, 2004 11:43 am PT
Review:  I played Dark Age back when it first came out, and I'll admit, I have not touched the game since 
 the many expansions began to come out. So I'm sure others will point out that some things have 
 changed since then.
  
  My primary character I played with was a human beserker. Which, was quite fun for a time. DAoC 
 has a well-designed game world, with lots of great visuals and monsters to fight. Combat is definitely 
 more interesting than EQ or other MMORPGs as it has a combo system for the melee classes. The towns 
 are interesting and there's lots of things to do. That is, until you realize you are once again 
 on the level train, always working just to earn that experience and get either:
  
  a) That next new ability.
  b) That next magic armor/weapon.
  
  The quests, admittedly are 
 better than EverQuest, with more story put into them. Exploration of your realm will fill up your 
 first 20 levels of gameplay (and 10-20 hours of gameplay) . Once you hit 20, it's expected you begin 
 to spend your time on the "frontier" and in realm vs realm combat (of course, this is optional 
 and you can spend the remainder of your days simply killing one bad AI creature after another) .
 
  
  Crafting was one welcome addition I found to the game however, though again, you are essentially 
 just repeating the same moves over and over to make money in a virual world. I felt like I was 
 working a job rather than playing a game, and after rising quite high (700) in my smithing, I decided 
 to call it quits and concentrate on combat/adventure.
  
  I then began going to the battlegrounds (sort of like a practice frontier, but with nothing at 
 stake except your time and energy) . This is probably the best part of the game, as you aren't severely 
 punished for dying and you are only interacting with other people.
  
  The frontiers themselves were cut-throat, with each realm constantly vying for controls of various 
 keeps for better abilities and prestige. However, like most MMORPGs the game has balance issues. 
 Far too many classes have advantages over others, which is a definite problem when you take into 
 account that the majority of the time you will spend with this game is in Realm Vs Realm combat. 
 Even in a generalized sense, ranged classes have a MASSIVE advantage over melee fighters, and I 
 found I was spending more and more time in the game simply dead on the battlefield after being 
 shot down via arrows and spells.
  
  I found that many of the people I played with spent a large portion of their time simply on the 
 social aspect of the game, and in retrospect, it was just IRC with other things to do layed on 
 top. Then again, that's something I've found with my MMORPGs.
  
  DAoC was a good time, but it gets old eventually (at least it did to me) . Time can probably be 
 better spent elsewhere. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
