-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Reign: The Future of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/darkreign/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  2, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.4, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 460 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Auran
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Aug 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
One of the most impressive games released this year in any genre. 

 Real-time strategy game designers face a difficult task: If their game stays too closely within 
 the path laid down by Red Alert and Warcraft II, it is sure to be criticized for being derivative. 
 On the other hand, if they tinker with the formulas of those classic games, they may find themselves 
 outside the familiar and comfortable bounds of the genre, and thus, without an audience. The only 
 solution - one which is very rarely achieved - is to create a game that is instantly accessible 
 to real-time strategy gamers, but which at the same time offers new and significant innovations 
 that take the experience beyond its previous limits and into the realm of the new and unexpected. 

 Dark Reign is such a game. At first glance (and at first play) Dark Reign appears to be little more 
 than a Red Alert clone - experienced players will certainly have a sense of deja vu at their first 
 encounter with the game's visual presentation, sound effects, and single-player missions. However, 
 two or three hours of play (or completion of the advanced online tutorials) reveal a real-time 
 strategy game that is, in many respects, altogether different from its predecessors.   

 The reason that Dark Reign is such a success is twofold: First, it fixes almost everything that 
 was wrong with its most obvious influence, Red Alert. Take unit production, for example. Where 
 Red Alert required you to manually select each unit to be produced, Dark Reign lets you create 
 a production queue for as many units as you wish. Not only that, it also allows you to set an exit 
 point for units produced by a particular building. The result is that you can create and group 
 entire divisions of troops anywhere on the map with just a few clicks of the mouse - freeing your 
 mind to concentrate on more important matters. Another example: One of the most frustrating aspects 
 of Red Alert was the tendency of units to be drawn away from their selected position by enemy attacks. 
 In Dark Reign, you can instruct your units to attack without moving. This greatly enhances the 
 effectiveness of defensive unit placement, as well as the offensive deployment of artillery units. 
 These types of subtle improvements, which are the obvious result of long and careful thought about 
 what did and didn't work in earlier real-time strategy games, permeate Dark Reign, and make it 
 a true pleasure to play.   

 But Dark Reign does more than overcome the shortcomings of earlier titles. It also introduces major 
 new strategic options that greatly enhance the depth of the gaming experience. The two most important 
 innovations are the inclusion of a very sophisticated waypoint system, which lets you easily dictate 
 the paths which your troops will follow, and an AI control panel, which allows you to set general 
 parameters for troop behavior and responses to specific situations.   

 The waypoint system is easy to use and remarkably flexible, with application to a wide variety of 
 offensive, defensive, and reconnaissance initiatives. You can specify an attack path to maximize 
 stealth and efficiency, create elaborate patrol schemes to protect key areas and root out intruders, 
 or send scouts to search just those areas of the map that are still uncovered. You can even save 
 paths to allow quick and easy assignment of new troops to an existing set of orders. After a short 
 while using the waypoint system, you will wonder how real-time strategy games ever got along without 
 it.  

 The AI control panel is equally impressive. It allows you to tell your troops to guard a specific 
 location, harass enemy troops using gun-and-run tactics, scout out hidden areas of the map, or 
 to seek "kill or be killed" encounters with the enemy. Even better, you can dictate to your troops 
 how aggressively to pursue enemy units they encounter and how much damage to take before returning 
 to a repair facility.   

 Both the waypoint system and AI panel are powerful when used alone, but when used in conjunction 
 with one another, they allow you to execute extremely complex strategic maneuvers. For example, 
 you could send a unit group along a path into the enemy base, then give them orders to search and 
 destroy and to retreat to a repair facility after taking minimal damage. They will reach the base, 
 spread out, and then quickly retreat, drawing out the enemy troops in the process. By careful placement 
 of the repair facility to which they are returning (buildings can be placed anywhere on the map) , 
 the pursuing enemies could be drawn directly into an ambush, carried out by a second group located 
 in a highly favorable position, with orders not to move from it. Meanwhile, a third formation could 
 be sent along a set path into the heart of the weakly defended enemy base, with their end point 
 near a critical installation (such as a power plant) , which they can then attack, crippling the 
 base.   

 This level of strategic depth would be enough in and of itself to recommend Dark Reign. But there 
 is much more to consider. The unit design in particular is worth noting, as it offers exceptional 
 variety and balance while at the same time maintaining a clear (and consistent) distinction between 
 the two sides. The computer AI is quite good, attacking in swarms, retreating when outnumbered 
 or outgunned, and brutally impervious to basic tank-rush tactics. Dark Reign's dual resource management 
 (one earns money, the other speeds production) adds yet another degree of depth to the game.   
 

 The only components that are somewhat disappointing are Dark Reign's line-of-sight and 3D terrain 
 features. While both work to a degree, neither has quite the impact on gameplay that one would 
 expect. While the slope (as well as the composition) of the terrain does clearly affect unit movement 
 speed, it rarely matters that one takes the "high" ground - range and accuracy of weapons are negligibly 
 affected (if at all) , and the increase in visual range is minor. And while the line-of-sight feature 
 does offer a new twist on enemy encounters, it's more of an annoyance than anything else.  

 All this may sound like a lot to take in, and it is. Fortunately, Dark Reign includes an excellent 
 series of tutorials that gently introduce you to the game's many unique facets. It's also comforting 
 to know that it is not necessary to understand all, or even most, of Dark Reign's more subtle features 
 in the early missions - experienced gamers will be able to start playing without even reading the 
 manual. The game presents the player with a smooth and steady learning curve, and by the later 
 missions, you will be well equipped to take full advantage of all of the strategic options at your 
 disposal.   

 Even once you've mastered the solo missions, you'll still get plenty more out of the game. The multiplayer 
 version, which supports up to eight players on a LAN, four players over the Internet, and two players 
 using a direct modem connection, is extremely easy to use. Just click on multiplayer, and within 
 moments you'll be logged onto the Dark Reign Server, where matches are continually launched.  

 
 Another of Dark Reign's special features is its bundled construction kit. With it, you can (relatively) 
 easily construct your own levels and maps, complete with any terrain, buildings, or features you 
 want, as well as set unit distribution, behavior, and stats. While most players will find the bundled 
 multiplayer maps (there are some 20 in all, including maps designed specifically for various numbers 
 of players) to be more than enough, the construction kit ensures that new maps will be continually 
 available on the Web.  

 There is much more that could be said about Dark Reign, but potential buyers of the game have surely 
 heard enough already. This is one of the best real-time strategy games ever (Total Annihilation 
 and the upcoming Starcraft are the two potential contemporary competitors) and one of the most 
 impressive games released this year in any genre. We'll be playing it for many months to come. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  STORY
  Dark Reign is about how the world has become over populated and extremely pollued, the life expectancy 
 for humans who lived on the outiside (not in arcologies with filtered air) was about 30 years of 
 age due to the heavily polluted air, poverty and the fact the world had become so dangerous to the 
 point gangs had more control of the world than the police.
  
  The rich people lived in giant arcologies (giant structures that provided them with filtered air, and 
 could grow fresh food and clean water) and they would remain in arcologies for years without going 
 outside, where they were safe and had everything they needed to survive.
  
  The story is told in a bible form, and it explains about great disasters that happened to the world, such 
 as how mankind tried to dump a huge quantity of toxic waste into space but it crashed back to earth 
 in killing millions of people, and you learn about the deterioration of Earth and the living conditions 
 of the people and gap between rich and poor.
  
  Eventually to deal with over crowded prisons, they gave prisoners the option to board a spaceship 
 to leave Earth, so they no longer had to remain in prison, as long as they never returned back to 
 Earth, but the spaceship only had a limited amount of air, food, water so it was basically suicide 
 unless they found another inhabitable planet to live on, which they did, called Togra, which the former 
 prisoners colonized.
  
  Togra had plenty of fresh water, and land to farm and the ex prisoners eventually established a 
 society with law and order, everyone had plenty of food and shelter and enjoyed life on Togra which 
 because it had been untouched by humans had beautiful tropical forests.
  
  The government which controlled Earth (the JDA) found out about this and claimed Togra in the name 
 of Earth, and of course the ex prisoners weren't going to give up Togra, their new found paradise 
 without a fight and that's how the war between the ex prisoners (Freedom Guard) and JDA (imperialists) began.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The building menu is simple, you select structures or units. You only need to collect 1 resource 
 which is water (water has become the most precious resource in the galaxy) Base defense is very 
 important in Dark Reign, as the CPU will constantly harass your base trying to slow you down, so 
 you will need to build adequate defensive structures.
  
  But in Dark Reign, whoever controls the water supplies wins, you will need to capture other water 
 springs to increase your cashflow enough so you can build a big enough force quickly enough to 
 overwhelm the CPU's base.
  
  The CPU is very good at wearing you down if you can't capture enough water.
  
  As you would 
 expect the Freedom Guard (ex prisoners) are a little disadvantaged when it comes to technology, and 
 the JDA (Imperium Guard) have some very unfair advantages, such as the Rift Creator (which causes 
 a distortion in space and will destroy many buildings instantly) and their vehicles start off as 
 being much more powerful. Thankfully you can switch back and forth between both sides (there is no 
 Freedom Guard or Imperium Guard campaign but 1 big campaign where you can switch between both sides 
 and as long as you win the mission the story continues)
  
  Some missions are almost unwinnable, due to the Imperium Guards Rift Creator, or the Freedom Guard 
 sending huge numbers of forces against you, it's like they wanted to show battles both sides won 
 and lost.
  
  Eventually the Freedom Guard steal Imperium technology and uses it to build vehicles that can match 
 the Imperium Guard and defensive structures that can give the Freedom Guard's bases a chance of 
 suriviving.
  
  The units from both sides start off as basic infantry and small or light tank units, but eventually 
 more bigger tanks with more firepower can be built (but you have to wait a little longer to get 
 them with the Freedom Guard) and eventually aircraft can be used.
  
  To match the Imperium Guard's Rift Creator the Freedom Guard eventually develop a shockwave creator, which 
 sends a giant shock wave across land and destroys any buildings or units in it's path.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are very colorful for an RTS game. They look almost cartoonish, the structures 
 and units look like they almost come out of a comic, but it has a nice, light hearted look.
  The Freedom Guard units tend to dress more colorful, while the Imperium Guard dress in black and 
 like robots and their vehicles have a cold black futuristic look.
  
  The tropical rainforest environments are very colorful, with beautiful blue water, bright brown soil 
 and tropical vegetation, and you can even see rain drops hit the water (again it looks like it's 
 from a comic but it has a great effect!) And the desert and snowy locations add variety, and there 
 is civilian zones with futuristic structures and agriculture, and the cleanliness and sophistication 
 of the Togran society will make you think they really deserve independance from Earth since Earth 
 ruined their own planet themselves.
  
  SOUND
  Each Freedom Guard unit has a unique voice and talk enjoyable phrases. While the Imperium Guard 
 all sound like robots which suits their cold, evil ideology.
  Each vehicle has a very unique weapon fire sound, letting you know they are using different technology 
 or energy source.
  The music has a gentle but chilling feeling to suit an atmosphere of a war torn future and lots 
 of suffering.
  
  OVERALL
  One of the best RTS games ever made, it's story is very deep but unfortunately will be overlooked 
 next to RTS games with fancy 3D graphics.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: apolloluke
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game rules. The single player, total trash. The multi-player: The best. The simplicity of 
 the map creator makes this game a timeless classic. Even now people still play this game online 
 in 640x480 resolution. Thats how good it is. It would have been great if Dark Reign 2 wasn't so 
 horrible, and had served as nothing more then a 3D upgrade to what was a great game. Ive played 
 all the RTS games out there, Starcraft, Warcraft 1,2 and 3 and the C&amp; C series but nothing compares 
 to this game.
  
  If you don't believe me download it from http://www. darkreign. us 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petejams
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This was a fantastic game, it went toe to toe with Total Annihilation and had fantastic multiplayer 
 and a great story and AI. Well worth playing and if you can engage in multiplayer you will have 
 a great time as it has some great maps. You can even set waypoints for your repair units as well 
 as your rally units. This game was ahead of its time. Find it in the bargain bin and enjoy it. 
 Auran needs to come back and make a sequel to this game. engage in multiplayer you will have a 
 great time as it has some great maps. You can even set waypoints for your repair units as well 
 as your rally units. This game was ahead of its time. Find it in the bargain bin and enjoy it. 
 Auran needs to come back and make a sequel to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor_bblade
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Usually i like RTS games but this one didnt really appeal to me. I got it dead cheap and couldnt 
 be botherd playing it after i had done about 3 levels. I dont even get the story and the value 
 of the game is poor. The games graphics are good though for an old game and the sound is pretty 
 good. This however dosent make the game good you should really get a different game. I think that 
 the best part of this game are the cut-scenes which are pretty good. Overall you shouldnt buy this 
 game but if you can get it for cheap you may as well check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Dark Reign falls into the standard computer based strategy game where you are in command of an 
 army where you have to construct your own army after all the basic base necessities have been established. 
 With a large army in your hands, it is then your job to wreck havoc on the enemy forces. Dark Reign 
 is just this type of game as it plays out in many ways similar to the command and conquer series 
 created by Westwood, but it offers a much better control aspect to all the units where it is much 
 easier on the player when it comes to issuing commands to forces. Compared to modern day games 
 the graphics may not be as good, but still the gameplay of the game is quite solid, I would definately 
 recommend this game for any hard core strategy gamers who are more interested in the gameplay of 
 the game itself instead of just flashy graphics that do nothing but just awe players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langrisser2005
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  ~ Dark Reign is a well put together game with exciting challenging missions and fast paced action 
 that gives a lot of fun.
  
  I found this game cheap a year or two after its release. I liked the name of it, Dark Reign, Future 
 of War, seemed like a decent game and after playing through I was glad have gotten it. Actually 
 this was my first RTS game I played so it was a new experience for me which by now is not the case.
 
  
  At the main menu I decided I defiantly needed a tutorial which was very well made. Easy to work 
 with and clear on instructions, I had what I needed to know in under an hour. From then comes the 
 main story. 
  
  The game takes place in the distant future, where a crippled scout ship encounters a probe launched 
 by Togra, the now deceased leader of the Togran civilization just before his death. As one of the 
 last remaining Tograns, the player is presented with an opportunity to go back through time and 
 prevent the death of the beloved Togran leader. However, he must first demonstrate his worth by 
 playing out the battles between the Imperium and Freedom Guard forces that ultimately led to the 
 decimation of the Togra's home planet. As these battles are played out, from either the side of 
 the Imperium or the Freedom Guard the story is slowly revealed.
  
  There are 12 missions that will be carried out by the chosen side before the final confrontation 
 for destruction of the Togra's home planet in the final battle.
  
  Playing Dark Reign is quite basic to manage. The player constructs buildings such as headquarters 
 and training facilities and then produces offensive units such as infantry or tanks to attack enemy 
 bases. Units and buildings have an associated credit cost that must be paid to build them. In the 
 game, additional credits are earned by collecting shipments of water from fresh springs. What is 
 also great is the amount of units you can create at a time. You can queue a single unit up to 11 
 which is much helped when dealing with harder missions later on. Also the speed of construction 
 of buildings and units besides the super weapons (which should take time considering the amount 
 of damage they do) don't take that long which makes for a fast paced game.
  
  In the single player missions a number of objectives may be given to the player to complete before 
 the mission is successfully completed, such as escorting a special unit or protect a particular 
 building, in multiplayer games the only objective is to destroy all the enemies units and buildings. 
 You can have up to 8 players on many different terrain maps by LAN, internet or direct modem connection 
 which Ive played before with some friends. It was very simple and easy to connect with each other 
 and had plenty of great allied battles against the computer.
  
  The game also comes with a construction kit which you can create maps and objectives on your own. 
 It is very easy to use (one of the easiest battle editor's I worked with) which should consume 
 you still after completing the game.
  
  Gameplay comes with many different units and buildings which can be upgraded for more superior 
 ones, as well as strategic options to use such as the waypoint formation which is an excellent 
 method for units controlling themselves and make orders given depending on your choices. Such as 
 guarding a specific area or patrolling it, if they encounter an enemy force they will chase them 
 for a certain way then return to their position or setup tactical movements points for a unit, 
 or units to follow. As well as single player mode, multiplayer is available which I heard there 
 are huge clans playing which I never knew about so this game isnt a loner. Also a instant action 
 mode where you can have a free-play mode against the computer up to 8 players and also lets you 
 play as the Togran side which only available else where in the final mission. You can also use 
 the construction kit for some map creating which is fun and easy.
  
  Graphics are quite good in the game. They are quite good, for its time, though it could have been 
 slightly better, though it shouldn't disturb you from the game since you won't be concentrating 
 looking at trees and more with action. Some look better than others but overall it's good. The 
 movie clips are very good showing the world of Earth and the battles of each side.
  
  Sound is not bad as well. At a lot of the time though you'll be hearing weapon fire from intense 
 battles which may or may not get annoying to listen to after several hours of play. I particularly 
 do enjoy it however music is included in the missions which spreads everything out. Music is decent; 
 it's a good fit for the maps and well as the voices of units. 
  
  For Value it's very good. Though 12 missions may sound short, each are challenging and can take, 
 (especially the final mission) hours to complete. Two sides to play with, each with different units 
 and buildings. In instant action you can try out anything you didn't in the single player mode. 
 Multiplayer is very fun to play with one, two or a group of people. Finally the Construction Kit, 
 a nice add-on that should consume you for hours.
  
  In the end Dark Reign is a fun, fast paced, challenging game that should prove worthy for people 
 who like the genre. Although at this point of time there are many new great games. So if you are 
 one who has an old computer looking for a cool game to play Dark Reign is one for you. At today's 
 age people may leave this game behind but if see it in a cheap bargain pile somewhere, you should 
 pick it up, it's a fun game to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 20, 2004 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I tried to get into Dark Reign. I really wanted to like the game, but everything from the units 
 and buildings down to the sounds, map and interface just didn't draw me in. Instead it pushed me 
 away.
  
  The game seemed to be "build up a force as soon as possible, stop enemy attack, launch attack and 
 win". I found the game actually to hard. The enemy seemed to attack to early and with a force so 
 large it quickly overwhelmed your base. In other words, you have no chance to even hold them off, 
 let alone counter attack and maybe win.
  
  There were other RTS titles out around the same time, Total Annihilation for example. Now out of 
 TA or Dark Reign, i think most people would agree that TA wins hands down. Maybe thats the reason 
 i couldn't get into Dark Reign, i was to busy playing a better game. 
  
  There really isn't much point in playing the game now though, Dark Reign 2 was out a while ago 
 too. The sequel was a flop, although i didn't think it was that bad. I preferred Dark Reign 2 over 
 the original. 
  
  I guess it's one of those games you either love or hate, unfortunitly i was the latter and didn't 
 like it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
