-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Darkened Skye
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/darkenedskye/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 25, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.2, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 55 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Simon & Schuster
Developer: Boston Animation
Genre: Action
Date:     Jan 27, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Darkened Skye turns out to be a colorful and fairly entertaining game that's surprisingly funny. 
 

  Though you wouldn't know it from glancing at its box, Darkened Skye is, of all things, a tie-in 
 for a recent Skittles candy marketing campaign. Instead of having to "taste the rainbow," you'll 
 need to put it back together in this third-person action-adventure game. Long ago, a great rainbow 
 shone over the skies of Lynlora, dropping magical artifacts known as Skittles to the earth. Recently, 
 the evil Lord Necroth has destroyed the rainbow, hoarded most of the Skittles, and banned magic 
 from the realm. Now it's up to you to help the sarcastic heroine Skye find the ancient prisms that 
 can restore the great rainbow. This might sound like an inane game idea based on accounting instead 
 of good sense -- theoretically, that's true, but in practice, it's a bit far off the mark. Darkened 
 Skye turns out to be a colorful and fairly entertaining game that's surprisingly funny.
 
 It's true that Darkened Skye doesn't have a deep or novel story. A young shepherdess tries to save 
 the world and find out who she "really" is -- that's the predictable stuff of any old generic fantasy 
 story, and the clichs keep piling on top of each other until you end up with a big jumbled 
 heap of them. Darkened Skye usually rises above its material, though, even letting you ignore the 
 inherent silliness of a game based around a real-life candy. One way the game manages to stay entertaining 
 is through its likable main character. Skye is endearingly self-deprecating and sarcastic in a 
 lighthearted way. She has a few strange allies, but she's basically on her own against the world, 
 which also makes her sympathetic.
 
 Along with its likable heroine, Darkened Skye features some of the funniest writing since No One 
 Lives Forever and Giants: Citizen Kabuto. The characters offer all kinds of unexpected one-liners 
 and amusing dialogue. When Skye meets a bizarre merchant who deals in rare animals from distant 
 lands, the merchant shouts, in a hyperactive imitation from  Jerry Maguire , "Show me the bunny!" 
 Skye's extensive journal is well worth reading for its share of pointed barbs and puns, which will 
 make you groan -- but gleefully so. Humor is subjective, of course, and more than a few of the jokes 
 fall flat, particularly after you've been running in circles for a while, stuck on a particular 
 puzzle. But for the most part, Darkened Skye is one of those rare games that will have you laughing 
 out loud.
 
 Outside of the script, Darkened Skye's gameplay is solid though not spectacular. You lead Skye through 
 the different realms of Lynlora, solving puzzles, casting spells with the Skittles you pick up, 
 and talking to nonplayer characters. A slightly clunky interface makes this all a tad more difficult 
 than necessary.
 
 You'll also get to bash lots of monsters during your quests. The combat is simple if not simplistic. 
 The same monsters also appear too often, and you'll actually have to fight little venom-spitting 
 flies that look like Daikatana hand-me-downs. On top of that, monsters appear too predictably -- basically, 
 whenever you grab a particularly useful object or find yourself on a precarious perch, you'll get 
 bushwhacked. Ho hum.
 
 Compared with the combat, the puzzles are handled pretty nicely. They require you to use inventory 
 items, manipulate objects in the environment, or cast spells to solve them. Some challenges require 
 more than one of these techniques, like a catapult you'll need to arm and fire at a monster in 
 a tree. You need to first find the ammo and then figure out how to free the swivel mechanism and 
 aim the weapon. You'll generally need to pay close attention to possible clues and make use of 
 everything at your disposal. However, the puzzle difficulty varies too widely, as some puzzles 
 depend more on blind luck than skill. In one instance, you'll have to figure out that you need 
 to walk right through the scenery, as if the game had some sort of intentional clipping problem.
 
 
 Actually moving Skye around the game environments is unnecessarily tough. There are plenty of tedious 
 mazelike sections, but no mapping feature. On top of that, the controls are erratic -- hit the jump 
 button once, and Skye will often jump twice like some kid with a Skittles sugar buzz. Skye's awkward 
 animations almost make her seem as if she were floating across the ground instead of properly reacting 
 to the surfaces underfoot. This looks odd and can be ignored, but it also makes it too hard to 
 jump accurately between platforms. 
 
 Unfortunately, Darkened Skye relies  way  too heavily on platforming segments, like some kind of 
 game design crutch. Jumping puzzles appear where there's no real reason for them and where more 
 diverse challenges would have been more fun. Get ready for tons of running, jumping, falling, and 
 repeating.
 
 Assuming you're not slipping off rocks into the sea, exploring the world of Darkened Skye can be 
 entertaining in its own right. The areas you'll visit are quite scenic, if a bit cartoony. Technically, 
 the graphics are hardly cutting edge, but there's still plenty of artistry behind the visuals. 
 You'll encounter lush forest greenery, spooky twilit seashores, fetid swamps, and other memorable 
 locales. The bizarre airborne home of a band of "sky pirates" mixes bits of Jules Verne with  The 
 Arabian Nights  and shows more visual imagination than 10 average game levels put together. The 
 character and creature designs often stand out too. Instead of repeatedly drawing on the usual 
 Tolkien or Dungeons &amp; Dragons fantasy stereotypes, they tend to look unique to the gameworld. 
 You'll meet all manner of odd beings that defy ready description. 
 
 Like the visuals, Darkened Skye's audio has its weaknesses but makes a good impression overall. 
 The music is pleasant enough, but who wants to hear the same track repeated ad nauseam as you make 
 your way through a level? The actual sound effects don't make much of an impression either way.
 
 
 Since Darkened Skye relies so much on its humorous dialogue to entertain you, it's fortunate that 
 the real standout is the voice-overs. Linda Larkin, best known for her work as Jasmine in Disney's 
 animated film  Aladdin , voices the crucial role of Skye, and she really brings the protagonist 
 to life. Robb Pruitt gives an equally strong performance as her smart-alecky gargoyle companion, 
 Draak.
 
 Darkened Skye is rough around the edges, and clichs and countless platform-jumping sections 
 sap some of the fun from the game. Still, Darkened Skye usually manages to supersede its faults -- not 
 to great heights, but high enough to stay entertaining most of the time. For that matter, Darkened 
 Skye avoids the perils of being a candy tie-in and actually manages to fit the Skittles into the 
 story and gameplay smoothly. The fact that the game occasionally makes fun of the candy connection 
 doesn't hurt either. And when it comes to a game about Skittles, you better know how to laugh. 
 
 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  So, yeah, this game is about skittles....
  
  Yeah... skittles....
  
  This is like one of those send in four proof of purchases and get a FREE GAME games that no true 
 gamer would ever touch with a pole shorter than a PS3 line.
  
  But I didn't know that when I bought the game. All I knew was that it was cheep, and I'll try anything 
 if it's cheep.
  
  I'm trucking along, chick, nerf herder, wants to be something more . (no not really) . So, you run 
 into bad dudes, and find this rune with an 'S' on it.
  
  Heh, that looks like a... hehehe... 
  
  Find the old sage chick, find out about ancient evil. 
 You've all heard this before.
  
  But how can a little girl like me possibly fight Evilus The Evil (Not his real name. I forget.) 
 What's this rune do? 
  
  Wait for it...
  
  Wait.....
  
  That's a SKITTLE!! 
  
  I nearly fell out of my chair. I really didn't know. I was shocked. I was laughing. It was a brilliant 
 moment.
  
  How can this game possibly be good? Well, at this point, it was fun enough, so I stuck with it, 
 and honestly, it was a ton of fun. I feel horrible. This is seriously the most epically lame story 
 ever, but, it was great. The real charm is the script and voice acting. The game doesn't really 
 take itself too terribly seriously. There are some fun moments in the dialogue and it is well acted.
 
  
  The gameplay is not the most amazing thing ever, but it is FUN. It's just fun. You combine skittles 
 to blow s#$t up. How awesome is THAT??
  
  If you can find it cheep, play it for a laugh and an unforgettably bizarre gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  Really, Tomb Raider 1 has better graphics, gameplay, weapons and puzzles, than this game does. 
 When reading the preview in a games magazine (Power Unlimited) I'd expected something more like 
 TR. I got a pretty cold shower here. Luckily I got the game for a low budget price, so no harm 
 done there.
  
  DS ended up on my shelf pretty soon, the character moves are bad, camera sucks, graphics are outdated 
 and collecting skittles really is just not my thing.
  
  Sorry for lowering the average score for you who did (do) like DS, but I can't see where the fun 
 is in this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjbigham
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'll admit it. I am not very good at action games that require fast reflexes and a sharp 
 aim. Still, I can't be the only one who found this game to be exceedingly frustrating when it came 
 to the "combat" sequences. 
  
  Each "chapter" has its own set of bad guys and after a while it becomes tiresome to constrantly 
 use the same weapon to kill the same type of enemy over and over and over again. I finally gave 
 up at the end of the "tower" segment after trying for two days to avoid being killed by tiny dots 
 on the ceiling (well, that's what they looked like to me) .
  
  But the game fails on the level of an adventure as well, since it is little more than a run-around-and-find-the-switch 
 routine. Or I should say, "jump around" and find the switch, since you spend most of your time 
 hopping from platform to platform or from water lilly to water lilly.
  
  Granted, since I'm not a fan of "action" games, it's a bit hard for me to be objective about this 
 title. After all, the animation is quite good, with some clever dialog and a few excellent features 
 (like the fast save/fast load) . But the music was uninspired and the environments were as repetitve 
 as the enemies you're expected to defeat. The forest maze early in the game was terribly out-dated 
 (do they really do mazes today???) . 
  
  My true pet peeve about this game is that it is a blatant "commercial" for Skittles, which I find 
 distasteful (the marketing angle, not the candy) . If I pay good money for a game (which, in this 
 case, I thankfully didn't) , I don't expect to have it to be a promotional vehicle for a product. 
 It irritated me far out of proportion to the offense. 
  
  I think I'll stick to adventure games and leave the "action" titles to those with younger eyes, 
 better reflexes and more patience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Darkened Skye is a fun and funny game. In the game you play as a woman named Skye. The point of 
 the game isto collect Skittles, you read this right, Skittles, those yummy candies you buy at wall-mart 
 or where ever else. Anyway, the Skittles have magical powers that allow you kill your enemies, 
 see in the dark, see hidden things, etc. There is a bad guy in the game and he wants to collect 
 Skittles for his own purposes. The game also has some challenging puzzels. So gameplay is good, 
 the only thing it lacks is the only weapon you can use is your staff. Graphic are quiet good, the 
 sound is good too, but i can't say anything about the voice acting since I have a Polish version 
 which i got from a friend. I never seen this game in stores so i can't say anything for value but 
 i guess it is good if you bought it full price. That wraps up my review, for all you magic and 
 fantisy lovers, go ahead and buy this game (if u find it....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Fan
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 6, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  Anyone with a sense of humor might laugh here and there.
  Todays games are often high budget blockbuster hits with millions in investments, part of which 
 goes into the script. Though I'm unaware of the development costs for this title, it is safe to 
 say the script is first rate, as is the voice acting. These are the areas in which the game shines.
 
  
  Skye and Draak are out on an adventure and you're along for the ride. The game, for it's time, 
 had solid visuals, and a decent control scheme. I found myself intrigued by the creative level 
 design, or the "worlds" in which we find Skye in.
  
  I can't say I highly recommend the title, but at this point in time, it might be a pretty cheap 
 title. So if you happen to run across a copy, make sure you pick up a bag of skittles to go along 
 with the game... but don't expect an epic adventure, rather, a semi-lengthy title which should 
 provide about 15 hours of mindless entertainment. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
