-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Horizon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/darkhorizon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Generic space shooter formula still works.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Monotonous missions are filled with nonstop dogfighting.
 Objectives are often impossible to understand.
 Plot is overwrought nonsense.
 Visuals are too dark and devoid of detail.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 6.1, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 146 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Genre: Futuristic Jet Sim
Date:     Oct 13, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dark Horizon is an improvement on its Tarr Chronicles predecessor, but that isn't saying much.

  Has somebody airlifted a battalion of English teachers to Russia? It sure seems as though somebody 
 at Moscow's Quazar Studios has been taking English lessons, because Dark Horizon is considerably 
 less laughable than its 2007 predecessor, Tarr Chronicles. The first game in this series of spaceship 
 shoot-'em-ups was chock-full of absurd metaphors, such as describing escaping enemies as fleeing 
 "like puppies from a boiling cauldron." However, it's hard to give the game credit for cleaning 
 up its grammar when the gameplay in this Wing Commander-style shooter with delusions of role-playing 
 grandeur makes very few other improvements over last year's model. Mind-numbing dogfights, pitch-black 
 visuals, and a general lack of direction in both storytelling and mission objectives make every 
 hour spent with this game feel like a hundred.  

  The story is also still a big problem, even though the bizarre phrases and insane metaphors have 
 been pruned back. The setting is still the far future, and the galaxy is still under assault by 
 a matter-corrupting black cloud of something or other called the Mirk. Things aren't looking good 
 for the survival of humanity, so you must help hold off this galactic scourge by signing on as 
 a fighter pilot for the Mirk-influenced race of Guardians protecting the Vattar Ama'Dan space fortress. 
 This tortured tale plays out in 20-plus solo missions (there are no multiplayer or skirmish modes 
 of play) . You fly a spaceship from either a cockpit view or a trailing-camera angle and use mouse 
 and keyboard controls to blow up every Mirk-infected alien stupid enough to cross your path.  

 
           Dark visuals make it nearly impossible to tell where enemies are during frenzied battles, 
 making collisions tough to avoid.      

  After spilling the above details in the opening cinematic, all attempts at coherent storytelling 
 are pretty much abandoned. Both the in-game dialogue and the in-game encyclopedia available in 
 your cabin between missions are peppered with unexplained concepts, such as the "psychomatrix," 
 the "anti-being," and Mirk "spawn," which are just about impossible to follow. Your character never 
 speaks, making the game even more distant and enigmatic. During dogfights, the story is developed 
 solely through inscrutable conversations between your wingmen. The only thing that keeps your head 
 from spinning is the fine work of the voice actors, who somehow manage to spout this gobbledygook 
 without cracking up.  

  At least you can ignore this prattle and concentrate on what Dark Horizon is really all about: 
 blasting stuff. The best part of the crazy storyline is that it has nothing to do with the gameplay 
 a good 99 percent of the time. All of the generic space shoot-'em-up gameplay has been built around 
 the good old Wing Commander formula, so you can tune out everything that your buddies are saying 
 and simply lock on and attack enemies. Unfortunately, that's all you ever get to do. Every mission 
 is loaded up with nonstop dogfights, so you whirl, twirl, and shoot through incessant waves of 
 enemy assaults. It's all guaranteed to numb your brain in short order, as well as turn your mouse 
 wrist into a throbbing mass of gristle because of the constant spinning and turning needed to stay 
 on the tail of bad guys.  

  Even if you find some appeal in this simplistic approach, much of the action is spoiled by some 
 major flaws. For starters, mission objectives are often mysterious to the point of being unfathomable. 
 While sorties always give you some kind of basic purpose at the outset, like checking out a scanner 
 signal, wiping out a flight of enemy fighters, or targeting shield generators on a capital ship, 
 they tend to become drawn-out, multipart affairs, and you'll eventually need to rely on those impossible-to-understand 
 wingmen to tell you what's next. You can get three or four objectives deep into a mission and then 
 suddenly realize you don't have a clue what to do because your buddies are either making no sense 
 whatsoever or have clammed up completely. Expect to restart a few times every time this happens, 
 until you finally clue in to what you need to do. The automated save system exacerbates this whole 
 problem too, because it stores your progress only every half-dozen or so dogfights, which leaves 
 you frequently stuck replaying lengthy swaths of the game.  

  Combat itself is more than a bit screwy. There are some interesting concepts here at least, in 
 that you can configure your ship with different armor and weapon loadouts before missions, as well 
 as switch between three different battle modes during dogfights. Being able to change from the 
 neutral, jack of all trades default ship setting to the offense-first Corter mode to the defensive 
 Shadow cloak isn't all that useful when all you're ever doing is engaging in arcadey battles. About 
 the only benefit you see here is from the odd use of Shadow mode to duck out of intense battles 
 and hide until your shields recharge.  

           Dogfighting can be so chaotic and unrelenting that you can find your brain and mouse wrist 
 going numb after an hour or so.      

  These battle frills are just about ruined by visuals that are very dark even for deep space. Unlike 
 most other spaceship shooters, Dark Horizon does not try to light up the final frontier with loads 
 of cool glowing nebulas. It doesn't even give you the option to mess with the gamma in the options 
 menu. Everything seems to be backlit, which obscures fairly well detailed ships and sufficiently 
 bombastic explosions behind walls of shadows. So unless you want to tweak the gamma settings in 
 Windows (which seems to do little but wash everything out anyway) , you're stuck with a gloomy game 
 that makes it almost impossible to see where enemy ships are. Collisions are tough to avoid during 
 dogfights, because it's all too easy to spin around and plow into an enemy you're shadowing. These 
 fender-benders do a lot of damage on the default difficulty setting, too, so you have to avoid 
 them at all costs. This forces you to choose between wading into the demolition-derby dogfighting 
 at full speed and sitting back to lob missiles from long range. If you pick the former, chances 
 are good that you'll get blown up real good, real fast. If you pick the latter, you'll increase 
 the odds of survival but risk falling asleep from sheer boredom.  

  Perhaps the best choice is not to play the game at all. Dark Horizon is an undeniably subpar effort, 
 although so few space dogfighting games are made for the PC today that it might still appear passable 
 to anyone seeking to relive the Wing Commander/X-Wing/TIE Fighter era. But don't be fooled. Even 
 with so few choices available in this genre today, this isn't a good game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sam7919
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a decent space sim. Nothing more nothing less. It has some rough spots, most notably the 
 voice acting and the English translations. In addition the learning curve is rather steep as well. 
 You will likely be doing a lot of trial and error as you figure out what kind of ship configuration 
 suits your style of play. The amount of freedom you have in configuring your ships is one of this 
 game's great strengths and also one of its biggest flaws. You can design almost any style of ship 
 you want as long as it is a fighter/interceptor, attack bomber, or small gunboat type of ship. 
 The issue I have with this is that you don't really know how your configuration will work until 
 you try it our in the field, so to speak, leading to many mission restarts if you mess up.
  
  What makes this game really worthwhile for me is that for the week of April 6 it and it's predecessor 
 Tarr Chronicles are only $3.00 for the pair @ Gamersgate!
  
  So if you are looking for something different and have $3.00 and a decent internet connection it's 
 hard to go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diioz
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  I am not a fan of that type of game. I remember good flight-action game like those star wars . 
 I gave a try to that one because the graphics looked nice. But that's it. First as the other reviews 
 said, there's no sound, this is cheap. Kinda real cause no oxygen in space make no sound if an 
 explosions is to come. Only a little beep when you fire up your weapon. But c'mon... we need something 
 to hang on! Control of you ship is completely awful. Mode aren't interesting you don't want to 
 waste your time slowing your vessel as the action is going around... Then become invisible.. Its 
 almost useless and you almost die at collisions. Honestly this is well made but I don't know for 
 you but in each battle I so damn get easily in collisions, IA isn't doing much then shooting enemy 
 ships. Truly, I only played a couple of minutes after getting rid of the tutorial part. I am not 
 giving up on that type of game. I know im not used to it, I usually play shooters but I will wait 
 patently for that Tom Clancy Flight-shooter to comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tailou
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Slow... very slow gameplay. The ship shouldnt have such manouverability, its slow and at full 
 speed looked like a submarine in deep sea.
  Some remind of Wing Commander, i though it could be closer to X-Wing, I was excited and adquire 
 the game, "pwned" u say, and you could say it again.
  
  Its a game that could revive many old habits of old-school spaceships games, but DH didnt fulfill 
 any of the expectations.
  So many set ups for the spaceship that made me just click anything and ride, but not that easy, 
 in fact, its hard to pay attention to all silly things before launching the ship to deep sea .... 
 i meant "space".
  
  Dark Horizon 2, to proove to all that this kind of game has it market. Just have to listen more 
 to the needs of the spaceships-mode-gamers, most of them, not some of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgicore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  I almost felt that I was playing Wing Commander. Good story, good sound, good play. Why the critics 
 and overall gave 6 to 6.5 and some even 2, that's beyond me, but it is indeed a solid game worth 
 playing. A must have for any space sim fans. Indeed, this game has a lot of potential to become 
 one of the greatest Space sim fight games, comparing to few that has been released. The most good 
 looking Space fight for a very long time.
  
  It felt strange but it indeed made me feel that I was playing Wing Commander and Homeworld 2. I 
 know HW2 is a total different beast, maybe the story and the black and white opening scene. It 
 felt right and mystic. Love it.
  
  I can't help but to wonder if they will come up with the Dark Horizon 2... I kind of feel this 
 game as Homeworld2 but with first person view. The voices are fantastic!
  
  There are rooms of course for improvements, Keep reading other reviews. Cheers.
  
  Try it yourself.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth-gotica
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Dark horizon is not the among best games in the space simulation genre but it packs some punch.
 
  First of the bad sides is the shortness of it.
  22 linear missions compared to vast open space of x3 and freelancer is not something to brag about.
 
  And the flight controls are not well suited.
  The aiming should be more responsive, and speed controls is not the best solution out there.
 
  Also the enemy AI needs some work.
  On the good side...
  The artistic design is great, and the story is one of the bright sides also.
  The best thing 
 is designing your own craft.
  You can design the ship perfectly suited to you.
  I scored the game 7.5 mostly for the artistic design and I would like to see the open space sequel.
 
  And the minimum allowed size for a review is 800 characters, so I will simply write more leters 
 asa sfbsvanf nagvtvj tmjbxgv xnjts vagmnfvfvv fgfgsg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanjo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Installation and configuration is straight forward. The game has an electronic manual (PDF) but 
 doesn't include a reader (usually Acrobat Reader) . Running it for the first time, you might encounter 
 codec issues if you don't have Windows Media Format 9 (giving you a bunch of errors) . Every time 
 I skipped the intro videos using the right mouse button, the game crashes to desktop with a couple 
 of errors. One time I used the left mouse button to skip the intro and it gave me a Blue Screen 
 of Death. Switching to desktop (alt+tab) and back doesn't properly restore the game (at least for 
 me) .
  
  In-game option only have volume levels and key assignments. It seems there's no way to configure 
 your game pad buttons from here - only the analog sensitivity. Having the roll action on 'A' and 
 'D' keys is weird and strafing in-game is useless. Sound is so-so. Not bad but not great.
  
  Playing a mission brings to cabin where you'll be briefed about the mission. Next is the hangar 
 where you can change your load-out from your ship's hull, armor, engine to your weapons and add-on 
 equipment. You can also create your own armors and weapons (which is a feature of this game) .
 
  
  The visuals are good enough but not spectacular. Depending on the light source, the ship will be 
 mostly black or at least dark. The game's screen interface is a bit bloated with useless info. 
 The HUD covers almost 2/5 of the screen. Some numbers are hard to read because of the color and 
 size. Targeting a ship gives you its hull, armor and shield left, the distance and velocity. Your 
 ally's distance and velocity info (colored white) is easier to read than your enemy's (having red 
 color on usually black background) . The games dialogue subtitles are hard to read too if you're 
 moving towards a bright planet or star. The most frustrating thing is the change camera. Changing 
 your view has an almost 1 second fade out to black and fade in transition. Why did they put it 
 there?
  
  The controls are a bit problematic. Most of the time you'll be reorienting your mouse when targeting 
 because you can only follow the target when constantly moving your mouse, unlike in some other 
 games where your ship's direction is dependent on how far the pointer is from the center of the 
 screen.
  
  Depending on your playing style, by changing you ship's temperature you can be in Shadow Mode where 
 your ship's speed, attack speed and damage is lowered but gains stealth capability; Corter Mode 
 where you can deal more damage and fire faster but constantly lowers of shield and maximum energy; 
 and Standard Mode where there's no bonus or penalty whatsoever. You can also command your wingmen 
 by selecting your target and using the shortcut keys listed on the screen. But most of the time 
 you can leave them on their own.
  
  In my first few hours of playing this, I died a lot of times. A lot. You should just be mindful 
 of your temperature. Most of the time I get rammed or collide with the enemy's ship which result 
 in big damage (on my part) . Too bad there's no "match target speed" option and no autopilot of 
 any kind.
  
  Overall the game is a good deal. Quirky controls aside, with 22 mission, this game can keep you 
 busy for 10 to 15 hours depending on how good you are. If you're an avid space shooter fan, you 
 would definitely get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SixSigma1978
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game is like eating a very stale bread!!! 
  There is ZERO pull or urge to paly this game from the moment u start dabbling away at the controls.
 
  
  The horrendous english language translation gums up the work big time right at the onset- the seriousness 
 of th enemy becomes laughable when describing it by translating russian to english via babelfish!!!! 
 
  
  Worse, the story line, whilst a little interesting , is completely botched by the standard gameplay... exit 
 hangar.. kill stuff.. listen to a LOT of boring, ridiculous radio chatter.. kill MORE of baddies.... return!!!
 
  
  the ship outfitting is moderately ok.. but I wouldt put THAT into the games highlight either...
 
  
  Ther GREATEST problem is the oh-the-dullness-of-it-all feeling when u TRY to attempt to play the 
 game!! even if ur the type who WANTS to complete a game just to get a sense of satisfaction.. ull 
 have trouble going through the vapid OVERALLness!!! Nothing.... makes u want to come back and play 
 this tripe....
  
  its like trying to date a dead person... whats the point???
  
  stay away!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MythPro1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Dark Horizons is your typical space simulation game. While it's definitely not a bad thing at all, 
 as anyone who's a fan of the genre will be more than happy playing this game, I just wished for 
 more. I wanted something that I've never seen before so I'd have the opportunity, "Now that was 
 cool." These moments never really happened though. If you're looking for a game similar to X3, 
 Privateer or Darkstar One where there was some semblance of an open world with the ability to trade 
 and perform side missions, you won't find that here. Dark Horizon follows the tried-and-true formula 
 by having you complete a linear progression of missions, 22 in all, to get to the ending. Nothing 
 wrong with that. 
  
  What sets this game apart from the rest of the pack and it became the game's major selling point, 
 is the ability to customize your ship. A word of warning though, the customization opportunities 
 are nowhere near as intuitive as they are in games like Spore and Galactic Civilizations II. It's 
 very similar to how Star Wars Galaxies allows you to trick out your ship. Basically, you start 
 with a chassis, pick which armor you want, add a few guns along with some missiles and you're set. 
 That's it. You can't alter the colors of your ship, change the positions of the weapons or do anything 
 of the sort. A lot of potential was squandered here and it's a serious letdown. To be honest though, 
 it isn't too big a deal. If you're the type who'd rather not spend their time worrying about which 
 setup is better, the game comes with some preset loadouts such as fighter, bomber and assault fighter, 
 which helps streamline the process some. After you pick out something you like, you're ready to 
 go.
  
  There are some plot twists and curves during the course of the game, but it's pretty much expected 
 if you're a veteran of the genre. As for the combat, I found it dull and uninspired. It's just 
 like everything else out there except for one thing maybe: the ability to change combat modes. 
 To do so, all you have to do is raise or lower the temperature output of ship which can easily 
 be performed at the touch of a button. Lower your temperature far enough and you gain the ability 
 to stealth through space undetected, but at the cost of speed and damage output. On the other side 
 of the spectrum is Corter mode. Here your ship moves at top speed and can fire much faster, but 
 this offensive prowess comes with the cost of your shields. It can help spice things up, but you'll 
 usually find yourself going all out in the heat of battle rather than stealthing about during the 
 thick of it. As you fire your weapon or engage the afterburner, you'll raise the temperature of 
 your ship inevitably forcing you into Corter mode anyway. It's an interesting spin, but the options 
 lose their appeal after the first few missions.
  
  
  My biggest complaint of all lies with the game's sound. It seems that in the developer's efforts 
 to effectively capture what it feels like to fly around in space, that they hindered the overall 
 experience of the game. The only sound you'll hear is the occasional explosion, when you fire your 
 guns and when you engage the afterburner. That's it. You don't hear other ships fire or anything 
 and half the time I had no clue what was going on because there was no sound in the background. 
 Music was fairly uninspired and often times you didn't hear it. Voiceover work was alright and 
 the dialogue was pretty funny at times as it doesn't really make much sense. One line was, "I am 
 looking into their minds to eradicate their souls!" Or something along those lines. Needless to 
 say, I laughed pretty damn hard.
  
  While Dark Horizon isn't the greatest thing since sliced bread, it is by no means a poor representation 
 of the genre. If you're looking for something new and ground-breaking, don't expect it here. If 
 you just want a good ole fashioned space sim, Dark Horizon fits the bill. 
  
  Copy/pasted from my main review here: http://www.411mania. com/games/reviews/86161/Dark-Horizon- (PC) -Review. htm 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
