-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Darkness Within: In Pursuit of Loath Nolder
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/darknesswithininpursuitofloathnolder/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Tedious plotting and pace, with no scares or even a gloomy atmosphere.
 Awkward, annoying mystery-solving interface.
 Bland locations and graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.6, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 153 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Lighthouse Interactive
Developer: Zoetrope
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 6, 2007

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Expect more yawns than shrieks in this overly fussy Lovecraft-inspired horror adventure. 

  It doesn't seem to have been very long ago that H. P. Lovecraft was a cult phenomenon. But as 
 of late, his stories have become a source of inspiration for a number of recent games. And this 
 has generally been a very good thing -- that is, until Darkness Within: In Pursuit of Loath Nolder. 
 This point-and-click adventure from Zoetrope Interactive may loudly proclaim its debt to Lovecraft 
 through press releases and goofy character names, but the actual game is a lackluster mystery in 
 which you solve problems by taking turns playing grad student and scavenger hunter. Even though 
 plot points have been ripped off from classic Lovecraft stories such as "The Call of Cthulhu" and 
 "The Shadow Over Innsmouth," and stereotypical drivel about ancient cults and a horrible family 
 secret is front and center, this game is as scary as a moldy piece of bread. Everything here is 
 a dreary recitation of adventure-game procedure, totally predictable and totally boring.  

           Scared yet? Darkness Within is a clearing house of lame spooks like this skeleton with 
 glowing eyes.      

  Its pedestrian plot is a major drag. You play Howard E. Loreid, a British cop looking for a private 
 investigator named Loath Nolder who has apparently just escaped from a mental hospital. This private 
 dick is the main suspect in the murder of amateur archaeologist Clark Field, so you're trying to 
 track down Nolder while at the same time determining if he could actually be a killer. As is par 
 for the course in these Lovecraft yarns, you're soon crawling around in dank wells, researching 
 sinister cults, having weird prophetic dreams, and apparently going mad with the strain of all 
 this forbidden knowledge.  

  Although all this sounds sufficient (if also spectacularly hackneyed) on paper, Zoetrope doesn't 
 do anything with its setup. Aside from eerie noises and the protagonist going wacko due to nightmares, 
 there aren't any thrills and chills here. Loreid just doesn't seem all that concerned about his 
 crazy nocturnal fantasies or the possibility of winding up in the nut house. The game's acting 
 and dialogue is usually good, but there is barely even a hint of tension in this character's voice. 
 He muses over hallucinations and possibly losing his mind with all the deadly seriousness of a 
 guy trying to decide between having the ham and cheese or the BLT for lunch. This is one down-to-earth 
 lunatic. Loreid also seems like more of a bookworm than a detective plumbing the occult, given 
 that he spends most of his time nosing through books and manuscripts. Trying to spot the Lovecraft 
 references (catch that Kingsport-brand radio?) that the developers have sprinkled through the game 
 is about all that will keep you awake at times.  

  Poor mechanics make Darkness Within even more of a test of your patience. Instead of being left 
 alone to read texts for hints and to hunt down objects needed to open drawers and the like, you 
 have to actively collect clues through activities such as underlining passages in documents. These 
 clues are gradually collected in a list in the inventory screen, where you drag them into boxes 
 and click on a gear icon to get Howard thinking. If you've combined the right clues, you're rewarded 
 with a new clue, or the ability to do something in the game like access a new location. For example, 
 if you're searching through documents to find the numbers needed to open the lock on a briefcase, 
 you can't simply pick out the clues yourself and spin the right digits. You have to identify and 
 then underline hints in the docs first, which in turn generates clues on the list that you combine 
 to generate the necessary numbers.  

  Even though the underlining minigame is sort of neat in the way that it tests your detection skills 
 (clues don't jump out at you, either, so you really have to read) , it's deeply frustrating to jump 
 through hoops to prove something that you've already figured out. Everything here requires a few 
 extra steps. At the start of the game, you can't even check out an askew picture without matching 
 it up against an earlier photograph of the scene and prodding Howard into an "A-ha!" moment in 
 which he notices that the room has changed. The whole procedure is reminiscent of doing math and 
 having to show your work to prove to the game that you know what you're doing and aren't just guessing 
 at solutions.  

           Some of the clues in the game are pretty complex, although it's still awfully annoying 
 to spell out all of your deductions in the interface.      

  At least this busywork doesn't make up the entirety of the gameplay. You spend a fair bit of time 
 reading, and you pick up the odd bit of junk like rope and varnish solely because you can, but 
 other than that you simply trudge from one gloomy, bland location (aside from the odd creepy crypt, 
 you spend virtually the entire game in various living quarters and offices) to another, apparently 
 in search of something that finally goes bump in the night with real menace. Only the odd logic 
 puzzles mix things up, and they're too rare to have any real impact on gameplay. Most also deal 
 in generic and unchallenging tasks in which you piece together broken tablets, set up cogwheels, 
 turn rings, etc.  

  If Lovecraft had produced tedious, fussy tripe like Darkness Within: In Pursuit of Loath Nolder, 
 his fiction would have been forgotten before the Second World War. Don't expect this game to linger 
 very long in anyone's memory, either, which is probably its biggest saving grace.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Death-in-Dark
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  i don't know if it is my bad luck or not.. but honestly guyz... i didn't find any enjoyement or anything 
 while playing this. the story seemed very interesting... that's why i chosed the game... but hay.. where 
 are the rest of the stuffs? the  movement... were like hell.... really 
 hard to understand what was happening. music was ok. if the environment and cynametics were a bit 
 lively... then it would get some extra points. point and click adventure is one of the greatest genere. it 
 has lots of greats like syberia or sinking island.. but when these type of games like darkness within 
 or scrtchescome out.. it is really disappointing.
  if you really have nothing to play at all now.. then you can go for this.. but else... it's better 
 to be play something other... play broken sword 4 instead. final sum... boring (brings headache) . Darkness 
 Within is another disaster like Penumbra Overture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAntichristo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Darkness Within is a very amusing and enjoyable point and click adventure game with incredibly 
 beautiful graphics and amazing atmosphere. For us adventure freaks who starve in this genre, "Darkness 
 Within" is like a breeze in the desert of "NO GAMES to Play Anymore"!!! In a world of mindless 
 slasher BORING games. Same as "Scratches", "Darkness Within" got an inexcusable low rate. WHO are 
 you people? WHO on earth is writing those childish reviews? Are they 12 year olds who only like 
 to play shoot em up or tennis on wii? If that is so then why review an adventure game? There is 
 countless of people, like me, who like a nice quiet horror story and enjoy a game like this. But 
 those ridiculous numbers 3,5 and 4 are simply unfair and unjust and they scare people away. As 
 a result, there are lots of people who are missing out on a good game who deserves a solid 8!!!
 
  If you like the Silent Hill atmosphere, this is the closest you can get in a "detective adventure 
 game". The atmosphere is marvellous! There are of course a few bugs and a couple plot holes here 
 and there, but nothing intolerable. All games are allowed a few mistakes here and there. If your 
 IQ is bellow 3,5 though, you will not enjoy "Darkness Within" or "Scratches".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I like games that make you shiver and this is no exception to the rule. From playing COC I did 
 have second thoughts in buying this since that game was a let down in my opinion but I gave DW 
 a shot and Im glad I did!
  
  After finding the story truely intriguing I started get excited. I played on the easiest mode without 
 the auto-clue finder on and the tutorial mode a' blazing since my adventuring skills are a tad 
 bit on the weak side.
  
  You play as a detective - Howard I believe is the lads name in search of Loath Nolder - a murder 
 suspect thought to be involved in a killing. From the get - go the atmosphere kicks in and I found 
 myself immersed in a wonderful and delightful quest of sloving a crime and chasing this guy who 
 I had no clue where to find let alone say his name correctly. Along the way you find a even deeper 
 mystery than perviously thought and end up having crazy dreams and nightmares because of your endevors 
 with the pursuit of this investigation.
  
  The gameplay involves finding clues mainly by reading articles, diaries, news paper clippings and 
 field notes. You also investigate drawings as well. Here's how it works. Once you find items such 
 as these you make a mental note automatically at least on the easy mode and then combine your thoughts 
 in a seperate interface which I think is not only brillant but innovative for this genre. No where 
 have I ever played a game with this feature present! 
  
  The gp concept is your basic point and click interface you've seen so many times where you move 
 from scene to scene with a left click of the mouse and you can pan around 360 degrees to find clues. 
 There are icons indicating where these location are however, you need to look close at certain 
 items to find the item your looking for so keep that in mind when you play.
  
  There are logic puzzles throughout mainly toward the middle and end of the main story but none 
 of them are really hard and after playing "Next Life" previously I found them to be on the easy 
 side but that goes to show you how hard Next Life is when it comes to the timed puzzles. There 
 are none of these present here with the main focus of the difficulty being with mainly finding 
 the clues and combining them in your thought interface to find the answers or to unlock new locations 
 via thinking. You can also underline clues in many of the articles in the game but this can be 
 easy for you if you choose the easiest difficulty settings and turn on the auto-underline setting 
 so that these words and sentences will be underlined for you however, I did not do choose this 
 setting due to the fact that I wanted to find them myself so its your call. 
  
  The graphics are some of the most detailed I've seen but about 95% of them take place indoors which 
 is a shame. However, in a detective game like this one has to come to expect great graphics due 
 to all the pixel hunting involved.
  
  The sound in the game is where its strong point lies. You have to have great ambient sound to make 
 this game come alive and be what its suppose to be - a horror - adventure game and there is no 
 let down here neither. Sometimes I got chills up my spine when I heard strange voices or sounds 
 that go "bump" in the night and you will to so get ready to jump a little in this game.
  
  Replay value is quit high this time around which I found surprizing that I only found two out of 
 the five hidden secrets in the game. Also is keeps a tally of other scores such as easter eggs, 
 hiddle clues, story clues and total game points at the end which means "replay" in my book. I do 
 plan to replay this game at least two more times in different ways just to see if I can find the 
 other clues and secrets that are hidden and I believe this needs to be present in more adventure 
 games these days as well so its not a "play it and throw it away or sell on Ebay kind of game" 
 like so many of these titles turn out to be. (Return to Mystery Island is to be another exception 
 to the rule)
  
  Overall, Darkness Within turned out to be a wonderful addition to my collection of adventure titles 
 and a must play if your a avid adventure gamer or a person who likes a good detective murder mystery. 
 Go ahead and treat yourself to a chilling adventure that will keep you glued to your screen with 
 every turn and about six and half hours or more of haunting gameplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pluktuk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  This adventure is the right choice for people acquainted with the writings of Lovecraft. For other 
 lovers of horror adventures it will be nice but somehow weird, because it lacks monsters, big monsters 
 and ultimate boss monsters. For adventure lovers it will be an interesting experience but not more. 
 For the average gamer like probably the gentleman who did the official review here it will be a 
 disappointing and puzzling thing with unclear purpose.
  Lovecraft was a horror writer of a special sort. He was afraid of everything foreign, or different 
 of his experience. He was afraid in a very conservative Victorian way. His anguishes are usually 
 connected with the horror of discovering that something very old and powerful and above all non-british 
 and totally unfamiliar has been waiting for millenia in some secret place and is now awakened. 
 
  This game gives you this particular branch of horror. It gives it in a very immersive way. The 
 whole game experience is about being engulfed in this unspeakable (Lovecraft's preferred word) 
 anguish. You visit places which are over-respectable in a way which is so dark and looming, that 
 you expect some horrible secret to jump at you behind every corner. 
  The sound is one of the best I have ever seen in an adventure, paralleled maybe only by the Mexican 
 music in Grim Fandango. I recommend good headphones. You can switch of the light too and place 
 a candle next to your monitor. Your mom or girlfriend will need some time to make you stop yelling 
 after they enter your room ;-) . 
  The graphics are fine, they convey this "I wanna get out of here NOW" feeling of small overstuffed 
 rooms in little respectable old British homes. Outdoor graphics are somewhat static, the rain pours 
 but no tree leaf moves. What I personally loved was that there is no Kate Walker beauty getting 
 between me and the action. I wasn't afraid for some Lara clone, no I was afraid for me.
  The story is quite good, clear purpose, logical clues. There is a clue combination mechanism in 
 this game which I found difficult to use in the beginning. The puzzles are not too difficult, they 
 might even disappoint the hard core adventurers. But they fit into the story, which can't be said 
 of a couple of other adventure games where some Pharaoh protects his tomb with colourful 2nd grade 
 combinatorial puzzles.
  I gave a 9 and not a 10 for following reasons. Many clues are never used, many questions never 
 answered. E. g. Howard Loreid - you - repeatedly realises he can't remember what he did during several 
 days. There is no answer to that. The end remains an enigma. I hope Zoetrope plan for a sequel, 
 that would explain. Finally I didn't understand why the story happens in the near future, while 
 the whole setting seems so 1920s.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikthorsen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Darkness within is a point'n'click adventure game, supposedly inspired by H. P. Lovecraft's novels. 
 (For those who have never read Lovecraft, please close the web browser and don't come back until 
 you have.)
  
  You play as a detective, and as the name implies you are looking for some dude names Loath Nolder, 
 and as the less-then-4-hour game takes off your character keeps having funky dreams or visions 
 and seem to have some relation to some evil cult thing trying to do something.. The story can be 
 split in two:
  1. The 3-4 hours of buildup with massive potential for an awesome ending. 
  2. The ending which seems so rushed, so unexplained and sucks so much it can't be explained in 
 words. In related news I will never ever complain about Half Life 3 being delayed. Delayed good 
 game   Rushed bad game.
  
  As for the visuals they look pretty good, runs smooth and the game doesn't even need a powerhouse 
 to play on, it even runs perfectly nice with iTunes and Azureus in the background for those who 
 like music and bittorrent:) 
  
  The voice acting is good, not entirely beliveable at some points but still good. The technical 
 side of the game is very good, nice visuals, nice audio, fast loading and low system requirements.
 
  
  It can even be minimized / maximized with no crashes or issues whatsoever, which will come in handy 
 as regular consultation of the walkthrough is completely mandatory if you want to finish the game 
 and solve the more crappy designed puzzles. And that's on the lowest difficulty with all hints 
 on. Have fun trying it on hard ;)
  
  To sum it all up, this game is about 4 hours of fun (provided you have a strategy guide..) and 
 it's got very much POTENTIAL. 
  Sadly the ending hits you in the face like a big truck and leaves you at the side of the road with 
 no explanation at all. 
  With that being said I think Gamespot's review is way to harsh, it's not THAT bad. 
  If you can 
 get this as a cheap rental and you like adventure games, go for it and enjoy it for what it is. 
 But no, it's not a great game.
  
  P. S If you want a really good Lovecraft inspired game try Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the 
 Earth. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuaMn
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  After being played some considerable amount of adventure games, I think I can call myself as a 
 hardcore adventure game fan. Starting from this point, I can tell you this, Darkness Within is 
 a pretty fun and absorbing experience for someone who likes horror games and Lovecraft style of 
 atmosphere (to be honest, I really do not know what exactly the Lovecraft atmosphere is but again 
 I have played some "Lovecraft Inspired" games and I can tell you what it is like) . 
  
  Graphics cannot be considered as bad or good, but it has some real engaging environments and places 
 to look at. A good atmosphere, the real goal of a horror/thriller game, is the most important part 
 that game's graphics should succeed in, and DW has that kind of graphics. And they are good enough 
 to make you feel the atmosphere in this game.
  
  Sounds, especially sound acting is pretty good. Definitely completing the atmosphere that graphics 
 started.
  
  Gameplay is a regular, well known point and click type of gameplay, but it has some extras like 
 underlying the lines in the writings and thinking (we never do that don't we) . Underlying is making 
 the understanding process of long and kind of boring process of reading that adventure games' "must 
 have" components easier, but thinking is not the exactly in the way it should be. It is making 
 it harder to understand what is going on around rather than making it easy. Mostly you won't see 
 much of a help from this thingy but hey, it is something new, doesn't it? 
  
  Puzzles maybe the most important part of an adventure game. In DW, puzzles are kind of varied. 
 Some new attempts, some good, some not enough, but in total they achieve their purposes which is 
 making you believe in the problem and want to solve it. 
  
  Some scare attacks in the game can be considered kind of lame but it is nothing to think on, actually 
 some of them can get you.
  
  To sum up, if you are a adventure or horror fan, or both (which is perfect combination) you should 
 give this game a look. It has a pretty nice demo, first give it a try, if you like it, you will 
 surely like the full game too.
  
  SIMILAR GAMES: Scratches, Borrow Hill, etc...
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
