-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Age of Camelot: Shrouded Isles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/darkageofcamelotsi/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.4, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 247 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Mythic Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Dec 2, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dark Age of Camelot is still one of the best online role-playing games on the market, and Shrouded 
 Isles makes it bigger and better. 

 The commercial success of massively multiplayer online games such as Ultima Online and EverQuest 
 is enviable. These games have been around for years, have hundreds of thousands of subscribers, 
 and make each one of those players fork over about $10 a month -- that's a lot of profit, so it's 
 little wonder why so many competing products have been announced in the last couple of years. But 
 unfortunately for those would-be competitors, many of them are finding that it isn't easy to convince 
 an EverQuest player to make the switch to their brand. After all, someone who's committed hundreds 
 or even thousands of hours to building up a character and a network of allies in his or her online 
 world of choice wouldn't be quick to drop everything and start playing a different game. Certainly, 
 one thing that almost all online role-playing games have in common is the sheer amount of time 
 they demand.           You can teleport to and from Shrouded Isles' large new landmasses.    

 
  At any rate, the release of Dark Age of Camelot in October of last year proved that it is possible 
 for a game to directly compete with the likes of EverQuest if it's good enough. Though superficially 
 similar to EverQuest, Dark Age of Camelot provided a number of compelling twists on the formula. 
 Also, unlike most other online RPGs, it launched without incident. Now a commercial expansion pack, 
 Shrouded Isles, is available for Dark Age of Camelot, adding new player races, character classes, 
 and scenery, plus a whole lot of new stuff to find, fight, and do. Some enhancements to the game's 
 graphics and interface are also provided, making Shrouded Isles by all means a substantial add-on 
 that could easily afford you with hundreds of hours of gameplay in exchange for the $30 retail 
 cost. And while Shrouded Isles isn't a stand-alone product -- you need the original Dark Age of Camelot 
 to play it -- it does show that Dark Age has come a long way since its original release last year, 
 and that the game is well worth getting into even now. Meanwhile, experienced Dark Age players 
 (most of whom no doubt already own the expansion) should find that Shrouded Isles does a great 
 job of reinvigorating their game.   

  By now, many aspects of games like Dark Age of Camelot can be seen as conventional, since it isn't 
 a huge departure from the formula that EverQuest established in 1999. You start by creating your 
 own character, choosing from a number of different races and classes, and then you set off in a 
 huge fantasy world in your quest to grow stronger and get better stuff. At least early on, most 
 of your time will be spent fighting monsters and gaining experience. Teaming up with other players 
 allows you to slay monsters more efficiently, though you can alternatively try taking on quests 
 or tasks, which are simple hunting missions. You can also try building up your proficiency in various 
 trade skills, a couple of which -- alchemy and spellcraft -- have been added since Dark Age was first 
 released last year.           Reflective water and some other graphical enhancements help spruce 
 up the game's visuals.    

  The big twist in Dark Age of Camelot is that the game features three entirely different realms: 
 Albion, which is based on Arthurian legend; Hibernia, which is based on Celtic folklore; and Midgard, 
 which is based on Norse mythology. Each realm has its own unique player races and character classes, 
 though the classes are roughly analogous across the board. Nevertheless, the realms at least look 
 completely different, and that alone makes the experience of playing in each one quite distinct. 
 The realms exist in a state of perpetual conflict: Once you've become strong enough, you'll be 
 able to venture into the frontier beyond your realm and start fighting members of opposing realms 
 for the glory of your kingdom. So at higher levels, Dark Age of Camelot turns into sort of a huge 
 game of capture the flag, where teams of players take on opponents in an effort to steal opposing 
 realms' relics, which grant special bonuses to their owners. Player killing thus is a major element 
 of Dark Age of Camelot, but it's optional, and since you can't even speak with members of an opposing 
 realm, it really has none of the drawbacks that used to be associated with player killing in these 
 sorts of games.   

  Alternatively, Mythic Entertainment recently launched a purely cooperative server, where no player 
 killing is possible and all three realms exist in harmony. Those looking for an experience more 
 similar to EverQuest should enjoy this option. On the other hand, those looking for even more player-killing 
 mayhem can sign onto special servers where it's possible to attack players even of your own realm. 
 Still, the majority of Dark Age of Camelot servers emphasize high-level realm vs. realm combat, 
 though questing and hunting monsters remains viable throughout a character's lifetime. Of further 
 note, since the launch of the game, Mythic has added the ability for players to consensually duel 
 each other to prove who's strongest. There's no real penalty for losing a duel, so this is a fun 
 feature if ever you've wanted to test your skills against one of your comrades.    

 Though it doesn't change the focus of the game, Shrouded Isles contains new content for all levels 
 of Dark Age of Camelot players. One new race per realm has been added -- the reclusive iconnu join 
 Albion, the treelike sylvans join Hibernia, and the feral valkyn join Midgard -- and while these 
 differ more in appearance than anything, they do help diversify the game's population. Each realm 
 also gets one new magic-oriented class and one new combat-oriented class, and most of these are 
 pretty interesting, even though they're somewhat similar to some of the existing classes. Midgard's 
 savages prefer to fight empty-handed, and their reckless fighting style allows them to sacrifice 
 some of their hit points for offensive bonuses. Hybernia's valewalkers fight with huge scythes, 
 and while they do not wear conventional armor, their nature magic allows them to protect themselves. 
 Albion's necromancers can shed their corporeal bodies to become shades, meanwhile channeling their 
 dark energies into undead hosts that do their bidding. Mythic is continuously working on balancing 
 the game's literally dozens of different classes, but each one has plenty of different abilities, 
 purposes, and strategies, so they can all be enjoyable to play. Shrouded Isles' new classes fit 
 in well with the existing ones, and they can viably fight alone or provide valuable contributions 
 to groups of players.           Dark Age of Camelot is still teeming with players, so finding companions 
 is easy.    

  The new player races begin in entirely new areas of their respective realms. These large landmasses 
 contain plenty of new places to explore, things to fight, and quests to undertake. They exist discretely 
 from the remainder of their realms, so you'll experience a brief loading time as you teleport to 
 and from the main landmass. Beyond that, there are few such abrupt transitions in Dark Age of Camelot, 
 most of whose lands stretch on seamlessly for miles. The fact that Mythic built up the world of 
 Dark Age of Camelot equivalently across three already huge realms can make it somewhat difficult 
 to appreciate the breadth of this expansion's content, but if you take the opportunity to try out 
 at least one of the new classes in each of the three realms, you'll more than likely be impressed 
 at just how substantial an expansion pack this is.   

  Some of the new interface enhancements include the addition of more room onscreen for hot buttons 
 for your characters' various skills. It's a very helpful change, since most characters have a large 
 variety of spells or special attacks that they always want to have on hand. Additionally, there's 
 a new set of optional onscreen hot buttons that provides easy access to some of the game's most 
 commonly used commands, many of which you'd otherwise have to type out in the text window. The 
 game's interface is still compartmentalized in numerous different windows, and learning where everything 
 is and how everything works can take a new player some time to figure out, but the game is still 
 relatively user-friendly for an online RPG.   

  The graphical improvements featured in Shrouded Isles will make the game run more smoothly on some 
 systems, especially when lots of player characters are around, and that's probably the least obvious 
 but most useful of the enhancements. Other than that, the use of enhanced 3D effects makes for 
 some impressively realistic-looking bodies of water, subtly reflective or shiny surfaces, and enhanced 
 spell effects. The spell effects in Dark Age of Camelot were the best-looking part of the original 
 game's presentation, and they remain so after the expansion. The rest of the visuals are clean 
 and functional, but not spectacular -- particularly the rather simple character models, even for 
 the new races. On the other hand, the new landmasses added in the expansion for the most part look 
 quite a bit better than the original scenery, and generally appear noticeably more natural and 
 lifelike. Shrouded Isles also adds some effective new sound effects for the realms' new monsters 
 and some enjoyable new ambient music that quietly plays in the background of some of the new scenes. 
           New quests, new monsters, and new loot await in Shrouded Isles.    

  Since Mythic Entertainment is constantly changing and adding to the world of Dark Age of Camelot 
 anyway, the company has set its own high standard for how substantial an expansion pack Shrouded 
 Isles ought to be. Dark Age players would never have just settled for a small amount of new content, 
 or just one or two new races or character classes, since the game already has so much. Thus Mythic 
 has jam-packed Shrouded Isles with new material, making it one of the biggest expansions to date 
 for an online role-playing game. And with tens of thousands of people playing Dark Age of Camelot 
 at peak hours, the demand was certainly there for all this new content.   

  Of course, the core game itself is still absolutely worthwhile. Since last year, Mythic has added 
 lots more high-level content and helped address one of the fundamental criticisms that Dark Age 
 players brought up: that the game could get boring after a while, and that there wasn't enough 
 to do (albeit after hundreds of hours) . It's still a time-consuming game that's not worth getting 
 into unless you're ready to put some serious time into it, and much of that time will be spent 
 killing monsters, often the same ones, repeatedly. Nevertheless, actually playing Dark Age tends 
 to be a lot of fun, due to the strategic combat, the large-scale battles. Dark Age of Camelot is 
 still one of the best online role-playing games on the market, and by extension, one of the best 
 such games to date. And Shrouded Isles succeeds at making it even bigger and better.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: snake22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2004 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Shrouded Isles upon its release was the greatest expansion I had ever played. The new areas had 
 something for levels 1-50 to do and added a new twist to the old DAOC lands. With this expansion 
 also came the ROG loot system, which can suck as times but also can be outstanding... you never 
 knew what you where going to get. The dungeons while pathing problems with pets are an issue are 
 pretty well done and interesting to explore.. even with small groups. The main thing with this expansion 
 was it did add in some really neat loot and areas but nothing had a really huge effect on RvR (outside 
 of the classes added) . You didnt have to have SI to compete in RvR, but it was a nice bonus to 
 have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpaleti
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 4, 2003 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm a relatively new player to DAOC, coming most recently from Lineage 1, and Lineage 2 Beta.
 
  
  I joined DAOC on the back of 2 endor****ts. First, a very hard-core gamer at my local game store 
 in Boston, said this was one of the better games he has played in years. Second, I followed many 
 Lineage players to DAOC who were in search of a better game experience in terms of user interface 
 and more importantly, game community. Starting DAOC as a newbie was slightly frustrating because 
 of many more advanced and detailed features that I was not used to. However, once I got past the 
 commands and functions, the game got a little more bearable.
  
  The one thing I immediately noticed about the game is the game community (at least on my server: 
 Lancelot, Hibernia Realm) . People were extremely friendly and helpful, which was a very pleasant 
 surprise and very much in contrast to my experience at Lineage, where the community is extremely 
 greed and power driven. I've forged many new friendships in the game, and if anything, I'll log 
 into the game just to catch up with friends.
  
  I noted that this game is not very well-suited to individual play. While it definately can be done, 
 DAOC is very much about group hunting. On that note, for times I needed a group to hunt the more 
 difficult areas, it was very often frustrating when nobody around my level was available to match 
 up with. This is one thing that is very different from my experience from Lineage, where individual 
 play is just as, if not more, enjoyable.
  
  Other than that, I find the game very satisfactory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akopian
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2003 11:09 am PT
Review:  Shrouded Isles presents a large improvement in the graphical game engine and content of Dark Ages 
 of Camelot. Many new monsters challenge players in new ways, and in general require levels of cooperation 
 not seen before in previous monster encounters.
  
  Unfortunately, there was no improvement really to already limited sounds in the game. Mythic provides 
 new "ambient" music, but there is little variety. Other than spells, you cannot hear any activity 
 around you other than yourself and your opponent in combat. 
  
  For what it attempts to do, Shrouded Isles delivers. The new engine makes it indispensible to any 
 player of DAOC. If only it did more in other areas. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
