-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Age of Camelot: Trials of Atlantis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/daoctrialsofatlantis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 22, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.6, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 187 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Mythic Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Oct 28, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Trials of Atlantis creates a diversion for experienced players who are growing weary of the current 
 realm-versus-realm gameplay, but unfortunately, it doesn't offer anything compelling for new players. 
 

  When it was released in late 2001, Mythic Games' massively multiplayer online role-playing game 
 Dark Age of Camelot helped to set a new standard of quality for other games of this type. Among 
 other interesting features, it allowed players to side with one of three unique realms (respectively 
 based on Arthurian, Celtic, and Norse mythology) and eventually let them battle against players 
 from the other sides. For the developers at Mythic, this basically meant that they needed to develop 
 three separate online RPGs, since the three realms were completely self-contained and each had 
 its own character classes, monsters, quests, and more. No wonder, then, that some Dark Age players 
 started to complain that the game was lacking in content. They felt the design of the game was 
 spread thin. Last year, the game's first retail expansion pack, Shrouded Isles, added a good chunk 
 of new territory that members of each realm could explore. This year's expansion (which, technically, 
 is an expansion to an expansion since both the original game and Shrouded Isles are required) abandons 
 the realm-specific design and adds still more new territory that characters from each realm can 
 travel to, explore, and solve quests in. Here, high-level characters can become stronger still, 
 though nothing about this expansion is well suited to new or returning players.  

          Trials of Atlantis adds a lot of interesting, new territory to explore, but unless you've 
 got a high-level character and lots of similarly strong allies, you can forget about it.     

 
  As a matter of fact, Trials of Atlantis probably didn't need to be released as a commercial product 
 in stores. Active, dedicated Dark Age of Camelot players would have been willing to download it 
 directly, and they're the ones who'd appreciate the new ability -- and would have the time -- to continue 
 to advance their high-level characters by winning powerful artifacts and gaining master levels, 
 which yield new abilities that make characters even more versatile. The new Atlantean lands do 
 offer some challenges for relatively low-level players (level 20 and up) , but you'll need a character 
 of at least 40th level to participate in the main attractions -- the trials of Atlantis themselves -- which 
 are a linear series of epic quests, each with multiple parts. Even if you have a high-level character, 
 unless you're an active member of a player guild, you might have trouble finding the help you need 
 to face the trials. The new lands of Atlantis challenge players to accomplish specific goals, so 
 don't expect to see players just hanging out, waiting for others to show up. Getting to Atlantis 
 is easy enough, via new ports in the respective realms' Shrouded Isles territories, but you'd best 
 show up with an entourage.  

  The three competing realms don't all congregate in Atlantis. The lands are mirror-imaged for each 
 realm, so the entrances are in different places, and the loot is different. But the lay of the 
 land itself isn't different. Trials of Atlantis also doesn't make any changes to the realm-versus-realm 
 gameplay of Dark Age of Camelot, which is where dedicated players end up spending most of their 
 time since they've usually already maxed-out their characters through killing countless monsters. 
 Mythic promises a downloadable realm-versus-realm expansion in the future, so for now, Dark Age 
 players can concentrate on strengthening their characters with the new loot and new master-level 
 abilities featured in Trials of Atlantis.  

  Three new races have been added in this expansion (one per realm) , but they don't look and certainly 
 don't play all that differently from the existing races. This, combined with the sheer time commitment 
 and repetition needed to advance a new character to high levels, means that these new races aren't 
 that significant of an addition.  

          The painstaking process of finding the Atlantean artifacts and gaining the new master levels 
 should tide over dedicated players who are waiting for the realm-versus-realm overhaul.     

  The Atlantean lands are waterlogged and interestingly combine ancient Greek-style and Egyptian-style 
 architecture. The expansion's new archipelagos and the vast underwater zones below them look significantly 
 different from other areas of Dark Age of Camelot, and they make use of some fresh graphical effects, 
 such as newly improved reflective water. There are even some new modes of transportation, from 
 the ships that ferry you around the islands to the aquatic life that can take you around undersea. 
 Fortunately, there are various ways for characters to breath underwater, and being able to swim 
 in all directions is certainly a change of pace from being limited to running across hills and 
 plains or through dungones.  

  These days, Dark Age of Camelot doesn't look that great, though it's aging well. While the scenery 
 has been revamped in this expansion, the player character models all look rather simplistic. The 
 game still sounds good, overall, though this is mostly due to a fitting ambient musical score. 
 However, Dark Age's presentation, while pretty good, is not what's kept players glued to this game. 
 The combination of entertaining player-versus-environment questing and dungeon crawls, along with 
 the competitive realm-versus-realm component, has made Dark Age of Camelot one of the better games 
 of its type. Still, it's left players wanting more. Trials of Atlantis creates a diversion for 
 high-level players who are growing weary of the current realm-versus-realm gameplay, but unfortunately, 
 it doesn't offer any compelling reasons for new players to get into the game, nor does it give 
 cause for those who took a hiatus from the realms to return.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jadelotuz
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I liked it, but not as much as i thought i would. I started to play the game when this (the third 
 expansion i think) was free.
  
  The graphics seemed a bit old, the control was complex (for me anyhow) , I actually got lost in 
 the rather vast and irradic world. I Couldnt keep track of where i was, and it was hard to relocate, 
 to travel far away. And many places where unreachable cause i didnt have the Catacombs expansion, 
 and that was somewhat irritating.
  
  The learning curve was allthrue very steep. I didnt realy understand or figgure out many of the 
 stuff in the game, not even crafting stuff. I managed to craft some tiny knife or something, but 
 it was hard to know what the results whould be, or how to do it. The game also tended to bacome 
 rather repetive after a handfull of weeks/months. I wasnt that active, just the first four weeks 
 maybe. Then it became sporadic at best.
  
  After paying my sixth month, i decided to end my account. I rather prefere the web-based Runescape 
 instead. Its alot more naive, and not as fancy graphicly, but i have a funnier time playing runescape 
 then DAoC.
  
  There are probably better MMORPG around, and i Think DAoC is more for the core fanbase of players, 
 who have been there for ages (what i have understod, DAoC is rather old ... in gaming terms anyway) .
 
  
  I did like the RvR (though i never tried any real RvR, but i have watched my brother play it for 
 ages, it whas he who introduced me) , and i like the World ... Albion, Hibernia and Midgard. Its 
 old folklore stuff over here in EU, and thats neat. I hope there will be a total remake of the 
 DAoC, a DAoC 2 in the next-gen era, with alot work on comstumisation, interaction, graphics and 
 GUI (more user friendly) .
  
  Its a good game, but theres in my opinion funnier games to wack time with, like Eve (more in my 
 liking ... Space) , and Runescape ...
  
  Btw, i still play Runescape from time to time ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  What can I say, The dev team went the wrong way with this. This add on was the Down fall or the 
 reason they lost so many players. The players had enough alrdy but they sholved it to us with this 
 one not worth playing any more. Got to much Like EQ. Still with this add on they did make traveling 
 somewhat esier but still failed to make it real esier. They took away alot from players character 
 thru thier nerfing almost as bad as EQ did. Thes guys are no more better than the Sony when it 
 comes to listening to the players. It's a shame that this happenin they way it did.
  
  The game is not for the casual agmer as it in most others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reguile
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 5, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I play on Mordred on PvP, server they don't give a crap about. Don't fall for it when they say 
 "We care about you and we will provide the best service as we can" crap. Cause no they don't. ToA 
 created an off-balance in everything because of the overpowered gear that came in it. This is just 
 an expansion and there are classic servers, I heard, so I'm goin to play DAoC once again, atleast 
 that is what I plan to do. I played the normal game for like 3-4 years straight. My favorite expansion 
 has got to be "Shrouded Isle", they did good with that. "Catacombs" gave extremely over powered 
 classes and pretty pointless areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romulus
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 17, 2004 6:44 am PT
Review:  DAOC was built around the concept of developing your character (s) in a linear fashion from novice 
 levels through level 50 all the while improving skills, armor, weapons, etc. with an eye on the 
 end game: RvR. The first expansion (SI) added greatly to this concept. ToA destroyed this very 
 successful formula by introducing a sub-game, or game within a game. This change has resulted in 
 a domino effect beginning with a severe decrease in RvR play as a large percentage of top end players 
 are now playing ToA. Further, as these individuals complete Master Levels, and obtain Artifacts, 
 they become very powerful so the only way to compete is for our own characters to do the same. 
 Many of us have little to no interest in playing in the expansion. Obtaining the new Master Levels 
 simply isn't worth the incredibly time consuming "hack and slash" (within some massive Battle Group) 
 needed to finish these things. It's work... not fun. Here is the crux of the problem. The only 
 way to compete and play the main game is to spend untold hours playing the sub-game, ToA. The entire 
 concept of ML's is flawed, as this is now the focus instead of Realm Abilities.
  
  I was really looking forward to something akin to SI which is open to all characters as opposed 
 to the top 5%. SI was integrated into the fabric of the original DAOC, reinforcing and expanding 
 the main game. ToA should have been another SI. Unfortunately, it is my feeling ToA has created 
 a terminal problem for all but the die-hard players willing to sacrifice hundred's of hours of 
 their time.
  
  The end of a great game....
  
  Rom -
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 2.7
Date: Dec 9, 2004 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Mythic indeed ridge worst expention for a games , they never listen to their beta - tester so about 
 one hundred of bug have been in the game at the release with patch solving them and adding more 
 of them... (notice a patern?) The master level encounter are still buggy more than one year after 
 the release. All the expention is a bunch of time sink, especially the artifact that affect RvR 
 a lot. The only good thing about trial of atlantis are the new graphic witch are pretty good, especially 
 the water, but the cost of those graphic is a massive lag in rvr area and in big encounter where 
 a lot of player are needed... I suggest to simply avoid Dark age of camelot especially when World 
 of warcraft is available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hytekrednek
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 10, 2004 12:31 am PT
Review:  While the upgrades to the graphics are nice, game play is still pretty basic. The lvl grind is 
 painful to say the least and takes forever if you don't have another computer with a second account 
 and high lvl character to make the grind go by faster. The master lvls also seem to take forever 
 to gain and you could be crippled if you don't like to group with other players. I've come to enjoy 
 the co-op server as it's fun to complement your skills with those of the other realms. To get the 
 most out of this game you absolutely must find an active and very supportive guild and then the 
 comradarie makes the lvl grind worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyconius
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 17, 2004 2:30 am PT
Review:  A long time ago I weaseled my way into DAOC beta. I was instantly in love with it. At the time 
 I casually played EQ while at a friend's house, and DAOC blew me away. There was so much more to 
 do (ironically, more quests than EverQUEST) , and it was actually tolerable to look at!
  
  Then the game went live and I lacked the necessary funds to purchase it right away, but soon joined 
 up. I played quite a bit for about a year and spread myself too thin to even be close to having 
 a level 50, but the important thing was that I was having fun.
  
  Numerous money issues and being a borderline ADD-child had me playing for a month and then off 
 for 2 months or so. I did get really interested again when the first paid expansion Shrouded Isles 
 was released. That was a lot of bang for your buck. Hell, you practically didn't do ANYTHING on 
 the mainland anymore.. Which I would say is kind of idiotic, but SI was fun!
  
  Nonetheless, I would still have to battle my ADD-like tendencies and go back and forth playing 
 and not playing. I did finally get a level 50 (Warden... drooool...) and at about that time TOA 
 was released.
  
  Now.. If SI didn't do enough to give people other things to do instead of battling in RvR, the 
 very core of DAOC... TOA just made high level people into ghosts on the battlefields. Whenever 
 I got the urge to go play around in the RvR areas (which was... pretty much always being level 50 
 now) , there wouldn't be near enough people to do anything constructive. And this is painful being 
 a support hybrid class.
  
  "DING 9!!" would not be something that exciting normally. But alas, levelling of artifacts was 
 a sickness. You take uber items that are irritating to camp for and then... get this.. you must 
 then go pharm certain types of mobs to level the artifact. Wow.. That is a new level of uselessness..
 
  
  There were always level 50's that would sit around and craft.. Or pharm money/seals for crafting.. 
 Or do stupid things in RvR (camp areas that have no strategic value, just pick off stragglers) .. 
 But TOA gave people way too much to do other than RvR. And when they finally did go RvR... You 
 better hope you have a full set of artifacts, half SC'd gear, and half TOA gear for bonuses you 
 can't get SC'ing. (that is a whole other rant [about how SC killed off wanting dropped items, which 
 we all got used to and accepted, but then TOA threw in another curve] ) .
  
  TOA killed DAOC for me.. Which I have come to terms with not being all that bad because now I don't 
 have to worry about getting the urge to reopen my DAOC account and waste precious time! Now I know 
 that the game Mythic got me worshipping is now just another expansion happy MMO piece of garbage! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake22
Rating: 2.7
Date: Oct 7, 2004 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Trials of Atlantis had a great premise and great promise. The new zones rock and are very eye catching 
 with tons of things to do and explore. Where ToA kills DAOC is with the new artifacts items and 
 Master Level abilities they implemented. Directly from Mythics mouth came this line "ToA will have 
 no effect on RvR". ToA has EVERYTHING to do with RvR since all the artifacts and Master Level abilities 
 are used in RvR, and almost all of them are so powerfull if you dont have them you are dead. 
 
  
  Dark Age of Camelot at one point and time was a great game and some skill was needed to be good 
 in it, now the game has degenerated into keeping up with the jones's. I wish mythic would create 
 a server with just Original Daoc and Shrouded Isles.... I would leave my 3 50's and head there in 
 a heartbeat. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
