-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Reign 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/darkreign2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 11, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.8, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 316 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jun 30, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its powerful and extremely attractive 3D graphics engine, Dark Reign 2 ultimately fails 
 to tread much new ground. 

 Pandemic Studios' Dark Reign 2 is a fully 3D real-time strategy game that looks excellent and plays 
 quite well. The game takes place on a futuristic Earth torn by a war between two powerful factions, 
 the JDA and the Sprawlers. Each is equipped with infantry, naval, aerial, and tank units that attack 
 each other with shimmering laser beams and explosive shells. All in all, Dark Reign 2 is a solid, 
 balanced, and very polished game - which is why it's all the more unfortunate that its gameplay 
 closely follows an otherwise unoriginal and limited formula for real-time strategy games: Gather 
 resources, amass troops, and attack your enemy.   

  It's true that Dark Reign 2 looks great. Each of the game's units, from the poised Guardian and 
 Castigar infantry units of the JDA to the Sprawlers' double-barreled Scorpion tanks, is extremely 
 detailed. Each military unit fires weapons, like glowing lasers that strike their targets and explode 
 in a burst of colored light, volleys of projectile ammunition that leave arcing trails of white 
 smoke in their wake, bolts of searing lightning, or other equally impressive armaments. If you've 
 seen any static screenshots of Dark Reign 2, you've probably already seen many of the game's slick-looking 
 units and spectacular explosions. You may not know that some of the firing animations, particularly 
 on infantry units, are stiff and awkward-looking, and that the debris that flies up in the air 
 from a destroyed building is usually nothing more than poorly animated black polygonal chunks. 
 But these are relatively minor problems in a game with otherwise excellent graphics - problems 
 that for the most part don't make Dark Reign 2's futuristic buildings and various military units 
 any less attractive.   

  You'll find these units in equally impressive environments: lush, grassy hills bounded by lakes 
 and waterfalls; ruined cities strewn with futuristic wreckage; bleak, sandy deserts; and others. 
 And in all cases, you'll be able to use Dark Reign 2's extremely flexible camera to pan, zoom, 
 rotate, and scroll around the screen in more or less exactly the way you want. And thanks to Dark 
 Reign 2's powerful graphics and terrain engine, you can zoom in for a close-up view of the treads 
 on your Bulldog tanks or the curved healing staff of your Voodun priests - a view that has absolutely 
 no tactical value whatever but looks great. And you can zoom back out to get a better view of the 
 action - which you'll do often, to be able to take better control of your units - with little to 
 no loss in frame rate or speed. In addition, Dark Reign 2 uses its graphics engine for both its 
 in-game levels and for many of its real-time cinematic cutscenes. Though a few of these cutscenes 
 feature close-ups on blocky, poorly animated characters, most of them look quite good, and the 
 transitions between cutscenes and missions are seamless.   

  Regrettably, Dark Reign 2 doesn't sound quite as good as it looks. Most of the game's sound effects, 
 like firing weapons and explosions, sound adequate but otherwise plain. And though certain units, 
 like the spunky Sprawler Go-Gos, sound distinctive enough to be memorable, most of the game's units 
 sound fairly generic. The rest of Dark Reign 2's voice acting is fairly good, including the spoken 
 dialogue in the game's cutscenes. Unfortunately, the same can't be said for the game's musical 
 score. Though many of the game's music tracks begin with or contain a stirring and ominous sequence 
 that suggests a sort of epic grandeur, these serious sequences typically give way to disappointing 
 industrial techno riffs that detract considerably from any sense of epic scale.   

  Despite whatever else might be said about its sound or graphics, Dark Reign 2 plays quite well. 
 The mid to late games are often extremely strategic, and they require you to carefully select the 
 right units for the right job. That's because Dark Reign 2 - like other strategy games before it 
 - has a number of features to discourage early-game "rush" tactics with low-level units. For instance, 
 most low-level units are fairly slow on their feet, and the game lets you defend your base with 
 powerful and inexpensive stationary turrets from the get-go - turrets that will make short work 
 of a simple squad of base-level troops. What's more, both of the game's factions may build powerful 
 turrets that are specifically designed to wreak havoc on either airborne or grounded troops - though 
 these specialized turrets themselves are usually vulnerable to attacks from enemies they aren't 
 specifically designed to attack. In fact, most of Dark Reign 2's units are designed this way. Each 
 has particular strengths - which can often be used to great effect against a specific type of enemy 
 unit - and particular weaknesses that render them nearly useless in other situations. As such, 
 you must build a balanced and varied army to succeed in Dark Reign 2.    

 Fortunately, the game provides a great number of interesting units with distinctive abilities, including 
 cloaking devices, powerful anti-air or antipersonnel attacks, long-distance sniping, infiltration, 
 theft, and more. Such distinctive abilities are not only interesting in their own right, but they 
 also lend themselves well to combined-unit strategies. And the two factions' units are different 
 enough to make playing each a different experience; the heavily armored JDA are much more straightforward 
 and are clearly intended for less-experienced players, but their defensive power is balanced extremely 
 well against the Sprawlers' ragtag crew of more exotic troops.   

  Dark Reign 2's interface is useful and informative but not cluttered. The game clearly shows how 
 much taelon (the game's main resource) you've harvested and how much solar power (the game's secondary 
 resource) you've collected. (Solar power collection relates to the game's day/night cycles, which 
 affect both the quantity of solar power you can collect and some units' line of sight.) In addition, 
 you can easily jump to any part of the map and manipulate the camera to get the best view of your 
 units, which you can arrange in up to ten different squadrons. In fact, each of the game's interfaces 
 - both the in-game menus and the multiplayer interfaces - is cleanly and intuitively laid out. 
   

  Dark Reign 2's single-player campaign features missions for both the JDA and Sprawlers, but the 
 game also offers competitive and cooperative multiplayer play on WON. net. Connecting to the multiplayer 
 servers is completely painless, and Dark Reign 2's multiplayer is very stable, even over a dial-up 
 connection. What's more, Dark Reign 2 offers multiple modes of play; in addition to standard head-to-head 
 competitive games, you may also play the game in four other interesting modes: bloodbath (in which 
 you must be the first to destroy 50 enemy units) , gluttony (in which you must collect 30,000 taelon 
 - or steal 1,000 taelon with spy units) , protect HQ (in which you must defend and keep a command 
 center at all times) , and king of the hill (in which you must capture a spot on a hill and defend 
 it for a set period of time) .   

  Unfortunately, Dark Reign 2 suffers from a few problems. First, the game uses a flawed system for 
 unit pathfinding, in which each unit in a selected group attempts to move to its destination along 
 roughly the same path. As such, it's not uncommon for your squadron to file along a path, then 
 bottleneck around the narrowest point because the units in the front couldn't get past each other. 
 This isn't quite as much of a problem as in other real-time strategy games, since many of the game's 
 units travel at roughly the same pace, and most travel relatively slowly over land, which makes 
 managing them individually slightly easier. Furthermore, though you can order your units to line 
 up in rudimentary unit formations (wedge, box, line, scatter) , your troops won't stay in formation 
 once they move, which makes formations ineffective in practice.   

  But Dark Reign 2's biggest problem isn't a specific gameplay mechanic - it's the gameplay itself. 
 Despite its powerful and extremely attractive 3D graphics engine, Dark Reign 2 ultimately fails 
 to tread much new ground. To the game's credit, Dark Reign 2 does make good use of its 3D graphics 
 engine and incorporates it fairly well into gameplay; for instance, mountains and hills play a 
 real role as both impassable obstacles for ground units and useful surveillance and ambush points 
 for flying units. However, Dark Reign 2's core gameplay is uninspired: As with so many other games, 
 in Dark Reign 2, you must build up your own base, starting with a central command structure, then 
 a resource refinery, then a barracks, and so on. Though each of the game's two factions develops 
 differently later on in the game, each must still build and send unarmed heavy vehicles to harvest 
 resources. And while it's largely unfeasible to attempt an early-game rush attack, the game still 
 generally boils down to speed. The player who can quickly develop his base and create the most 
 effective army by turning out units as fast as possible will still win. It's a formula that Dark 
 Reign 2 has refined and balanced well, and it is certainly enjoyable for what it is, though it's 
 the same formula that's been used in many other real-time strategy games before.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CaptainBlaze
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  i was promised alot more then a actually got with DR2.
  
  less content then in DR1 but way better graphics.... having said that graphics dont make a great 
 games, originality does.
  
  one thing i will say is this game is challenging and in some cases near on impossible - but you 
 know what they say if at first you dont succeed......... you suck.., lol jokes, you know how it 
 goes.
  
  same ole same ole - build and kill, or rather, build as fast as you freakin can if you want to 
 survive because the AI in this game will send wave after wave of attacks given half the chance 
 - ruthless.
  
  might wanna shapen up on ur muti-tasking skills for this one fellas,
  and if you don't know how to multi-task, ask the nearest female to teach you - rumor has it their 
 excellent multi-taskers, especially at 8am on the north eastern motorway putting on her make up 
 while drinking a coffee and emailing office and texting her best friend and then still finding 
 the time to DRIVE RIGHT INTO YOU!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I've played this game a long time ago but I must confess it was a great experience. It might not 
 bring anything new or groundbreaking to the genre but it certainly is worth playing.
  
  The story is set in an apocalyptic future, where two factions are vying for control and resources: 
 The JDA and the Sprawlers. At the beginning of the game you get to choose one side... and then 
 comes the action. It's not a very complex RTS, it resembles Age of Empires II in most aspects (you 
 create a base, you make soldiers and you battle it out) but the campaigns have a nice variety so 
 you'll be doing different things every time. You can also create your own custom campaigns, virtually 
 raising the game's value. Add to that the fact that campaigns are different for every faction and 
 you've got a game that will be enjoyable even the second time through. Complementing the solid 
 gameplay is the technological side of things: this game was released in 2000 and the 3D engine 
 it runs on was top notch back then. It still looks good today, it has a classic feel to it. The 
 sound and AI are also solid and do a good job at immersing you in the game's world.
  
  Overall, you could say Pandemic got the balance right with this game, because Dark Reign 2 is both 
 enjoyable and challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowsarecool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  The game is really good if the graphics are better. Online there are still people on even though 
 its 3 years old. Playing in teams can be really fun as u can work as a team or you just do what 
 you want. Also are great, with its map making option it is good aswell, it is confusing to make 
 maps. Also some people in the game make maps where you can play by urself, also the gameplay is 
 awsome. There are 2 teams but each team has a strong somthing and somthing weak, 1 team (JDA) they 
 have a strong air and airstrikes and is weak in units. or the other team (Sprawler) has a strong 
 in units and is weak in airstrikes and air. Its a matter of how you use these units is how you 
 use them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rysing_Furi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  In case you're wondering, no its not like starcraft. I don't think anything will ever BE starcraft 
 except a sequel. But in saying that, it differentiates itself by adding a few new things and some 
 cool doo dads. The story is rather interesting, I think a few RTS's have stolen it now, but it 
 was pretty good when it first came out. Gameplay is typical RTS, mine minerals, get money etc. 
 But getting power is something new (when it was made of course) . Not only do you have to make power 
 plants, but early on in the game you'll be relying on the sun for solar power. Not to mention the 
 fact that the game has a day/night cycle that can put you in the crapper if you don't have enough 
 solar arrays. This is irrelavent later on however, as Atomic Generators are introduced. Still, 
 its a nifty feature that adds something new to the mix. Units are all different and varied, some 
 do this some do that. It's not until you download the preview mod from the official website that 
 you'll know which units are most effective against what. For example, some units, such as the skulk/sniper 
 can't shoot buildings or aircraft, but can only shoot ground patrol units. You have units that 
 can heal, which is good as you'll be needing it in this game. And to further that, one faction 
 has shields that regenerate so that gives you an extra hand as well. Sound is fantastic, the music 
 is great if you like techno/orchestral kind of stuff. The units each have their own little yes 
 sir speeches, but they get repetitive after a while (name a game that doesn't have that though) . 
 Graphics were excellent for its time, and are actually still pretty good to this day. It's nothing 
 compared to Warcraft 3/Rome etc, but its still pretty advanced considering when it was made. The 
 only major problem that will seriously get up your goat is unit formations. That being, there is 
 none! Get a bunch of tanks/foot soldiers together etc, and you'll find them always getting out 
 of the way of one another, they'll always be moving and its just stupid. The other thing too is 
 that when you send them on a mission or whatever, they will all procede in a straight line basically. 
 There are a few instances where this doesn't happen, but the get out of the way feature mentioned 
 above stops that from happening, so you'll end up with a few units destroyed simply because its 
 the one that got there first. It's very similiar to starcraft in that way, if you have too many 
 units, they'll get stuck and there'll be a long trail of units from your base to where you've clicked 
 etc. However, that's the only major gripe about the game, its otherwise pretty darn good in its 
 own right. If you're looking for a game to waste a few hours on, this'll be the one, but if you 
 wan't something a bit more advanced you'd be better off going with something more recent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langrisser2005
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Dark Reign 2 engages with a Futuristic world of outstanding 3D graphics, intense battles, awesome 
 music and playability.
  
  After playing the original I hoped there would be a second. I saw screenshots for Dark Reign 2 
 which really excited me but importunely it was hard to find in stores. But luckily i managed to 
 find it on eBay and got for $5 (AUS) which was small money well spent.
  
  During installation it shows screenshots of what the world, units and battles look like which look 
 amazing with a cool music piece so installation isn't a boring wait even though it doesn't take 
 long for a 600mb game, less than 5 minutes it took me with 512ram.
  
  When you begin the game at the menu your options are Campaign, Load Mission, Instant Action and 
 Multiplayer. 
  
  Campaign follows two factions in a struggle of war on the futuristic Earth fighting for domination. 
 The JDA (Jovian Detention Authority) , a futuristic looking race, and the Sprawlers, big mean powerful 
 monster beings. Each side both has their types of units: ground, air and naval and their respective 
 strengths and weaknesses. There are 20 missions or chapters they call them for both sides each 
 with different objectives to reach.
  
  Instant Action is a free battle mode where up to 8 players can battle on a map. You can set unit 
 and credit (money) amount, location, difficulty, and filter out certain special units and buildings 
 such as super weapons and spies. There are 16 maps to battle on and 5 different game modes to play: 
 Deathmatch, which is your standard head to head, Gluttony, where you must be first to collect 30,000 
 taelon (resource for money) , Bloodbath, which you must be first to destroy 50 enemy units, King 
 of the Hill, where you must find a hill to protect for a certain amount of time, and Protect HQ 
 which you must protect your command center at all costs.
  
  The Multiplayer mode has many features including Internet play, cooperative play, team play, alliances, 
 map transfer, and a full 3D map game editor. Also Instant replay mode allows you to review past 
 battles from any angle and even trade replays over the Internet. 
  
  Dark Reign 2's 3D battlefield delivers different strategic scenarios, including day, night, and 
 day tonight missions, inner city battles, extreme weather, and the ability to control vital chokepoints. 
 
  
  The game also includes dozens of movies and cut-scenes that carry you through the story and from 
 mission to mission to the stirring climax of the conflict. 
  
  As for Graphics, the environments of the 26th Century world of Earth are amazing with snow-capped 
 mountains, steamy jungles with vine-strewn trees and towering waterfalls, dry, rocky deserts, dripping, 
 subterranean caverns, sprawling urban slums, and majestic, utopian dome cities. Also there is good 
 detail of each type of unit as well. Especially in weapon firing and explosions the animations 
 look great.
  
  The Gameplay works just like other RTS games. The basic building, unit, battle concept is there 
 though it doesn't work later on in the game especially by just creating a big army. It strategically 
 requires you to assemble many types, and right chosen units to succeed. The Missions can take several 
 hours to complete each which gives good length to the game.
  
  The Music and Sound are very good as well, despite what GS thinks. There arent a lot of themes 
 but each is cool and fit with the world's crumble look atmosphere. All the sounds from units voices 
 to weapon firing are good too though the voice-overs do win the day. They sound really good with 
 those small, computerized voices when briefed also during the movies and cut-scenes.
  
  For Value you have two sides to play with, both with different units, buildings, weapons to use 
 and 20 long missions which each can take several hours to complete. Also the Multiplayer mode is 
 very enjoyable which i played several times and swapped, received maps by using the Battle Editor 
 which you can use to create your own maps and objectives. The instant action with the different 
 game types also is fun and enduring especially if you have 8 players.
  
  Dark Reign 2 is a great RTS game by Pandemic Studios and is defiantly under appreciated. Unfortunately 
 it didn't advertise great since I couldn't find it on shelves at any game store i went so many 
 people are missing out on this great game. However you may find it in cheap piles or in eBay as 
 I did for very cheap, it's very worth it for the price, it should keep you entertained for a good 
 while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links24
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the Great war games that is very unknown! The gameplay is fun and challenging The 
 graphics are insane and the tunes go with the war scenes! The game is like Command & Conquer except 
 in the future! This game has so many units, and a great campaign that you could be one team or 
 the other! OR if you don't want to do campaign you can just do single missions and set the preferences! 
 This is a great war game and anybody should get this and show your friends (I DID!) And make them 
 crap there pants! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2005 1:05 am PT
Review:  I don't like RTS games. I got this one from a bundle I bought from Sam's Club. And wow. This has 
 to be the only RTS game I'll ever like. The first time I played it was on my old computer. I recently 
 installed it one this new one (finally) and Im trying to play it, if I can get enough patience 
 again.
  
  The gameplay is magnificent, being able to control a whole platoon and move them out to annihilate 
 your enemies with blitzkrieg is wonderous. And trust me: you can never have too many troops. Just 
 the only annoying thing is when you move your guys out and they all run in a single line. I have 
 yet to discover how to form ranks and move out, but one day I shall, and I will beome even more 
 powerful. You can choose at the beginning whether you want to be JDA or Sprawler. The JDA are smooth 
 looking and backed by government funding. The Sprawlers are ragtag and dont need to look fancy 
 to kick your whiny ass.
  
  The graphics are cool, except when you have a slow computer (like my old one) but if you have a 
 comp from nowadays, you can easily play this without lag. Or you have a beefy graphics card installed. 
 Being able to zoom in and watch the fight from a third person perspective is amazing. Although 
 you might want to worry abou how many troops are left and whos attacking you base rather than aweing 
 at the gaphics.
  
  Ive never beaten this game so Im not sure how long it will last, and Im damn eager to find out 
 what happens at the end. Another annoying aspect is when youve almost run out of Taelon and your 
 troops are quickly getting slaughtered, the end is near. So what do you do? Restart the level and 
 this time plan out your use of Taelon.
  
  All I can say is that if you read this review and are curious about one of the most underappreciated 
 games in history: find it and buy it. If you can't, ask a friend. If you have no friends: get a 
 life. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
