-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: DarkSpace
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/darkspace/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  7, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.1, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 29 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Got Game Entertainment
Developer: Palestar
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Dec 20, 2001

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
DarkSpace is a persistent "offworld" epic that shifts many conventions of online role-playing games 
 into science-fiction territory. 

 Massively multiplayer online gaming has moved to outer space. DarkSpace, which was developed by 
 small Texas-based developer PaleStar, is a persistent "offworld" epic that shifts many conventions 
 of online role-playing games into science-fiction territory. The gameplay is fresh, innovative 
 to a certain degree, and a real eye-opener for those who have grown tired of the swords and sorcery 
 settings of EverQuest and its ilk. It is the perfect game for the jaded online game junkie who 
 wants to trade in elves for aliens and that snazzy suit of magical plate mail for a starship.  
          Deep space never looked so beautiful, or so lonely.    

  Or at least it might be in a few months. Like so many massively multiplayer games that have been 
 released in the past year, DarkSpace is unfinished. Despite a six-month beta-testing phase before 
 the game went live on December 21 of last year, there are still a few noteworthy problems. Servers 
 go down on occasion, resulting in data being reset and player progress being lost. Massive updates 
 are a regular occurrence. The initial 35MB download (DarkSpace is only available as a free download 
 at the official Web site) has already been augmented by at least another 20MB of data, indicating 
 that PaleStar is cobbling things together as it goes, while still charging you $9.99 per month. 
 At the same time, however, the company is demonstrating a desire to work out the kinks, and it's 
 doing a lot more than just stomping bugs. Each major update has included some significant additions 
 to gameplay, such as new units, rules, and other miscellaneous features, and there's much more 
 on the drawing board. DarkSpace might not be a sci-fi gamer's dream yet, but it clearly has a lot 
 of promise and bears close watching.   

  And it certainly isn't lacking in strong points now. PaleStar is putting great effort into developing 
 a universe that's as compelling as those seen in TV space operas like the  Star Trek  shows and 
  Babylon 5 . To this end, the developer has created a complete future history. You begin play in 
 the year 2140 as a member of one of three competing factions. The human United Galactic Trade Organization 
 (UGTO) is the dominant power, having been established as sort of a one-world government over a 
 century earlier, while its chief rival, the Interstellar Cultural Confederation (ICC) , is fighting 
 to establish an independent regime far from Earth. Adding to the intrigue is the K'Luth, an alien 
 race targeting all humanity. There is a lot more to the narrative than these basics, of course. 
 The complete story is well put together and intricately detailed, the sort of thing that inspires 
 fan fiction.   

  This attention to detail is mirrored in the presentation quality of the background universe. Nearly 
 every scene could have been clipped from a big-budget movie. Planets and moons rotate in front 
 of their suns, causing halos and corona effects so striking that one of the major pleasures is 
 rotating the camera to gaze at the scenery. The backdrop starfield and nebulae lend depth to this 
 setting and provide an atmosphere of loneliness that one presumes to be the sole constant in the 
 vacuum of space. Sparse audio accentuates this effect. There is no musical score, and you can only 
 hear engines, weaponry firing, and the odd bit of radio chatter by zooming in close on a specific 
 ship.           Sparse choices are in the offing for the newbie midshipman.    

  You get a chance to participate in the ongoing conflict by taking the helm of a starship. After 
 choosing a power to align yourself with, you enter play as a lowly midshipman and choose a vessel 
 to command. As is the norm in massively multiplayer games, you begin on the bottom rung of a very 
 long ladder. Choices are limited to relatively impotent scouts, transports, and engineers in the 
 beginning. There is a little room for variety in regard to what specific type of each class you'll 
 pilot -- for example, UGTO midshipmen get to pick from anti-sensor, bomber, and long-range variations 
 of scout ships -- so by and large you all start from the same lowly position. Ship types are roughly 
 the same no matter which faction you represent. The UGTO and ICC vessels are even similar in appearance, 
 sharing a standard cylindrical sci-fi design. K'Luth ships look completely different, more like 
 living organisms than mechanical vessels. All craft are beautifully rendered, right down to damage 
 effects that show up in combat.   

  Career advancement is determined by rank and the number of badges acquired. Promotions up through 
 12 levels of rank are governed by prestige points earned for such acts as destroying enemies and 
 conquering planets and taken away for such acts as getting destroyed and colliding with planets. 
 Also, according to the manual, prestige levels may be altered according to issues of "game balance" 
 at any time.    

 Accumulated ship-specific achievements result in the awarding of gold, silver, and bronze badges. 
 While rank and credits are generic throughout the game, badges are not. Damaging enemy ships earns 
 you combat badges, dropping troops to capture planets is necessary to earn transport badges, landing 
 bombs on enemy planetary structures is the requirement of the bomber badge, and so forth. You'll 
 need to accomplish the specified task at least 25 times to earn a bronze badge, and often as many 
 as 1,000 times to reach the gold plateau. Stars are given out for reaching certain levels in each 
 of the six available badge classifications (combat, transport, bomber, engineering, support, and 
 navigator) . Earn a badge type across the board in bronze, silver, or gold and you'll get a star 
 of the same type. Further medals are given for specific mixed accomplishments, such as the Star 
 Fury medal for acquiring the silver badges for transport and bomber.           Combat around planets 
 is always tense.    

  As specific badges are almost always needed to command each fleet's better starships, you need 
 to pick an occupation and stick with it in order to prosper. In other words, if you want to move 
 into the captain's chair of an ICC bomber dreadnought, which requires a gold bomber badge as a 
 prerequisite, don't expect to get there by flying an engineering ship. This gives DarkSpace a strong 
 role-playing element reminiscent of character classes, with ship types replacing fighters, clerics, 
 and the like. However, there is a significant amount of freedom allowed, as ships are free to accept 
 assignments that they might not be capable of handling. You don't always need to fly your transport 
 as a transport, though your lack of serious weaponry makes it clear that you're no Millennium Falcon. 
 Commanding some of the top ships in the game often requires experience with each of the ship types, 
 meaning that you'll have to spend a lot of time developing careers with different vessels.   

 
  Because of all the many different ship types and classes, the gameplay in DarkSpace is multifaceted. 
 Players are intended to work together in their respective factions and complement one another with 
 the specific tasks of their vessels. One player might lead the way with his or her combat craft, 
 supported by another player with a bomber, a third with a transport filled with troops, and yet 
 one more with an engineering ship ready to make repairs. Ship operations are handled with an easy-to-use 
 system that confines all movement controls to rudder keys and a velocity bar. Though you play in 
 a 3D universe, you only have to worry about a two-dimensional plane of movement. A separate navigation 
 screen is used to jump to different systems and planets. Combat leans to the traditional naval 
 style of big bruisers circling one another instead of hit-and-run aerial dogfighting. Battles are 
 almost always tense affairs, thanks in part to the emphasis on deliberate movements over reaction 
 time and their usual proximity to planets. Weaving in and out between planets and moons while your 
 computer shouts "Collision alert! Collision alert!" provides added drama.   

  The principal objective of most coordinated action is to conquer planets. There are six different 
 types of planets, each of which features a particular resource that can be exploited. Terran planets, 
 for example, can be used to house large populations, while barren ones are good for mining and 
 gas planets and their inferno-class cousins are completely inhospitable. Nine types of buildings 
 can be constructed on habitable planet types to enhance defense and the gathering of resources, 
 which are turned into credits that can be used to buy ships. Planetary management is mostly automated, 
 though revolts can occur. Get the right balance of food-producing hydro farms, mineral-producing 
 mines, and fortification-ensuring barracks and defense bases and you can concentrate on the space 
 elements of the game.           Hyperspace jumps take you from planet to planet.    

  All these elements form an elegant whole that can be very captivating at times. There are some 
 fundamental problems, though. For starters, technical issues make it hard to connect a fair chunk 
 of the time. Getting booted from a server in mid-game is also a common occurrence, though DarkSpace 
 is the picture of stability in comparison with some of its massively multiplayer rivals at the 
 same early point in their development. More of an issue is a lack of players. The game design is 
 also almost entirely dependent upon the interaction of human players, and they're in short supply 
 at the moment. Little more than a handful of people can be found on each of the 20-or-so servers 
 at a time. It might have been prudent to start off smaller, throwing all the factions onto one 
 or two servers featuring just a couple of star systems. That way, there would been more bumping 
 up against each other and greater player-to-player interaction. PaleStar has addressed this issue 
 somewhat with the use of scenario servers that take place outside of the persistent world. Focused 
 set pieces are provided there, giving players immediate goals to tackle. Still, as engaging as 
 this sort of thing can be, it isn't what subscribers pony up 10 bucks a month for. It just whets 
 your appetite more for what the "real thing" might evolve into. And some of the systems are still 
 too large for the sparse populace. You can spend almost all your time racing from one planet to 
 another, trying to find the two or three enemy players.   

  But make no mistake, the groundwork is being laid for DarkSpace to evolve into something special. 
 If the technical issues can be worked out and the game can find a wider audience, it could become 
 a worthy alternative to such hits as EverQuest and Dark Age of Camelot. Of course, those are some 
 pretty big "ifs." The popularity problem might linger no matter how stable the game gets, especially 
 if retail sales exposure isn't forthcoming. Still, the outstanding design is impressive enough 
 to catch the attention of sci-fi nuts and anyone searching for an alternative to the typical massively 
 multiplayer online RPG. That, plus the offer of a seven-day trial period, is more than enough reason 
 to give this one a look.   

    Editor's note 02/08/02 : The review originally stated that prestige points were awarded partly 
 due to the number of times a player joins a server, which is incorrect. GameSpot regrets the error. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mcn_crew
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The game's Graphics has changed a lot and as in all games there are some small bugs that are being 
 worked on constantly. Game play is great with massive multi-player action with new NPCs to fight 
 and help you gain more levels faster. Darkspace gives new players a free 2 weeks play to give the 
 gamer a taste of action. Pirates and MI (technical Alien AI) are newly added NPCs to the game to 
 give a new challenge to the game play. Newly added weapon effects with newly added enhancements 
 to help modify your ship to your personal needs.
  
  New ships for new players to help them along the way with earning prestige while repairing other 
 allies ships. (support frig)
  With choices between scouts, frigs, cruisers, dreadnoughts. and stations, its a endless battle 
 between 3 factions and pirates and MI getting in the way almost every time.
  
  If your headed our way, Tell them DragonSlayer sent you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smudge111
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  when i first joined i was amazed at how kind the players were i was instantly given a loan of 2 
 million and told what weapons i should use on my ship and some basic tactics with there help and 
 my own perseverence i managed to hit 2nd RA the day before my free trail ended and instantly subscribed 
 this game once it has grabbed you will not let you go till you have capped ever system twice and 
 killed everyplayer thrice!
  
  absoltly amazing game kept me entertainted and the Admins/Mods play a active role ! i would throughly 
 reccomend this game to anyone though i would only give them my adivce and a loan if they were on 
 UGTO ;) anywhere else and they would be seeing my Missile Cruiser sending a few shots there way 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engerys
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Dark Space for a while now and I've come to enjoy its cult following and ease 
 of play (after many major deaths) . I got bored with the constant combat and lack of anything else 
 to do but fight and rebuild bombed out planets but all in all the moderators are the worst of any 
 game you'll come across. they deny your request for help and generally ban you for silly reasons 
 even if you are a paying customer. I tried to deal with this, but the many chat sessions i start 
 lead the mods to go on a ban spree and now my account has a very long ban. so now the game lost 
 another paying customer that was willing to weather the storm that has been dead development and 
 broken promises.
  
  If you like space combat games that offer a mild learning curve then give dark space a try but 
 i warn you to bit your words if you need help or would actually offer to lend the game your skills 
 to speed up development cause you'll get bashed by the community vets and mods who only log into 
 the game to sit and ban forceful players (Moderate) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
