-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Colony
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/darkcolony/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 19, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.7, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 188 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: GameTek
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Aug 31, 1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This limited method of play is similar to first-generation real-time strategy games. 

 Dark Colony represents SSI's latest diversion from wargames since the success of its real-time strategy 
 title War Wind. The story revolves around a classic human vs. alien conflict: The humans have terraformed 
 Mars and are mining it for Petra-7, a newly discovered resource. The aliens or "grays" - bug-eyed 
 villains who fit the classic Roswell description - just want the humans to take their guns and 
 air-purifiers and buzz off.  

 The game's futuristic theme is inventive and well executed, but in the end it is only this sci-fi 
 aesthetic and the over-the-top gore that distinguishes Dark Colony from most real-time strategy 
 games.  

 Following the precedent set by Command &amp; Conquer and Warcraft II, Dark Colony allows you to 
 build a base and proceed to construct technology buildings around it radially. On the human side, 
 these buildings yield anything from space-suited troopers to scampering mini-mechs to a cyborg 
 Special Forces unit simply dubbed "S. A. R. G. E." The grays prefer to breed their weapons in the form 
 of artillery-packing creatures, such as the Atril, which hurl a fleshy sac of explosive mucus at 
 the humans with intent to kill. During a game, both sides can uncover Martian ancient artifacts 
 that award the finder with destructive abilities.  

 Besides a strangely compelling soundtrack that echoes of sci-fi classics like Star Wars and Dr. 
 Who, graphics are Dark Colony's strong point. Character-rendering is sharp, napalm explosions are 
 luminescent, and character deaths are violent as ever. When a human unit gets hit, arcs of blood 
 might spew forth from his uniform or his head might erupt into a gory geyser. Add a few dozen units 
 spraying bullets at one another and the ensuing gore fest begins to look more like a Mortal Kombat 
 in space than Command &amp; Conquer.  

 But if you look beyond the inventiveness of its theme, past its blood-drenched battlefield, the 
 game begins to falter. Dark Colony ends up rehashing bothersome real-time strategy cliches. Any 
 premeditated plan of action in the game soon gives way to those familiar desultory build-and-charge 
 tactics. After strategically planning troop placement and development, you would hope your battle 
 formation would resemble something more than a pee-wee soccer team with troops hacking it out in 
 one big tempestuous cluster. Unfortunately, Dark Colony tends to suffer this fate more often than 
 not.  

 This limited method of play is similar to first-generation real-time strategy games. Fans of Warcraft 
 II who were sucked in by the game's comical motifs should find something engaging about Dark Colony's 
 droll characters, hi-res art, and futuristic themes, but nothing really new is offered under the 
 surface.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DrAshgod
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Dark Colony is one of the best strategy games not for the graphics, sounds, gameplay, but because 
 it sticks to your mind! There's a classic '60-'70 idea of "Greys" Vs Humans!
  The storyline's about humans who are trying to colonize Mars and who met the "grey" aliens, which 
 there actually Taars, who are trying to do the same thing. The Taars have left there planet many 
 years ago for the same reason as the humans are trying to colonize mars- no more natural resources 
 and the planet 's destroyed! 1st the Taars wanted to colonize Earth but they saw that the planet 
 is on the edge of destruction! 
  As the game describes the two civilizations start a bloody war over Mars. The game's pretty banal 
 in terms of storyline until the discovery of Mars' Ancient Artifacts. Then a human commander is 
 abducted by the aliens and they play with his mind making his company an enemy of the Humans. Then 
 in the Grey campaign you take contact with Taars on Earth left behind after the Roosevelt accident.
 
  The game makes a good job, scaring you with the hundred alien demon-like and bug-eyed creatures 
 atacking you continuously in the first missions. You go to sleep thinking to whats the best tactic 
 to defend your base without losing to much troops (which have various forms and functions) . The 
 great cutscenes are a rewarding reward after completing or losing a level.
  The end is mysterious. In the human ending an wrong triggered artifact wakes deep buried in water 
 monsters, and in the grey ending a great fleet atackes Earth.
  Dark Colony's a great game worth be trying by any sci-fi, aliens, or strategy games fans!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimumbiscuit
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  I have spent a long time looking for this game since playing it when it first came out and loving 
 it. After a time I forgot what it was called but thanks to good ols gamespoy i managed to locate 
 it and buy it. Its a great game that still stands up well, even if the format has now been done 
 to death. Its worth playing just for the graphics and cut scenes. Some of the missions are really 
 quite difficult as you finish one section having spend all your credits and then all of a sudden 
 the mission extends and you have to make good use of your now limited resources to take on bigger 
 and badder enemies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  When Dark Colony came out it was slated badly in reviews, but it is actually quite a fun game if 
 abit limited.
  
  Its set in the future were humans have terraformed mars and discovered a new energy source called 
 Petra 7. They're about to colonise but find aliens (classic 'greys') called the Taar trying to 
 claim the world for their own.
  And thus a ridiculously bloody war breaks out.
  
  Dark Colony is very violent, each victory cut scene pretty much has a dead body in there somewhere, 
 and if you ever had the fortune to watch the intro sequence, you'll undoubtadely remember it easily 
 one of the best intro's to agame ever and sets the tone of the game perfectly.
  
  The graphics at the time were very good, 2d but detailed however playing today they dont look quite 
 as pretty but 2d graphics have their charm and hold up MUCH better in the long run than 3D graphics, 
 the major problem with the graphics however are the animations are quite slow.
  There's vapour trails from missiles, light effects from guns/plasma weapons, the explosions look 
 good even today and the day to night cycle (one of the first in a RTS game) was done very well 
 too.
  
  The gameplay was solid, it was fun if abit limited due to there being only 2 factions humans and 
 aliens. and they were pretty much identicle except huamsn afunction better during the day and aliens 
 at night, human 'SARGE' units throw napalm wereas the alien equivelent throws a biological weapon 
 and the alien commander calls in a spaceship to abduct a few men in the battle field wereas the 
 human counterpart boosts the moral of the men nearby in a fight. This did hamper the games gameplay 
 taking balance too far creating what is effectively two clones but one is given a different skin. 
 However it still prooved to be a fun game with an interesting story and you would be rewarded with 
 a different movie sequence after each level.
  
  The sound in the game was pretty decent, standard voices in game, better in the movie sequences 
 , good battle sounds and the music wislt good was limited to four tracks, barely sufficient no 
 matter how good the tracks were.
  
  Value, id say this game was worth getting when it came out, and if you played the game then Id 
 recommend getting it again for nostalgia. You can get it from http://www. thedarkcolonyfansite. tk/ 
 .
  Dark Colony was a fun game back in 1997 and its still a fun game today it in no way deserved to 
 be lambasted like it was back when it was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Dark Colony has to be one of the most atmospheric and spooky science fiction RTS around, with its 
 brilliant and scary FMV depicting a gruesome battle between humanity and the grey. This game actually 
 made me respect the enemy units a lot. However, in spite of this setting, there isn't much else 
 that the game does do right.
  
  The most obvious problem seems to be the pacing. All units move very slowly, and it takes forever 
 to get somewhere. Secondly the fights last much too long, as units take slug after slug after slug. 
 Although you know how the battle will finish, you still have to pace yourself while the units trade 
 blows for eternity. Then there are the added constraints of only being able to build bases on available 
 platforms, and the fact that both sides have completely different units that unfortunately mimic 
 each other 100%. Apart from the graphics and naming conventions, there is no difference in playing 
 human or grey. Great for balance, bad for the fun factor since it makes the choice of side purely 
 cosmetic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  Dark Colony is a game generally underestimated. This game came way before Starcraft and consists 
 in the first real RTS game in space, facing the powerful humans against the prevailing Sectods. 
 The backgrounds for this game were splendid showing deserted planets with black sky and grey canyons, 
 surrounded by meteor crater. The graphics were also completely insane for this time. Finaly, the 
 sounds were realistic and helping to get you deeper into the game. I remember playing this game 
 in a total dark room with headphones on my head. Playing Dark Colony was like a continuous discovery 
 for me. 
  
  Also, you can extract really powerful artefacts for the ground and use those to totally dissipate 
 an enemy troop. Those artefacts are really cool to use and must be used strategically since you 
 can only have one per game. 
  
  Anyway, in 2006, it is maybe a little late to discover this game, but still, I wanted to review 
 this game for GS. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123Dan123
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Dark Colony was made in 1997 by the Developer's GameTek, which don't create games anymore. Dark 
 Colony is a futuristic Strategy game which you can play with either Humans or the Gray. The Humans 
 are from the planet Earth which is pretty obvious and they battle against the Gray (Aliens) from 
 Mars. Dark Colony values great gameplay and it is very fun to play online with a few friends.
 
  
  Dark Colony's Gameplay which won't appeal to everyone and takes a long time getting used to the 
 game, it will appeal to most hardcore strategy fans. IMO the gameplay in Dark Colony is the best 
 thing about the game, there are huge battles and the comp is very challenging in the single-player. 
 In Dark Colony you have to get gas at these gas holes and you must defend it. (don't know the correct 
 name) However when they get destroyed your money goes up very slowly, and may take awhile to get 
 another. You can choose whether you play as the Humans or the Gray. They are both fun to play as. 
 The best thing about this game is playing online, however you must know friends who owns this game 
 and you must know there IP Adresses when playing online. I have a few friends that I play online 
 with and it is very fun! Although you don't get records or anything, We play for fun.
  
  The Graphics for this game is just amazing for it's time, The blood, explosions etc. are just awesome 
 during gameplay. When you play single player campaign there are cut-scenes and the cut-scenes graphics 
 are the best for that time period. Just simply awesome graphics!
  
  The sound in Dark Colony is another which makes this game feel the way it does and gives good gaming 
 expeirence. The soundtrack, which is only 4 songs, are very good and I even listen to them quite 
 a bit on Windows Media Player. Anyways the gameplay sounds when you play, there isn't very much 
 music but the sound effects and little things you hear off distances is very neat. When there is 
 a battle like on the other side of the map, you can hear it off from a distance. I found that pretty 
 cool. The sounds that the Humans and Gray does are awesome, the sound of guns going off and explosions 
 were very well done for it's time.
  
  This game may not appeal to some people, but it is a very under-looked game that got a low score 
 from GameSpot that I don't agree with. Very fun to play online, and if you happen to have the game 
 please PM me! Or if you don't got it and can find it in stores, 1.99$ is well worth your buy! If 
 you can't find it in stores you can download the full game at my site - www. thedarkcolonyfansite. tk 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekmazter
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:12 pm PT
Review:  If anyone comes across this one in '05 for $1.99 on the shelf, it may be worth your time. This 
 game was out when the original C&C was tearing up the PC world and dial-up online play. While it 
 does have similar play styles and characteristics as C&C, it's not C&C. It's on a much smaller 
 scale than C&C in terms of maps and weaponry etc...., but it does have its place. 
  
  There is a story line to this game and some pretty cinematics for its time. The introduction is 
 actually pretty good, but the game can gameplay isn't overly exciting and it can get a little mundane. 
 
  
  Again, for $1.99 I'd recommend it. Best of luck! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
