-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Earth
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/darkearth/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.1, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 104 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Kalisto
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Sep 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Adventurers longing for a deep and rich story, with carefully crafted characters, coupled with swashbuckling 
 fighting action and challenging puzzles and problem solving, look no further. 

 An adventure game akin to Origin's classic Bioforge (or a modernized Alone in the Dark) , Dark Earth 
 features superb graphics, outstanding 3D character animation, and unique action-adventuring in 
 one beautifully crafted package. Adventurers longing for a deep and rich story, with carefully 
 crafted characters, coupled with swashbuckling fighting action and challenging puzzles and problem 
 solving, look no further.  

 Dark Earth is set three centuries in the future. Dust and debris from a cataclysmic bombardment 
 by a passing meteor in the middle of the 21st century led to darkened skies and a decimated population. 
 Survivors created small outposts beneath the few remaining shafts of sunlight. Over the centuries 
 much of what led to the present state of affairs was long forgotten and primitive idol worship 
 returned to Earth... with a twist. Remnants of what once was still exist and demand explanation. 
 Secrets from the past are the foundation for power in Dark Earth's present.  

 You play Arkhan, a guardian of the local religious leaders, who worship the light. Early in the 
 game an enemy "contaminates" Arkhan with a potion, which causes his appearance to mutate to that 
 of a creature of darkness. As a result, his friends may turn against him as he looks for an antidote 
 and tries to uncover the dark secrets that may destroy his family and home.  

 Using the cursor arrow controls, you easily maneuver Arkhan throughout his walled-city home, searching 
 the dark recesses and beautifully illuminated temples for clues and comrades. The graphics are 
 stunningly gorgeous. The shimmering colors, including translucent stained glass, are breathtaking. 
 Each of the 100, fully 3D animated characters looks unique. As Arkhan and the other characters 
 move, they change size to match the perspective, and the dynamic lighting sources throw properly 
 proportioned shadows.  

 Game control options are excellent. For instance, inventory management is intuitive, and you can 
 easily replay previous cutscenes and reexamine dialogues. Fighting controls are simple and a clever 
 customized numbering system lets you call up specific weapons according to numbers you've assigned 
 to them. One nice touch: When you change weapons, the new one appears in Arkhan's hand.  

 Gameplay takes place on several levels. The standard adventure inventory-gathering can be very challenging, 
 as the environments are so richly detailed it takes thorough exploration to find the few important 
 items. On the other hand, the puzzles, including a spinning knife maze at the end, are not all 
 that challenging.  

 Despite six different styles, fighting is another of Dark Earth's minor weak points. You simply 
 don't have that much control, and timing your moves is difficult. The save-game feature is clumsy 
 - you need to locate save icons scattered throughout the environments. Finally, there are no user-selectable 
 camera angles, which is especially irksome when fighting moves to the edge of the screen.  

 Still, there's a lot to like about this game. The attention to detail is remarkable, right down 
 to Arkhan's actions when examining a location for clues. He might bend over, reach behind an object, 
 or slide his hand over a smooth surface, all the while making appropriate comments. Gameplay is 
 anything but linear. The best approach is to wander and interact with the many unusual characters. 
 In something of a gaming rarity, the story is critical to your enjoyment. Even those who cringe 
 at all the fantasy game-style character naming conventions will want to learn more about Dark Earth's 
 people.  

 Kalisto Entertainment, Dark Earth's French development company, has worked on this title for more 
 than three years, and the great care put into the game shows. There are even franchise plans in 
 the works - Kalisto has already released a pen-and-paper role-playing version, and there are plans 
 for a PC game sequel next year. Which is good news for those who savor high-quality adventuring. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Rylsadar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  The deceased french company "Kalisto Entertainment", created a unique adventure experience combining 
 several elements into one genre. This game was supposed to become a legend among the adventure community, but 
 for some strange reason it passed unnoticed.
  
  A raining sky of fire and rock covered the world into darkness. Fiendish creatures and black shadows 
 have risen upon the ashes of dust.
  As "Arkhan", a temple "Guardian of Fire", you must maintain the security of one of the few remaining 
 areas on earth that still receives natural light,
  a fortified city called "Sparta". To add further suspense,"Arkhan" has been contaminated with a 
 dark disease that slowly turns him into a mutated beast (which visibly changes his look, voice, and 
 vocabulary as the game progresses) . Fulfill your destiny and uncover a grave conspiracy threatening 
 the stability of "Sparta" while you wander the land in an effort to cure your illness.
  
  Feel free to decide your faith while you discover puzzles, play "mini-games" or achieve knowledge 
 from the old world to determine the causes of such apocalypse. The majority of the fighting takes 
 place with melee weapons or firearms such as swords, axes, rifles or machine guns.
  "Arkhan" also has different moves he can execute, which adds another element to combat strategy.
 
  
  The adventure plays in the "3rd-person" perspective, with "3D" character models on beautifully pre-rendered 
 backgrounds. The tremendous music
  mixed with marvelous voice acting enhances the quality to achieve a perfect cinematic atmosphere."Dark 
 Earth" must be played to comprehend the gloriousness of an abandoned software that illuminated 
 few people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenshin836
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Dark Earth is one of those great underappreciated games that goes largely unnoticed.
  
  It came out rather quietly in 1997 with next to no one really picking it up. Well this reviewer 
 did all those years back and it was a lot of fun and it still is to this day.
  
  Gameplay - It's pretty typical Action Adventure like although the way you do combat is quite nifty. 
 Instead of simply pressing one button to do your attacks, you have to go into combat mode and hit 
 a combination of keys to attack (this is also how you pull off combos) . It was a great system that 
 unfortunately has not yet been put to use again in terms of PC Action Adventure games.
  
  Plot - Basically, your Arkhan. A man who finds himself poisoned with an evil poison. It's eating 
 away at not only his body but his very soul and unless he finds a cure, he will become the very 
 thing he hates. Basically, most of his quest takes place within the last remaining place of light 
 on this Dark Earth. Theres also another plot that makes up most of the game but for some reason 
 it feels more like a sub-plot. It's about the enemies getting closer, the light getting weaker 
 and you having to find a way to stop them.
  
  Graphics - They pale in comparsion to today's games. But for 1997, these were pretty awesome graphics. 
 All the enviroments and characters are very uniquely designed as well.
  
  Sound - Solid voice acting through out but the music leaves a little to be desired but other than 
 that, great stuff!
  
  Basically, if your looking for a great 3D Action/Adventure game with a unique story and great characters, 
 I would definately recommend Dark Earth to you. You'll probably be able to find it somewhere for 
 a good price these days and it's well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grand-Imperator
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  It has taken me some time to reviewing this game, which to date has remained in my top 3 PC games 
 of all time. That is saying something considering the sheer number of games I own and have played. 
 
  
  This game like all others has good and bad points so I will be impartial in my remarks. Before 
 I continue I will start of by saying that this is an "Adventure Game" with some action elements 
 to spice things up - people expecting what is typically considered an "Action Adventure" (which 
 tend to apply more emphasis on action) will be disappointed.
  
  The Good:
  
  Where to start, Lets just take each element listed in my Title heading to this review.
  Firstly 
 the story - This is one game that I can safely say had an original storyline, with various twists 
 and turns and a whole host of possibilities. You never really feel safe, characters you endear 
 and befriend could end up dead or missing when you least expect it. You may be betrayed, imprisoned, 
 tortured. Due to the diverse and unpredictable nature of the game I found myself wanting to know 
 more of this world and explore outside the walls of the city you reside the further the game progressed. 
 To make matters worse you become infected with a virus early in the game which adds a sense of 
 urgency - dawdle too much and you may turn into one of the very creatures that can destroy Spira 
 and it's residents.
  
  Secondly the Voice acting - I have to say that the multitude of characters and their respective 
 voice actors are all top notch. Not once did I feel a character came across as inappropriate, dull 
 or just plain silly. Some of these actors I can clearly recognise from other more modern games 
 and are used by recognised Developers such as Bioware (who are famous for choosing good voice actors) .
 
  
  Thirdly the Setting - You spend the entire game in Spira (the city that serves as an enclave to 
 the darkness) . To some this may seem limited, and at the time I thought so as well. However as 
 you explore the various locales it has to offer, you start to appreciate the different ways in 
 which Kalisto (the developer) mixed the different scenes, added secret locations (many of which 
 can easily be missed) and ensured that upon returning to previously visited areas circumstances, 
 people and scenes change. Not many games do that as eloquently as has been achieved here. What 
 all this means is that there is plenty of replay value.
  
  Fourthly the characters - I have to say that in this game the Non-player characters Arkan (your 
 protagonist) interacts with really feel real. The voice actors as previously mentioned are completely 
 flawless, the body movements (for a 1997 game) were perfectly mapped onto real human motions and 
 the varying actions both you and the story take can really affect what happens to many of them 
 and how they then respond to you. If you let yourself get immersed in the story you will actually 
 care what happens to them. Most games of this ilk rarely have that effect on me.
  
  Fifthly the Backdrops - By todays standards the resolution of the Backgrounds would be considered 
 under par, probably just under 640 x 480. Bear in mind the game was released in 1997, so this is 
 understandable for the time. The quality of the designs however, I felt were very original and 
 carefully drawn. They really fell in line with the story and characters to help bring to life the 
 world that the story unfolds in.
  
  Finally the diversity of the game - This game has alternate paths you can take which are determined 
 by your actions, conversation choices, tone of voice, appearance and decisions you take throughout 
 the adventure. As a result you can really end up missing out on half the possibilities in the game 
 quite easily on your first attempt. The game also contains many secrets which are not limited to 
 items alone. You can easily miss out on non essential areas which really add to the story and can 
 offer much replay value. The combat is also another variant which was added to throw in another 
 unpredictable element to the game. This helps add to the tension, but is not essential to get through 
 the whole game, there are many incidents that can be resolved through brain rather than brawn.
 
  
  Now the Negative aspects - Don't worry this is MUCH shorter (I do tend to ramble!!)
  
  The Graphics - This game was released pre- direct3D. As a result the character models (although 
 realistic in movement) do look v ugly, especially compared to anything else out there today. They 
 look at times as though they are simply made from a mesh of linked polygons with some detail drawn 
 on top. The characters are actually 3D which was a good step forward for it's time.
  
  The Story - This game had the potential to be massive in size, due to lack of funding and an early 
 release date (the usual excuses) they had to expose it to the market much shorter than it could 
 have been. The story ends a little prematurely to say the least leaving you hoping for more. That 
 is not to say it is a bad ending, simply a bit rushed considering the epic build up to the finale.
 
  
  The combat - As I previously mentioned, the combat is an addition to the adventure element, so 
 I was not expecting much in that regard. In fact the first time I played it I was pleasantly surprised. 
 With hindsight now I would say that it's simplistic mechanism could have been further developed 
 to attract a wider audience. 
  
  The marketing - this game was not very well marketed. It could have easily been a hit back then 
 with the proper advertising and distribution. That would have almost certainly allowed Kalisto 
 to make a sequel to enhance its defects and build on everything else they did right.
  
  Thats it, anyone who is still reading this essay I wish to thank profusely for hanging in there. 
 I know most people out there either haven't heard of this title or even be able to get it now. 
 I just felt it deserved some praise since it was really Undervalued. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
