-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Sector
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/darksector/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Killing enemies with the glaive never gets old.
 Protagonist's abilities make him a lot of fun to control.
 Mostly intelligent enemies and varied boss battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No online multiplayer.
 Only two multiplayer modes and five maps.
 Storytelling is pitiful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 13, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 283 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Digital Extremes
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Mar 24, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This third-person action game lacks the compelling storyline that it alludes to early on, but offers 
 plenty of enjoyable combat nonetheless. 

  Arriving on the PC a full year after it was released for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, Dark Sector 
 is a stylish action game in which you assume the role of Hayden Tenno, an elite black-ops agent 
 with an infection that mutates his right hand into a lethal glaive. The boomerang-like glaive is 
 an incredibly versatile weapon and, in conjunction with a decent selection of firearms, serviceable 
 cover mechanics, and intelligent enemies, it keeps the single-player game entertaining from start 
 to finish. The story is a mess, and sadly there's no online support for multiplayer in the PC version, 
 but come here looking for 10 to 12 hours of satisfying combat and you won't be disappointed.  

 
           The prologue mission wastes no time dropping you into the action.      

  The single-player game starts off promisingly with a moody black-and-white prologue mission set 
 some 20 years before the events of the other nine levels. Getting comfortable with the controls 
 used for gunplay and for getting in and out of cover should take you no time at all, and it won't 
 take you long to realize that the enemies you're facing are smart enough to employ a lot of the 
 same tactics that you do in the interest of self-preservation. The story gets underway with a bang 
 as well -- a few bangs, actually -- but as you progress through the game, the story rarely feels like 
 it's moving along with you. Characters come and go without giving you any reason to care about 
 them, you travel between locations killing everything that moves without really knowing why, and 
 new abilities are frequently added to your formidable arsenal without explanation. Dark Sector's 
 lack of good storytelling shouldn't hamper your enjoyment of the game too much because cutscenes 
 are infrequent and brief. Nonetheless, it's unfortunate that a protagonist as fun to play as Hayden 
 doesn't have a great narrative to back him up.  

  To simply refer to Hayden as a killing machine would be to downplay just how overpowered you can 
 feel at times while playing as him. The skills with conventional firearms that you learn in the 
 prologue mission stay with you for the entire game, but even as increasingly powerful weapons become 
 available to you, you'll find that you spend far less time using them. That's because throwing 
 the glaive that grows from his right hand early on is a more elegant, powerful, and satisfying 
 way to dispatch foes than any gun. Initially, the glaive is used simply as a projectile weapon 
 that comes back to you like a boomerang after every throw, making enemy decapitations and severed 
 limbs a rare treat early on. However, when you gain the ability to add aftertouch to your throws, 
 it becomes an even deadlier projectile that you can steer around corners and over obstacles to 
 butcher enemies in glorious slow motion. Applying aftertouch not only makes slicing up enemies 
 easier, but also affords you a front-row seat for the kill because you get to see everything from 
 the glaive's perspective. Decapitating enemies this way  never  gets old, though some of the glaive's 
 other uses definitely do.  

  The glaive isn't just an awesomely powerful weapon; it's a veritable Swiss Army knife that can 
 be used to unlock doors, open ammo crates, and pick up items that would otherwise be out of reach. 
 The uses for Dark Sector's answer to Link's boomerang don't end there, though, because with a little 
 help from the elements your glaive can be used to light torches, create columns of ice, and even 
 put out fires. By hitting specific items scattered throughout the world, it's possible to imbue 
 your glaive with electricity, ice, or fire for a short time, at which point using it to kill enemies 
 becomes more satisfying than ever. But that's rarely the reason why you're afforded access to an 
 element; more often than not, the elements are needed to overcome environmental obstacles or to 
 solve simplistic (though occasionally challenging, timed) puzzles. For example, sheets of black 
 goop stretched across doorways have to be burned before you can progress, and mechanically sealed 
 doors can be opened only with an electric charge. Puzzles like these crop up a little too frequently 
 in Dark Sector and, given that you don't even have to think about them after the first occurrence, 
 it doesn't take long for them to feel like chores that you have to complete before you're allowed 
 to progress and have fun playing with enemies again.  

           Decapitations have rarely been as easy or as satisfying as they are with the glaive.  
     

  Dark Sector's impressive combat sequences are also broken up with exploration, which becomes a 
 necessary evil as you realize that searching every nook and cranny of an area before progressing 
 to the next is the only way to find ammo, currency, and weapon upgrades. Money can be used to buy 
 new weapons on the black market, which is conveniently located under every manhole you come across. 
 It's important to buy and upgrade both a pistol (which you wield simultaneously with the glaive) 
 and either a rifle or shotgun at some point, because weapons that you pick up from slain enemies 
 function only for a short time before they're automatically disabled. There's a reason they do 
 that, but going into it here would risk spoiling one of the story's very few twists for you. Weapons 
 on the black market are extremely expensive, so despite the range of options to choose from, you 
 shouldn't expect to own even half of them by the time you reach the boss at the end of your first 
 play-through.     

   

  There are several boss battles in Dark Sector, and all of them are very different. Variety comes 
 courtesy not only of bosses that differ wildly in shape and size, but also of the weapons and abilities 
 that you'll need to defeat them. None of the bosses are overly challenging if you take your time 
 with them because, with only a few exceptions, their attacks just aren't powerful enough to kill 
 you with a single blow. They'll hurt you, and the borders of the screen will flash red to let you 
 know that you're injured, but Hayden regains health so quickly that getting into cover briefly 
 or even performing a few evasive rolls is generally all you need to do to get back to full strength. 
 That's not to say that all of the boss battles are easy, though, because they're not. It's just 
 that often the tricky part is figuring out how to beat them rather than actually doing it.  

           There's no health bar, but you know when Hayden's hurting.      

  Although playing 
 through Dark Sector's single-player mode doesn't reward you with a great story, it's definitely 
 a great way to prepare for the game's LAN-only multiplayer offerings. There are only two multiplayer 
 modes, but both of them will afford you the opportunity to play as Hayden at some point, complete 
 with all of the skills that he has at the end of the single-player game. Both of the multiplayer 
 games, titled Epidemic and Infection, were originally designed for only 10 players on consoles 
 but now support up to 32 on five maps that are no longer big enough. Epidemic pits two teams, each 
 led by a Hayden, against one another in a battle to see which team can kill the other's leader 
 first. Infection challenges one player, as Hayden, to kill as many of the other players as possible 
 before they manage to bring him down. When you're not playing as Hayden, you assume the role of 
 a garden-variety soldier armed only with a firearm, explosives, and the ability to move in and 
 out of cover. One Hayden versus everybody else might not sound like a fair fight, but when used 
 in conjunction with shield and stealth abilities, Hayden's glaive-and-firearm combo gives him a 
 significant edge over the competition. With that said, playing as Hayden is much more challenging 
 now that there's the potential for so many more players to come after you.  

  Neither the game types nor the maps really lend themselves to groups of less than a dozen or so 
 players, so it's really unfortunate that there's no online play. However, bots can be used to make 
 up the numbers in the likely event that you have less than 32 players on your LAN. Like the enemies 
 in the single-player game, the bots generally exhibit intelligent behavior but occasionally slip 
 up. Regardless, Dark Sector's multiplayer modes are a lot of fun even when you're playing as a 
 soldier, and the biggest disappointment is simply that there aren't more modes or maps. A straight-up 
 deathmatch option in which everyone has Hayden's abilities would probably be chaotic, but this 
 seems like a missed opportunity regardless, as does the vehicle that you commandeer for a time 
 in the single-player game but which is nowhere to be found in multiplayer.  

           Without online support the multiplayer modes are unlikely to see much action.      

 
  Dark Sector still manages to impress visually, though you'll occasionally stumble upon low-resolution 
 textures while searching with a flashlight in darkened corners for pickups. Widescreen support 
 is also less than perfect, considering that opting for any of the supported 16:10 or 16:9 resolutions 
 crops off the top and bottom of the screen and slightly stretches what's left vertically. Furthermore, 
 it's a little jarring in such a realistic-looking world that your glaive frequently travels through 
 walls on its way back to you, but then this is a game that really tests your ability to suspend 
 disbelief at every opportunity, given the nature of its puzzles and the lack of storyline. The 
 game's audio is also worthy of note, thanks to an original score that does a great job of letting 
 you know when danger is present or past. Likewise, some really satisfying sound effects make the 
 weapons feel powerful, the environments feel creepy and abandoned, and some of the enemies far 
 more intimidating than they deserve.  

  As much fun as Dark Sector is, this PC port isn't everything that it should have been. Bumping 
 up the multiplayer count from 10 to 32 is all well and good, but the modes and the maps aren't 
 designed with that many players in mind, and the lack of online is unforgivable. The PC version 
 of Dark Sector should have been an opportunity for the underappreciated multiplayer modes from 
 the console games to finally find an audience, but as it stands this is an inferior game that's 
 fun only for as long as it takes you to reach and defeat the final boss in the single-player mode. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NavIGOtoR25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:31 am PT
Review:  The project with huge potential chooses two ways - or to open it completely, or only slightly. 
 Dark Sector has chosen other, third exit - it is impossible to tell that all is made ideally, but 
 game left quite good. From what all prepare it? Take a banal plot adjusted for the protagonist, 
 fill in average quality the drawing, raise temperature, establishing dynamics on 8, and add certain 
 abilities and possibilities . The recipe 
 on 8 points - bon appetit... 
  But here half-ball has not gathered additionally Dark Sector for one simple reason - monotony and 
 strange behaviour AI. Battles identical, sometimes, with silly enemies, whatever one may do, will 
 not prevent game to bring pleasure and to bewitch at some o'clock. 
  Game from the category has passed and... Has not forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aboal3z
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 3:33 am PT
Review:  The sector is my favourite weapon when he throw it and it return it is beautiful move.
  The hero look is nice .
  The best thing in hte game is the hero can take guns and the sector.
 
  the last thing I can say it it is relay good game.
  
  The sector is my favourite weapon when he throw it and it return it is beautiful move.
  The hero 
 look is nice .
  The best thing in hte game is the hero can take guns and the sector.
  the last thing I can say it it is relay good game.
  
  
  The sector is my favourite weapon 
 when he throw it and it return it is beautiful move.
  The hero look is nice .
  The best thing in hte game is the hero can take guns and the sector.
  the last thing I can say 
 it it is relay good game.
  
  
  The sector is my favourite weapon when he throw it and it return it is beautiful move.
  The hero 
 look is nice .
  The best thing in hte game is the hero can take guns and the sector.
  the last thing I can say it it is relay good game.
  
  
  The sector is my favourite weapon 
 when he throw it and it return it is beautiful move.
  The hero look is nice .
  The best thing in hte game is the hero can take guns and the sector.
  the last thing I can say 
 it it is relay good game.
  
  
  The sector is my favourite weapon when he throw it and it return it is beautiful move.
  The hero 
 look is nice .
  The best thing in hte game is the hero can take guns and the sector.
  the last thing I can say it it is relay good game.
  
  
  The sector is my favourite weapon 
 when he throw it and it return it is beautiful move.
  The hero look is nice .
  The best thing in hte game is the hero can take guns and the sector.
  the last thing I can say 
 it it is relay good game.
  
  
  The sector is my favourite weapon when he throw it and it return it is beautiful move.
  The hero 
 look is nice .
  The best thing in hte game is the hero can take guns and the sector.
  the last thing I can say it it is relay good game.
  
  
  The sector is my favourite weapon 
 when he throw it and it return it is beautiful move.
  The hero look is nice .
  The best thing in hte game is the hero can take guns and the sector.
  the last thing I can say 
 it it is relay good game.
  
  
  The sector is my favourite weapon when he throw it and it return it is beautiful move.
  The hero 
 look is nice .
  The best thing in hte game is the hero can take guns and the sector.
  the last thing I can say it it is relay good game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bludbathurikane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:53 am PT
Review:  Dark sector is a decent game with many unique features. It is more or less on the lines of Gears 
 of War with respect to game play. But otherwise, it has a unique combat style (due to the introduction 
 of the glaive) and a good storyline.
  
  The game is set in a near future Soviet country where a biological compound infests people with 
 painful mutation which drive them crazy. The main character Hayden is also infected, but due to 
 a certain disease he cannot feel pain and thus keeps his sanity. The good part is the mutation 
 dramatically changes Hayden's right arm giving him a three bladed throwable weapon known as the 
 glaive which can be controlled remotely. It can be used to kill enemies, as a sort of boomerang 
 and also to solve some environmental puzzles. At the end of each chapter Hayden gets a unique ability 
 which he uses to fight through hordes of infected and enemy soldiers.
  
  This is NOT the typical zombie shooting game (not at all!) . The glaive brings in a whole new dimension 
 to combat, making them a lot of fun to play, even though sort of repetitive. Boss battles are also 
 extremely well crafted and often require some out of the box thinking. The glaive can be used in 
 a number of ways like generating light and harnessing electricity from nearby power sources. Later 
 in the game Hayden also gains the ability to form an invincible shield and become invisible for 
 a short time. The player has to use the environment and all these abilities in a proper sequence 
 to defeat the boss. Sometimes, however, the unique way of defeating the boss doesn't seem very 
 logical. For example, why the Jackal Tank can't be destroyed simply by deflecting the missiles 
 it hurls towards Hayden? Anyways, the environmental setting of the game is also very nice and doesn't 
 make the player feel very gloomy or nauseous as with most games of this genre. 
  
  This game doesn't feature many multiplayer options.
  
  Finally this game, for what it is, is 
 a must for all action RPG fans. Here is a quick look at its good and bad points.
  
  The good
   Innovative combat style
   Good storyline
   Decent graphics
   Involved boss 
 battles
   Doesn't make the player feel very gloomy after long hours of gameplay
  
  The bad
   Limited multiplayer options
   Certain points in the storyline and gameplay seem 
 artificial.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightyWhitey
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 10, 2009 8:38 am PT
Review:  (warning: this is all my opinion. you have your own.)
  
  I did not even get where this game was going! I got past the first part or chapter or w/e its called! 
 and it just seemed like all the stuff the resident evils were lacking. but not fun and horridly 
 made.
  
  plus i was expecting more of a stealth game play like it shows in the intro. so i saw quite a bit 
 of false advertisement in that.
  
  it looks pretty good! only thing is it didn't bring anything new to the table for 3rd person shooters. 
 
  
  boring Run 'N Gun shooter! 
  
  try it if u want. its a waste of money and time to play in my opinion.
  
  i noticed when you 
 walk into a room its like gears of war. it doesn't matter if your in the shadow of the room or 
 anything its all Q'd.
  
  it was a major letdown for what i was expecting.
  
  anyway,
  
  make up your own minds this is just one bad experience don't let reading this ruin it for you.
 
  
  i just strongly urge that u wait till its like 9.99 on the shelf at best-buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Havoc_
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The game starts as an interesting entry, we have a guy whos on a mission, and soon we learn a whole 
 new dimention of pain and agony.
  This game developers tried very hard to make this game as challanging as it sounds, however they 
 failed at propper implementation of the main characters prime weapon, The Glaive.
  Enemies lurk behind corners and we learn how to use our new toy swiftly, most of the games mechanics 
 are intuitive, but with the enviroment compleately unbreakable we can't say we had a lot of fun 
 in it. 
  Soon into the games early stages we can find ourselves in a lot of trouble, sometimes we may find 
 enemies being born out of nowhere, and l frequently found myself at awe seing some enemies going 
 out of walls and shooting me in the back, an obvious bug but very disrupting, for the main weapon 
 usage the melee part of combat is lacking it's usage , the melee attacks are composed of auto targetting 
 on current enemy and whacking (sometimes missing) the enemy with a glaive or kicks, not very original 
 way of fighting for an assassin, the best combat system was developed over ranged combat, throwing 
 your Glaive on enemies and ocasionaly cutting their heads or other parts of bodies off is fun.
 
  
  The game attacks a very small area of entertainment, melee combat combined with a thrown weapon 
 is rare, but in this place you learn very fast that the game is lacking a lot of content, it's 
 price shouldn't be as much as behind the title you expect a dark and luring game, the game is not 
 dark by any degree, almost 70% of combat is in bright daylight, the rest is in sewers that are 
 rather light.
  
  If you would want to think about spending your money on this game or Prince of Persia, l'd go after 
 the latter.
  
  Ambitious plan but failed heavily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alan_Wake_x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 11:51 pm PT
Review:  played, finished,, and i think it's pretty cool, actually i think it's great, but...
  
  holdin' the controller, playin' the action in DS, u feel like playin' GOF once again.. but with 
 few new addy's, n less graphics.
  
  the new things were cool, like the new blade weapon, and the way u can controll it, the story, 
 and the way u feel while ur playin' it, and all the suspense is way better than GOF, the graphics, 
 no comparison GOf is the winner.
  
  moves like cover/dodge/sprint, or actions like pickup/reload, and almost everything, are the same 
 way, the same mouvement, and also the same buttons...
  
  close combats and bossfights are almost the same, but in this section, i give DS 10.0.
  
  bossfights 
 were amazin', n u can actually use ur brain by thinkin' 'bout a way to finish the dude!... but there's 
 somethin' abvious in this game, comin' out of the screen , callin' "i'm fake!!!".
  
  in GOF u just shoot and shoot, and shoot more.. untill u finish the game. w'll it is a sci-fi shooter 
 game, but it doesn't mean that good aimin' is what's all about...
  
  with all this i still think that Dark Sector is a great game, n in fact what i think is that it's 
 way better than Gears Of War...
  
  but the copy-cut thing, w'll i don't think it would bother anybody, but i think it's just rude... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Read review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3815,0. html
  
  Huge blockbusters such as Gears of War and Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare often set the standards 
 going forward for their particular genres, spawning multiple "clones" that attempt to live up to 
 their original progenitors while introducing specific twists. Most of these efforts are shunned 
 by the public, and rightfully so. However, once in a while, a game does enough to warrant a second 
 look. Dark Sector is one such example.
  
  From the start, the campaign sets off a dark and oppressive mood that is a tad more interesting 
 than what we've seen in most dark and oppressive games. Gameplay basics are build around the run, 
 cover and shoot mechanics that Gears of War pioneered 2 years ago, so any shooter fan won't have 
 much difficulty picking up the game and playing.
  
  Dark Sector's unique twist is the glaive that your character (named Hayden) comes across after 
 the first few moments of the game. It is a powerful weapon, decapitating or dismembering enemies 
 in brutal "finisher" moves or slicing through groups of soldiers after you've thrown it. In fact, 
 the glaive is so powerful and useful in combat, you'll find yourself using conventional weapons 
 less and less as the plot progresses and its powers grow. Besides being a weapon, the glaive allows 
 you to pick up distant items and unlock doors. Its most intriguing application is its ability to 
 absorb "elements" such as fire, ice and electricity, allowing you to destroy your enemies in even 
 more spectacular ways. There are also some puzzles, most of which involve burning sheets of goo 
 that you often find blocking your way. They become a little too frequent and actually end up slowing 
 the pace of the game too much. There are also some unwieldy exploratory sequences, but they provide 
 you with currency that you can use to buy weapons at the black market. Despite these hurdles, the 
 brutal combat and stop-and-pop action come pretty close to offering an alternative to a Gears campaign.
 
  
  Hayden encounters several bosses along his journey and they are actually quite diverse, requiring 
 different weapons and tactics to take them down. They aren't overly difficult (strangely, the game 
 has only one difficulty setting) but the real trick is figuring out the key to beating them. You'll 
 rarely die in these or other encounters, as Hayden recharges health quickly and is able to take 
 quite a beating. In general, the campaign doesn't do much new, but it retains solid and unique-enough 
 game mechanics that allow it to rise above mediocrity.
  
  Visually, Dark Sector has few weaknesses. Although it runs on proprietary technology, it usually 
 manages to pull off most of the same graphical tricks that games using the more prestigious Unreal 
 Engine 3 are able to show off. There are some low quality textures, but they don't take away much 
 from the overall experience. Audio design is pretty impressive as well, amping up the creepiness 
 factor of certain enemies and environments.
  
  Even the just-released PC port of Dark Sector can be had at a budget price, so there are definitely 
 worse ways of spending your gaming dollars. The game also features a rather simplistic multiplayer 
 offering, consisting of two modes. Epidemic has two teams of soldiers led by Haydens trying to 
 kill the opposing team's leader while Infection pits one Hayden against everybody else. These modes 
 are fine, but player populations on both console versions are rather sparse. In fact, this is one 
 area where the PC version has a distinct disadvantage, as multiplayer can only be played over LAN.
 
  
  It's not the next million-selling shooter blockbuster, but Dark Sector does manage to capture the 
 one ingredient that many games seem to forget to convey: fun. For $20, you can hardly go wrong 
 with Dark Sector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plastik01
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 28, 2009 10:43 pm PT
Review:  in this game there really is only cons. even though this game was just released, the graphics are 
 very low quality as if it was made in 2006 or earlier even. textures are low resolution for the 
 most part. level designs are small, and not very inspiring. nearly everything is low polygon as 
 well. it really only uses minimal effects.
  
  very few cut scenes, almost no story line, short game. each level consists of 1-3 areas of a few 
 waves of enemies. AI is horrible. just a point and click shooter with no real depth. game gets 
 quite repetitive and boring early on. has a few area's with no real clear way of continuing, requiring 
 more luck and repetitiveness than skill or logic. controls aren't always reliable. weapons are 
 simple with no alternate firing modes. default control config isn't optimal.
  
  even a casual gamer that wants an easy third person shooter would find this game boring. 
  
 
  the only pro for this game is that it runs very well and smooth, although this is due to it's 
 cheap graphics. I'm sure even a reasonably old onboard video card could probably run this game 
 maxed out with no problems. 
  
  Don't bother with this one, there are far better looking games from the last 5 years that offer 
 just as much or more in gameplay, story lines or lack thereof, and graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  First, it must be said that if you have a strong inclination for third-person shooter you can't 
 go wrong with buying Dark Sector -- $20 is a great deal. If a third-person shooter is something 
 you play now and then for fun, you could also wait and see if this game gets even cheaper. 
  
  There are many positive things about this game. The most important ... well, it's lots of fun. 
 It also very quickly becomes a rather cool action once you learn to use the glaive (spinning tri-blade) 
 that is actually a part of the character's body due to an infection. The game seems to be well 
 thought out (including weapons trader) , slowly raising difficulty as you progress and acquire new 
 skills. The game runs smoothly with no hesitation whatsoever and the Evolution engine really shows 
 its potential in its Unreal3-like quality but we no stuttering.
  
  Positives:
  - no major bugs; runs smoothly
  - graphics: 8.5/10
  - sound: 8/10
  - action: non-stop
  
 - loading new levels: 10/10 (super fast)
  - cover mechanism (not as good as in some other games, but at least it's a good start)
  - re-playability: 
 some, but supposedly there is a multiplayer that I've never tried
  
  All this is great, but then you wonder why would a developer make cheap mistakes at the end. Specifically, 
 I'm talking about the fake widescreen resolutions -- for example I've been playing this game ay 
 1680x1050 which is 16:10 and supposedly the game supports it. However, later you discover that 
 the widescreen is actually simple stretching (this issue is supposedly not present in console versions) . 
 While, most people will still enjoy the game scenery, the big console reticule will look egg-shaped 
 (tall) , which is annoying to say the least.
  
  Negatives:
  - strong console-like feel (including the reticule)
  - fake widescreen resolutions
  - game 
 mechanics somewhat stiff (no jump, no crouch, no direction change via mouse when sprinting/running)
 
  - occasionally it's hard to figure out what the game wants you to do or how (but not most of the 
 time)
  
  Overall, this is a game that offers lots of fun for people who like third-person shooters. The 
 price is also right. The positives and positive impressions definitively outweigh the negatives. 
 Overall score: 7.4/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshaymohan24
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the good games I played, It's Graphics is Superb with intensive gameplay. It is 
 one of the great gameplay out here. It is great at graphics and gameplay and also the story is 
 great. We are a secret agent for someone, who gets the infection, this infections gets us the glade, 
 which we throw comes back like a boomerang. The game is very interesting, and happy that there 
 is the covering system. In the gameplay we unlock new new styles for the glade which we can use 
 on the game on the time proceeding. We get a slow motion type thing, in which we can control the 
 glade when we throw, the multi powerful throw is also good. The glade conducts electricity, fire 
 and ice, in which it finds a variety of use in the game. In the gameplay, the proceedings are very 
 unusual, so we might sometimes need a helpline to proceed in some levels. The Human bad guys are 
 good looking, fat guys who shoot at us, to kill us so that the infection won't be spread. The aliens 
 (something like aliens) that is actually the infected ones run to us, while it becomes very difficult 
 to control and aim at them and throw the glade. The graphics now, the blur motion is the best in 
 the game. As I bought the game, I feel pretty good that, the game is good!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockmasteR-_-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:53 am PT
Review:  When I saw one of my friends playing Dark Sector on the PS3, I just said, we need that kind of 
 games on the PC, games like Dead Space, Resident Evil 4, Gears of War.
  and Now here it comes, Dark Sector for the PC.
  I really was hesitant of getting the game for 
 several reasons, and one of them is that lots of ported games ended to be a buggy and frustrating 
 games.
  But I did get the game, and did I regret it?
  Hell, no.
  I was really surprised how the game's frame rate did not drop all the time I was playing it.
 
  I mean I have a Geforce 9400 GT and I played the game on 1024 x 768 with all settings on high, 
 and I got an average FPS of 40.
  The game engine is very well done, and the graphics are beautifully made, and the game earned its 
 place in the next generation games.
  the gameplay is so fun and the glaive really never gets old.
  the only bad thing about the game 
 is the story.
  it has a weak story that can make you understand why are you doing this, why are you killing that, 
 so you don't have a clear objective, you just want to kill, kill and kill, and believe me, it's 
 so much fun to do it.
  So if you are looking for a game that resembles to Gears of War and a little bit of Resident Evil, 
 well here it is, Dark Sector is your answer.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
