-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Fall - The Journal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/darkfalljournal/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  6, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 7.2, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 153 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: XXV Productions
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jul 25, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Adventure-game fans who are patient and love ghost or detective stories will find a challenging 
 mystery in Dark Fall. 

  A lot of traditional adventure games put you in settings that are oddly, even comically, devoid 
 of characters. Train stations, docks, markets, and museums all seem unrealistically deserted, except 
 for a few conveniently placed characters you're supposed to interact with. It's a bizarre convention 
 that's very much tied to the design of old adventure games -- a genre that tends to live in the past, 
 for better or worse. In Dark Fall - The Journal, you won't see any characters at all, but there's 
 a good reason. Dark Fall sends you to a small English town that time seems to have forgotten after 
 the 1940s -- a town where the people are missing, but where their ghosts are all too present. Dark 
 Fall breaks no new ground and puts too much emphasis on puzzles, but its meticulously detailed 
 world and paranormal detective story generally keep things entertaining.  

          Dark Fall takes place in and around a gloomy hotel.     

  Dark Fall opens with a mysterious 
 phone call from your brother, an architect surveying an old train station and an adjoining hotel 
 in the country town of Dowerton. Thanks to an economic downturn and the "unhealthy" interest of 
 the press in some strange disappearances in town, the world has pretty much passed Dowerton by. 
 The train station is closed, and the locals and tourists who didn't vanish suspiciously ended up 
 leaving peacefully. Still, your brother's firm sees some hope for the place in the form of a major 
 renovation and renewal project. You learn from your brother's message that some university students, 
 Nigel and Polly, also have a keen interest in the area. They're armed with high-tech surveillance 
 equipment, and they're hunting for ghosts there.  

  When you arrive at the old train station to meet your brother, you're immediately hailed by the 
 disembodied voice of a boy, so it's safe to assume these ghosts are more than just the fevered 
 imaginings of some college kids. What's even more disturbing is the fact that your brother is now 
 missing. It's up to you to unravel the mystery of Dowerton, a mystery involving alchemy, astronomy, 
 English history, and plenty of eerie happenings, such as lights blinking out one after another 
 and everyday objects taking on a life of their own.  

  You'll need to search through each of the hotel's rooms and a bit of the surrounding area to solve 
 the mystery. Unfortunately, you spend almost all your time in the hotel, rummaging through one 
 room after another. The whole process is repetitious, and run-down hotel rooms, haunted or not, 
 just seem too prosaic for an adventure game, as one of the most exciting aspects of the genre is 
 its ability to whisk players away to exotic locales.  

  In addition, the game puts too much emphasis on puzzle solving, and some of the puzzles, while 
 quite interesting because of their intricate detail and diversity, can be too obscure and perplexing. 
 It's also a shame that the game so often relies on the old adventure-game clich of telling 
 its story through clues offered by written materials -- materials written by and about absent characters. 
 Poring over note after note, journal entry after journal entry, and computer file after computer 
 file can get tiresome in a hurry. Dark Fall is supposed to be a game, after all, not a book.  

 
  At least making your way through the world of Dark Fall is pretty easy. You view the world from 
 a first-person perspective and move from one largely static scene to another using a simple point-and-click 
 interface. The cursor changes to an arrow when you can move somewhere, switches to a magnifying 
 glass when you can look more closely at something, and so forth. It's a simple, unobtrusive system 
 that generally works well, though it sometimes requires you to point too precisely. The inventory 
 system is equally straightforward, but while you can pick up certain items, you can't keep the 
 myriad papers and books you find scattered about, so you'll need to make countless notes of your 
 own for future reference.  

          Though the game's graphics aren't exactly amazing, its presentation does feature a fair 
 amount detail.     

  To find these clues, you'll need to search through a very gloomy world. Whether you're out exploring 
 a dense thicket under the stars or tiptoeing through the hotel's poorly lit rooms, you'll find 
 shadows everywhere. This is more than appropriate, though it can be a bit monotonous. Still, there 
 are usually plenty of interesting and even creepy things to see, like cryptic alchemical symbols 
 scrawled on walls or disturbing images captured by Nigel and Polly's surveillance cameras. A wealth 
 of carefully re-created period detail also helps draw you into the scenes. Quaint architecture, 
 art deco lamps, antique telephones and bathroom fixtures, and authentic old-time railroad posters, 
 like a famous Southern Railway advertisement from 1936, all help set the stage effectively.  

 
  Like so many adventure games, Dark Fall's graphics are limited to an antiquated and grainy 640x480 
 resolution; it would have been nice to have seen the game's well-crafted art in more detail. The 
 game also has the annoying habit of lowering your monitor's refresh rate to headache-inducing levels 
 and then not switching the rate back up when you exit the game, forcing you to reset it by hand 
 each time you quit. The game's audio is actually one of its biggest weaknesses. Ghostly voices 
 and mysterious creaks and moans often sound like low-budget sound effects. As you play, you'll 
 find that they're just as likely to detract from the atmosphere as add to it.  

  Dark Fall is slow-paced and short, and it lacks the gripping story or exotic locales of the best 
 adventure games. However, adventure-game fans who are patient and love ghost or detective stories 
 will find a challenging mystery in Dark Fall -- one that will really put their sleuthing skills to 
 the test.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: godziv
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  first of all , I have to say that I paid 3.75$ for the game. So I wasn't expecting too much. I 
 do love adventure games a lot , so I can be picky at times. Dark fall isn't awful but it is not 
 worth your time for sure.
  
  The graphics are outdated but after a while, you don't pay attention to them.
  The story is quite 
 interesting but very long also. There is a lot of reading and a lot of clicking also.
  
  Some rooms have so few things to look , that you start clicking everywhere hoping to find more 
 . After doing that a lot , you just start getting tired of clicking everywhere to find more stuff
 
  
  Some puzzles are very hard since you have to take so many notes that It kills the flow a bit.
 
  
  The sounds in the game are supposed to keep you on the edge of your seat .... they do at first but 
 they are too repetitive and they lost their power.
  
  Even the ending isn't very exciting. If you are curious , try it , but Dark Fall is definitely 
 a game you will forget very quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Ugh! After the first hour of playing I was bored to tears. I was expecting a spooky atmospheric 
 game that would keep me intrigued and make me almost crap my pants, the only thing it did was put 
 me to sleep. If anyone out there suffers from insomnia then this game will actually cure you. 
 
  To get through this game as quickly as possible without slipping into a comma I printed out the 
 walkthrough. 
  If I had to actually read through all the bits and pieces of papers and try to figure out the nonsense 
 puzzles on my own only to be rewarded with the crapola ending that I saw, I don't know what I would 
 have done. 
  Serves me right for reading the reviews but still insisting on playing the game. Please heed the 
 reviews don't make the same mistake I made, unless you like clicking and clicking and clicking 
 and zzzzzz oh wait there is tons more clicking to do, through a useless game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jinsing129
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Some point and click games are fun, some are educational, some are boring. This one is the latter 
 of the three. I could not get further then the first few areas in this game before I fell asleep 
 at my computer. The ensuing shock I received from the drool dripping from my gaping mouth on to 
 my keyboard was the most excitement I had during my time with this snooze fest. I highly recommend 
 this game for anyone suffering from insomnia, as it will ensure that you have a good night sleep. 
 But seriously don't buy this game you'll be wasting your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBiker51
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a LOT better than what Gamespot thinks of it. Most of the points marked against it 
 are undoubtedly its graphics and old  
 . If you consider that this was made by one man, the graphics are great! Also, the game definately 
 gives you some major thrills. Just because you can't die and the game is slow-paced doesn't mean 
 it won't make you wet yourself. I almost did a few times! :)
  
  What is really important to me about this game is atmosphere and story. This game is DAMN scary. 
 Play with the lights out, sound turned way up, and with a trusty pair of headphones for the full 
 effect.
  
  Sound is sweet. The little whispers, your brother's hypnotized speech as he opens the door, the 
 spine-chilling sound when he opens the door (how did he make that insane sound?) , it's all wonderful.
 
  
  I guess the big problem is that it was released under The Adventure Company, when the game itself 
 was indie-made. If it was a downloadable game, maybe they would be more merciful. Also, The Adventure 
 Company has had a history of pumping out meidocre games. All I'm trying to say is that the only 
 way Gamespot will ever give an adventure game a good review is if it's hands-down truly badass 
 in every way possible. If you want to read a REAL review, I suggest websites like justadventure. com, 
 adventuregamers. com, and fourfatchicks. com. If you are a fan of adventure games, pick up Dark Fall. 
 You won't be disappointed.
  
  Oh, and look for Barrow Hill, another, more recent horror game made in conjunction with this guy 
 and a great team. Until next time, I'm JBiker51, and this has been a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy_Dark
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Dark Fall - The Journal is almost flawless, something we don't get to see often, specially in adventure 
 games. I has an immersive environment that really spooked me at times, and a very well constructed 
 storyline (again, we don't get that too often...) .
  The graphics are very dark, but perfectly balanced, with incredible detail, giving it a realistic 
 quality that adds much to the gameplay and overall atmosphere.
  The sound, in my opinion, is what really elevates the quality of this game to an excellent level. 
 Simply great, with scary sound elements thar you don't really see coming. Wonderful.
  
  The puzzles have just the right level of difficulty, nothing too complicated that keeps you from 
 ending the game, or too easy that drives your interest away. Beware, you have to think (rationally) 
 to solve the puzzles, so you won't stumble on stuff that doesn't make sense like some games of 
 this genre. Here all makes sense, and is rather enjoyable to solve, I must add.
  
  In conclusion, I must say this is one of the few games that could make me waste some time writing 
 this review. It really deserves. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Dark Fall looked like an intriguing game with atmospheric locations and the story about ghosts 
 and hauntings really ought to have made it brilliant. However it's no more than bland and boring.
 
  
  Yes, the visuals and the various rooms of the abandoned hotel and train station ARE very impressive. 
 But there is so much of NOTHING to do in them. The gameplay is kind of like the Myst games, being 
 that when the arrow is moved over something important, the icon changes. But almost every screen 
 in Dark Fall is completely non-interactive, so it's no more than a slide-show tour of an old hotel. 
 What's the point?
  
  It could have been creepy and the idea of answering ringing phones to have a ghost talk to you 
 is completely wasted as it doesn't affect the gameplay one bit. There is a bit of humor in the 
 newspaper clippings (be prepared to read loads of them) and in the voices of snobby ghosts but 
 it's not enough to save this dull game from dying so quickly.
  
  If you absolutely MUST then don't spend more than a few pounds/dollars. But there are loads of 
 better games out there so you'll probably never even give it that much of a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beanhead1274
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 21, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  It took me about 3 hours just to figure the puzzles which were kind of difficult. I loved the graphics 
 and the sound is good. I play this one over and over again because I'm always finding something 
 new. Even though I finished the game I know I left somethings out. I did get lost alot but eventually 
 figured it out. I liked the way the story played out. I took me awhile to even realized the little 
 boy left a note. I walked passed it alot. The ringing of the phone was really scary. I can't wait 
 to play part 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20151354817796118160273854041583-IsisLily13
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Dark Fall: The Journal is a supernaturally-themed point and click mystery game. You take on the 
 role of a skeptical British man whose brother has been helping to redesign an abandoned train station 
 in the country. Unfortunately, the aforementioned brother has now disappeared. Finding him will 
 prove to be more difficult than expected, once you discover that something other than dust bunnies 
 inhabit this place...
  
  Dark Fall boasts the same point and click gameplay interface familiar to fans of this genre. It 
 is easy to navigate, and Dark Fall is a step above the game when it comes to the design of it's 
 environments. In some games, the key items sorely stick out from the rest of the environment, but 
 Dark Fall has gorgeous, seamless scenery. Each room you enter is richly detailed, and there is 
 actually a lot of content in this game that is optional, but fills in a lot more of the story. 
 The story itself is also strong, drawing on England's mystical reputation to give it a feeling 
 of mystery and intrigue.
  
  Dark Fall is the most frightening point and click mystery I've ever come across. The graphics are 
 good enough to make you feel like you are actually walking through an abandoned train station, 
 and the personal effects left behind by the victims of whatever it is that you are chasing serve 
 to send a satisfactory little chill up the spine. In addition, the sound in Dark Fall is spectacular. 
 There are plenty of creaks, bumps, and other strange, unidentifiable noises. Dark Fall also entices 
 you with near glimpses of the creature that you are pursuing, and the fact that you never get to 
 look the creature in the face on any of these occasions makes you almost too nervous to continue 
 playing.
  
  Unfortunately, the ending is where Dark Fall falters, and the ending should be one of the most 
 memorable parts of a game. After a game filled with interesting puzzles, lots of character background, 
 and a little mythology, the ending of Dark Fall is anticlimactic and entirely too easy, not to 
 mention completely ungratifying. I've never played it again for precisely this reason. For $20, 
 this game certainly isn't worth a look, unless you're looking for a big letdown. Despite all the 
 good things, you should probably wait until it's in the bargain bin to pick this one up. Just remember 
 to appreciate it while you're playing it and not wait until afterwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayko_05
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:51 am PT
Review:  I got this game, thankfully, for only $10.00, and I was looking forward to playing it (as I am 
 a fan of mystery games) . What I got was boring, dull, and frustrating.
  
  I tried to complete this game without a walkthrough, but it was difficult, and I ended up having 
 to look at one anyway.
  I got lost in this game; it was frustrating trying to remember where I was and where I needed to 
 go. 
  The graphics are decent, but the sound is cheesy and repetitive. The ghosts didn't even scare me; 
 they sounded dull and completely fake. 
  
  If you are a major mystery fan (meaning you'll love a good mystery no matter what) , then you may 
 enjoy this game. I, however, did not enjoy it as much as I wanted to, and I love a good mystery.
 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
