-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dark Fall: Lights Out
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/darkfalliilightsout/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 20, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 7.0, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 118 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: XXV Productions
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 31, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you played last year's Dark Fall - The Journal, then you've virtually played its follow-up, Dark 
 Fall: Lights Out. Both games share almost identical weaknesses and strengths. 

  If you played last year's Dark Fall: The Journal, then you've virtually played its follow-up, Dark 
 Fall: Lights Out. Both games were designed and programmed by the same man, Jonathan Boakes; both 
 have a very similar feel; and both share almost identical weaknesses and strengths. Like the first 
 Dark Fall, Lights Out suffers from a static slideshow presentation, dull and cryptic storytelling, 
 almost no interaction with other characters, only a few main locations to explore, weak audio, 
 and technical problems. On the bright side, Lights Out again displays Boakes' obvious love for 
 British landscapes and lore and his penchant for meticulously detailed game environments. Lights 
 Out takes no major steps forward, but it still has some good things to offer.  

          Get ready to do lots of reading.     

  In Lights Out, you play as a cartographer in 
 1912 England. You're commissioned, under mysterious circumstances, to do mapping in a Cornish seaside 
 town noted for its ill-fated lighthouse. Upon arriving at the tiny village, you meet up with the 
 suspicious doctor responsible for your visit. Unfortunately, this meeting is only described in 
 the text of your character's journal. As in the original Dark Fall, Lights Out relies way too heavily 
 on journal entries, book excerpts, and other text to tell its overly cryptic story. Such a static, 
 tedious storytelling device does nothing to take advantage of the computer-game medium, which thrives 
 on interactivity and cinematic sweep.  

  Later, you do meet the doctor face to face for a moment. Actually, you only see part of his face, 
 and you barely get to interact with him at all. The game's only other encounter with a living person 
 is equally brief and, frankly, silly. You just view a woman's eye through a keyhole, and you have 
 to knock on the door in code to answer a couple of yes/no questions from her.  

  Despite such major storytelling flaws, Lights Out still features an interesting setting that should 
 appeal to fans of old-fashioned ghost stories. Your job is to solve unexplained events in and around 
 the old lighthouse, including the disappearance and supposed murder of its staff. As you investigate 
 the mystery, you're mostly restricted to searching the lighthouse and its immediate environs. Fortunately, 
 the story has you traveling back and forth through time to visit the same area in widely different 
 eras, from the prehistoric past to the future. Seeing the same locale change across the centuries 
 proves to be one of the more interesting features of Lights Out.  

  Unfortunately, the story and setting are never more than interesting -- and then only intermittently. 
 The game is supposed to be a ghostly mystery, but it's not even remotely frightening. A few incomprehensible 
 voice-overs, low-budget sound effects, and sparse music just don't create chills and thrills -- nor 
 does seeing an occasional blurry green aura around objects, courtesy of a "ghost hunter's" high-tech 
 goggles. There's just no emotional pull to this game.  

  Even if Lights Out doesn't grab you emotionally, it can at least test you intellectually. The puzzles 
 will challenge your observation skills, requiring you to carefully examine every inch of the game's 
 environments for clues. (In fact, it can be too easy to overlook a few vital items.) Outside of 
 a few straightforward inventory puzzles, you'll most often need to make sense of various codes 
 used to unlock doors or to operate machines. While the puzzles are few in number and not particularly 
 diverse, they're at least challenging without being frustrating.  

  While Lights Out doesn't have too much going for it as far as story and gameplay, it does sport 
 some engaging visuals. The game relies on a woefully dated slideshow-style presentation and the 
 graphics are limited to a resolution of 800x600, though that's actually a step up from the original 
 Dark Fall. On top of that, the graphics still suffer from a major technical glitch that marred 
 the first game. When you boot up Lights Out, it lowers your monitor's refresh rate to headache-inducing 
 levels and fails to reset it when you exit the game.  

          Meticulously detailed environments help make up for bland gameplay and storytelling.   
   

  Despite those drawbacks, the visuals often boast meticulous detail. As you rummage through futuristic 
 crew quarters or a present-day tourist gift shop, you'll discover a wealth of detail that makes 
 each place feel real and lived in. You can spend many minutes poring over some of the scenes, noting 
 convincingly antique maps or log books during the game's 1912 segment, animal hides drying in the 
 sun in the game's prehistoric setting, and a sleek mp3 player in the game's futuristic version 
 of the lighthouse.  

  While the visuals can certainly be pleasant, Dark Fall: Lights Out is ultimately unambitious and 
 relies on very dated and dry presentation methods. It's also very short; you can finish it in a 
 day. Overall, it feels strikingly like its predecessor, though with a bit more visual polish and 
 a tad more diversity, thanks to the ability to visit the same locale across the years. All told, 
 Lights Out is a decent but unremarkable little adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Coldsoul9077
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  In Dark Fall II : Lights Out you play the role of a cartographer summoned to the small decadent 
 town of Trewarthan in 1912. Shortly after waking from a nightmarish dream you are called by a voice 
 in the darkness. You meet up with a man by the name of Demorian, whom is asking you for a favor. 
 After briefly speaking with him you're to go back to your room to gather some supplies for you're 
 journey to the mysterious lighthouse on Fetch Rock. Immediately you'll find yourself pouring over 
 journals and looking through pictures, as the game mostly relies on your ability to investigate 
 and gather information. Though it may seem tiresome at first you'll soon find yourself searching 
 for every bit of information you can find to put the story together. The puzzles are challenging 
 and well placed through the game which is why it doesn't take long for the story to immerse you
 
  
  The sound in the game can get bland and repetitious with minor stuttering and jumping. The game 
 audio does offer lots of spooks and scares through out the game. For instance you might be reading 
 a journal and hear something that makes you want to throw down the book and check the room to see 
 if it's even safe to be in. All in all I think the sound is the second strongest point to the game 
 as it makes the story all the scarier The overall detail of the game is very good, though I noticed 
 stuttering with the animation of some objects, and one the the very few confrontations with another 
 person is clunky at best. Fortunately the textures and environment look great and well detailed
 
  
  The Game play shows some troubles from time to time and can get pretty tiresome. Sometime you have 
 a hard time finding the right spot to click or cannot find objects. You'll find yourself moving 
 more times then you clicked or wracking your brain toying to get down stairs. I haven't played 
 many point and click games but moving around and the overall game okay was one of the down falls 
 of the game in my best opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webofvirtues
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of adventure games, and The Adventure Company has dropped the ball yet again. This 
 game made absolutely no sense, the hints were very abstract and distant, there was far too much 
 maze - walking through twisted, and sometimes undefined, paths to try and lengthen the game, and 
 the ending was a real letdown. Do yourself a favour and watch some water boil, its far more interesting 
 than this waste of resin. In the games only defense, the graphics and audio are very good, and 
 this is where this company excels, but with nothing to back these up its just abstract pics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 3.1
Date: Oct 20, 2004 11:08 pm PT
Review:  There is little to be said of Dark Fall: Lights Out. Absolutely nothing in this game has not been 
 done before, and done better. It's your basic adventure gaming, with a decidedly wordy flair. In 
 fact, this game would have made a MUCH better short story than a game. I would much rather dig 
 up my old copies of Day Of The Tentacle, Alone In The Dark, or Indiana Jones and play them over 
 again than play this, because unlike DF: LO, they were FUN. I would go so far as to say that the 
 appelation "adventure game" is really false, because this game lacks any semblance of what a reasonable 
 person would consider "adventure". Obviously the developers saw that people were willing to read 
 a LOT in the course of playing the various Myst games, and figured that was the angle they wanted. 
 Little did they realize we read a lot while playing Myst because it was engaging material, concerning 
 interesting personalities. WHOOPS... none of that here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameAholic2004
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2004 9:39 pm PT
Review:  i liked the sound of the titel so i whent out and got me a copy.
  well lucky for me its not MP and i can trade it ... wich i did.
  
  THIS has to be one dissapointing 
 game, seeing from Screens and Word writen comments i was hoping to unravel sinsaster acts and the 
 forces of the unseen.
  
  its anyoing sound kept distracting me from the game and i didnt like the horror at all.
  why 
 i dont say it sucked realy. but i must say it could have been alot better.
  
  The controlls are horrid, not smooth and contact sensitive is a thing of the past ???
  well the 
 soundkeeps sqeeking and screeking my speakers even affter continues tinkering with my driver and 
 the game.
  
  so i started playing my game, little voice litle story, wait no directions to get u sinking in 
 ???
  
  bah disasturas.
  
  if ur not a hardcore, can u be hardcore ??, adventure gamer, stay away !. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
