-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Darkstone
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/darkstone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 13, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 7.7, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 504 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Delphine Soft.
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Jul 31, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Darkstone essentially takes Diablo a few steps further, which can only be a good thing, right?

 Every once in a while, a game comes along that reminds us of a great game that came before it. In 
 many cases, the new game is branded a clone and may even be condemned for its unoriginal design 
 or gameplay. On the other hand, sometimes the new game is great in its own right, with new features 
 and unique twists that make it different. Such is the case with Darkstone, an action-oriented role-playing 
 game heavily influenced by Diablo, but with enough original content and gameplay to stand apart 
 from the Blizzard classic.  

 It would be easy to label Darkstone a Diablo rip-off. After all, the basic gameplay is virtually 
 identical, and numerous subtleties, from the background music and sound effects to the color of 
 the health and mana potions, appear to be lifted directly from Blizzard's game. Still, Darkstone 
 shakes things up quite a bit with a number of key features. For starters, you get to control two 
 characters at once. This takes some getting used to and can be awkward at times, but it also adds 
 some depth to the gameplay. And although you can opt for only one character in the game, controlling 
 two is actually crucial for success against the game's antagonist, Draak.  

 But the most obvious difference between Diablo and Darkstone is that the newer game uses an all-3D 
 graphics engine with user-controlled camera angles. Though the graphics aren't the greatest you'll 
 ever see on a 3D-accelerated PC, they are very impressive. Apart from the occasional sharp, dangling 
 polygons and the unusually pervasive blocky textures, Darkstone has very slick graphics. The characters 
 are nicely detailed, with a graphic novel sort of look to them that translates well from the illustrations 
 in the game's manual. Also, the lighting and other special effects in the game are excellent. Darkstone's 
 100 monster types are well animated and most of them die dramatic and memorable deaths.  

 Gameplay is similar to Diablo, except that you will have to fight through more dungeon levels, complete 
 more quests, and traverse hostile outdoor regions to succeed. Darkstone essentially takes Diablo 
 a few steps further, which can only be a good thing, right?  

 Your goal is to defeat the aforementioned Draak, an evil monk with the ability to turn into a dragon. 
 In order to smite this nasty villain, you must first acquire seven crystals that can then be combined 
 into a powerful artifact called the Time Orb. With this orb in hand (it looks more like a pointy 
 rock, actually) , you can defeat Draak in the game's final showdown. Getting to that showdown won't 
 be a cakewalk, however. The game throws 32 dungeon levels in your path, along with an array of 
 side quests that pop up at random moments during each new game. Also, the seven core crystal quests 
 are randomly selected (from a total of 22) every time you start a new game. This greatly enhances 
 Darkstone's replay value.  

 Another factor in the game's excellent replay value is the ability to create four primary character 
 types, with two variations of each for a total of eight character classes. You have your basic 
 fighter, thief, wizard, and priest classes, each of which is available as a male or female character. 
 For example, the male fighter is the warrior, while the female fighter is the amazon. So if you 
 want to mix it up as you play and replay Darkstone, you can experiment with different combinations 
 to keep the gameplay fresh. But truth be told, the game seems tailor-made for a fighter-thief combo. 
 With the fighter hacking away at bad guys up close, the thief can pick them off with missile weapons. 
 While wizards do wield powerful magic, you can easily get through the entire game with only a handful 
 of basic spells that any character can use.  

 A few elements of Darkstone deserve criticism, such as its awkward healing spell system. Characters 
 with the ability to cast healing can only do so on themselves and can only help the second character 
 if they also possess the medicine skill. This just seems pointless, since it is conventional in 
 most RPGs to cast a healing spell and then target the intended character. Leaving it out just creates 
 more work for you and doesn't add anything worthwhile to the experience. In addition, requiring 
 you to feed your characters in such an action-oriented game seems pointless as well, but it's a 
 lot easier to work around than the healing spell quirk.  

 Darkstone could have also benefited from a more intuitive quest list, possibly something similar 
 to the one found in the most recent Might and Magic games. As it stands, you must navigate through 
 every piece of NPC dialogue you have heard thus far to figure out who asked you to do what, and 
 that gets to be a bit much towards the end of the game. Other nits to pick include an occasionally 
 clumsy targeting system, which often leaves your one character unintentionally idle while the other 
 is beaten to a pulp. The mouse hot spot is often flaky and off-center on most objects, actually, 
 and this is definitely the culprit behind the targeting woes.  

 Some hard-core Diablo fans will no doubt criticize the game's difficulty level since it appears 
 to be negligible throughout most of the first dozen or so dungeon levels. In fact, Darkstone is 
 downright easy through the first eight and then becomes only marginally challenging until you reach 
 the final stages of the game. This is because you can only play the game at novice level until 
 you have characters of level 20 or higher - similar to Diablo's multiplayer restrictions on accessing 
 certain skill levels. Once you complete the game at novice, however, the subsequent two difficulty 
 levels become much more challenging. They also let you continue building up your characters, which 
 is key because you can use your single-player characters in multiplayer games.  

 Multiplayer support is one of the game's strengths, since it lets you team up with another player 
 without having to readjust your playing style. In other words, since you play the single-player 
 game with two characters, it's easy to adapt to multiplayer Darkstone. Multiplayer Diablo, on the 
 other hand, had a tendency to get frustrating when you realized that you weren't gaining experience 
 as quickly as you did in the single-player game. Darkstone has no Battle. net equivalent, but you 
 can play multiplayer games over IPX and TCP/IP.  

 Some other elements of the game that deserve mention include the ability to offer gold to a pair 
 of musicians in the game's central town. If you drop a few coins in their collection plate, they'll 
 favor you with a song, and a pretty good one at that. Later, you may get to hear the song played 
 again, but in a slightly different tune. Also, Darkstone is one of the most amazingly stable and 
 bug-free games I've played in a very long time. The game did not crash once and, aside from the 
 niggling AI issues, seems to be extremely well designed and rock-solid.  

 So if you're a Diablo fan who's tired of waiting for the oft-delayed sequel, or better yet just 
 looking for an enjoyable, action-packed RPG with good graphics, highly addictive gameplay, and 
 great replay value, do yourself a favor and check out Darkstone.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kobe_Bryant_LA
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I heard very good things about this game from friends, and so I went out and spent good money on 
 it.
  BIG mistake. As everyone knows Diablo is a great game. No one can beat it, no one should try. Even 
 in 2001, when I got the game I thought the graphics were totally ridiculous. Just a bunch of pixelated, 
 badly made characters and buildings. Plus, as I rarely hate a game this much, I expect games I 
 buy to be very good, not downright awful!
  SO many times I've thought, Why did I buy this game? 
  I'm sure that millions of gamers are asking 
 the same question. Thankfully, I haven't seen it on a shop shelf for a few years now. Now future 
 generations won't have to feel the same pain as me. Bottom line, if you bought Darkstone a few 
 years ago but haven't tried it, trust me, don't try it. Get rid of it as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 3
Date: May 4, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  I decided to give this game a try simply because I don't like any rpg game left unnoticed. I love 
 rpg games and knowing that there might be a game that may be good, perfect even and not try it (no 
 matter how old this game may be ) would be like not eating a chocolate cake and let it to rot.
 
  
  Not this time though.... I should've let it rot.
  
  You start as some unknown, dressed like some Irish lepprehaum hero who as usuall is required to 
 kill some dark wizard known for his ability to transform in to a dragon and who endangers the whole 
 world.
  
  You start the game in a city where one of the city guards wants to give you a tour and helps you 
 get acquainted with all of the most important residents of the city. You meet with the blacksmith, 
 a sorceress, couple of mages and a banker. After everyone finishes explaining their role in this 
 world ( through some short and crappy voice acting dialogs) you embark on.... what exactly?
  The main goal is to find the evil dark wizard but before you can get to him you have to collect 
 7 stones and give them to some other wizard who will help you get to the Wizard and kill him ( 
 What a truly original plot ) .
  
  To tell you the truth my first thought was to end this game right after I started it but I decided 
 to give it a try because I wouldn't be able to write an objective review of something I didn't 
 even try and the second reason was that I simply thought this game would become something really 
 good the longer I played it.
  
  Once again I was wrong....
  
  Let's start with the graphics. My first thought was : ' 386 SX processors and ega graphics from 
 early 90's '. The graphics are just BAD! They remind me of the times when 386SX processor and EGA 
 graphics along with 40MB hard drive was considered a stunner. There isn't basically anything that 
 I would consider nice in this game. The models, surroundings, everything looks really bad and poor. In 
 other words it's one of the ugliest games I played for a very long time!
  
  But according to my beliefs that graphics shouldn't matter that much in a n rpg if only the gameplay 
 and a story are good enough I decided to continue...
  
  The story is poor as well. Except the basic amount of information regarding the aforementioned wizard 
 there isn't any plot or any other gossip that would allow you to engage in.
  
  What's also bad is the game's interface. The inventory is very small and much to small to my taste. It's 
 so small that collecting items without constantly returning to the city ( mostly using the 'magic 
 door ' spell ) is impossible. It let's you collect couple of potions and some small amount of weapons 
 and after that unless you return to the city and try to sell them you won't be able to collect 
 anything else which makes exploring the dungeons a farse and is a waste of time.
  
  Hero's statistics are as basic as they can only be. Hero's development is something that programmers 
 probably created only because otherwise this game couldn't be called an RPG. It exists but is totally 
 useless! For example : Master of Arms ability. You can invest in this ability by paying some mage 
 a certain amount of money for it so I increased it by two levels. I don't know why I did it though 
 because I didn't feel even a little bit stronger or more skilled than I was before. The ' orientation 
 ' skill was probably created only to show the north side of the compass but it doesn't help you 
 with anything. The compass doesn't rotate when you run in any given directory. There's only this 
 ' N ' marker and.. that's it. The only skill that seems to be working and has some purpose is the 
 ' weapon repair ' skill which actually works and the better you are with weapon reparation the 
 more you will repair and degrade the weapon less.
  
  The game seems to be concentrated on some crappy dungeon exploring which has nothing to do with 
 let's say Diablo or Dungeon Siege. The dungeons are divided to different levels. The deeper you go 
 the higher the dungeon's level is. Those dungeons are so repetitive that I always thought that I 
 was on the same level even though I was actually on the 8th.
  It's very easy to get lost in those dungeons even though they are not to complex. It's easy to get 
 lost because the game map isn't helping to get your bearings at all. You only get to see a small 
 portion of the dungeon. It doesn't matter that you explored all of the area. This damn map is only 
 showing the closest area so if you want to minimize it or to scroll through it to find some kind 
 of exit then forget about that. You can't minimize it, you can't rotate it. The game's map is a total 
 fiasco!
  
  The amount of in game monsters is pretty decent and you will come across enemies ranging from rats, wasps, goblins 
 to lizard  etc. but the amount of items with which you can equip 
 your hero is so small that you will basically always find the same rags, helmets or weapons all 
 the time. Did I forget to mention that changing gear isn't affecting the hero's visuals at all? 
 It doesn't matter what you're wearing, you always look like some god damn elf who fell down from 
 Santa Claus's reindeer. All of those levels look empty and are lacking any depth.
  
  The quest system is horrible as well. You don't have any journal where all of your quests are stored 
 so every time you find some important artifact that's needed by some npc you don't know who it 
 belongs to and you need to have a look through all of the dialogs to find who was the lucky winner 
 that mentioned something about that artifact.
  
  Another irritating thing in the questing system is that it's pretty randomised and the same person 
 who hired you to bring him whatever he wanted, all of a sudden approaches you whenever you get 
 to the city and without even asking you if you want to help him just informs you about some another 
 artifact that needs to be found.
  
  The only thing that I considered innovative in this game was the bloody footprints that my hero 
 left after some bloody encounter with a monster.
  Anothet innovative thing in this game was the possibility to deposit your money into the bank. It 
 could've been improved though because you don't get any interest from your bank so it is a simple 
 money storage. The idea was good though and it was something that even the greatest rpg are missing.
 
  
  This game is some miserable imitation of a hack'n'slash genre which has nothing to do with classics 
 such as Diablo, dungeon siege or sacred. It's an ugly, repetitive and simply boring hack'n'slah game 
 that is a big waste of time and I wouldn't reccomend it even to the greatest of rpg fans. It's just 
 not worth it. There's so many other games on the market worth buying that Darkstone should be considered 
 only if you really don't have anything else to play.
  
  I reached 13th level and that will be my last level in this game. NEVER AGAIN!
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  After the success of Diablo, it would only be a matter of time before someone else would copy the 
 game play and toss it out for gamers to blow dollars on. Darkstone, one of the first Diablo clones 
 is one of these titles. You will find that almost everything that you liked in Diablo is also in 
 Darkstone, including some changes that are just awful and some additions that refresh the game 
 play.
  
  What makes Darkstone different then Diablo is the addition of 3d maps, party mode in single player, 
 and more customization of skills. The 3D art for the game is not too awful compared to other games 
 released around it's time. Sometimes the textures and meshes can leave a little more to be desired 
 however, as it feels like you are playing a Playstation game with 3d acceleration. The view distance 
 is horrid, only allowing you to see a few feet in front of you before the fog of war begins. Camera 
 controls are placed on awkward keys for right handed people, and there is not an option to change 
 the key mapping. This can lead to some frustration when playing the game with two characters at 
 once. 
  
  The option to play two characters at once in single player mode sounds great on paper, but fails 
 miserably in action. The second character you bring along is controlled by the A/I, causing for 
 some major headaches. There are times when the A/I controlled character will not attack at all 
 even when things are beating on them. A/I party members do simple melee attacks, without any automatic 
 spell casting or use of their skills. Speaking of skills, you will get quite a few to select from 
 and level up as your characters progress. Half of these skills are useful while the other half 
 are not worth training at all. Things such as item identification, learning (lets your character 
 level faster) , and concentration (temporary buff that increases your character's stats) are well 
 worth the investment. Other skills such as foresting (lets you forage for food which is cheap in 
 town to begin with) and a skill that lets you spy on other's chat in multiplayer mode are pointless. 
 
  
  Darkstone was just one of many to follow after Diablo hit it big, and in some ways it is better, 
 while at other times it fails. If you can get by the horrid camera controls. sloppy A/I and limited 
 viewing distance, you may enjoy a run through single player mode. After beating the game once you 
 start to ask yourself what was the point of playing anymore when there are so many other Diablo 
 clones that get the job done without half the problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hynnin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Darkstone emphasizes the best of table role playing game electronically, by the time that was simply 
 awesome and great, keeping original characters like warriors, thieves, mages and clerics and also 
 keeping already known faces like giant wasps, vampires, goblins, trolls and much much more used 
 to give players the magical sense of familiar background which would also keep players addicted 
 to these characters and their attack forms and how to plan a strategy to pass through it.
  
  It is very reasonable to say that Darkstone is a Diablo copy, then we shall move World of Warcraft, 
 Neverwinter Nights and all known mmorpgs and rpgs to this false critic, the base of the rpgs are 
 the table version and father of all kinds of this genre.
  The fact is, Darkstone is incredibly innovative, the map changing system give an awesome replay 
 value to this game, why do the same quest all over again when you change to a more challenging 
 difficulty? This system changes everything, quests order and dungeons, so you'd hardly do the same 
 game again.
  
  Skills, magic and aging sustains solid features that give more dynamism to the game, even if youre 
 a warrior, magic is essential for both defense and offensive skills, and also support magic to 
 face the most dark and dangerous dungeons, magicians need skills to keep surviving and leveling 
 as fast as they can, so, nothing in this game can be threw away so easily.
  
  Darkstone was the perfect game to a beginner player, its immersive and gives you the perfect background 
 to an awesome story, with great voice acting and impressive cut scenes for the time, this game 
 is really worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  Darkstone is an underdog in relation to the wildly popular Diablo and because Diablo was hailed 
 a legend in its genre it often renders other games of the same style a clone. Well, if you could 
 be optimistic for a while and refrain from comparing stuff, you may find a gem within Darkstone 
 itself.
  
  Before Dungeon Siege, game developers had already made a fluid camera movement out of a hack'n'slash 
 game which is featured in Darkstone. Yup, the 3D graphics looks sucky from today's standpoint, 
 kind of like Final Fantasy VII's blocky models, but they're still recognizable. Luckily, the highlight 
 of this game does not lie in its graphics, but rather the pure strength of a good gameplay mechanics. 
 The motivation of doing quests for gold is pretty straightforward and effective because there's 
 so much good treasures like spells and elixirs to buy and also you need gold for training your 
 skills (like the Might and Magic series) . Furthermore, dungeon hacking only proves to be a winning 
 formula if everybody seems to like using it. If you love Diablo and Dungeon Siege, and don't mind 
 dated production values, check this out if you can get it at the bargain counter.
  
  However, one major gripe is that since it only gives a 640x480 pixelated resolution, most of the 
 fine text is illegible especially statistics, but it should just be a slight annoyance. Amazingly, 
 it has a pop song written for this game that sounds Billboard worthy 10 years ago, check it out 
 by giving some coins to the street performer, Audren, in Town.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travellinguist
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  So this is where Blizzard got so many of their ideas for Diablo II. I am sorry I waited so long 
 to play this. The graphics are a bit dated, but the game is still engaging and fun. The two member 
 party interface is useful and easy to maneuver. It is a bit hard to keep track of quests though 
 one can revisit past NPC conversations to find them. It is also sometimes difficult to locate items 
 that have fallen to the ground. It has a funny feature where you have to eat which is a bit of 
 realism but adds an extra complication that might not be essential in game play. Nonetheless eating 
 is not really a big problem as food abounds but is a curious addition to an RPG. I recommend the 
 game despite that it is dated (and makes you eat food) and it functions well on older computers 
 at least. Gathering of Developers really puts together some good stuff and seem to always have! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, it's a Diablo clone....
  
  ..... so.... if you liked Diablo.... go play this one too. It's cheep now. It also probably looks 
 lousy.
  
  Actually, maybe an even better comparison would be Dungeon Siege. It's a kind-of party based action 
 RPG. In this game, you get a partner. It makes for a fun dynamic. You can get somebody to complement 
 you. If you want to be a squishy caster, get a beefy guard. Walk around, blow s@#$ up.
  
  Isn't that really the whole point.
  
  So, you can do that too in Dungeon Siege, but in a lot 
 of ways, Darkstone may be MORE fun. It's just simpler. Dungeon Siege gets frustrating at times. 
 If you can find it, give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  Darkstone was developed by Delphine Software in 1999, and it isn't hard to notice that the developers 
 undeniably wanted to turn Diablo into a 3D fantasy Action RPG, so this game was created.
  
  In this nice hack-'n-slash adventure you'll need to find seven crystals to create an orb to kill 
 Draak, the evil sorcerer who wants to rule the land through the power of the Darkstone. If there 
 is a big difference between Diablo and this game is precisely the setting. While the world of Sanctuary 
 has a gothic theme, Darkstone tends to be more fantastic by featuring wisps, magical unicorns and 
 some well known creatures from Dungeons and Dragons.
  
  Here goes a list of the ripped stuff from Blizzard's game: you can visit only one city, the place 
 that you can buy/sell things, heal yourself, get quests and talk with people about various informative 
 subjects. However, this time you'll explore four areas, each one has two dungeons with four levels. 
 
  
  The gameplay is also pretty familiar, but this time you'll feel a good sense of speediness. Your 
 character runs pretty fast and this brings an interesting pace to the game. Thus, both in Darkstone 
 and Diablo killing monsters is the best way to level-up your character, since most of the quests 
 will not give you experience, only gold. When your backpack is full, create a Town Portal to return 
 to the village and sell your stuff to make money and buy better equipment.
  
  The map and the missions aren't always the same in every campaign. When you restart a game, a pre-produced 
 map and the quests are randomly chosen. These missions can be divided in two: the villagers missions, 
 that you need to recover an artifact or kill a special monster to receive gold in back; and the 
 main missions to recover the seven crystals, which you'll need to complete if you're going to finish 
 the game.
  
  Graphics are OK considering this is the first fully 3D Action RPG game ever released in the gaming 
 history. But don't expect impressive special effects, although some spells look really nice. Sound 
 could be a little better, since the music may become a torture if you play during a lot of hours. 
 On the other hand, the sound effects are fine and there isn't anything to complain about them.
 
  
  You can choose between eight characters to play, one class per genre: Warrior/Amazon, Wizard/Sorceress, 
 Thief/Assassin and Monk/Priestess. There isn't really any gameplay change between genres of the 
 same class, except to the Wizard and Sorceress who have only a single skill that they don't share. 
 All in all, the only difference between the classes is the skin and how they look when wearing 
 a high level armor.
  
  Skills are one of the coolest things in Darkstone. Each class has seven skills, which you'll need 
 to improve while you develop your character. There is a guy in the city that improves your skills 
 for a price, if you manage to reach the required character level. There some really useless skills 
 in this game, so be aware to not waste your money on these.
  
  The replay value is great in Darkstone. When you apply the 1.03 and 1.05b official patches, two 
 new levels of difficulty are added: Hero and Legend. This is the most important feature in this 
 game, and there is no way to enjoy it without updating to the latest version. The only problem 
 is that you may find some enemies in Hero and Legend levels that are really annoying for ranged 
 characters. To add more difficulty to the game, Delphine Software decided to put monsters that 
 reflect projectiles, and later on this may turn the Thief and his female version the most weak 
 classes in Darkstone.
  
  The multiplayer is simply great. You can play in both cooperative and deathmatch (PvP) modes. The 
 problem is that the game reserves only one slot to save the on-line matches. Notice that there're 
 some unofficial servers running this game, you may want to google it so you can enjoy the solid 
 multiplayer that this game has to offer.
  
  To finish, play Darkstone if you liked Diablo. You'll certainly feel the deja vu but the game also 
 has its unique features, which comes to be the rare occasion when a rip-off is almost as good as 
 its source of inspiration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drew191hawk
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  seriously nobody plays this any more and i dont know why its so good i mean where is all the people 
 i mean if it had some people it would be a OKAY game but still graphics were pretty choppy (maybe 
 its me i use windows 98) cause i kept seeing this black screan in a section of my moniter and when 
 i spinned the camera view it stayed like that 
  
  the good side of the game is theirs a lot of action if u now where to find it
  
  o yah the 
 monsters were over welming their very nice from skeletons to ghosts and the ai was okay but they 
 kept chatting and chatting and chatting and chatting. last this would be the loading, wow loading 
 screan stinked plus u had 2 stay on it for a very long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkeljohn
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  While Diablo (for the PC) was an amazing game despite faux 3-D graphics and satanic overtones, 
 Darkstone was a pale imitation with true 3-D graphics that almost justified the time and money 
 by following Diablo's trajectory.
  
  Though you may not be out to confront the evil one himself, your inventory, class directions, props, 
 and NPC (non-player character) interactions are in line with the template Blizzard put down. The 
 NPCs were flat, quest-providing people with modest deliveries. Opponents were creatures and people 
 with health bars above their heads, just like games of this ilk.
  
  I have a soft spot for carving my way through legions of enemies in the hopes of gaining levels 
 in role-playing games. Unfortunately, after a while of doing that in Darkstone, I realized I could 
 be doing that elsewhere with greater satisfaction.
  
  The ability to pan around your avatar to see creatures buzzing about was a pleasant feat, but the 
 character and creature details were disappointing. Models look like nothing more than a jagged 
 collection of polygons. Other games from two years ago had better mapping and detail. When compared 
 to the PlayStation version, the PC version is the better offering, despite clear differences in 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liticom
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  "I need more mana", that is cemented in my mind forever. And this game brought me that phrase that 
 I will never forget. For that reason alone, gets this game atleast a 7. This game is basically 
 Diablo, but somewhat different, but not enough to warrant even an 8.
  
  This game is alright, you'll waste much time playing it, and its worth a look, as long as its free. 
 Because I don't think that much (if any) money should be spent on this game. It's good enough, 
 but its really only worth hearing "I need more mana" from one of your characters. 
  
  It's sutible, so from Zod, it gets a 7.7, and that is General Zod's final judgement on it. Take 
 the game away, **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 28, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are nice; zooming, scrolling, panning, etc... all the things that would have been 
 nice in Diablo. However, the graphcis seem almost child-like. The monsters are not scary as was 
 Diablo's monsters, which sadly really hurts the game. 
  
  Darkstone adds the ability for you to control 2 characters at once (cycling between them) , which 
 is really fun at points, but also makes the game a bit tedious. Having to stop and switch characters 
 to cast a certain spell, or to heal, fight, and whatever else, gets a bit tiring. There's also 
 the fact that the leveling between characters is a bit unbalanced. Since exp comes from killing 
 monsters, and characters with supporting roles will be kiling monsters less often (clerics) , chances 
 are you'll have to stop and get them up to the other character's level to continue on to harder 
 areas. 
  
  Most of the other parts of the game are unoriginal, your basic characters, basic items, which makes 
 the game somewhat of a bore to play. The game is fun for a few hours, but then gets repeptitive, 
 despite all of the character combinations. 
  
  Darkstone would have been a really good game had Diablo never been made (though that would mean 
 Darkstone would never have been made) . I don't regret spending money on this game, it was only 
 5 bucks, since there were a few fun moments. However, I'd only recommend this game if you're looking 
 for something to hold you over till the release of some other game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
